Chapter 16 - EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT AND SERVICES[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
State Law reference— Municipal home rule, Ga. Const. art. IX, § II, O.C.G.A. § 36-35-1 et seq.; Georgia Emergency Management Act of 1975, O.C.G.A. § 38-3-1 et seq.; local organizations for emergency management, O.C.G.A. § 38-3-27; authority to promulgate local rules and regulations, O.C.G.A. § 38-3-28; mutual aid, O.C.G.A. § 36-69-1 et seq.; dispatch centers to have trained communications officers on staff, O.C.G.A. § 36-60-19; mutual aid, O.C.G.A. § 36-69-1 et seq.; war on terrorism local assistance, O.C.G.A. § 36-75-1 et seq.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 16-1. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Building contractor means any person, firm, partnership, corporation or other entity engaging in, undertaking or carrying on any business consisting of or relating to building construction, repair, renovation or making improvements to real property including dwellings, homes, buildings, structures, or fixtures attached thereto.
Curfew means a regulation requiring the withdrawal from any person not otherwise exempt from appearing in certain public areas during specified hours.
Disaster means any natural, technological, civil emergency or threat thereof that causes or has the potential to cause damage of sufficient severity and magnitude to result in a declaration of a state of emergency declared by a county, the governor or the President of the United States.
Doing business refers to any building contractor that:
(1)
Has or operates an office, agency, project site or place of business located in the incorporated areas of the city, whether permanently, temporarily, periodically, or otherwise, that provides the following activities in the incorporated areas of the city expressly including but not limited to the construction, renovation or repair of dwellings or buildings or the making of improvements to real property or any fixtures attached thereto; or
(2)
Performs the following activities or services in the incorporated areas of the city expressly including but not limited to the construction, renovation or repair of dwellings or buildings or the making of improvements to real property or any fixtures attached thereto regardless of the location of the principal office.
Emergency means any natural or manmade event requiring the activation of the local emergency operations plan.
Emergency management means the preparation for the carrying out of all emergency functions, other than functions for which military forces are primarily responsible, to prevent, minimize, and repair injury and damage resulting from emergencies, energy emergencies, disasters, or the imminent threat thereof, of manmade or natural origin caused by enemy attack, sabotage, acts of domestic or international terrorism, civil disturbance, fire, flood, earthquake, wind, storm, wave action, oil spill or other water contamination requiring emergency action to avert danger or damage, epidemic, air contamination, blight, drought, infestation, explosion, riot or other hostile action, radiological action, or other causes. These functions include, without limitation, fire-fighting services; police services; emergency medical services; rescue; engineering; warning services; communications; defense from radiological, chemical, biological, and other special weapons to include weapons of mass destruction; evacuation of persons from stricken areas; emergency welfare services; consequence management functions to include victim services; emergency transportation; plant protection; temporary restoration of public utility services; and other functions related to civilian protection, together with all other activities necessary or incidental to the preparation for and carrying out of the foregoing functions.
Essential officers and employees means and refers to the mayor, constitutional officers, the police chief, policemen, police and other dispatchers, emergency medical service providers, road department employees and code enforcement personnel. All other city personnel are nonessential employees.
Fees means any fee or rate charged by the city for building permits, land disturbance permits, zoning applications, special land use permits, temporary land use permits, and other fees relating to the reconstruction, repair and clean up of areas impacted by the disaster or emergency. The term "fees" shall not include those fees collected by the city on behalf of the federal or state government or those fees charged by the city pursuant to a federal or state statute or regulation.
Local emergency or emergency situation means an actual or potential condition during any emergency situation where there exist conditions of extreme peril to the safety of persons and property within the territorial limits of the city caused by natural disasters, riots, civil disturbances, or other situations presenting major law enforcement and other public safety problems, which conditions or are likely to be beyond the control of the services, personnel, equipment and facilities of either the city police department or the county sheriff's department to combat, pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 36-69-2.
Local emergency management director means the person nominated by the local governments and appointed by the state emergency management director to implement the local emergency operations plan.
Overcharging means charging prices for goods, materials, services, or housing that are substantially in excess of the customary charges or in applicable cases substantially in excess of the supplier's or provider's costs for such goods, materials, services or housing. The existence of overcharging shall be presumed from a substantial increase in the price at which the goods, materials, services, or housing were offered in the usual course of business immediately prior to the onset of the emergency, but shall not include increases in costs to the supplier directly attributable to higher costs of materials, supplies, and labor costs resulting from the emergency.
State emergency management director means the person appointed by the governor to head the state emergency management agency.
State of emergency means, as defined by O.C.G.A. § 38-3-3(5), a condition declared by the governor when, in his judgment, the threat or actual occurrence disaster, emergency, or energy emergency is of sufficient severity and magnitude to warrant extraordinary efforts in preventing or alleviating the damage, hardship, or suffering threatened or caused thereby.
Subsequent recovery period means the period of time that the disaster emergency continues to cause disruptions in the area impacted by the disaster emergency. The term "subsequent recovery period" shall not exceed six months from the date that the state of emergency declaration by the governor is terminated unless extended by official action of the city council.
Temporary dwelling means any mobile or easily movable home, trailer, recreational vehicle or structure not otherwise permitted by the zoning regulations a particular zoning district.
(Comp. Ords. 1998, § 3-3-1; Ord. of 5-5-2007, § 2; Ord. of 5-5-2008, § 2; Res. of 3-12-2009, § II; Ord. of 3-18-2009, § II)
State Law reference— Similar definitions, O.C.G.A. § 38-3-3.
Sec. 16-2. - Pre-disaster hazard mitigation plan.
(a)
The county pre-disaster hazard mitigation plan is hereby adopted as the official plan of the city. The respective officials identified in the strategy of the plan are hereby assigned to implement the recommended actions assigned to them in the plan. These officials will report as directed in the plan on their activities.
(b)
The county pre-disaster hazard mitigation planning committee will provide progress reports, as directed in the plan, to the city council, on the status of the implementation of the plan.
(Res. of 5-5-2008)
Secs. 16-3—16-22. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT AGENCY

Sec. 16-23. - Joint emergency management agency established; director nominated; duties.
(a)
By agreement with the governing officials of the city and county, the city and county have established the Lincoln County Emergency Management Agency.
(b)
The chairperson of the county board of commissioners shall nominate, with the advice and consent of the mayor, for appointment by the state emergency management director, a local emergency management director.
(c)
Upon appointment, the local emergency management director shall have direct responsibility for the organization, administration, and operations of the local organization for emergency management, subject to the direction and control of the executive officer or governing body and shall serve at the pleasure of such executive officer or governing body. When appointed, the local emergency management director is charged with the following duties:
(1)
Represent the governing officials of the county on matters pertaining to emergency management.
(2)
Assist local officials in organizing county departments for emergency operations.
(3)
Develop, in conjunction with county and city departments, a county emergency operations plan for emergency functions. Such plan will be in consonance with the state emergency operations plan and shall be submitted to the governing officials of the city and county for approval, and thence to the state emergency management agency for approval.
(4)
Maintain the emergency management agency and carry out the day-to-day administration of the county emergency management program, including the submission of required reports to the state emergency management agency.
(5)
Submit reports as required by governmental officials in keeping with good management practices (e.g., financial, daily activities, etc.).
(6)
Obtain, with the authority of governing officials, a facility to be used as the county emergency operations center.
(7)
Coordinate the activities of the county emergency operations center staff during periods of emergency under the supervision of county governing officials.
(Res. of 3-12-2009, § III; Ord. of 3-18-2009, § III)
Sec. 16-24. - Personnel and department affiliations.
(a)
The joint county emergency management agency shall be established around existing county and city departments. The emergency support functions and department and agency assignments, approved by city and county officials, are as follows:
EXPAND
Emergency Support Function (ESF) Department/Agency
Agriculture and natural resources (P)* County Extension Agent
(S)* County Emergency Management Agency
Communications (P) 911/Communications
Emergency management (P) County Emergency Management Agency
(S) County/City Governments
Energy (P) County Emergency Management Agency
(S) Local Utilities
External affairs (P) County Government PIO*
(S) City Government PIO
Firefighting (P) County Volunteer Fire Departments
(P) City Volunteer Fire Department
(S) County Public Safety
Hazardous materials (P) County Public Safety
(S) City Fire Department
(S) County Volunteer Fire Departments
Long term recovery and mitigation (P) County Emergency Management Agency
(S) County/City Government
Mass care, housing and human services (P) County Department of Family and Children's Services
(S) Red Cross Chapter
Public health and medical services (P) County Public Health
(S) Area Hospitals
Public safety and security services (P) County Sheriff
(S) City Police Department
Public works and engineering (P) County Public Works
(S) City Public Works
Resource support (P) County Emergency Management
(S) County/City Government
Search and rescue (P) County Public Safety
(S) County Volunteer Fire Departments
(S) City Fire Volunteer Fire Department
Transportation (P) County Public Works
(S) City Public Works
  *(P) indicates Primary;
(S) indicates Secondary;
PIO indicates Public Information Officer.
(b)
Heads of city departments listed in subsection (a) of this section are responsible for developing appropriate annexes and standard operating procedures to the emergency operations plan for their assigned emergency functions. Such annexes or standard operating procedures will be submitted to the emergency management director for inclusion in the local emergency operations.
(Res. of 3-12-2009, § IV; Ord. of 3-18-2009, § IV)
State Law reference— Qualifications of emergency management personnel, oath, O.C.G.A. § 38-3-34.
Sec. 16-25. - Emergency powers.
In the event of a manmade or natural disaster or any other emergency, the chairperson of the county board of commissioners with the mayor, or, in their absence, their legally appointed successors, may determine that an emergency or disaster exists and thereafter shall have and may exercise for such periods as such emergency or disaster continues, the following powers:
(1)
To appropriate and expend funds, execute contracts, and to obtain and distribute equipment, materials, and supplies for emergency management purposes;
(2)
To provide for the health and safety of persons and property, including emergency assistance to the victims of any emergency or disaster resulting from manmade or natural causes or enemy attack and to direct and coordinate the development of emergency management plans and programs in accordance with the policies and plans set by the federal and state emergency management agencies;
(3)
To appoint, employ, remove, or provide, with or without compensation, chiefs of services, warning personnel, rescue teams, auxiliary fire and police personnel, and other emergency management workers;
(4)
To establish a primary and one or more secondary control centers to serve as command posts during an emergency or disaster;
(5)
Subject to the order of the governor or the chief executive of the county or city, to assign and make available for duty the employees, property, or equipment of the subdivision relating to firefighting, engineering, rescue, health, medical and related services, and to police, transportation, construction, and similar items or services for emergency management purposes, within or outside of the physical limits of the subdivision;
(6)
In addition to the heretofore stated powers and authorities, to acquire, temporarily or permanently, by purchase, lease, or otherwise, sites required for installation of temporary housing units for disaster victims, and to enter into whatever arrangements, including purchase, of temporary housing units and payment of transportation charges, which are necessary to prepare or equip such sites to utilize the housing units.
(Res. of 3-12-2009, § V; Ord. of 3-18-2009, § V)
State Law reference— Powers of local governments regarding emergencies, O.C.G.A. § 38-3-27.
Sec. 16-26. - Volunteers.
All persons, other than officers and employees of the city, performing emergency functions pursuant to the joint emergency operations plan, shall serve with or without compensation. While engaged in such emergency functions, duly assigned volunteers shall have the same immunities as city officers and employees.
(Res. of 3-12-2009, § VI; Ord. of 3-18-2009, § VI)
State Law reference— Immunity of emergency management personnel, O.C.G.A. § 38-3-35; rights, privileges, and immunities of emergency aid workers, O.C.G.A. § 38-3-30.
Secs. 16-27—16-55. - Reserved.
ARTICLE III. - EMERGENCY REGULATIONS
DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Sec. 16-56. - Continuity of city operations; essential and nonessential employees.
To promote civil stability and to provide basic services to the city in the case of emergencies or hazardous inclement weather it is essential that the city be able to maintain an adequate workforce. Toward that end, the following rules shall apply during any state of emergency declared by authorized federal, state, county, or city officials:
(1)
Essential employees shall be required to report to work at their regular shift unless called in early by their immediate supervisor or the mayor.
(2)
The mayor, in consultation as necessary with city department heads and county emergency management officials, shall decide whether to open the city hall and other city work facilities. It shall be their responsibility to notify city officers if city hall is to be closed. If city hall is open, all employees in all offices are expected to report for their assigned shift. If city hall is not opened for business at the regular opening hour, all employees are required to check in periodically for updates. Employees will not be paid for regular hours that city hall is not in operation.
(3)
Any employee not able to report for their assigned shift may take annual leave for those hours. If an employee reports for work and is then sent home by the closing of the courthouse the employee will be paid for the remainder of the day.
Sec. 16-57. - Unlawful acts during emergencies.
It shall be unlawful for any person to commit any of the following acts during an emergency:
(1)
To willfully obstruct, hinder or delay any member of the emergency management corps in the enforcement of any lawful rule or regulation issued pursuant to this article or in the performance of any duty imposed by virtue of this article.
(2)
To do any act forbidden by any lawful rules or regulations issued pursuant to this article if such act is of such a nature as to give assistance to the enemy, imperil the life or property of any inhabitant of the city, or prevent, hinder or delay the defense or protection of the city.
(3)
To wear, carry or display, without authority, any mark or identification specified by the emergency management agency.
State Law reference— Authority for local rules and regulations for emergency management, O.C.G.A. § 38-3-28.
Sec. 16-58. - Meetings of city council.
Upon proclamation by the appropriate state official of an emergency or disaster of manmade or natural causes or enemy attack impending on or affecting the state or the United States, the affairs and business of the city may be conducted at places other than the regular or usual place thereof, within or outside of the city, when it is not prudent, expedient or possible to conduct business at the regular location. When such meetings occur outside of the city, all actions taken by the city council shall be as valid and binding as if performed within the city. The presiding officer or any two members of the council may call such meetings without regard to or compliance with time-consuming procedures and formalities otherwise required by law.
(Ord. of 5-5-2008, § 1(1))
State Law reference— Operation of local governing authority during emergencies, O.C.G.A. § 38-3-54.
Sec. 16-59. - Suspension of public bid requirement for purchasing and public works contracts.
Upon the declaration of a state of emergency by the appropriate federal, state, or county official, or upon the determination by the city council or its designee of the existence of an emergency or disaster, the city council, their designee or the emergency interim successor may contract for public works without letting such contract out to the lowest responsible bidder and without advertising and posting notification of such contract for four weeks; provided, however, that any public works contract entered into pursuant to this subsection shall be entered on the minutes of the city as soon as practical and the nature of the emergency described therein.
(Ord. of 5-5-2008, § 1(2))
Sec. 16-60. - Suspension of Code enforcement.
Upon the declaration of a state of emergency by the appropriate federal, state, or county official, or upon the determination by the city council, or its designee, of the existence of an emergency or disaster, the city council, its designee or the emergency interim successor may temporarily suspend the enforcement of this Code, or any portion thereof, where:
(1)
The emergency or disaster is of such nature that immediate action outside the Code is required;
(2)
Such suspension is consistent with the protection of the public health, safety and welfare; and
(3)
Such suspension is not inconsistent with any federal or state statutes or regulations.
(Ord. of 5-5-2008, § 1(3))
Sec. 16-61. - Reduction or suspension of fees.
Upon the declaration of a state of emergency by the governor, or upon the determination by the city council, or its designee, of the existence of an emergency or disaster, the city council, its designee or the emergency interim successor may temporarily reduce or suspend any permit fees, application fees or other rate structures as necessary to encourage the rebuilding of the area impacted by the disaster or emergency.
(Ord. of 5-5-2008, § 1(4))
Sec. 16-62. - Temporary dwelling structures permitted.
Upon the declaration of a state of emergency by the governor, or upon the determination by the city council, or its designee, of the existence of an emergency or disaster, the city council, their designee or the emergency interim successor may issue temporary mobile home, trailer, recreational vehicle or other temporary dwelling structures or parks in any zoning district while the primary dwelling is being repaired provided that such temporary dwellings or parks are designed by an engineer and the plans are approved by the county health department and the city planning and zoning department. The temporary permit shall not exceed six months in duration. In the case of continuing hardship and in the discretion of the governing authority or its designee, the permit may be extended for a period for an additional six months. Upon expiration of the temporary permit or an extension, the temporary dwelling shall be removed.
(Ord. of 5-5-2008, § 1(5))
Secs. 16-63—16-82. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - OVERCHARGING FOR GOODS OR SERVICES

Sec. 16-83. - Overcharging prohibited.
In order to preserve, protect, or sustain the life, health, or safety of persons or their property, it shall be unlawful during the duration of a state of emergency or subsequent recovery period in which the city has been designated as a disaster area, for any person, firm, or corporation located or doing business in the city to overcharge for any goods, materials, services or housing sold within the city.
Sec. 16-84. - Presumption of overcharging.
The existence of overcharging shall be presumed from a substantial increase in the price at which the goods, materials, services, or housing was offered in the usual course of business immediately prior to the onset of the emergency, but shall not include increases in costs to the supplier directly attributable to higher costs of materials, supplies, and labor costs resulting from the emergency.
Secs. 16-85—16-111. - Reserved.
DIVISION 3. - CURFEW

Sec. 16-112. - Institution of curfew.
Upon the declaration of a state of emergency by the appropriate federal, county, or state official or upon the determination by the city council, or its designee, of the existence of an emergency or disaster, the city council, its designee or the emergency interim successor, may adopt a resolution instituting a curfew when it is determined necessary to protect and safeguard the people and property of the city. The resolution instituting the curfew shall include the dates and hours that the curfew shall be in effect.
Sec. 16-113. - Applicability of curfew.
All of the territory of the incorporated city limits shall be subject to the terms of the curfew, unless otherwise specified in the resolution.
Sec. 16-114. - Compliance with curfew required.
It shall be prohibited for any person, other than exempt individuals, to appear in public in the territory subject to the curfew, including but not limited to, streets, highways, alleys, sidewalks, vacant lots, parks, public buildings or any other public places in all or a delineated part of incorporated city limits during the stated hours of the curfew.
Secs. 16-115—16-141. - Reserved.
DIVISION 4. - REGISTRATION OF BUILDING AND REPAIR SERVICES

Sec. 16-142. - Penalties.
Any building contractor required by this division to pay a registration fee who engages in business without first registering and receiving a registration certification from the city as required shall be in violation of this article. Violation of this article, upon conviction, shall be punishable by a fine not to exceed $1,000.00 per violation and imprisonment not to exceed 60 days. Each day a building contractor does business in the city without complying with this article shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. of 5-5-2007, § 5)
Sec. 16-143. - Building contractor registration required.
No person, firm, partnership, corporation or other entity shall engage in, undertake or carry on any business in whole or in part within the city, consisting of or relating to building, constructing, repairing, renovating or making improvements to real property including dwellings, homes, buildings, structures, or fixtures attached thereto without having registered the name of the business with the governing authority of the city and having paid fees as provided by this article.
(Ord. of 5-5-2007, § 1)
Sec. 16-144. - Registration.
All building contractors doing business or proposing to do business in the incorporated areas of the city during a state of emergency or the subsequent recovery period shall register and file applications with the clerk of the governing authority of the city or such other person designated by the governing authority at the city hall or such other place or places designated by the city. The building contractor shall, under oath, provide the city council with a statement describing the general nature of the business to be conducted and give true and correct information as may be called for on the registration form, application or certificate provided by the city.
(Ord. of 5-5-2007, § 3)
Sec. 16-145. - Fees.
Building contractor registration fees are as established by the city council. Registration fees shall be paid in full at the time of issuance of the registration certification.
(Ord. of 5-5-2007, § 4)
Sec. 16-146. - Transferability.
Each certification issued under this article is granted to, and shall be accepted by, the building contractor under the condition that the same is not transferable and after issuance no such certification shall be transferred by the city or the building contractor to another individual or entity.
(Ord. of 5-5-2007, § 6)
Sec. 16-147. - Display of registration certification.
Each certification issued hereunder shall be posted conspicuously by the building contractor in the place of business of the building contractor or shall be carried on his person or vehicle used in such business. Such certification shall be exhibited to any authorized enforcement officer when so requested.
(Ord. of 5-5-2007, § 7)
Sec. 16-148. - Revocation; suspension.
Each certification granted under this article is a mere permit to engage in the business only so long as said business is conducted in a lawful manner. The city council hereby reserves the right to revoke or suspend any certification granted hereunder if the building contractor, or the building contractor's agent or employee acting within the scope of his employment, violates this article or any other city, county, state or federal law. If after issuance of a certification, the city desires to revoke such certification, written notice thereof shall be given to the building contractor, which notice shall specify the violation with which the building contractor is charged and a date, time and place at which a hearing shall be held with regard to the violation. The building contractor shall have an opportunity to be heard at such hearing, and shall have the right to be represented by counsel and to introduce and submit evidence in opposition to such revocation.
(Ord. of 5-5-2007, § 8)
