ARTICLE XIV. - NONCONFORMING USES[5]

Footnotes:
--- (5) ---
Cross reference— Buildings and building regulations, ch. 18.

Sec. 34-461. - Purpose.
The purpose of this article is to provide for the continuation and within a suitable period of time, elimination of existing uses of property that do not conform to the requirements of this chapter upon its adoption or subsequent amendment.
(Ord. No. 48, § 15-1, 1-9-2003)
Sec. 34-462. - Continuance of nonconforming uses.
The lawful use of any building, structure, or land existing at the time of the enactment or subsequent amendment of this chapter may be continued even though such use does not conform with provisions of this chapter except that the nonconforming structure or use shall not be:
(1)
Changed to another nonconforming use;
(2)
Reestablished after discontinuance for one year;
(3)
Extended or enlarged beyond its size at the time the structure or use became nonconforming. This includes, but is not limited to, the size of the building, the number of employees, operation during other hours of the day or night, the use of additional land and additional or more powerful equipment; or
(4)
Rebuilt, altered, repaired or replaced after incurring damages exceeding 75 percent of its replacement cost at the time or condition except in conformity with this chapter. A nonconforming manufactured home may not be replaced with another manufactured home unless it is in compliance with all requirements of this chapter.
Additionally, a nonconforming manufactured home use may be continued in any zoning district except R-1 by replacement for any reason, provided that the new manufactured home:
(1)
Was not manufactured more than five years prior to the permit application date;
(2)
Conforms to all other requirements for manufactured homes contained in articles XVII and XVIII of this code.
Nothing in this article shall be deemed to prevent the strengthening or restoring to safe condition of any building or part thereof, where the damage incurred is less than 75 percent of the replacement cost, declared to be unsafe by any official charged with protecting the public safety, upon order of such official.
(Ord. No. 48, § 15-2, 1-9-2003; Amend. of 12-10-2009; Amend. of 10-12-2017)
Sec. 34-463. - Temporary nonconforming uses.
modified
(a)
The director of planning and zoning shall have the authority to issue a temporary use permit allowing a modular office, manufactured home or travel trailer to be placed on an individual lot for a nonresidential use where the applicant for such permit shows that it is necessary to use such modular office, manufactured home or travel trailer as an office or work area for the preparation and completion of a construction project.
(b)
The planning commission may authorize the director of planning and zoning to issue a temporary medical hardship permit for a recreational vehicle, and an existing residence, in a situation where the unit will be used as an accessory dwelling by a member of the property owner's family. The medical disability must be certified by two physician statements. Also, it must be shown by the applicant that the permit is necessary and the dwelling must be located nearby because the family member requires continuous observation. Once the medical hardship has terminated the temporary accessory dwelling shall be removed. The temporary medical hardship permit must be renewed with the director of planning and zoning by January 1 each year.
(c)
An application for a temporary medical hardship permit authorizing temporary occupancy for the above-mentioned uses shall be submitted to the director of planning and zoning for approval. The temporary medical hardship permit shall be issued by the county for an appropriate period of time not to exceed 12-month increments. The owner of such temporary nonconforming use must agree to remove the temporary use upon expiration of the permit. The applicant can seek permit renewal in one-year increments if necessity continues beyond the initial year. The recreational vehicle must be removed within 90 Days of the termination of the medical hardship.
(d)
An applicant may seek approval for temporary use of a travel trailer or recreational vehicle while constructing a home. The temporary use permit shall not exceed 12 months. The applicant can seek an extension if necessity continues beyond the 12 months.
(e)
An applicant may seek approval from the director of planning and zoning for temporary use of a travel trailer or recreational vehicle for the purpose of temporary housing while the occupants will be employed during a nonresidential construction project. This temporary use shall not be required to fully comply with section 34-625 of the Code of Lincoln County. Property owners will make application to Lincoln County Planning Commission for a "temporary use permit." The planning commission may authorize the director of planning and zoning to issue a temporary use permit for the construction camp site. Each applicant must meet the following conditions:
(1)
Property must be zoned as Agricultural District (A-1, A-2, A-3).
(2)
No more than five campers will be allowed per acre.
(3)
A minimum setback of 250 feet is required off of any designated entrance corridors.
(4)
Each camper shall be provided with an approved individual self contained camper service panel of not less than 30 amps with at least one GFCI 15 or 20 amp duplex receptacle.
(5)
All temporary campers must be connected to either the county water system or a private well or any other approved potable water source if the camper is present for more than 30 days.
(6)
All sites must have a sewage disposal system approved by the Lincoln County Health Department. (Unless public system is available)
(7)
Must conform to the buffer requirements in subsection 64-631(3) of this Code. (Unless there is an existing wooded area to provide a comparable buffer)
(8)
The temporary use permit shall not exceed 12 months. Property owner must seek an extension from the director of planning and zoning if necessity continues beyond the 12 months.
(9)
A "guarantee of condition" bond will be required for all properties where travel trailers or recreational vehicles are being used for the purpose of temporary housing while the occupants will be employed during a nonresidential construction project.
a.
The amount of the bond will be $500.00 for lots meeting all other requirements of this Code and containing up to ten campers;
b.
The amount of the bond will be $1,000.00 for lots meeting all other requirements of this Code and containing more than ten campers;
c.
Bond shall be by cash, certified check, bank check or money order;
d.
The "guarantee of condition bond" will be refunded in full upon completion of construction project, removal of all campers, and subject to an inspection and approval by the Lincoln County Building Official and the property owner.
(10)
During the temporary use permit the planning and zoning director or his designee may inspect the property at any time for compliance. Any violations found and not corrected in a timely manner may result in the temporary use permit being revoked.
(Ord. No. 48, § 15-3, 1-9-2003; Amend. of 4-14-2011; Ord. of 3-11-2021)
Secs. 34-464—34-490. - Reserved.
