ARTICLE XXII. - AMENDMENTS

Sec. 34-731. - Generally.
The board of commissioners may amend, supplement or change the regulations set forth in this chapter or the boundaries of the zoning districts established on the official zoning map.
(1)
No amendment shall become effective unless it shall have been initiated by either the board of commissioners or the planning commission, the property owner, or an individual who has the owner's power of attorney authorizing him to act, or a request signed by 60 percent of the property owners who hold not less than 60 percent of the affected land.
(2)
As used in this article, the term "amendment" means both a change to the "official zoning map" and a change to the text of this chapter unless otherwise indicated. All proposed amendments shall first be submitted to the planning commission who shall conduct a public hearing and shall make a written recommendation to the board of commissioners. The power to approve and enact an amendment rests solely within the legislative discretion of the board of commissioners.
(Ord. No. 48, § 23-1, 1-9-2003)
Sec. 34-732. - Procedure.
(a)
Application for amendment. All proposed amendments shall be initiated by an application with the director on forms provided by the county. A standard fee shall be paid with the application for amendment of these regulations may be in the form of a proposal for amendment of the text of regulations or a proposal for amendment of the zoning map.
(b)
Notification of public hearing; property in violation prohibited. Within 15 days after receiving the application, the director shall in writing inform the applicant of the date on which a public hearing will be held to consider the zoning change.
No application will be accepted from any person regarding any property that is in violation of this chapter. If the property, at the time of application, which is the subject of an amendment or any other action of the board of commissioners, is found to be in violation of this chapter, then the board of commissioners will not accept and/or process any application from that applicant until the applicant voluntarily removes or changes the cause of the violation or ceases to be in violation. The applicant must then notify the director that he is no longer in violation and obtain a release from the director as to the violation. Once released, the board of commissioners will then accept the application for amendment of this chapter.
(c)
Erection of sign. Upon receiving an application for a map amendment and establishing the date of the public hearing concerning the petitioned request, the director shall erect in a conspicuous place on the property in question or on the right-of-way of the nearest public road if the property does not front a public road a sign giving notice of both the existing zoning district in which the property is located and the requested change and the scheduled date and place for the public hearing.
(d)
Referral to planning commission. After acceptance of application for amendment, the director shall transmit a copy thereof to the planning commission for its review during the scheduled public hearing and recommendation. It will study the proposed amendment and determine if it meets the standards as enumerated in section 34-733. Once the public hearing has been conducted in accordance with section 34-736, the planning commission shall make a written recommendation to the board of commissioners stating its approval or disapproval of the requested zoning change. Such recommendation shall be made by the planning commission within 45 days of the public hearing or the requested zoning change shall be deemed to have been recommended for approval by the planning commission.
(Ord. No. 48, § 23-2, 1-9-2003)
Sec. 34-733. - Zoning standards.
(a)
The exercise of the zoning power of the county shall constitute an effort to balance the interest of the community in promoting the public health, safety, morality and general welfare against the right of property owners to the unrestricted use of their property. The following factors shall be considered by the planning commission when reviewing and making its written recommendation and by the board of commissioners when making a decision whether to approve or deny the requested amendment. These factors are determined to be relevant in balancing the interest in promoting the public health, safety, morality and general welfare against the right to the unrestricted use of the property:
(1)
Whether the proposed amendment would allow a use that is generally suitable for the site compared to other possible uses and the uses and zoning of adjacent and nearby properties;
(2)
Whether the proposed amendment would adversely affect the economic value or the uses of adjacent and nearby properties;
(3)
Whether the property to be affected by the proposed amendment can be used as currently zoned;
(4)
Whether the proposed amendment, if adopted, would result in a use which would or could cause an excessive or burdensome use of existing streets, schools, sewers, water resources, police and fire protection or other utilities;
(5)
Whether there are other conditions or transitional patterns affecting the use and development of the property sought to be rezoned, if applicable, which give ground for either approval or disapproval of the proposed amendment.
(b)
The county shall consider any proposed amendment properly initiated in light of the factors set forth in this section. In evaluating the factors set forth in this section, it shall be the policy of the county to exercise its zoning power in conformity with the policy and intent of the county comprehensive plan insofar as that plan is current in its application to the specific property that is the subject of the proposed amendment. It is further the policy of the county to exercise the zoning power for purposes of assuring the compatibility of use of adjacent and nearby properties and the preservation of the economic value of adjacent and nearby properties while enabling a reasonable use of all property.
(Ord. No. 48, § 23-3, 1-9-2003)
Sec. 34-734. - Public hearing.
Before making a written recommendation to the board of commissioners, the planning commission shall hold a public hearing thereon. A public hearing shall be conducted at the time and place specified by the planning commission and as set forth in the public notice described in section 34-735. The purpose of such hearing shall be to present to the public the proposed zoning amendment, and to receive comments thereon from the public. The board of commissioners shall consider the proceedings and comments of such hearing on the proposed zoning amendment in making a final decision on whether to approve or deny the amendment application. The planning commission shall prescribe the rules of order for its deliberations on matters with which it is charged under this chapter, and the rules of order shall be consistent with the general requirements and purposes set forth in this article and other general laws of the state concerning conduct of proceedings of public commissions, bodies and governmental units.
(Ord. No. 48, § 23-4, 1-9-2003)
Sec. 34-735. - Public notice.
(a)
Public notice of the hearing on a proposed amendment to the zoning ordinance of the county shall be given as set forth in subsection (b).
(b)
At least 15, but not more than 45 days prior to the date set by the planning commission for the hearing, a written notice shall be published once in a newspaper of general circulation in the county setting forth the time, place, and purpose of the hearing. Such notice shall contain a summary of the proposed amendment, if a text amendment, and in the case of a map amendment, the location of the property, its area, name or owner, and the proposed change or classification.
(Ord. No. 48, § 23-5, 1-9-2003)
Sec. 34-736. - Conduct of hearings.
The following policies and procedures shall govern the conduct of public hearings under this chapter:
(1)
The hearing shall be convened by the chair of the planning commission at the time and place scheduled.
(2)
The chair shall open any hearing with an explanation of the purpose of the hearing and a description of the general rules for the conduct of the hearing. The chair or his designee may describe the authority and role of the planning commission in any zoning decision.
(3)
The chair shall review the procedures for holding the public hearing which shall be as follows:
a.
No person may speak until recognized by the chair. Upon rising to speak, the person recognized must first state his name and address.
b.
One or two spokespersons will be allowed two minutes to express opinions of the proposed zoning revisions; provided, however, that the spokespersons shall speak no longer than an aggregate of ten minutes.
c.
Any remark amounting to an attack on the character or personal integrity of another individual, or comment not factually supportable, or comment in the form of an emotional outburst, shall be irrelevant to the purpose of any hearing and may be ruled out of order.
d.
Additional persons will be recognized in accordance with the procedure set forth in this section for the purpose of addressing additional issues and making additional points, but no speaker shall be allowed to address points which have already been thoroughly discussed.
e.
In the case of each petition for amendment to the zoning ordinance, the chair shall allow the applicant, or the agent for the applicant, to speak first and to present the arguments of the applicant in favor of the proposed amendment.
(Ord. No. 48, § 23-6, 1-9-2003)
Sec. 34-737. - Official action by the board of commissioners.
(a)
Once the planning commission submits a recommendation to the board of commissioners, the board of commissioners at a regular meeting may take action approving or rejecting the proposal at that meeting, or the board of commissioners may table the question for consideration at its next regular meeting or a called meeting to be held no later than the next regular meeting.
(b)
The planning commission's role in any zoning amendment decision shall be advisory only. Any zoning amendment decision shall be made by the board of commissioners who shall either approve or disapprove the proposed zoning amendment.
(Ord. No. 48, § 23-7, 1-9-2003)
Sec. 34-738. - Speculative rezonings/reversion.
The county discourages the use of rezonings as a strategy to increase speculative land value where the applicant has no immediate intent to develop in accordance with the rezoning. Rezonings are intended to grant the applicant an opportunity to exercise appropriate alternative development options in situations where development in compliance with existing zoning is not possible or practicable, as long as the proposed uses are consistent with the comprehensive plan and the character of the surrounding area. The granting of this privilege by the county carries with it the expectation that the proposed development will occur within a reasonable period of time. Therefore, when the board of commissioners grants approval of a rezoning, the applicant should acquire a construction permit or final plat approval (whichever is applicable) and commence construction activities in compliance with that permit or approval within one year of the date upon which the rezoning is approved. Reversion: If such actions have not been taken within one year, the planning commission may initiate actions to further rezone the subject property and/or to reinstate the original zoning classification.
(Ord. No. 48, § 23-8, 1-9-2003)
Sec. 34-739. - Appeal from decision of the board of commissioners.
Appeals from the decision of the board of commissioners regarding the approval or disapproval of a zoning amendment shall be made in accordance with the judicial review in section 34-430.
(Ord. No. 48, § 23-9, 1-9-2003)
Sec. 34-740. - Limitation on reapplication.
No application for amendment of the zoning ordinance once heard by the planning commission shall be accepted for a rehearing until at least six months shall have passed since written recommendation was made by the planning commission to the board of commissioners.
(Ord. No. 48, § 23-10, 1-9-2003)
Sec. 34-741. - Withdrawal without prejudice.
An application may not be withdrawn or amended by the applicant after the public hearing has been advertised. However, the planning commission may by a majority vote allow an application to be withdrawn without prejudice.
(Ord. No. 48, § 23-11, 1-9-2003)
