Chapter 62 - STREETS, SIDEWALKS AND OTHER PUBLIC PLACES[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Cross reference— Any ordinance relating to specific public improvements or assessments for such improvements saved from repeal, § 1-10(5); any ordinance naming, renaming, opening, closing, prescribing grades, etc., of streets, roads, bridges and other public ways saved from repeal, § 1-10(11); signs, § 6-31 et seq.; corner visibility, § 6-128; projection or extension of signs, § 6-130; buildings and building regulations, ch. 18; environment, ch. 30; land development, ch. 34; corner visibility, § 34-66; design standards for streets, § 34-242; construction specification for curb and gutter and streets, § 34-243; road and sidewalk requirements in unsubdivided developments, § 34-244; design standards for pedestrianways, § 34-245; sidewalk requirements in subdivisions, § 34-246; dedication and reservation of land development, § 34-281 et seq.; manufactured home park street system and vehicle parking, § 34-595; communication towers and antennas, § 34-661 et seq.; library, ch. 42; natural resources, ch. 46; parks and recreation, ch. 54; utilities, ch. 70; waterways, ch. 74.
State Constitution reference— Powers of county as to streets, roads and stormwater systems, Ga. Const. art. IX, § II, ¶ III.
State Law reference— State, county and municipal road systems, O.C.G.A. § 32-4-1 et seq.; removal and relocation of utility facilities necessitated by construction of public roads, O.C.G.A. § 32-6-170 et seq.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 62-1. - Truck traffic.
(a)
Short title. This section shall be known and may be cited as the Truck Traffic Ordinance.
(b)
Definitions.
Residential subdivision means an area with streets designed primarily for residential and accessory traffic that are primarily interior subdivision streets and specifically including all residential areas platted and regulated by the Lincoln County Subdivision Regulations.
Truck means any vehicle with more than six wheels, except vehicles or operators of local origin, recreational vehicles, buses used in transportation of chartered parties, and government owned vehicles.
(c)
Prohibition on through trucks.
(1)
It shall be unlawful for any truck to travel certain county roads hereinafter listed unless the vehicle trip originates or ends on such road or is made for the purpose of making a delivery to a site on such road. All such roads shall be posted with signs at each end of said road that state, "No Thru Trucks." At the board of commissioners' discretion such signs may also be posted at the intersection of any such road with other roads.
(2)
This section shall apply to roads specifically authorized herein by the board of commissioners and as later added to and deleted from by resolution of the board. This resolution shall apply immediately to those county roads listed on Exhibit A [listed below].
(d)
Prohibition on travel in residential subdivisions. No truck shall enter, travel or park on a street in a residential subdivision in Lincoln County, except for the purpose of delivering goods to houses or points within such residential subdivisions for short periods of time during daylight hours.
(e)
Overnight stay. No truck or tractor trailer shall enter, travel or park on a street in a residential subdivision or park on a right-of-way in Lincoln County for the purpose of an overnight stay by the driver or operator.
(f)
Violations. Any person violating this section shall be punished by a fine not to exceed $1,000.00 or 60 days imprisonment. Each day that the offense continues shall constitute a separate violation.
EXHIBIT "A"
New Petersburg Road
L&N Road
Thomas Lane Post Road
Elam Drive
Melvin Harris Drive
Turner Drive
Murray Jones Circle
Garnett Harris Drive
Annie Kate Elam Drive
Bethany Church Road
Curry Circle
Beck Drive
Lincoln Street
Shore Line Drive
McDonald Street
Lewis Street
Camden Street
Parks Road
Soap Creek Lodge Road
Amity-Woodlawn Road
(Ord. of 5-12-2011, §§ (a)—(f))
Secs. 62-2—62-30. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - STREET AND ROAD NAMES

Sec. 62-31. - Official system established.
There is established an official system of street and road names as shown on the base map entitled "Base Map-Lincoln County, Georgia," as produced by the Central Savannah River Area Regional Development Center, a copy of which is made a part of this article.
(Ord. No. 24, § 1, 7-3-1990)
Sec. 62-32. - Names of streets and roads to remain.
The names of streets and roads of the unincorporated areas of the county shall remain as shown on the base map, unless officially changed by ordinance.
(Ord. No. 24, § 2, 7-3-1990)
Sec. 62-33. - Acceptance of new street or road.
No new streets or roads shall be accepted by the county until such street or road has been properly named. If the street or road is an extension of an existing street or road, the existing name shall be continued. If not an extension of an existing street or road, names recorded shall not duplicate or closely approximate street or road names that have already been assigned.
(Ord. No. 24, § 3, 7-3-1990)
Sec. 62-34. - Maintenance of street and road names.
The department of planning and zoning shall be responsible for maintenance of the system of street and road names. The department shall maintain a copy of the map adopted by this article and shall record thereon all changes made by ordinance or new assignments accepted. The director of planning and zoning shall cause to be made revisions to the official map to include all official changes made up to the date of revision, which is also to be clearly recorded thereon.
(Ord. No. 24, § 4, 7-3-1990)
Secs. 62-35—62-60. - Reserved.
ARTICLE III. - PROPERTY AND BUILDING NUMBERS[2]

Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
Cross reference— Buildings and building regulations, ch. 18.

Sec. 62-61. - Uniform system adopted.
(a)
A uniform system of numbering properties and buildings as described in this article shall be adopted for the purposes of protecting the health and welfare of the residents of the county.
(b)
This uniform system of property numbering was developed for the county by the Central Savannah River Area Regional Development Center and a copy of the plan is on file in the office of the board of commissioners.
(Ord. No. 23, § 1, 7-3-1990)
Sec. 62-62. - Map and property number plan made part of article; specifications and requirements.
(a)
The above-described map and property number plan are to be made a part of this article.
(b)
All properties, lots and parcels of land within the unincorporated areas of the county shall be identified by reference to the uniform numbering system adopted in this article.
(c)
Each principal building shall bear the number assigned to it by the administrator of the system as provided in this article and where more than one business or family dwelling unit occupies a single structure, that structure shall bear in addition to the basic number assigned to the structure, any supplementary numerals or letters assigned to them.
(d)
Each property owner shall ensure that each building or lot or property as required in this article shall be properly numbered as described in this article.
(e)
Numerals and letters indicating the official property number designation shall be posted at the entrance for which the designated number has been assigned in such a manner as to provide an unobstructed sighting from the road or street on which the building is located.
(f)
The numerals or letters shall be not less than three inches in height and of a contrasting color to the building or lot or property to which such numerals or letters are to be affixed.
(g)
In the instance that a building or dwelling or any other property described in this article that requires numbering under this article, is not visible from the road or street for which it is located, the property number shall be posted in close proximity to the driveway for the property. The property number shall be posted in such a fashion that it is visible from the road or street.
(h)
No person, agency or business shall adopt, display or cite any number other than that assigned as provided in this article for the purpose of property identification or for the purpose of designating the location of property.
(Ord. No. 23, § 2, 7-3-1990)
Sec. 62-63. - Assignment of numbers.
(a)
The assignment of property numbers shall start at one of four baselines and move outward to the boundaries of the county. These baselines start at the intersection of city limits of the City of Lincolnton and Georgia Highway 79 to the north, Georgia Highway 47 to the south and U.S. Highway 378 to the east and west.
(b)
Property numbers shall start with 1,000 from each baseline and be assigned or be reserved for every 20 feet.
(c)
All properties on the south side of east-to-west roads or streets shall bear even numbers.
(d)
All properties on the east side of north-to-south roads or streets shall bear even numbers
(e)
All properties on the north side of east-to-west roads or streets shall bear odd numbers.
(f)
All properties on the west side of north-to-south roads or streets shall bear odd numbers.
(Ord. No. 23, § 3, 7-3-1990)
Sec. 62-64. - Implementation and maintenance.
(a)
The department of planning and zoning shall be responsible for implementing and maintaining the numbering system as adopted by this article.
(b)
The department of planning and zoning shall assign and maintain a record of all property numbers for the county.
(c)
The department of planning and zoning shall make available to all public agencies such as those responsible for emergency services, tax officials and the post office such part of the records of property number assignments as may be required to accomplish a public purpose.
(d)
The department of planning and zoning shall ensure that all property owners comply with this article. Should a property owner refuse to comply with this article, the department of planning and zoning shall number the property and assess a reasonable charge not to exceed $25.00 on the property owner.
(Ord. No. 4, 10-2-1984)
Sec. 62-65. - Violation of article.
Violation of this article shall be a misdemeanor, triable in the magistrate court of the county and shall be punishable as provided in section 1-9. Each separate day such violation is continued shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. No. 23, § 5, 7-3-1990)
