ARTICLE VI. - FINAL PLAT

Sec. 34-171. - Application procedure.
(a)
Five copies of the application for final approval of the subdivision plat shall be submitted to the director of planning and zoning with the appropriate fee as determined by the board of commissioners. The director shall examine the final plat to determine if it meets all requirements of this chapter, conforms to the approved preliminary plat, has approval of the county health department, design of the roads has been approved by the county engineer or other designated official, and whether streets and easements have been dedicated or qualify for dedication.
(b)
The director of planning and zoning shall forward the application for final plat approval to the planning commission, if necessary, at least 30 days prior to a regular meeting of the planning commission in order that the required minimum 15 days public notice be given.
(c)
The application for final plat approval shall be accompanied by all formal irrevocable offers of dedication to the public of all streets, local government uses, utilities, parks, and easements, in a form approved by the county attorney; and the subdivision plat shall be marked with a notation indicating the formal offers of dedication as follows:
The owner, or his representative, hereby irrevocably offers for dedication to Lincoln County all the streets, local government uses, easements, parks, and required utilities shown on the subdivision plat and construction plans in accordance with an irrevocable offer of dedication dated ________, and recorded with the Lincoln County Clerk of Courts.
The applicant shall deliver a full covenant and warranty deed to all dedicated lands and improvements in proper form for recording, together with a title policy for the local government in the sum not less than $10,000.00, which sum shall be determined by the county attorney before signing of the final subdivision plat.
(d)
The application for final plat approval shall be accompanied by the subdivision improvement agreement and security, if required, in a form satisfactory to the county attorney and in an amount established by the planning commission upon recommendation of the county engineer and shall include a provision of final subdivision plat approval as determined by the planning commission and shall include, but not be limited to, the performance of all required subdivision and off-site improvements, and that all improvements and land included in the irrevocable offer of dedication shall be dedicated to the local government free and clear of all liens and encumbrances on the premises.
(Ord. No. 48, § 7-1, 1-9-2003)
Sec. 34-172. - Endorsement of health authorities.
The final subdivision plat shall be properly endorsed by the county health department with respect to all sewer or septic tank and water facilities and that they comply with all rules, regulations, and requirements of the county, the state and federal authorities.
(Ord. No. 48, § 7-2, 1-9-2003)
Sec. 34-173. - Final plat determination.
(a)
If significant changes from the preliminary plat have been made, the director shall schedule the final subdivision plat determination for the next available regular meeting agenda of the planning commission. Public notice of final plat determination shall be given at least 15, but not more than 45 days prior to the next available regular meeting. The director shall file a written notice which shall be published in the newspaper of general circulation in the county setting forth the time, place, and purpose of the announcement. Such notice shall identify the property affected. The cost of such newspaper notice shall be paid by the applicant for final plat approval.
(b)
At the meeting, the planning commission shall approve, disapprove or approve with modification, the final plat. If approved, the planning commission shall indicate so in writing, stating the conditions of such approval, if any, or if disapproved, the planning commission shall express in writing its disapproval and its reasons therefore. If the planning commission does not act within 45 days of the official submission of the final plat to the planning commission the final plat shall be considered approved and a certificate of approval shall be issued by the planning commission on demand.
(c)
Final plat determination may be approved by the director provided there are no major changes from the approved preliminary plat. Determination shall be made by the director of planning and permits as to whether significant changes from the preliminary plat have been made.
(Ord. No. 48, § 7-3, 1-9-2003)
Sec. 34-174. - Signing of plat.
(a)
When a subdivision improvement agreement and security are required, the planning commission shall endorse approval on the final plat after the agreement and security have been approved by the planning commission, and all the conditions of the resolution pertaining to the final plat have been satisfied.
(b)
When installation of improvements is required prior to recordation of the final plat, the planning commission shall endorse approval on the final plat after all conditions of the resolution have been satisfied and all improvements satisfactorily completed. There shall be written evidence that the required public facilities have been installed in a manner satisfactory to the county as shown by a certification signed by the planning commission and county attorney stating that the necessary dedication of public lands and improvements have been accomplished.
(Ord. No. 48, § 7-4, 1-9-2003)
Sec. 34-175. - Recording.
If approved, a plat shall be recorded in the clerk's office of the superior court of the county upon authentication by the planning commission, within 60 days after final approval thereof. Otherwise, such approval shall be withdrawn by the planning commission and the superior court shall not file or record a plat of a subdivision until such plat has been approved by the planning commission.
(Ord. No. 48, § 7-5, 1-9-2003)
Sec. 34-176. - Plat approval not acceptance of dedication offers.
The approval of a plat does not constitute acceptance by the county of the offer of dedication of any streets, sidewalks, parks, public facilities or other ground shown on a plat. However, the county may accept such offer of dedication by resolution of the planning commission or implicitly by maintenance of such facilities.
(Ord. No. 48, § 7-6, 1-9-2003)
Sec. 34-177. - Distribution.
As previously stated, five prints shall be submitted to the planning commission with other required materials comprising the final plat. The sheet size shall not exceed 18 by 24 inches nor be less than 8½ by 11 inches. If the complete plat cannot be shown on one sheet, it may be shown on more than one sheet with an index map on a separate sheet of the same size. After approval, two prints shall be returned to the owner or proprietor of the subdivision for recordation in the precise form as approved. Three prints with recording information included thereon, shall be retained and distributed as follows:
(1)
Tax assessor, one print.
(2)
Clerk of superior court, one print.
(3)
Director, one print.
(Ord. No. 48, § 7-7, 1-9-2003)
Sec. 34-178. - Final plat requirements.
If the final plat is drawn in two or more sections, each section shall be accompanied by a key map showing the location of the several sections. The final plat shall contain the following specific information:
(1)
Name of owner of record.
(2)
Name of subdivision, date, north arrow and graphic scale.
(3)
Name, registration number and seal of registered land surveyor, unless the surveyor is an elected official.
(4)
Names of county in which subdivision is located and location map.
(5)
Sufficient data to determine readily and reproduce accurately on the ground the location, bearing, length and width of every street and alley line, lot line, easement, boundary line and building line, whether curved or straight. This shall include the radius, point of tangency and other data for curved property lines and curved streets, to an appropriate accuracy and in conformance with good surveying practice.
(6)
Names of owners of record of all adjoining land and all property boundaries, watercourses, streets, easements, utilities and other such improvements, which cross or form any boundary line of the tract being subdivided.
(7)
Exact boundaries and original property line of the tract, determined by a field surveyor, shown with bearings and distances.
(8)
Streets and alleys, rights-of-way and street names within and immediately adjoining the plat.
(9)
Rights-of-way of easements; location, widths and purposes, or any areas to be reserved or dedicated for public use.
(10)
A statement, either on the plat or in an identified attached document, of any private covenants.
(11)
Lot lines, minimum building setback lines, street trees and lot and block numbers.
(12)
Parks, school sites or other public open spaces.
(13)
All dimensions shall be to the nearest 1/100 of a foot and angles to the nearest second.
(14)
Accurate description of the location of all monuments and markers. Markers shall be metal pipe or rods at least one-half inch in diameter and 24 inches in length.
(15)
A final plat shall be a good legible print, blue, white or other commercial print reproduced from a tracing made in India ink on a commercial grade of tracing cloth, tracing film, or tracing paper with a sheet size of not more than 18 by 24 inches, leaving a two-inch binding edge. Where more than one sheet is required, an index map shall be required on the same size sheet.
(16)
Utility easements by widths and locations to include:
a.
Water;
b.
Gas;
c.
Sanitary sewer;
d.
Storm drainage;
e.
Electrical lines;
f.
Telephone lines.
(17)
The following signed certificates shall appear on the final plat which is submitted to the planning commission by the subdivider:
a.
Certificate of approval for recording: (To be placed on an original of the approved final plat by the planning commission and returned to the subdivider for recording):
"The subdivision plat known as ___________, has been found to comply with the Lincoln County Land Development Ordinance and was approved by the Planning Commission on the _____ day of________, 20___, for the recording in the office of Clerk of the Superior Court of Lincoln County, Georgia.
___________
Lincoln County Planning Commission
Chair
b.
Certificate of accuracy:
"I hereby certify that this Plat is a true, correct and accurate survey as required by the Lincoln County Land Development Ordinance; and was prepared from an actual survey of the property made under my supervision, and that monuments shown have been located and placed to the specifications set forth in said regulations.
By:
(Registered Land Surveyor Signature)
(Typed Name)
(Surveyor's Seal Required)
Registered Land Surveyor No.
Date:
c.
Certificate of ownership and dedication, individuals:
"It is hereby certified that I am (we are) the owner(s) of the property shown and described hereon and that I (we) hereby dedicate all streets, alleys, walks, parks and other sites to public or private use as noted. It is further certified that the streets, drainage system, sewer system and water system in ___________ Subdivision as shown on the Plat dated ________ prepared by ___________ have been installed in Accordance with the Preliminary Plat (Construction Drawings) approved (Date)________. It is understood that this is not an assumption of maintenance by the governing authority. This dedication is for the public's right of ingress and egress only.
EXPAND
_____
Date (Owner)      
Printed Name (and Address)
(Witness)      
Printed Name (Owner)      
Printed Name (and Address)
(Witness)      
Printed Name
  d.
Certificate of ownership and dedication, corporation:
"It is hereby certified that ___________, a corporation duly organized and existing under the laws of the State of Georgia is the owner of the property shown and described thereon, and that all streets, alleys, walks, parks, and sites shown thereon, are dedicated to public or private use as noted. It is understood that this is not an assumption of maintenance by the governing authority. This dedication is for the public's rights of ingress and egress only.
EXPAND
(Corporate seal required)
(Witness)      
Printed Name (Corporation)      
(Witness)      
Printed Name (Principal authorized to sign)      
Printed Name and Title
(Principal authorized to sign)      
Printed Name and Title
  (Ord. No. 48, § 7-8, 1-9-2003)
Secs. 34-179—34-200. - Reserved.
_____
