ARTICLE III. - APPLICATION OF REGULATIONS

Sec. 34-61. - Generally.
(a)
Application of zoning provisions. Except as otherwise provided, no structure or land shall, after the adoption of this chapter, be used and no structure or part thereof shall be erected, altered or moved unless in conformity with the requirements specified in this chapter for the district in which it is located.
(b)
Application of subdivision provisions. No land shall be subdivided or sold, leased, transferred or developed until each of the following conditions has occurred in accordance with this chapter:
(1)
The developer or his agent has submitted the required fees, plats and plans as described in these regulations to the director;
(2)
Obtained approval of all these plats and plans, including approval of the final plat or plan by the planning commission or planning director; and
(3)
The approved final plat is recorded with the county clerk of superior court.
In their interpretation and application, the provisions of this chapter shall be considered minimum requirements adopted for the promotion of the public health, safety, morals, convenience, order, prosperity and general welfare of the community.
(Ord. No. 48, § 4-1, 1-9-2003)
Sec. 34-62. - Area and setback requirements.
Except as provided in this chapter, no building or structure shall be erected on a lot unless such building or structure, enlargement, additions or alterations conform with the area regulations and setback requirements of the zoning district in which it is located.
(Ord. No. 48, § 4-2, 1-9-2003)
Sec. 34-63. - Reduction of lot area.
No lot shall be reduced, diminished and so maintained that the yards, other open space or total lot area shall be smaller than prescribed by this chapter, nor shall the density of population be increased in any manner except in conformity with the regulations established in this chapter.
(Ord. No. 48, § 4-3, 1-9-2003)
Sec. 34-64. - Yards apply to only one building.
No required yard or other open space around an existing building, or which is hereafter provided around any building for the purpose of complying with the provisions of this chapter, shall be considered as providing a yard or open space for any other building; nor shall any yard or other required open space on an adjoining lot be considered as providing a yard or open space on a lot whereon a building is to be erected.
(Ord. No. 48, § 4-4, 1-9-2003)
Sec. 34-65. - Only one main building on a lot.
Every building hereafter shall be located on a lot. There shall not be more than one main residential building and its accessory buildings on one lot, except as otherwise provided.
(Ord. No. 48, § 4-5, 1-9-2003)
Sec. 34-66. - Corner visibility.
No sign, construction, structures, fence, wall, hedge, bushes, outdoor uses or other obstruction to a clear view which extends over three feet in height shall be permitted at any corner of intersecting streets and a straight line connecting them at points 25 feet from the intersection of the street lines.
(Ord. No. 48, § 4-6, 1-9-2003)
Cross reference— Streets, sidewalks and other public places, ch. 62.
Sec. 34-67. - Front yards on a double frontage lot.
At each end of a double frontage lot there shall be a front yard of the depth required by this chapter for the zoning district in which each street frontage is located; provided, that one of the front yards may serve as a rear yard.
(Ord. No. 48, § 4-7, 1-9-2003)
Sec. 34-68. - Suitability of land for subdivision.
All land physically unsuitable for subdivision shall not be improved. This includes:
(1)
Damaged property. Property affected by flooding, bad drainage, steep slopes, rock formations, or other such features which may endanger health, life or property, aggravate erosion, increase flood hazard, or necessitate excessive expenditures of public funds for supply or maintenance of services;
(2)
Property deemed unsuitable by concerned agencies. Property which other public agencies concerned have investigated and found in the best interest of the public not suitable for the type of platting and development proposed; shall not be approved for subdivision unless adequate methods are formulated by the developer for meeting the problems created by subdivision of such property.
(3)
Land unsuitably located for subdivision. The planning commission shall not approve what it considers to be scattered or premature subdivisions of land which would endanger health, safety, or property because lack of or adverse effect on water supply, schools, proper drainage, good transportation, other public services or public funds for the supply or maintenance of such services.
(Ord. No. 48, § 4-8, 1-9-2003)
Sec. 34-69. - Resubdividing.
(a)
Parcels on official tax appraisal map. Parcels which are combined or returned to acreage as shown on the official tax appraisal map shall not be resubdivided except in conformance with all provisions of these chapter.
(b)
Resubdivision within a residential subdivision. Lots or tracts of land within an approved residential subdivision may be further subdivided provided the newly created lots meet all requirements in this chapter and are no smaller in dimension than the average lot width and depth of all other lots within the residential subdivision.
(Ord. No. 48, § 4-9, 1-9-2003)
Sec. 34-70. - Revisions.
No change, erasure, or revision shall be made on any preliminary or final plat, nor on accompanying data sheets after approval of the director or planning commission has been endorsed in writing on the plat or sheets, unless authorization for such changes has been granted in writing by the planning commission. In no case shall the planning commission approve a revision thereof unless the fact that it is a revised plat is clearly stated thereon.
(Ord. No. 48, § 4-10, 1-9-2003)
Sec. 34-71. - Nonresidential subdivisions.
(a)
Generally. If a proposed subdivision includes land that is zoned for commercial or industrial purposes, the layout of the subdivision with respect to the land shall make provision as the planning commission may require. Site plan approval and nonresidential subdivision plat approval may proceed simultaneously at the discretion of the planning commission. A nonresidential subdivision shall be subject to all the requirements of these regulations, as well as such additional standards required by the planning commission, and shall conform to the proposed land use and standards established in the comprehensive plan.
(b)
Standards. In addition to the principles and standards in this chapter, which are appropriate to the planning of all subdivisions, the applicant shall demonstrate to the satisfaction of the planning commission that the street, parcel, and block pattern proposed is specifically adapted to the uses anticipated and takes into account other uses in the vicinity. The following principles and standards shall be observed:
(1)
All proposed industrial parcels shall be suitable in area and dimension to the types of industrial development anticipated.
(2)
Street rights-of-way and pavement shall be adequate to accommodate the type and volume of traffic anticipated to be generated thereupon.
(3)
Special requirements may be imposed by the county with respect to street, curb, gutter, and sidewalk design and construction.
(4)
Special requirements may be imposed by the county with respect to the installation of public utilities, including water, sewer, and stormwater drainage.
(5)
Every effort shall be made to protect adjacent residential areas from potential nuisance from a proposed commercial or industrial subdivision, including the provision of extra depth in parcels backing up on existing or potential residential development and provisions for a permanently landscaped buffer strip as defined in section 34-631.
(6)
Streets carrying nonresidential traffic, especially truck traffic, shall not normally be extended to the boundaries of adjacent existing or potential areas.
(Ord. No. 48, § 4-11, 1-9-2003)
Secs. 34-72—34-100. - Reserved.
