ARTICLE VI. - PARKING AND LOADING

Sec. 119-377. - Spaces for off-street parking and loading and persons with disabilities required.
(a)
Scope. It is the intent of this article that all buildings, structures and uses of land shall provide off-street parking and loading space in an amount sufficient to meet the needs caused by the building or use of land and that such parking and loading spaces be so that they are in fact readily usable for such purposes. Off-street parking and loading requirements are waived in the CBD district.
(b)
Additional spaces required. Each use of land and each building or structure hereafter constructed or established shall provide off-street parking and loading according to the standards set forth herein. When an addition is made to a building containing less than the required parking or loading requirements, a conforming amount of parking or loading spaces shall be supplied based upon the size of the addition. No addition to an existing building shall be constructed which reduces the number of spaces, area or usability of existing parking or loading spaces unless such building and its addition conform with the regulations for parking and loading contained herein.
(c)
Parking for persons with handicaps. Parking spaces for persons with disabilities shall be required. Existing uses providing off-street parking shall have 12 months from the date of adoption of the ordinance codified in this chapter to comply with parking requirements for persons with disabilities. New uses providing off-street parking shall incorporate spaces for persons with disabilities into the design of parking facilities.
(Ord. of 9-18-2014(2))
Sec. 119-378. - Design standards.
(a)
Off-street parks and driveways. The following are the design requirements for off-street parking spaces and driveways:
(1)
Required dimensions and access for each parking space. Each automobile parking space shall be not less than nine feet wide and 19 feet in length. Driveways shall connect each parking space with a public right-of-way.
(2)
Interior driveways. Where 90-degree parking is utilized, all interior driveways shall be a minimum of 24 feet in width. If 60-degree angle parking is used, then interior driveways shall be at least 13 feet in width for one-way traffic and 24 feet in width for two-way traffic. In the instance where parallel parking is utilized or there is no parking, interior driveways shall be a minimum of ten feet in width for one-way traffic and 24 feet in width for two-way traffic. A ten-foot stacking lane is required for drive-up windows or pick-up stations.
(3)
Surfacing, drainage and lighting.
a.
Drainage. All off-street parking spaces, access and interior driveways will be graded to insure proper drainage and surfaced with concrete or asphalt at least two inches thick installed on an approved base of five inches minimum and maintained in good condition free of weeds, dust, trash and debris.
b.
Surface. Hardened surface may be approved only through special use approval.
c.
Lighting. If the off-street parking facilities are used at night, they shall be properly illuminated for the safety of pedestrians, vehicles and for security. The lighting shall be designed so as not to reflect onto or cause glare in any adjacent residential district.
(4)
Sharing or required off-street parking spaces. One-half of the off-street parking spaces required by a use whose peak attendance will be at night or on Sundays may be shared with a use that will be closed at night or on Sundays. Parking requirements for two or more uses of the same or different types may be satisfied by the allocation of a common or collective parking facility. This facility shall not be less than the sum of the requirements for the individual uses computed separately in accordance with the requirements of the zoning district.
(5)
Spaces for persons with disabilities. Spaces for handicapped persons shall meet the requirements of the Georgia Accessibility Standards.
(b)
Loading stalls. The following are the design requirements for off-street loading stalls:
(1)
Required dimensions. Each loading stall shall be a minimum of ten feet wide and 30 feet in length except that for wholesale and industrial use, loading stalls shall be a minimum of ten feet wide and 50 feet in length.
(2)
Access. All off-street loading stalls shall have access from an alley, or if there is no alley, from a public or private street.
(3)
Surfacing, drainage and lighting. All off-street loading stalls and access shall be graded to insure proper drainage, surfaced with concrete or asphalt at least two inches thick, installed on an approved base of five inches and maintained in good condition free of weeds, dust, trash and debris. If loading stalls are to be used at night, they shall be properly illuminated for the safety of pedestrians, vehicles and for security. Lighting shall be designed to preclude light spill onto adjacent properties.
(Ord. of 9-18-2014(2))
Sec. 119-379. - Miscellaneous parking provisions.
(a)
Limitations in residential districts. In any residential district, the parking of vehicles other than ordinary passenger automobiles, a pick-up or panel truck used to provide daily transportation to and from work, and any vehicle with a carrying capacity of more than 2,000 pounds, is prohibited in any residential district.
(b)
Parking plans required. A parking plan for all but single-family residential uses shall be submitted to the city manager or designee with the construction plans. The city manager or designee shall review the proposed parking plan with the city engineer to insure its conformance with all applicable provisions of this chapter. The city manager or designee shall not allow occupancy or use of a building until its related parking facilities are completed in accordance with the approved plan.
(c)
Buffer strips. Parking spaces shall be separated from streets in public rights-of-way by curbs and by a strip of land at least ten feet wide reserved as open space and planted in grass.
(d)
Limitations on uses of parking lots. No parking lot areas may be used for the sale, repairs, dismantling, servicing or long-term storage of any vehicles or equipment.
(Ord. of 9-18-2014(2))
Sec. 119-380. - Minimum off-street parking and loading requirements.
The following are the minimum number of off-street parking spaces and loading stalls required by type of permitted uses. For any use not listed the city manager or designee shall determine the proper requirements by classifying the proposed use among the uses specified herein so as to assure equal treatment follows the principles set forth. In making any such determination, the city manager or designee shall follow the principles set forth at the beginning of this article. All off-street parking shall be paved with curb and gutter.
EXPAND
Use Parking Spaces Required Loading Space Required
Apartments and other multiple-family uses One for each bedroom.
Automotive or machinery sales and service garages One for each 250 sq. ft. of gross floor area plus one for each employee. One for each 5,000 sq. ft. of gross floor area.
Banks, professional and general offices, beauty shops and barbershops One for each 200 sq. ft. of floor area, plus three for each operator. None.
Boardinghouse and roominghouse One for each bedroom. None.
Bowling lanes Five spaces for each lane. One.
Churches One space for each three seats in main assembly area. None.
Clubs or organization halls One space per 100 sq. ft. of assembly space, plus one space per two employees. None.
Duplexes One for each bedroom. None.
Fraternity and sorority houses Two for each bedroom plus one for each five active members. None.
Funeral homes and mortuaries One for each three seats in chapel or one per 50 sq. ft. of public area, whichever is greater. One for each hearse, ambulance, or other non-passenger vehicle.
Furniture and appliances One per each 500 sq. ft. of space plus one for each employee on the same shift. One for first 5,000 sq. ft. plus one each additional 20,000 sq. ft. or fraction thereof.
Gasoline service stations Three spaces for each service bay or similar facility plus one space for each attendant. None.
Hospitals and rest homes One for each three beds, plus one space for each staff member plus one space for each employee on the largest shift. One space for the first 5,000 sq. ft. of floor area plus one for each additional 50,000 sq. ft. or fraction thereof.
Hotels and motels One per unit plus one per two employees on the same shift. One space for the first 5,000 sq. ft. of floor area plus one for each additional 50,000 sq. ft. or fraction thereof.
Libraries, museums and similar uses One space for each 400 sq. ft. of gross space to which the public has access. One space for the first 5,000 sq. ft. of gross floor area plus one additional space for each additional 30,00 sq. ft. or fraction thereof.
Manufacturing, freight terminals Five spaces per each 10,000 sq. ft. of gross floor area or major fraction thereof plus one space for each employee on largest shift. Sufficient to allow for off-street loading, but in no event less than required herein for a warehouse.
Manufactured home parks Two spaces per pad. None.
Places of public assembly or amusement without fixed seats One space for each 200 sq. ft. of floor space devoted to public use. None.
Places or public assembly (buildings including theaters) One space per each three seats in main assembly area, or one space for each 50 sq. ft. where fixed seats are not provided. None.
Real estate sales offices Two for first 200 sq. ft. plus one for each 100 sq. ft. of office and public space. None.
Restaurants and taverns One per each three seats plus one for each full-time employee.
Retail stores One per each 200 sq. ft. of gross sales space. One for first 5,000 sq. ft. plus one for each additional 30,000 sq. ft. or fraction thereof.
Schools One space for each teacher and employee plus one space for each 100 sq. ft. of seating space in auditoriums. Where spectator events are held (stadiums and gymnasiums) parking requirements include one space for each four seats. For senior high schools and colleges where students drive to and from school, there shall be an additional requirement of one space for each ten students for which the school was designed. None.
Shopping centers One space per each 200 sq. ft. of gross floor area. 5,000 sq. ft. plus one for gross floor area each additional 30,000 sq. ft. or fraction thereof.
Single-family residences Two spaces (side-by-side arrangement). None.
Small item service and repair shops One space for each 200 sq. ft. of gross floor area. None.
Supermarkets and food stores One space for each 150 sq. ft. of floor area exclusive of storage area. Two for the first 10,000 sq. ft. and each additional 20,000 sq. ft.
Warehouses Four spaces for the first 5,000 sq. ft. of gross floor area plus one additional space for each 5,000 sq. ft. or fraction thereof plus one for each fulltime employee. Two spaces for the first 5,000 sq. ft. of gross floor area plus one space for each additional 10,000 sq. ft. or fraction thereof.
Wholesale stores One space for each 400 sq. ft. of gross floor area plus one space for each fulltime employee. One space for the first 6,000 sq. ft. of gross floor area plus one for each additional 20,000 sq. ft. or fraction thereof.
  (Ord. of 9-18-2014(2))
Sec. 119-381. - Curb cut requirements and design standards.
Within any zoning district where the lowering or cutting away of any curbs for purposes of ingress and egress is required, such curb cut shall be subject to the following provisions:
(1)
No more than one combined entrance and exit shall be allowed for any parcel of property, the frontage of which is less than 300 feet on any one street. Additional entrances or exits for parcels of property having a frontage in excess of 300 feet shall be permitted after showing the actual requirements of convenience and necessity and upon approval of the city manager or designee.
(2)
No curb cut shall be located within 30 feet of any intersection.
(3)
Maximum width of any curb cut including curb returns shall not exceed 30 feet except that a bona fide truck stop may not exceed the maximum figure as determined by the city manager or designee.
(4)
Curb cuts shall be constructed so as to be at least five feet from any property line.
(Ord. of 9-18-2014(2))
Secs. 119-382—119-407. - Reserved.
