Chapter 10 - BUSINESSES AND BUSINESS REGULATIONS
ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Secs. 10-1—10-18. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - TIMBER OPERATIONS

Sec. 10-19. - Title.
This article shall be known as the Long County Timber and Pulpwood Harvesting and Transport Ordinance.
(Ord. of 3-2-2004, § I)
Sec. 10-20. - Purpose.
The purpose and intent of this article is to ensure that operators engaging in timber or pulpwood harvesting are responsible for any damages inflicted on the county road system or rights-of-way as a result of their operations.
(Ord. of 3-2-2004, § II)
Sec. 10-21. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Applicant means any operator who files a notification to use county roads in the harvesting and transport of timber and pulpwood.
Bond means a surety bond written by a company licensed by the state insurance commissioner. The term "bond" also includes, at the discretion of the applicant, a bank letter of credit, which must be in the form specified by the county governing authority.
County road means any and all roads that are a part of the county road system, delineated in accordance with O.C.G.A. title 32, ch. 4, and intended or used for the passage of motor vehicles by the public.
Damage means any and all injury to the road surface or rights-of-way of a road that is part of the county road system, including, but not limited to, the following:
(1)
Diversion of or the filling of any drainage ditch, culvert, or pipe parallel to or underneath a county road, so as to restrain or redirect the flow of water;
(2)
The operation of any vehicle, machinery, or equipment that will gouge, rip, break, depress, or otherwise deface a county road;
(3)
The continued ingress or egress, to and from a county road at a particular location, that results in a buildup of rock, gravel, mud, dirt, chemicals, or other materials, which present potential hazard to other persons using the county road, and the transport of timber onto a county paved road without the use of a shaker pad containing #4 stone or larger;
(4)
The creation of any dam, berm, ditch, or wall that restrains the natural flow of waters and results in the redirection of said waters onto the road surface or right-of-way of any county road.
The term "damage" does not include normal wear and tear to county roads resulting from use of such roads by an operator in the course of timber or pulpwood harvesting.
Enforcement officer means the county sheriff, the county road superintendent, or their deputies, constables, or designees.
Operator means any person, entity, individual, partnership, corporation, association, or other organization, including the officers, agents, and employees thereof, carrying out the activities described in this article.
Repair means the repair of a county road to its condition prior to the occurrence of damage caused by harvesting of timber or pulpwood.
Rights-of-way means the shoulder, front slope, ditch, drain, and back slope of a county road, whether owned by title or otherwise.
(Ord. of 3-2-2004, § III)
Sec. 10-22. - Damage to county roads.
It shall be unlawful for any operator engaged in the harvesting or transport of timber or pulpwood to damage any county road or county rights-of-way.
(Ord. of 3-2-2004, § IV)
Sec. 10-23. - Notification required.
After October 1, 2002, no operator shall engage in the process of harvesting timber or pulpwood, or the transport of timber or pulpwood from a harvesting site in the county, without first providing written notification to the governing authority for each site proposed for timber or pulpwood harvesting. In addition, the operator shall meet such other requirements specified in this article.
(Ord. of 3-2-2004, § V)
Sec. 10-24. - Bond requirements.
(a)
In addition to other requirements imposed under this article, no operator shall harvest or transport timber or pulpwood in the county without first providing a surety bond or an irrevocable letter of credit in the amount specified as follows:
(1)
$5,000.00 for an operator who owns or contracts for the use of a vehicle with ten or more wheels for the transporting of timber or pulpwood.
(2)
$2,500.00 for an operator who does not own or contract for the use of a vehicle with ten or more wheels for the transporting of timber or pulpwood.
(3)
$20,000.00 when official county or state records show that an operator has violated this article or a similar provision in another county, or payment against a bond has been previously sought in this county or any other county.
(b)
Only one bond shall be required by an operator to satisfy the requirements of this section, regardless of the number of sites to be harvested. Said bond shall remain in effect so long as timber or pulpwood harvesting operations are being conducted in the county.
(Ord. of 3-2-2004, § VI)
Sec. 10-25. - Notification procedure.
(a)
An operator must provide written notification to the governing authority, as described in section 10-23, and include the following information:
(1)
Location and physical description of the property (including acreage) upon which timber or pulpwood is to be cut.
(2)
The approximate times of commencement and completion of harvesting operations on the site.
(3)
The name and address of the property owner.
(4)
The name and address of the person who shall be in charge of, or shall act in a supervisory capacity over, the harvesting operations.
(b)
The governing authority shall provide a copy of each written notification to the county board of assessors. In addition, a copy shall remain on file with the county road superintendent.
(Ord. of 3-2-2004, § VII)
Sec. 10-26. - Operational requirements.
(a)
Roads; general requirements. The use of the county roads by operators transporting timber or pulpwood must not endanger the traveling public. Where damage does occur, the county roads so damaged shall be restored to their previous condition, including, but not limited to, removal of debris and mud and replacement of gravel. Trucks or other equipment used in the harvesting operation shall not be allowed to park on the public right-of-way. If timber is to be transported from the harvesting site onto a county paved road, a shaker pad must be installed prior to the removal of timber adjacent to the county paved road. The shaker pad must contain #4 stone or larger and be a minimum of ten feet in width and 50 feet in length, or a manmade shaker pad made out of wood or metal will be acceptable. Timber harvesters who wish to cross a county right-of-way to gain temporary access to a harvest site must install an appropriate-sized culvert pipe that meets forestry best management practices. However, this pipe must be removed and the ditch restored to its original condition following the completion of the harvesting activities.
(b)
Signs. To alert motorists, an operator harvesting and transporting timber or pulpwood on a county road shall post at least one sign in each direction at the site entrance. Unless otherwise designated by the county road superintendent, these signs shall be placed in locations visible to oncoming traffic, between 500 and 1,000 feet on either side of the road entrance. Each sign shall be orange with minimum dimensions of 36 inches by 36 inches, and shall read "Caution Trucks Entering Highway" or contain an equivalent message. The operator must furnish these signs at his own expense.
(c)
Inspection by county road superintendent. Upon completion of harvesting activities at a site, the operator shall immediately notify the county road superintendent, who shall make an inspection of the site and the county road system affected by the harvesting-related activities. This inspection shall take place within three business days of receipt of said notice.
(d)
Inspection finding no damage. If the inspection required by subsection (c) of this section results in a finding that no damage occurred, the county road superintendent shall immediately so notify the operator. The bond shall be released if the operator is ceasing all harvesting operations in the county.
(e)
Inspection finding damage. If the inspection required by subsection (c) of this section results in a finding that damage has occurred, the operator having caused the damage shall immediately undertake the repairs necessary to return the county road or right-of-way to its original condition.
(Ord. of 3-2-2004, § VIII; Ord. of 6-7-2015)
Sec. 10-27. - Enforcement.
(a)
The county sheriff, county road superintendent, or other enforcement officer duly appointed by the county governing authority shall enforce this article.
(b)
Each day that an operator continues timber or pulpwood harvesting operations without a permit constitutes a separate violation.
(c)
Any operator violating this article shall be punished in accordance with section 1-9.
(d)
The director of the state forestry commission shall be notified as to any violations of this article.
(Ord. of 3-2-2004, § IX)
Secs. 10-28—10-57. - Reserved.
ARTICLE III. - MANUFACTURED HOUSING PARKS

Sec. 10-58. - License required.
Each manufactured housing park located within the county must obtain a license for the operation of said manufactured home park.
(1)
Fees. Before any person shall locate, relocate or operate any manufactured housing park within the county, such person shall first obtain from the governing authority a manufactured housing park license authorizing said business in said county. The fee for this license shall be based upon the fee schedule adopted by the governing authority.
(2)
Expiration. Every manufactured housing park owner or operator shall purchase a manufactured housing park license on or before March 31 of each year for the calendar year.
(3)
Penalty. Failure to obtain a license shall be a violation of this section and subject to the penalty in section 1-9. Furthermore, no relocation permit may be granted to any person locating a manufactured home in a manufactured housing park that is not licensed.
(Ord. of 2-3-2015, § 10.10.3)
