Chapter 20 - NUISANCES[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
State Law reference— Nuisances, O.C.G.A. title 41.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Secs. 20-1—20-18. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - PUBLIC NUISANCES

Sec. 20-19. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Nuisance means and includes:
(1)
Stagnant water on premises;
(2)
Any dead or decaying matter, whether fruit, vegetable, animal or other, upon premises which is odorous or capable of causing disease or annoyance to the inhabitants of the city;
(3)
The generation of smoke or fumes in sufficient amounts to cause odor or annoyance to the inhabitants of the city;
(4)
The pollution of public water or the injection of matter into the sewerage system which would be damaging thereto;
(5)
Maintaining a dangerous or diseased animal or fowl;
(6)
Obstruction of a public street, highway, or sidewalk without a permit;
(7)
Loud or unusual noises which are detrimental to the public, including, without limiting the foregoing, unusual loud disturbances in or around churches or multiple-family complexes such as loud music and other activities in swimming pool and club house areas;
(8)
All walls, trees, other vegetation and buildings that may endanger persons or property;
(9)
Any business or building where illegal activities are habitually and commonly conducted in such a manner as to reasonably suggest the owner or operator of the business or building was aware of the illegal activities and failed to reasonably attempt to prevent such activities;
(10)
Unused iceboxes, refrigerators, junked motor vehicles in a state of disrepair and incapable of being moved under their own power, and other similar unused or unusable appliances or vehicles;
(11)
Any accumulation of debris, objects, materials, or other conditions which may constitute a health, accident, or fire hazard, or which creates a blighting or deteriorating effect in the city;
(12)
Any weeds, such as jimson, burdock, ragweed, thistle, cockleburr, or other weeds of a like kind found growing in any lot or tract of land in the city, and any weeds, grasses or plants other than trees, bushes, flowers, or other ornamental plants, growing to a height exceeding six inches anywhere in the city;
(13)
Any vacant lot whereon debris is permitted to accumulate or vegetation is allowed to remain uncontrolled, in such a manner as to create a fire hazard or other hazard to the public health, safety or welfare;
(14)
Plants presently as well as those later identified as invasive weeds by the Georgia Invasive Species Task Force, March 2005, or as invasive plants by the Lookout Mountain Land Trust/Lookout Mountain Conservancy, specifically including, but not limited to: Tree of Heaven, Mimosa, Giant Reed, Tropical Spiderwort, Autumn Olive, Hydrilla, Cogongrass, Exotic Lespedezas, Chinese Privet and European Privet, Japanese Honeysuckle, Japanese Climbing Fern, Chinaberry Tree, Nepalese Browntop, Small Broomrape, Golden Bamboo, Kudzu, Giant Salvinia, Tropical Soda Apple, Tallow Tree, non-native Wisterias, Princess Tree, Climbing Euonymous, English Ivy, Japanese Grass and Bush Honeysuckle;
(15)
Any car, truck or other motor vehicle which:
a.
Is parked in the yard, wholly or partially off the driveway or pavement, of a residential dwelling in the city; or
b.
Is parked anywhere in the city and which has been inoperable, disabled or un-drivable for a period in excess of 30 days.
(16)
Any other condition constituting a nuisance under state law.
Written notice means a notice in writing served personally, or by registered or certified mail, or by attaching a copy of the notice to the principal entrance of the dwelling or other conspicuous place on the property, and containing a description of the location of the property upon which such condition exists. With respect to all notices given by registered or certified mail, the depositing of such notice in the United States Mail by registered or certified mail, return receipt requested, addressed to the owner of the property at the address shown on the latest ad valorem tax return of such owner for such property shall constitute sufficient service of such notice, where the return receipt shall be duly returned signed by the addressee or someone residing on the premises, or where the return receipt or other notification from the federal postal service indicates that the notice was refused, or that there was a refusal to sign the return receipt, or that delivery of the notice at such address could not be made.
(Ord. No. 127, § 1, 10-26-1987; Ord. No. 243, § 1, 3-19-2009; Ord. No. 244, § 2, 4-16-2009)
Sec. 20-20. - Prohibition.
The control, elimination, and prevention of nuisances are of paramount importance to the preservation of the beauty and property value within the city. Therefore, it shall be unlawful for any person to maintain or permit the existence of any nuisance on any property within the city.
(Ord. No. 127, § 2, 10-26-1987)
Sec. 20-21. - Enforcement.
(a)
Enforcing agents. The chief of police, or the city council, or its designated agents, shall have authority to enter upon property within the city for the purpose of determining the existence and extent of a nuisance.
(b)
Notice to issue. Whenever a person charged with enforcing this article shall discover a nuisance existing within the city limits, the inspecting person shall cause a written notice to be issued to the property owner and/or occupant. The written notice shall advise of the existence of the nuisance and shall invite the owner or occupant to eliminate the nuisance within 15 days of the date the notice is sent or posted.
(c)
Owner or occupant failure to eliminate nuisance. In the event the owner or occupant fails to take appropriate steps to eliminate the nuisance, the city's designated agents may enter upon the property and take reasonable steps to eliminate the nuisance. In the event the city has entered the property and taken necessary steps to eliminate the nuisance, the city may charge the reasonable costs thereof to the owner and/or occupant of the land.
(d)
Charges constitute a lien. Any expenses incurred by the city in the elimination of such nuisances shall become a municipal lien against the land until paid in full, and the expenses so incurred may be collected through the same execution procedures as tax liens are for other city revenues.
(Ord. No. 127, § 3, 10-26-1987)
Sec. 20-22. - Remedies.
The remedies provided in this article are accumulative of all other remedies which the city has, for the accomplishment of the objectives, set forth in this article. Nothing in this article shall be construed as relieving any person from the obligation to comply with all other ordinances, laws or regulations of the city, or to permit the maintenance by any person of a nuisance.
(Ord. No. 127, § 4, 10-26-1987)
Secs. 20-23—20-47. - Reserved.
ARTICLE III. - JUNK

Sec. 20-48. - Findings.
To promote the public safety, health, welfare, convenience and enjoyment of public travel, protect the public investment in public highways and to preserve and enhance the scenic beauty of lands bordering public highways, it is hereby declared to be in the public interest to regulate the storage or display of junk and other materials and the completion and restoration of buildings and other structures in areas adjacent to any public street.
(Ord. No. 41, § 1, 7-27-1972)
Sec. 20-49. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Building materials means and includes, but is not limited to, paint, lumber, sand, cement, bricks, blocks, plywood, roofing supplies, electrical and plumbing fixtures and sheetrock not incorporated in a building or other structure.
Junk means old or scrap copper, brass, rope, rags, batteries, paper, trash, rubber debris, waste, junked, dismantled or wrecked automobiles, trucks or other vehicles or parts thereof, iron, steel, used household appliances, used tires and used bottles, containers, boxes and barrels.
Street means and includes any public road, street, highway, alley or thoroughfare within the city.
(Ord. No. 41, § 2, 7-27-1972)
Sec. 20-50. - Prohibited.
Except as hereinafter provided, no person shall place or allow to remain on his property any junk, building materials or uncompleted or partially burned or otherwise damaged building or other structure, any portion of which is within 1,000 feet of the nearest edge of the right-of-way of any street, except those which are screened by natural objects, plantings or other appropriate means so as not to be visible from the main traveled way of such thoroughfares or otherwise removed from sight.
(Ord. No. 41, § 3, 7-27-1972)
Sec. 20-51. - Exception.
This article shall not apply to articles involved in bona fide current construction, repair, restoration or replacement activities being diligently carried on during, and only during, the period required for such construction, repair or replacement and for 30 days after such work is completed, and the debris and damaged section of all burned or damaged structures which, in the determination of the chief of police, constitute a health or safety hazard shall be cleared from the lot within 30 days of the date of damage.
(Ord. No. 41, § 4, 7-27-1972)
Sec. 20-52. - Removal.
The chief of police and persons under his direction are hereby authorized and directed to take all necessary or advisable steps to remove any junk, building materials and uncompleted buildings and other structures within the city placed or located in violation of this article, including entering any yards, fields and woodlands for such purpose, and to dispose of the same as trash, charging the owner of the property from which removed, with all costs of such removal, which amount shall be a lien upon said property and shall be enforced as are other tax liens of the city.
(Ord. No. 41, § 5, 7-27-1972)
