Chapter 2 - ADMINISTRATION[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
State Law reference— Municipalities generally, O.C.G.A. § 36-30-1 et seq.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Secs. 2-1—2-18. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - CITY COUNCIL

Sec. 2-19. - Meetings.
(a)
Regular meetings of the city council shall be held at 6:00 p.m. in the council chambers in the city hall on the second Thursday in each month, provided, that when such day falls on a legal holiday the city council shall meet on the next succeeding Thursday.
(b)
Special, adjourned or called meetings of the city council shall be held at such time and place as the city council, in its discretion, may deem necessary for the proper and expeditious handling of the business of the city.
(Code 1969, § 2-3; Ord. No. 1, § 1(2-3), 1-1-1969; Ord. No. 221, § 1, 4-20-2006; Ord. No. 307, § 1, 1-26-2018)
State Law reference— Open meetings requirements, O.C.G.A. § 50-14-1 et seq.
Sec. 2-20. - Subpoenas.
(a)
Power of mayor and council to subpoena witnesses; declared. The city council, when sitting as a judicial or quasi-judicial body pursuant to public law, its Charter, or its ordinances, may compel the attendance of witnesses by subpoena under the same rules as prevail in the superior courts of the state; and any witness who shall fail to respond to such subpoena, or who shall refuse to testify under oath, shall be guilty of a contempt.
(b)
Service of subpoena. Such subpoenas as authorized in the preceding subsection shall bear witness in the name of the mayor, shall be issued by the city clerk, and shall be served by the chief of police, any police officer, or by such other person as the mayor may designate.
(c)
Form of subpoena. Subpoenas may be in the following form:
"GEORGIA
WALKER COUNTY
CITY OF LOOKOUT MOUNTAIN:
To ___________:
You are hereby commanded to be and appear at a meeting of the city council, at the Council Chamber, at ___ o'clock on the ___ day of ________, 20___, to testify and the truth to speak in a matter before said city council. Fail not under penalty of law.
Witness the Honorable ___________, Mayor, this ___ day of ________, 20___.
___________
City Clerk"
(d)
Refusal to answer declared contempt; penalty. Should any person fail to respond to a subpoena, after having been lawfully served, without good cause, or should such person refuse to testify under oath, then the city council shall hold such person in contempt, and, in its discretion, punish such person by the imposition of a fine not greater than $25.00 or by incarceration in the city jail or county jail for a period of time not to exceed three days. Each of the failures or refusals herein described shall constitute a separate contempt.
(Code 1969, §§ 2-7—2-10; Ord. No. 1, §§ 1(2-7)—1(2-10), 1-1-1969)
Secs. 2-21—2-43. - Reserved.
ARTICLE III. - OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES

Sec. 2-44. - Social Security.
(a)
It is hereby declared to be the policy and purpose of the city to extend at the earliest date possible under the agreement entered into by the state and the Federal Social Security Administration, to the employees and officials thereof and its instrumentalities, not excluded by law or by this article, the benefits of the System of Old Age and Survivors Insurance as authorized by the Federal Social Security Act, the State Enabling Act, and amendments thereto. In pursuance of said policy, and for that purpose, the city shall take such action as may be required by applicable state or federal laws or regulations.
(b)
The mayor, or other chief executive officer of the city is hereby authorized and directed to execute all necessary agreements and amendments thereto with the Employees' Retirement System of Georgia for coverage of said employees and officials as provided for in subsection (a) of this section, to include any firefighters and police officers that are in positions covered by a public retirement system, in the manner by said law provided.
(c)
Withholdings from salaries or wages of employees and officials for the purpose provided for in subsection (a) of this section are hereby authorized to be made in the amounts and at such times as may be required by applicable state or federal laws or regulations, and shall be paid over to the state agency.
(d)
There shall be appropriated from general funds such amounts at such times as may be required by applicable state or federal laws or regulations for employer's contributions, administrative expenses, and such funds shall be paid over to the Employees' Retirement System of Georgia in accordance with regulations established by said agency.
(e)
The city shall keep such records and make such reports as may be required by applicable state or federal laws or regulations.
(f)
There is hereby excluded from this article any authority to make any agreement with respect to any position, or any employee or official not authorized to be covered by applicable state or federal laws or regulations.
(Ord. No. 46, §§ 1—6, 6-21-1973)
State Law reference— Social security plans for coverage of employees of political subdivisions, O.C.G.A. § 47-18-41.
Sec. 2-45. - Vacations, sick leave, holidays, etc.
Vacations, sick leave and holidays shall be as provided in the policy manuals for the various departments of the city.
Sec. 2-46. - Legal defense of designated city officials.
The city hereby undertakes to defend all civil, criminal or quasi-criminal actions brought or maintained against the mayor of the city, any city councilmember, the chief of police, and/or the city clerk (hereinafter "designated city officials") arising out of the performance of the duties of such designated city officials or in any way connected therewith, whether based upon negligence, violation of contract rights, or violation of civil, constitutional, common law, or statutory rights, whether state, federal, or local; provided, however, that nothing herein shall be deemed to authorize the city to furnish a defense to any designated city official charged with a criminal offense involving theft, embezzlement or other like crime with respect to property or money of the city or in which the city has an interest. The undertaking of the city as herein expressed shall be to the fullest extent permitted by O.C.G.A. § 45-9-21 and shall include, but not by way of limitation, the payment of attorney fees, court costs, deposition costs, witness fees, and compensation, and all other like costs, expenses, and fees incurred during the course of the defense of any such action.
(Ord. No. 68, § 1, 2-17-1977)
Sec. 2-47. - Retirement plan.
(a)
The retirement plan for the employees of the city is hereby restated as set forth in and subject to the terms and conditions stated in the following adoption agreement, any addendum to the adoption agreement, the Georgia Municipal Employees Benefit System (GMEBS) master plan document, and the GMEBS trust agreement.
(b)
Except as otherwise specifically required by law or by the terms of the master plan or adoption agreement (or any addendum), the rights and obligations under the plan with respect to persons whose employment or terms of office with the city was terminated for any reason whatsoever prior to the effective date of the ordinance from which this section is derived are fixed and shall be governed by such plan, if any, as it existed and was in effect at the time of such termination.
(Ord. No. 262, §§ 1, 2, 3-23-2012)
State Law reference— Georgia municipal employees benefit system, O.C.G.A. § 47-5-1 et seq.
Secs. 2-48—2-67. - Reserved.
ARTICLE IV. - FINANCE[2]
Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
State Law reference— Budgets and audits, O.C.G.A. § 36-81-1 et seq.; bond issues, O.C.G.A. § 36-82-1 et seq.; local government investment pool, O.C.G.A. § 36-83-1 et seq.

DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Sec. 2-68. - Fiscal year.
The fiscal year shall begin on July 1 and end on June 30 of each calendar year.
(Code 1969, § 2-12; Ord. No. 1, § 1(2-12), 1-1-1969)
Sec. 2-69. - Filing of accounts against the city.
All bills and accounts against the city shall be filed for inspection with the city clerk on or before the 25th day of every month. Upon failure to so file, the payment of any such account shall be passed over for one month and shall not be considered at the next meeting unless by consent of the council.
(Code 1969, § 2-4; Ord. No. 1, § 1(2-4), 1-1-1969)
Sec. 2-70. - Miscellaneous fees.
The fees to be paid to the city for rezoning applications, zoning variances, conditional land use approval, zoning verification letters, concept plan review, residential plan review, professional engineering review, PUD review, commercial plan review, land disturbance permits, state EPA E and SC permits, building and other construction permits, sewer taps, certificates of occupancy, sign permits, and copies of maps, ordinances, etc., and paving development shall be as determined from time to time by resolution of the city council. The amount of bonds to be given to the city for E and SC maintenance bonds, performance bonds, final plats, building plan review and other purposes shall be as established by the city.
Secs. 2-71—2-98. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - PROCUREMENT[3]

Footnotes:
--- (3) ---
State Law reference— Purchasing preferences, O.C.G.A. § 36-84-1 et seq.; public works bidding, O.C.G.A. § 36-91-1 et seq.

Sec. 2-99. - Duties, powers of purchasing agent.
The purchasing agent shall possess the following powers and perform the following duties:
(1)
He shall contract for and purchase all supplies, materials and equipment necessary for the conduct and operation of all departments and agencies of the city.
(2)
He may transfer from one department or agency to any other departments or agencies such supplies, materials and equipment or other personal property not needed by one but necessary to the conduct and operation of the other; or may sell any personal property belonging to the city which is declared surplus by the city council.
(3)
When established by the city council, he shall have charge of and supervision over all storerooms and storage places and may distribute to the departments and agencies of the city on requisition any supplies, materials or equipment available for distribution from such storerooms.
(4)
He may inspect or supervise inspection of all deliveries of supplies, materials and equipment to determine their conformity to the specifications as to quantity and quality stated in the contract therefor.
(5)
He may, subject to the approval of the city council, advertise for and enter into contracts for requirements, annual orders or indefinite quantity contracts, or term contracts. No such requirements contract shall be let for a period in excess of one year, but may contain a one-year renewal option by the city.
(6)
He may, subject to the approval of the city council, establish standard specifications as to quantity and quality for all supplies, materials and equipment generally needed by the departments or agencies of the city, and may make use of laboratories or other agencies for testing samples and inspecting deliveries.
(7)
He may establish rules and regulations for the operation, procedures and functions of the purchasing department. Before submission to the city council, such rules and regulations shall first be submitted to the city clerk and to the city attorney. The city clerk shall advise whether or not such rules and regulations are consistent with the prevailing accounting practices of the city and are fiscally feasible. The city attorney shall approve such rules and regulations as to legality and form. When and if approved by the city council, such rules and regulations shall be spread upon the minutes of the city council and filed in the office of the city clerk. The purchasing agent shall then publish such rules and regulations in the form of a purchasing manual for the benefit of the various departments, agencies and divisions of the city, persons dealing with the city, and the general public.
(Ord. No. 3, § 1(2-92), 1-16-1969)
Sec. 2-100. - Purchase requisition required; approval of form.
All purchases made under the provisions of this article shall be made pursuant to a written requisition from the head of a department, agency or division of the city. The city clerk and city attorney shall approve the form of any requisition.
(Ord. No. 3, § 1(2-96), 1-16-1969)
Sec. 2-101. - Custody of contracts.
The original of all contracts shall be delivered to and kept by the city clerk.
(Ord. No. 3, § 1(2-98), 1-16-1969)
Sec. 2-102. - Approval not required for expenditures not exceeding $500.00.
Where the amount of the requisition or voucher or contract does not exceed $500.00, approval by the city council shall not be necessary for the issuance of a purchase order or payment of a voucher or the execution of a contract. In no event shall a requisition, voucher or contract be split or divided into two or more with the intent of evading the necessity for having competitive bids and/or the necessity of obtaining the approval of the city council.
(Ord. No. 3, § 1(2-99), 1-16-1969)
Sec. 2-103. - Approval of expenditures exceeding $500.00.
Whenever any requisition or voucher or contract calls for the expenditure of more than $500.00, the issuance of a purchase order or the payment of a voucher or the award of a contract shall be subject to the approval of the city council, and shall not be binding on or create any liability against the city until approved by the council. Such approval shall be by resolution adopted by majority vote of the council; provided, however, that such approval shall not be necessary where a voucher or requisition is issued pursuant to a prior lawful contract or pursuant to an ordinance authorizing such expenditure.
(Ord. No. 3, § 1(2-100), 1-16-1969)
Sec. 2-104. - Submission, opening, acceptance of bids.
All bids shall be sealed and submitted to the official authorized herein to request bids on or before the specified time when such bidding is to be closed. The official receiving bids shall open them publicly on the date and at the hour specified. A purchase order may be issued, and/or a contract may be awarded to the lowest responsible bidder submitting the best bid after approval by the city council. The city council may reject any and all bids submitted regardless of the amount involved. The term "lowest responsible bidder submitting the best bid" shall mean that in addition to price, consideration may be given to the following factors:
(1)
The ability, capacity and skill of the bidder to perform the contract or provide the service required;
(2)
Whether the bidder can perform the contract or provide the service promptly, or within the time specified, without delay or interference;
(3)
The character, integrity, reputation, judgment, experience and efficiency of the bidder;
(4)
The quality of performance of previous contracts or services;
(5)
The previous and existing compliance by the bidder with laws and ordinances relating to the contract or service;
(6)
The sufficiency of the financial resources and ability of the bidder to perform the contract or provide the service;
(7)
The quality, availability and adaptability of the supplies, material and equipment, or contractual services to the particular use required;
(8)
The ability of the bidder to provide future maintenance and service for the use of the subject of the contract, and the proposed warranty or guaranty;
(9)
The number and scope of conditions attached to the bid.
(Ord. No. 3, § 1(2-102), 1-16-1969)
Sec. 2-105. - Rentals; leases.
The rental or lease of any equipment, materials or vehicles, where the expenditure for the rental or lease does not exceed $500.00, may be made by the purchasing agent; but where the expenditure is more than $500.00, approval or confirmation shall be obtained from the city council.
(Ord. No. 3, § 1(2-103), 1-16-1969)
Sec. 2-106. - Exception for utility charges.
Nothing herein shall preclude the head of any department, agency or division of the city from arranging for reasonable utility services to be charged against its appropriation account.
(Ord. No. 3, § 1(2-104), 1-16-1969)
Sec. 2-107. - Contents of bid proposals.
All bid proposals for contracts to furnish supplies, materials or equipment, or do construction work, shall set forth with particularity the nature of the work to be performed, how it shall be done, the type and quality of the material to be used and any other details necessary for the guidance of the contractor and the protection of the city.
(Ord. No. 3, § 1(2-105), 1-16-1969)
Sec. 2-108. - Specifications.
The purchasing agent may have the city engineer or other competent city officer or employee, or private consultant, draw specifications in detail which shall be attached to the contract and construed to be a part thereof. Such specifications shall be made in duplicate, one copy to be furnished to the contractor and the other retained by the purchasing agent and filed in the office of the city clerk as a part of the records of the city.
(Ord. No. 3, § 1(2-106), 1-16-1969)
Sec. 2-109. - Compliance prerequisite to paying warrants.
No warrant shall be approved for the payment of any contract of the city unless provisions of this article shall have been complied with and unless the original of the contract is on file with the city clerk, and the minutes of the city council show that the contract has been ratified or approved by the council where necessary.
(Ord. No. 3, § 1(2-107), 1-16-1969)
Sec. 2-110. - Force account or cost-plus contracts for public improvements.
After bids have been advertised and received for making any public improvement, the city council may negotiate with the lowest responsible bidder to have such bidder make such public improvement by force account or on a cost-plus basis if, in the opinion of the city council, the making of such agreement is advantageous to the city. Contracts for repair of buildings or structures may be let on a cost-plus basis which shall include the cost of labor, materials, insurance or other legitimate expenses of the contractor and a fixed fee or percentage for profit with a maximum cost to the city of such contract. All such agreements shall be in writing and approved by the city council.
(Ord. No. 3, § 1(2-108), 1-16-1969)
Sec. 2-111. - Contractor's bond.
No contract shall be let for any public work until the contractor shall have first executed a good and solvent performance bond to the effect that he will pay for all the labor and materials used by said contractor, or any immediate or remote subcontractor under him in said contract, in lawful money of the United States, and will dutifully perform said contract. The bond to be so given shall be for 100 percent of the contract price. Where advertisement is made, the condition of the bond shall be stated in the advertisement, provided that this section shall not apply to contracts under the amount established by the city; provided further, however, that the city council may, by resolution, dispense with the payment or performance bonds herein required upon similar precautions suitable to the council being made.
(Ord. No. 3, § 1(2-109), 1-16-1969)
Sec. 2-112. - Certificate that funds available required.
No contract, purchase order, order on stores, agreement or other obligation involving the expenditure of any money shall be issued or entered into or be valid unless the city clerk first certifies thereon that there is in the city treasury, to the credit of the appropriation or loan authorization for which it is to be paid, an unencumbered balance in excess of all other unpaid obligations. Before so certifying, the city clerk shall encumber the proper appropriation or loan authorization with the amount of such contract, purchase order, order on stores, agreement or obligation until the city is discharged therefrom.
(Ord. No. 3, § 1(2-110), 1-16-1969)
Sec. 2-113. - Obligations without funds declared void; liability.
(a)
All contracts, purchase orders, orders on stores, agreements and obligations issued or entered into contrary to the provisions of section 2-112 shall be void, and no person shall have any claim or demand whatever against the city thereunder, nor shall any official or employee of the city waive or qualify the limitation fixed by section 2-112 or fasten upon the city any liability whatever contrary to such limitation.
(b)
If any official or employee of the city authorizes or incurs an obligation against the city without first securing the city clerk's certification as required by section 2-112, such official or employee and his sureties shall be individually liable for the amount of such obligation.
(Ord. No. 3, § 1(2-111), 1-16-1969)
Sec. 2-114. - Determination of available funds.
All unencumbered moneys actually in the treasury to the credit of a fund from which they may be drawn, all moneys anticipated to be received from taxes or other sources to the extent of the amounts stated in the annual budget, and all moneys to be derived from bonds, notes and certificates of indebtedness, either then or previously authorized, and either sold or authorized to be sold, shall, for the purpose of the city clerk's certification, be deemed to be in the treasury to the credit of the appropriate fund, and subject to certification.
(Ord. No. 3, § 1(2-112), 1-16-1969)
Sec. 2-115. - Disposal of surplus real property.
(a)
When the head of any department, agency or office of the city shall determine that any real and personal property used in that department is no longer useful or required for the operations of said department or is obsolete, he shall certify this fact to the city council, together with a full description of the property in question; its former use or uses; and whether it has or may have any future use for any other department or agency, etc., of said city. Upon receipt of such certification, the city council shall determine, in its sound discretion, whether to declare said property to be surplus, obsolete, or unusable, and whether to be sold or disposed of or whether to be held or transferred to other branches of said city.
(b)
Upon a determination by the city council, by motion to be spread upon the minutes of said council, that said real and/or personal property is surplus, obsolete, or unusable, said city council shall direct the purchasing agent to sell such property as hereinbelow provided.
(c)
If the proceeds of the sale of such property are not in excess of the amount established in Charter section 4.06, the purchasing agent may sell same without the necessity of taking bids; but if the proceeds exceed such amount, then bids shall be taken and the purchasing agent shall prepare an advertisement to be published in the official city newspaper at least ten days before the date set for the submission of bids. Said advertisement shall clearly state that said property is to be sold to the highest and best bidder with the right retained by said city to reject any or all bids or to waive any informalities or immaterial defects contained in said bids. The full and complete description of said property shall be included in the advertisement; together with a full and complete disclosure of any liens, encumbrances, easements, restrictions or known defects in title, and the zoning classification of said property, if applicable. Any sale of such estate, and any sale of personalty in excess of $1,000.00 shall be subject to approval by the council.
(Ord. No. 3, § 1(2-113), 1-16-1969)
Sec. 2-116. - Non-applicability to real estate.
Notwithstanding any provision heretofore to the contrary, the purchase of real property shall not require competitive bidding or advertisement. The council shall, by resolution, appoint two disinterested appraisers to value the real property desired to be purchased by the city if the value of the property exceeds $25,000.00, and if not, only one disinterested appraiser shall be appointed. Upon submission by such appraisers of their appraisals, the council may, by resolution, authorize the city attorney to take such legal steps as may be necessary to acquire said property on behalf of the city, at a price no greater than the higher of the two appraisals, plus incidental expenses of closing, or, in the event the city attorney is unable to arrange a purchase by consent of the property owner, said attorney may be directed to acquire said property pursuant to the provisions of applicable public acts.
(Ord. No. 3, § 1(2-114), 1-16-1969)
Secs. 2-117—2-145. - Reserved.
DIVISION 3. - UNCLAIMED PROPERTY

Sec. 2-146. - Forfeiture of unclaimed personal property.
All unclaimed personal property which comes into the possession of the police department, municipal court or other departments of the city shall, if it remains unclaimed for a period of 60 days thereafter, be delivered to the purchasing agent to be forfeited and disposed of by him. The purchasing agent, before selling same, shall make every reasonable effort to give actual notice to the owner thereof if such has not been done by the department that came into possession of same.
(Ord. No. 3, § 1(2-93), 1-16-1969)
Sec. 2-147. - Sale of unclaimed personal property.
At intervals during each year, the purchasing agent shall hold a public sale of unclaimed personal property delivered to him. Notice of sale, giving the time and place, shall be by advertisement at least once in the official city newspaper at least ten days prior to the time set for the sale. Such sale shall be made at public auction to the highest bidder, for cash, and shall be conducted by the purchasing agent or some person designated by him. The purchasing agent shall furnish the city clerk a list to be kept of all articles sold and the price for which each article was sold.
(Ord. No. 3, § 1(2-94), 1-16-1969)
Sec. 2-148. - Disposition of proceeds of sale of personal property; report of expense.
(a)
The money received from the sale of unclaimed personal property, as provided in this article, shall be paid by the purchasing agent into the city treasury, and he shall certify to the city clerk the expense incurred in making the sale or otherwise disposing of such personal property, including the cost and expense of storage during the period such personal property was in possession of the city.
(b)
In the event the owner of any article of personal property sold shall, within a period of 60 days after the sale, present satisfactory proof to the city that he was the owner of any article sold, he shall be entitled to the proceeds of the sale thereof, less his proportionate share of the expenses of the sale.
(c)
The net proceeds arising from sales of all other unclaimed personal property shall be paid by the city clerk into the general fund of the city.
(Ord. No. 3, § 1(2-95), 1-16-1969)
