Chapter 6 - AMUSEMENTS AND ENTERTAINMENTS
ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Secs. 6-1—6-18. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - AMUSEMENT MACHINE OPERATIONS

Sec. 6-19. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Amusement machine means any machine or device used or operated by a person for the purpose of receiving its temporary services for the pleasure, recreation, amusement or enjoyment of the operator, which term includes, but is not limited to, billiard or pool tables, pinball machines, electronic video game machines and other similar devices. This term does not include vending machines whose operation is not intended to further the pleasure, recreation, amusement or enjoyment of the operator.
Distributor means any person who sets up for operation by another, or which leases or rents for the purpose of operation by another, any amusement machine, whether such payment for leasing or renting is based upon a fixed charge or rental, upon the basis of a division of the income derived from such amusement machine or upon any other form or method of payment.
Proprietor means any person who, as owner or lessee in possession, has control of the business establishment, place or premises in which any amusement machine is placed for operation, or kept for use or play, or is on exhibition for the purposes of use or play by the general public.
(Ord. No. 2001-19, § 4(10-26), 11-17-2001)
Sec. 6-20. - License required.
No person shall engage in the business of being a distributor or proprietor of amusement machines without first obtaining a license for each calendar year.
(Ord. No. 2001-19, § 4(10-27), 11-17-2001)
Sec. 6-21. - License fee.
The license fee for each distributor or proprietor shall be based upon the total gross receipts provided in chapter 12 of this Code or otherwise by ordinance, which are derived from the operation of the amusement machines. The licensee shall pay such fee each year, in advance, and is subject to all rules and regulations not in conflict with this article as more fully set forth in this article.
(Ord. No. 2001-19, § 4(10-28), 11-17-2001)
Sec. 6-22. - Application for license.
All applications, original, amended or renewal, for a license under this article shall be filed in writing with the city or its designee, including the county, on a form provided by the city or its designee, which shall specify the following:
(1)
The applicant's name and address, and if a firm, corporation, partnership or association, the principal owners, officers or partners thereof and their addresses.
(2)
The street address of the premises where the amusement machines are to be operated and a description of the general character of all business activities carried on within such premises.
(3)
The number and description of amusement machines to be operated upon the business premises.
(4)
The name and address of the owner of each amusement machine, if other than the distributor or proprietor of the business applying for the license.
(Ord. No. 2001-19, § 4(10-29), 11-17-2001)
Sec. 6-23. - General licensing provisions.
Any license issued under this article shall be issued in the name of the legal owner of the business and shall be posted in a conspicuous place upon the business premises. Any such license shall be nonassignable and nontransferable from one location to another, but shall apply only to the specific business premises location for which such license is issued. A processing fee in the amount established by the city and amendable by resolution shall be assessed for each original, amended or renewal application, which fee shall be tendered by the applicant at the time the application is submitted. Upon approval of the initial, amended or renewal application by the city or its designee, including the county, the proper license fee shall be tendered for all amusement machines to be operated upon the premises and the department shall issue the appropriate license.
(Ord. No. 2001-19, § 4(10-30), 11-17-2001)
Sec. 6-24. - Increasing number of machines.
If any licensee under this article, after the expiration of any portion of any license year, desires to increase the number of amusement machines to be used or played or exhibited for use or play in the establishment, an amended application shall be filed to reflect the information required in section 10-30. Payment of the appropriate license fee applicable to the machines added shall be tendered with the amended application.
(Ord. No. 2001-19, § 4(10-31), 11-17-2001)
Sec. 6-25. - Operating regulations.
All licensees licensed under this article shall be subject to the following regulations:
(1)
Alcoholic beverages shall not be brought onto the premises by patrons of the business, notwithstanding the fact that the licensee may also be licensed to sell alcohol on the premises.
(2)
Law enforcement and code enforcement officers shall be authorized to inspect the licensee's premises during normal business hours for the purpose of determining whether the provisions of this article are being obeyed. All suspected violations shall be reported promptly to the appropriate prosecuting or administrative authorities of the city, including the city clerk. All information and assistance shall be rendered by such inspecting officer or official as is necessary for the proper enforcement of this article or any state or federal law, either civil or criminal.
(Ord. No. 2001-19, § 4(10-32), 11-17-2001)
Secs. 6-26—6-53. - Reserved.
ARTICLE III. - TEEN CLUBS

Sec. 6-54. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Premises means, in addition to the building and any curtilage normally considered as appurtenant thereto, all public and private parking areas adjacent to the building on the same parcel, regardless of size.
Teen club means any business establishment catering exclusively or primarily to individuals between the ages of 13 and 17 years and which is operated primarily as a place for such individuals to congregate for social, as opposed to commercial, activity for an admission fee. A teen club shall not include any business establishment which is operated primarily as a place for the exchange of merchandise for consideration.
(Ord. No. 2001-20, § 3(10-56), 11-17-2001)
Sec. 6-55. - License required.
(a)
Every person keeping, operating or maintaining a teen club within the city for use by the public shall be required to obtain a license from the city or its designee, including the county, on a form to be provided by the city or its designee in the manner specified in this article and upon approval, based upon adequate assurance that the operating provision contained in this article can be met.
(b)
No licensee shall have been convicted nor have entered a plea of nolo contendere within the ten years immediately preceding the date of application for any felony or crime involving moral turpitude. In those instances involving corporations, this prohibition shall also apply to the corporation's president, vice-president, secretary, treasurer and all stockholders owning 20 percent or more of the corporation's stock.
(c)
It shall be the duty of all licensees to file with the city or its designee, including the county, the names of all employees with their home addresses, home telephone numbers and places of employment. Changes in the list of employees, with the names of new employees, must be filed with the department within three days from the date of any such change. All employees shall be subject to such investigation rules and regulations as may be deemed necessary from time to time by the city or its designee. An investigation fee in the amount established by resolution, amendable by resolution shall be paid by all licensees for each employee.
(Ord. No. 2001-20, § 3(10-57), 11-17-2001)
Sec. 6-56. - Operating hours.
No teen club shall open for business prior to one hour after the close of any public secondary school of the county board of education; or, on days for which no school is scheduled, prior to 8:00 a.m.; or on Sundays, prior to 1:00 p.m. No teen club shall allow customers to remain upon their premises after 10:30 p.m. on any day which immediately precedes a day upon which the public schools of the county board of education are scheduled to be open. No teen club shall allow customers to remain on its premises later than 11:30 p.m. on either Friday, Saturday or Sunday nights.
(Ord. No. 2001-20, § 3(10-58), 11-17-2001)
Sec. 6-57. - Alcoholic beverages.
(a)
It shall be unlawful for any licensee of a teen club to knowingly or recklessly allow any patron to have or bring onto its premises alcoholic beverages of any kind.
(b)
It shall be unlawful for any patron of a teen club to have or bring onto premises of a teen club any alcoholic beverages of any kind.
(Ord. No. 2001-20, § 3(10-59), 11-17-2001)
Sec. 6-58. - Controlled substances.
It shall be unlawful for any licensee of a teen club to knowingly or recklessly allow any patron thereof to have or bring onto its premises any substance controlled by the criminal provisions of state law.
(Ord. No. 2001-20, § 3(10-60), 11-17-2001)
Sec. 6-59. - Operating regulations.
(a)
Once a patron of a teen club has paid his admission and entered the building, such patron may not thereafter be readmitted to the building upon leaving that night.
(b)
It shall be unlawful for a licensee under this article to knowingly or recklessly allow, after a warning from any city official, any individuals to congregate for no apparent legitimate purpose upon its premises outside its building.
(c)
All areas of the licensee's premises outside its building shall have sufficient lighting thereof so as to allow observers from the nearest public right-of-way to observe activities taking place upon the premises outside its building.
(d)
All licensees shall maintain a current and accurate count of the number of individuals in its building at all times.
(e)
All licensees shall maintain at least one security officer for each 150-patron capacity or part thereof.
(f)
There must be in attendance a minimum of three chaperones for the first 100 patrons in attendance, and one chaperone for each additional 30 patrons, one of whom shall be female. Chaperones shall be over 25 years of age and first approved by the city or its designee, including the county. Such approval shall not be withheld unless the city or its designee finds that:
(1)
The nominee could not qualify to be a licensee;
(2)
The nominee has a financial interest in the teen club or the social event being chaperoned;
(3)
The nominee was a chaperone at another event or club at which a license was revoked for violation of applicable laws; or
(4)
Similar reasons demonstrate that approval of the nominee is not in the best interest of the patrons.
(g)
Functions shall at all times be open to the public authorities of the city for entrance and inspection.
(Ord. No. 2001-20, § 3(10-61), 11-17-2001)
