PART I - CHARTER[1]
An Act to create a new Charter for the City of Lovejoy in the County of Clayton; to prescribe the corporate limits of said city; to provide for the government of said city; to enumerate the corporate powers of the city; to provide for a Merit Service System; to provide for the preservation of ordinances, bylaws, rules and regulations; to provide for the officials of said city and their selection, oath, compensation, powers, duties and terms of office; to provide for filling vacancies; to provide for the fiscal administration of the city government; to provide for the levy and collection of ad valorem taxes; to provide for elections; to provide for the qualifications of candidates and electors; to provide for the registration of voters; to provide for the method of conducting elections; to provide for the establishment of a municipal court; to provide for an appointment of the municipal judge; to provide for the jurisdiction of the municipal court; to provide for appeals from the municipal court; to provide for the payment of court costs; to provide for rules for the municipal court; to provide for all other matters relative to the foregoing; to provide for severability; to repeal a specific Act; to repeal conflicting laws; and for other purposes.
Be it enacted by the General Assembly of Georgia:
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Editor's note— Printed herein is the Charter for the City of Lovejoy, Georgia as adopted and set forth in 1976 Ga. Laws (Act No. 1321), page 3897. Amendments are indicated by parenthetical history notes following amended provisions. The absence of a history note indicates that the provision remains unchanged from the original act. Obvious misspellings have been corrected without notation. For stylistic purposes, a uniform system of headings and catchlines has been used. The word "Section" has been changed to "Sec." in catchlines. In addition, pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 36-32-1, the term "recorders court" has been changed to "municipal court" and the terms "recorder" and "city recorder" have been changed to "municipal judge." Additions made for clarity are indicated by brackets.

ARTICLE I. - CHARTER, CITY LIMITS AND CORPORATE POWERS

Sec. 1.01. - Incorporation; name, style and designation; powers of city as body politic and corporate.
This Act shall constitute the whole Charter of the City of Lovejoy. The City of Lovejoy, Georgia, in the County of Clayton, and the inhabitants thereof, shall continue to be a body politic and corporate under the name and style of the "City of Lovejoy, Georgia," and by that name shall have perpetual succession, may contract and contract with, may sue and be sued, plead and be impleaded, in all the courts of law and equity, and in all actions whatsoever, and may have and use a common seal and change it at pleasure of the governing authority.
Sec. 1.02. - Corporate boundaries.
a.
The corporate limits of the City of Lovejoy shall be those existing on the effective date of the adoption of this Charter with such alterations as may be made from time to time in the manner provided by law. The current boundaries of the City of Lovejoy, at all times, shall be shown on a map, a written description, or any combination thereof, to be retained permanently in the office of the city clerk and to be designated, as the case may be: "Official Map (or Description) of the corporate limits of the City of Lovejoy, Georgia." Photographic, typed, or other copies of such map or description certified by the city clerk shall be admitted as evidence in all courts and shall have the same force and effect as with the original map or description.
b.
The city council may provide for the redrawing of any such map by ordinance to reflect lawful changes in the corporate boundaries. A redrawn map shall supersede for all purposes the entire map or maps which it is designated to replace.
(Ord. No. 2014-07, § 1, 12-15-2014)
Sec. 1.03. - Corporate powers.
The corporate powers of the city, to be exercised by the mayor and council, as defined in section 2.01, shall include the following:
(a)
To levy and provide for the assessment, valuation, reevaluation, and collection of taxes on all property subject to taxation as may be approved by the electors of said city in accordance with the provisions of section 5.09.
(b)
To levy and to provide for the collection of license fees and taxes on privileges, occupations, trades and professions.
(c)
To appropriate and borrow money, to provide for payment of the debts of the city, and to authorize the expenditure of money for any municipal purpose, or for matters of national or state interest, and to issue bonds for the purpose of raising revenue to carry out any project, program or venture authorized under this Charter or the general laws of the state. Such bonding authority shall be exercised in accordance with the laws governing bond issues by municipalities in effect at the time said issue is undertaken. Whenever the city shall desire to create a bonded debt for the purpose of carrying into effect any of the powers and provisions of this Charter, it shall have the right and authority to do so when authorized by a majority of the qualified voters of the city voting in an election.
(d)
To acquire, dispose of, and hold in trust or otherwise any real, personal or mixed property, inside the corporate limits of the city.
(e)
To condemn property, inside the city, for present or future use, and for any corporate purpose deemed necessary by the mayor and council, under section 36-202 of the Code of Georgia 1933 [See now O.C.G.A. §§ 22-1-4, 22-2-26, 22-2-130 and 44-9-1.], or under other applicable public Acts.
(f)
To grant franchises or make contracts for public utilities and public services, not to exceed periods of thirty (30) years. The mayor and council may prescribe the rates, fares, regulations and standards and conditions of service applicable to the service to be provided by the franchise grantee or contractor, insofar as not in conflict with laws of the State of Georgia, or not in conflict with such regulations by the Public Service Commission.
(g)
To provide for the acquisition, construction, building, operation and maintenance of public ways, parks, public grounds, public buildings, sewers, drains, recreational, conservation, sport, correctional, detentional and penal agencies and facilities; and any other public improvements, inside the city; and to regulate the use thereof, and for such purposes property may be acquired by condemnation under section 36-202 of the Code of Georgia 1933, or other applicable public Acts.
(h)
To prescribe standards of health and sanitation and to provide for the enforcement of such standards.
(i)
To provide for the collection and disposal of garbage, rubbish, and refuse and to provide power and authority to take all necessary and proper means for keeping the city free from garbage, trash and filth. Charges or fees may be imposed to cover the costs of such services, which if unpaid, shall constitute a debt and shall have a lien against any property of the persons served; said lien to be enforceable in the same manner and under the same remedies, as a lien for city property taxes.
(j)
To define, regulate and prohibit any act, practice, conduct or use of property which is detrimental or likely to be detrimental to the health, morals, safety, security, peace, convenience, or general welfare of inhabitants of the city.
(k)
To define a nuisance in the city and to provide for its abatement. The municipal judge of the city shall have jurisdiction over all nuisance abatement proceedings in the city. The mayor and council may provide by ordinance for any building, structure, or condition maintained in violation of any valid law of this state or any valid ordinance of the city, to be adjudged a nuisance and for its abatement at the owner's expense upon his failure or refusal to abate the same within ten (10) days after written notice from the city to do so and after an opportunity to be heard on same.
(l)
To establish minimum standards for, and to regulate building construction and repair, electrical wiring and equipment, plumbing, and housing for the health, sanitation, cleanliness, welfare, and safety of inhabitants of the city and to provide for the enforcement of such standards.
(m)
To adopt by ordinance a plan or plans for the zoning of the city, in the interest of public health, safety, order, convenience, comfort, aesthetics, prosperity, or general welfare, and for the purpose of regulating the location of trades, industries, apartment houses, dwellings, or other uses of property; or for the purpose of regulating the height and location of the buildings, fences or other structures; or for the purpose of regulating the alignment of buildings, or other structures near street frontages; or for the purpose of preserving buildings, structures or areas having national, regional, state or local historic significance; or for the purpose of maintaining or improving the aesthetic appearance of any buildings, structures or areas. The zoning regulations may be based upon any one or more of the purposes above described. The city may be divided into such number of zones or districts, and such districts may be of such shape and area as the mayor and councilmen of said city shall deem best to accomplish the purposes of the zoning regulations.
(n)
To provide that persons given jail sentences in the municipal court shall work out such sentences in any public work or on the public streets of the city as provided by ordinance; or the mayor and council may provide for the commitment of city prisoners to any county works camp, or other governmental agency, or jail, by agreement with appropriate governmental officers.
(o)
To regulate, license, tax, or prohibit, the keeping or running at-large of animals and fowl and to provide for the impoundment of same, in violations of any ordinance or lawful orders; also to provide for their disposition, by sale, gift, or humane destruction, when not redeemed as provided by ordinance; to provide punishment for violations of ordinances enacted hereunder.
(p)
To regulate and license vehicles operated for hire in the city; to limit the number of such vehicles; to require the operators thereof, to be licensed; to require public liability insurance on such vehicles in amounts prescribed by ordinance.
(q)
To provide that upon the conviction of the violation of any ordinance, rule, regulation, or order, the offender may be punished within limitations prescribed by the mayor and council in such ordinance, rule, regulation, or order, but not exceeding the limitations prescribed by this Charter or state law.
(r)
To exercise and enjoy all other powers, functions, rights, privileges and immunities necessary or desirable to promote or protect the safety, health, peace, security, good order, comfort, convenience, morals, and general welfare of the city and its inhabitants, and to exercise all powers now or in the future authorized to be exercised by other municipal governments under the Constitution or general laws of the State of Georgia.
(s)
To regulate and control public streets, public alleys and ways; and in the discretion of the mayor and council by ordinance to alter, open or close public streets and public alleys and ways.
(t)
To contract with any state department, agency, or other political subdivision for joint services or the exchange of services; to contract with such agencies or subdivisions for the joint use of facilities or equipment; and to contract with any such agency or subdivision to perform any service or execute any project in which the municipality has an interest.
Sec. 1.04. - Ordinances.
All ordinances, bylaws, rules and regulations, now in force in said city, not inconsistent with this Act, are hereby declared valid and of force until amended or repealed by the mayor and council.
ARTICLE II. - CITY GOVERNMENT

Sec. 2.01. - Establishment of city government.
The corporate governmental powers of the City of Lovejoy shall be vested in a mayor and four (4) councilmen to be known as the "Mayor and Council." The mayor and council shall be elected at large by the qualified voters of the city and shall exercise their powers in such manner as prescribed by this Charter, the Constitution, and applicable general laws of the State of Georgia, or, if not prescribed, in such manner as prescribed by the duly established ordinances of the City of Lovejoy.
Sec. 2.02. - Qualifications for mayor and councilmen.
To be eligible for the office of mayor or councilman, elected or appointed, a person must be at least twenty-one (21) years of age, and must meet the requirements of a qualified voter of said city, as prescribed by state law, must have been a bona fide resident of the City of Lovejoy for at least one (1) year next preceding the election in which he offers as a candidate, and shall continue to reside therein during this period of service. No person shall be eligible to be mayor or councilman who shall have been convicted of a crime involving moral turpitude, unless such person has received a full pardon and has all rights of citizenship restored.
Sec. 2.03. - Election of mayor and councilmen.
Those persons presently elected and serving as mayor and councilmen of the City of Lovejoy shall continue to serve until their successors are duly elected and qualified as provided by law. All elections shall be held and conducted in accordance with Chapter 2 of Title 21 of the O.C.G.A. (O.C.G.A. § 21-2-1 et seq.), the "Georgia Election Code," as now or hereafter amended.
There shall be a municipal general election biennially in the odd-numbered years on the Tuesday next following the first Monday in November for the mayor and the four (4) councilmen whose terms of office are expiring. The candidate for mayor and the four (4) candidates for councilmen who receive a majority of votes cast in said election shall be elected for terms of office of four (4) years each and until their successors are duly elected and qualified. In the event a candidate does not receive a majority of the votes cast in said election, a runoff election shall be conducted between the two candidates receiving the highest number of votes in each such race. Such runoff election shall be conducted in accordance with Chapter 2 of Title 21 of the O.C.G.A., (O.C.G.A. § 21-2-1 et seq.) the "Georgia Election Code," as now or hereafter amended.
Any person possessing the qualifications required by law may qualify for any council position or for mayor.
(Ord. No. 2014-07, § 2, 12-15-2014)
Sec. 2.04. - Terms of office.
The terms of office for the mayor and council shall begin on the first Monday in January following said election, and shall continue for four (4) years and until their successors are elected and qualified.
(Ord. No. 2014-07, § 3, 12-15-2014)
Sec. 2.05. - Mayor and council.
The governing body of said city shall be composed of a mayor and four (4) councilmen, in which is vested all corporate, legislative and other powers of the city, except as otherwise provided in this Charter. The mayor and council shall hold regular public meetings at a stated time and place as provided by ordinance. The mayor and council shall meet in special sessions on call of either the mayor, or the mayor pro tem and two (2) councilmen, when notice of which has been served on the other members personally or left at their residence at least twelve (12) hours in advance of the meeting. The powers of the mayor and council shall be exercised in public meetings. The mayor and two (2) councilmen or mayor pro tem and two (2) councilmen shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business at a special meeting. The mayor and council may, by ordinance, adopt rules and bylaws to govern the conduct of its business, including procedures and penalties for compelling the attendance of absent members. The mayor and council may provide by ordinance for punishment for contemptuous behavior conducted in the presence of the mayor and council.
The mayor shall, before entering upon the discharge of his duties, give good and sufficient bond in an amount to be decided by the mayor and council, but not less than twenty-five hundred dollars ($2,500.00), said bond payable to the City of Lovejoy for the faithful performance of his duties and to secure against corruption, malfeasance, misappropriations or unlawful expenditures. Said surety bond shall be obtained from a surety company licensed to do business in the State of Georgia and approved by the mayor and council, and the premium thereon shall be paid by the city.
Sec. 2.06. - Mayor as presiding officer.
The mayor shall preside at meetings of the mayor and council; shall have a vote only in all cases; shall have veto power over ordinances, orders, or resolutions in which case the mayor shall have five (5) days after meetings of the mayor and council to file with the clerk in writing his dissent, but the councilmen may at the same meeting or any subsequent meeting within sixty (60) days pass any such ordinance, order, or resolution, notwithstanding the veto, by a vote of two-thirds of the total number of councilmen, to be taken by ayes and nays and entered upon the minutes; shall be the chief executive officer of the city; shall sign ordinances and resolutions on their final passage; may obtain short-term loans in the name of the city when authorized by the mayor and council to do so; and shall perform such other duties imposed by this Charter and duly adopted ordinances.
(Ord. No. 04-14, § 1, 4-13-2004; 2005 Ga. Laws, page 4209, § 1)
Sec. 2.07. - Mayor pro tem.
The mayor and council at the first regular meeting, and after the newly elected councilmen have taken office following each regular election, shall elect from its membership a mayor pro tem for a term of one (1) year. Upon the mayor and council's failure to elect a mayor pro tem by the first meeting in February of each year, the incumbent councilman who received the highest number of votes, when last elected, shall be declared mayor pro tem. The mayor pro tem shall perform the duties of the mayor during his absence from the city or his disability.
Sec. 2.08. - Vacancy in office of mayor or councilman.
A vacancy shall exist if the mayor or a councilman resigns, dies, moves his residence from the city, or the mayor or a councilman forfeits his office by being absent from three (3) consecutive regular meetings of the governing authority, except if granted a leave of absence (excused) by the mayor and council and such leave of absence (excused) is entered on the minutes, or if he is adjudged legally incompetent, or is convicted of malfeasance in office, or of a felony.
In the event a vacancy occurs in the office of a member of the council from any cause other than the expiration of a term of office, the vacancy shall be filled in the following manner:
If the vacancy occurs within twelve (12) months of the expiration of the term, but not within thirty (30) days prior to the regular city election, the vacancy shall be filled by the remaining councilmen electing a qualified person to serve out the unexpired term of office; provided, however, that at no time shall there be more than one (1) councilman so appointed holding office; and if a vacancy occurs in the office of councilman with one member so appointed, a special election shall be held within a period of sixty (60) days after the office becomes vacant pursuant to a call of a special election as provided by this Charter; if said election is called, the previously filled vacancy and the existing vacancy shall be filled for the remainder of the unexpired terms. Provided, however, if a regular election for the city shall be held within three (3) months after the second vacancy occurs, the vacancy previously filled by appointment and the second vacancy shall be filled for the unexpired terms at such regular election.
If the vacancy occurs within thirty (30) days prior to the regular city election, the vacancy shall be filled at such regular election under the same rules and regulations and provisions of law pertaining to the election of councilmen.
If the vacancy occurs at any other time not provide for above, the vacancy shall be filled by a special election called for that purpose by the mayor and council within a period of sixty (60) days after the office becomes vacant. It shall be the duty of the mayor and council to publish notice of the special election in the official organ of the city once a week for the two-week period immediately preceding said special election.
In the event a vacancy should occur in the office of the mayor, a special election shall be called and held in the manner prescribed by the Georgia Municipal Election Code (Title 34A, Code of Georgia 1933 [See now O.C.G.A. § 21-2-1 et seq.]) as it now exists or may hereafter be amended, so long as the vacancy occurs at least three (3) months prior to regular expiration date of the terms. If the vacancy occurs within three (3) months of the expiration date, the mayor pro tem shall serve until the expiration date, and shall be authorized, during said period, to exercise all of the powers of the mayor provided by this Charter and the laws of this state.
Sec. 2.09. - Compensation and expenses.
The salary of the members of the mayor and council shall be set (or the same will remain the same) in accordance with O.C.G.A. § 36-35-4, as it currently exists and/or hereinafter [hereafter may be] amended. The salary for councilmen shall not exceed fourteen thousand four hundred dollars ($14.400.00) per annum to be [aid monthly, and the salary for mayor shall not exceed fourteen thousand four hundred dollars ($14,400.00) per annum. Each councilman and the mayor, when authorized by the mayor and council and upon presentation of itemized vouchers. shall receive his actual and necessary expenses incurred in the performance of his duties of office.
(Ord. No. 2014-06, § 1, 12-15-2014)
Sec. 2.10. - City clerk.
The mayor and council shall appoint a city clerk who shall serve at the pleasure of the mayor and council. The city clerk shall be responsible for keeping and preserving the city seal and all records of the mayor and council; attending meetings of the mayor and council and keeping a journal of the proceedings at such meetings, including the names of members present and absent, the vote of each member on each question, each motion considered, and the text of each resolution or ordinance considered; preparing and certifying copies of official records in his office, for which fees may be prescribed by ordinance; and performing such other duties as may be required by the mayor and council.
The city clerk shall be responsible for the receipt, custody and disbursements of the city's money or funds as prescribed by the mayor and council; shall provide such accounting therefor as may be required by the mayor and council; and shall perform such other duties as required by the mayor and council. The mayor and council shall require the city clerk, before entering upon discharge of his duties to give good and sufficient bond in amount to be decided by the mayor and council, but not less than twenty-five hundred dollars ($2,500.00), said bond payable to the City of Lovejoy for the faithful performance of his duties and to secure against corruption, malfeasance, misappropriations or unlawful expenditures. Said surety bond shall be obtained from a surety company licensed to do business in the State of Georgia and approved by the mayor and council and the premium thereon shall be paid by the city.
Sec. 2.11. - City legislation.
Any action of the mayor and council having regulatory or penal effect or required to be done by ordinance under this Act, shall be done only by ordinance. Each resolution and ordinance shall be in written form before being introduced. The affirmative vote of at least a majority of those present shall be required to pass any resolution or ordinance. After adoption of ordinances, the city clerk shall number ordinances consecutively, in the order of their final adoption, and shall place a copy into a permanent record book used solely for this purpose; and the city clerk shall do likewise for resolutions, using a separate series of numbers and a separate record book. The original copies of all ordinances, resolutions, and motions shall be filed and preserved by the city clerk.
Sec. 2.12. - [Repealed.]
(Ord. No. 03-2, § 1, 5-19-2003; 2004 Ga. Laws page 4702, § 2)
ARTICLE III. - ORGANIZATION AND PERSONNEL

Sec. 3.01. - Organization.
The city government shall continue as presently organized, unless and until otherwise provided by ordinance. The mayor and council, by such ordinances may establish, abolish, merge or consolidate offices, positions of employment, departments and agencies of the city; may provide that the same person shall fill a number of offices and positions of employment; and may transfer or change the functions and duties of offices, positions of employment, departments and agencies of the city.
Sec. 3.02. - Administrative duties of mayor.
The mayor shall be the chief executive officer of the city government, presiding officer of the city council, and responsible for the efficient and orderly administration of the city's affairs. He shall be responsible for the enforcement of laws, rules, regulations, ordinances and franchises in the city. He may conduct inquiries and investigations into the conduct of the city's affairs and shall have such powers and duties as may be provided by ordinance not inconsistent with this Charter.
Sec. 3.03. - City attorney.
The mayor and council shall appoint a city attorney. The city attorney may be responsible for representing and defending the city in all litigation in which the city is a party; may at the discretion of the mayor and council be the prosecuting officer in the municipal court; shall attend the meetings of the mayor and council as directed; shall advise the council, mayor and other officers and employees of the city, concerning legal aspects of the city's affairs, and shall perform such other duties as provided by the mayor and councilmen.
Sec. 3.04. - City manager.
The mayor and council may appoint a city manager who shall devote all of his working time and attention to the affairs of the city and who shall be responsible to the mayor and council for the efficient administrations of all the affairs of the city over which he has jurisdiction. In addition, the mayor and council may by ordinance delegate the following duties, or any combination thereof to the City Manager; to see that all laws and ordinances of the city are enforced; to exercise supervision and control of all departments of the city that are now or may hereafter be created by the mayor and council with the right to take part in the discussion but having no vote; to recommend to the mayor and council the adoption of such measures, ordinances and resolutions as he may deem necessary or expedient for the proper operation and administration of the city government; to keep the mayor and council at all times fully advised as to the financial condition and needs of the city; to make a full report to the mayor and council at the first meeting thereof in each month, showing the operations and expenditures of each department of the city government for the preceding months; and to perform such other duties as may be required by ordinance or resolution of the mayor and council.
The city manager shall be the purchasing agent for the city and shall make all purchases of supplies for departments; shall approve all vouchers for the same, provided, that the mayor and council shall, by resolution, require competitive bids on purchases under such rules and regulations as the mayor and council may from time to time prescribe.
The mayor and council shall require the City Manager, before entering upon discharge of his duties, to give good and sufficient bond in amount not less than twenty thousand dollars ($20,000.00), said bond payable to the City of Lovejoy, for the faithful performance of his duties and to secure against corruption, malfeasance, misappropriations or unlawful expenditures. Said surety bond shall be obtained from a surety company licensed to do business in the State of Georgia, and the premium thereon shall be paid by the city.
The city manager may have duties in addition to those herein, which shall be governed by his contract with the mayor and council. Said contract shall also call for the compensation and employment benefits, if eligible therein.
(Ord. No. 2014-07, § 4, 12-15-2014)
Sec. 3.05. - Oath of office.
Before a person takes any office in the city government, he shall take before an officer of the state, authorized to administer oaths, the following such oath or affirmation:
"I solemnly swear (or affirm) that I will support the Constitution of the United States and of the State of Georgia; and that I will in all respects observe the provisions of the Charter and ordinances of the City of Lovejoy, and I will well and truly perform the duties of the office of ___________, and that I will, to the utmost of my skill and ability, endeavor to promote the interest and property of said city, without fear, favor or affection. So help me God."
Sec. 3.06. - City planning and renewal.
The mayor and council may create and establish a Planning Commission pursuant to the provisions of general laws as they now exist or as they may hereinafter be amended.
ARTICLE IV. - PERSONNEL

Sec. 4.01. - Employment.
All employees serve at will and may be removed from office at any time unless otherwise provided by ordinance. The mayor council shall adopt rules and regulations by way of an Employee Handbook consistent with this Charter concerning:
a.
The method of employee selection and probationary periods of employment;
b.
The administration of any position classification and pay plan, methods of promotion and application of service ratings thereto, and transfer of employees within the classification plan;
c.
Hours of work, vacation, sick leave, and other leaves of absence, overtime pay, and the order and manner in which layoff shall be effected; and
d.
Such other personnel policies as may be necessary to provide for adequate and systematic handling of the personnel affairs of the City of Lovejoy.
(Ord. No. 2014-07, § 5, 12-15-2014)
Sec. 4.02. - City manager's personnel powers and duties.
The city manager shall have the power and shall be required to:
a.
Hold competitive examinations for all hires in the classified service, restricted to persons reasonably qualified to perform the duties of the position.
b.
Give wide publicity through appropriate channels in each case to all announcement of competitive examinations to the end of encouraging qualified persons to take such examinations.
c.
Prepare and recommend to the mayor and council such rules as he may consider necessary, appropriate or desirable to carry out the provisions of this section as provided in section 4.08 of this Act.
d.
Prepare, install, and maintain a classification plan based on the duties, authority and responsibility of positions in the city service.
e.
Prepare and maintain a classification plan based on the duties, authority and responsibility of positions in the city service.
f.
Prepare and maintain a pay plan in the city service.
g.
Establish and maintain a roster of all persons in the municipal service in which there shall be set forth, as to each officer and employee, (1) the class title of the position held, (2) salary of pay, (3) any changes in class title, pay or status, (4) such other data as may be deemed desirable or useful to produce significant facts pertaining to personnel administration.
h.
Certify all payrolls for persons in the classified services. No person shall be placed on the classified payroll without having first been certified by the city manager or his authorized agent as being eligible therefor.
i.
Develop and establish training and educational programs for persons in the municipal service.
j.
Investigate periodically the operation and effect of the personnel provisions of this Charter and the rules promulgated thereunder, and report annually his findings and recommendations to the mayor and council.
k.
Perform such other different lawful acts and functions as he may deem necessary or desirable to enforce the purposes and provisions of this Section.
(Ord. No. 2014-07, § 5, 12-15-2014)
Sec. 4.03. - Promotions.
Vacancies in higher positions in the classified service of the city shall, as far as practicable, be filled by promotion from lower classes following competitive tests; provided, that in case the city manager so directs, such positions shall be filled by competitive tests open not only to city officers and employees serving in lower classes, but also to persons not in the service of the city. A change from a position in any class to a position in another class for which a higher maximum rate of pay is prescribed shall be considered a promotion. The city manager shall, to the extent he considers such actions desirable, indicate the principal or normal lines or promotion from and to each class to the class specifications or in regulations.
(Ord. No. 2014-07, § 5, 12-15-2014)
Sec. 4.04. - Pay plan.
The city manager shall prepare for the mayor and council a standard schedule of pay for each position in the classified service.
The city manager shall submit the pay plan to the mayor and council with such changes as he deems desirable and such plan shall take effect when adopted by the mayor and council. The pay plan adopted by the mayor and council shall include a minimum and a maximum and such intermediate rates as may be deemed desirable for each class of position. Amendments to the pay schedule may be adopted by the mayor and council, from time to time, upon recommendation of the City Manager. In increasing or decreasing items in the city budget, the mayor and council shall not increase or decrease any individual salary items but shall act solely with respect to classes of positions as established in the classification and pay plans. In no event shall the mayor and council reduce the salary of a class below the minimum or raise it above the maximum salary established by the pay plan except by amendment of the pay plan.
(Ord. No. 2014-07, § 5, 12-15-2014)
Sec. 4.05. - Oaths.
For the purpose of the administration of the personnel provisions of this Charter, the Municipal Court Judge shall have the power to administer oaths.
(Ord. No. 2014-07, § 5, 12-15-2014)
Sec. 4.06. - Prohibitions.
No persons in the classified service of the city or seeking admission thereto shall be appointed, promoted, reduced, removed or in no way favored or discriminated against because of his political or religious opinions and affiliations. No person shall willfully or corruptly make any false statement, certificate, mark, rating or report in regard to any test, certification or appointment held or made under the personnel provisions of this Charter or in any manner commit or attempt to commit any fraud preventing the impartial execution of such personnel provisions or of the rules and regulations made thereunder. No officer or employee in the classified service of the city shall continue in such position after becoming a candidate for nomination or election to any public office. No person seeking appointment to or promotion in the classified service of the city shall either directly or indirectly give, render or pay any money, service or other valuable thing to any person for or on account of or in connection with his test, appointment, proposed appointment, promotion or proposed promotion. No person shall orally, by letter or otherwise, solicit or be in any manner concerned in soliciting any assessment, subscription or contribution for any political party or political purpose whatever from any person holding a position in the classified service of the city. No person holding a position in the classified service of the city shall make any contribution to the campaign funds of any political party or any candidate for public office or take any part in the management, affairs or political campaign of any political party, or any candidate further than in the exercise of his rights as a citizen to privately express his opinion and to cast his vote.
Any person who by himself or with others willfully or corruptly violates any of the provisions of this section shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall, upon conviction thereof, be punished by a fine of not less than one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) or by imprisonment for a term of six (6) months or by both such fine and imprisonment. Any person who is convicted under this section shall, for a period of five (5) years, be ineligible for appointment to or employment in a position in the city service and shall, if he be an officer or employee of the city, immediately forfeit the office or position he holds.
(Ord. No. 2014-07, § 5, 12-15-2014)
Sec. 4.07. - Reserved.
(Ord. No. 2014-07, § 5, 12-15-2014)
Sec. 4.08. - Reserved.
(Ord. No. 2014-07, § 5, 12-15-2014)
Sec. 4.09. - Reserved.
(Ord. No. 2014-07, § 5, 12-15-2014)
Sec. 4.10. - Reserved.
(Ord. No. 2014-07, § 5, 12-15-2014)
Sec. 4.11. - Reserved.
(Ord. No. 2014-07, § 5, 12-15-2014)
Sec. 4.12. - Reserved.
(Ord. No. 2014-07, § 5, 12-15-2014)
Sec. 4.13. - Reserved.
(Ord. No. 2014-07, § 5, 12-15-2014)
ARTICLE V. - FISCAL ADMINISTRATION

Sec. 5.01. - Fiscal year.
The fiscal year of the city government shall begin on the first day of July and shall end on the thirtieth day of June of each year, but a different fiscal year may be fixed by ordinance for the entire city government. Said fiscal year shall constitute the budget year and the year for fiscal accounting and reporting of every office, department, agency and activity of the city government, unless otherwise provided by law.
Sec. 5.02. - Mayor and council to prepare annual budget.
On or before a date fixed by the mayor and council, but not later than forty-five (45) days prior to the beginning of each fiscal year, the mayor and council shall prepare an operating budget for the next fiscal year, showing separately for the general funds, each utility, and each other fund the following:
(a)
The revenue and expenditures during the preceding fiscal year;
(b)
Appropriations and estimated revenue and expenditures for the current fiscal year;
(c)
Estimated revenue and recommended expenditures for the next fiscal year;
(d)
A comparative statement of the assets, liabilities, reserves, and surplus at the end of the preceding fiscal year and estimated assets, liabilities, reserves, and surplus at the end of the current fiscal year; and
(e)
Such other information and data as may be considered necessary by the mayor and council.
Sec. 5.03. - Action by mayor and council on budget.
Before the beginning of the fiscal year, the mayor and council shall adopt an appropriate ordinance, based on the budget, with such modifications as the mayor and council considers necessary or desirable. Appropriations need not be in more detail than a lump sum for each department, office and agency unless otherwise directed by the mayor and council. The mayor and council shall not make any appropriations in excess of estimated revenue, except to provide for an actual emergency threatening the health, property, lives, safety or general welfare of the inhabitants of the city; provided the mayor and council unanimously agrees that there is such an emergency. If conditions prevent the adoption of an appropriations ordinance before the beginning of the new fiscal year, the appropriations for the last fiscal year shall become the appropriations for the new fiscal year, subject to amendment as provided by ordinance specifically passed for such purpose.
Sec. 5.04. - Additional appropriations.
The mayor and council may make appropriations in addition to those contained in the current operating budgets, at any regular or special meeting called for such purpose, but any additional appropriations may be made only from an existing unappropriated surplus.
Sec. 5.05. - Capital improvements budget.
(a)
On or before a date fixed by the mayor and council but not later than forty-five (45) days prior to the beginning of each fiscal year, the mayor and council shall prepare a capital improvements budget with appropriate recommendations as to the means of financing such improvements. Such capital improvements budget may be revised and extended each year with regard to the capital improvements still pending or in the process of construction or acquisition.
(b)
Before the beginning of the ensuing fiscal year, the mayor and council shall adopt an appropriate ordinance based on the proposed capital improvements budget, with such modifications as the mayor and council considers necessary or desirable. No appropriations provided for in the capital improvements budget shall lapse until the purpose for which the appropriations were made shall have been accomplished or abandoned; provided, the mayor may submit amendments to the capital improvements budget at any time during the fiscal year; provided, however, that any amendment as provided for above shall be effective only to change the expenditures for items included in the capital improvements budget. Any such amendments to the capital improvements budget shall become effective only upon adoption by a majority vote of the mayor and council.
(c)
In the case of a public emergency threatening the lives, health, safety or property of inhabitants, the mayor and council may authorize an expenditure for the construction of any building, structure, work or improvement not included in the capital improvements budget. Any such expenditure for items not included in the capital improvements budget shall become effective only upon adoption by a three-fourth's vote of the membership of the council.
Sec. 5.06. - Annual audit.
The mayor and council shall employ a certified public accountant to make an annual audit of all financial books and records of the city. The accountant shall file his report with the mayor and council and shall prepare a summary of the report which shall be furnished or made available to the mayor and council.
Sec. 5.07. - Publication of financial statement.
As soon as practicable after the close of the fiscal year, but within six (6) months after the close thereof, the mayor and council shall cause to be published in a local newspaper, a statement of financial condition which shall contain a statement of revenues and expenditures showing all municipal accounts as of the close of such preceding fiscal year. Such statement of financial condition shall be prepared so as to fairly represent the general financial condition of the city, as of the close of the preceding fiscal year.
Sec. 5.08. - Property taxes.
All property subject to taxation for state or county purposes, assessed as of January 1, in each year, shall be returned for taxes on or before April 1. If such return is not made by the property owner, the Clayton County Board of Tax Assessors shall assess such property for taxation from the best information they can obtain as to its value for the year in default, and notify said owner of the valuation.
Sec. 5.09. - Tax levy.
The mayor and council shall have the right to levy a tax on all property in said city, the rate to be determined by a Resolution supported by a majority vote and entered on the minutes.
(Ord. No. 04-21, § 1, 11-9-2004; 2005 Ga. Laws, page 4250, § 1)
Sec. 5.10. - Tax due date and tax bills.
The city shall send tax bills to taxpayers showing the assessed valuation as fixed by the Clayton County Board of Tax Assessors, amount of taxes due, tax due dates and information as to delinquency dates and penalties. Failure to send tax bills shall not, however, invalidate any tax. Property taxes shall become delinquent if not paid on or before November 20 of each year, which time may be changed by ordinance, and at which time a penalty of ten percent (10%) in addition to a fi. fa. charge shall be added and thereafter such taxes shall be subject to interest at the highest legal rate per annum authorized by state law from the due date until paid. On and after the date when such taxes become delinquent, the tax records of the city shall have the force and effect of a judgment of a court of record.
Sec. 5.11. - Collection of delinquent taxes.
The city council may provide by ordinance for the collection of delinquent taxes by fi. fa. issued by the city clerk and executed by the chief of police under the same procedure provided by laws governing execution of such process from the superior court, or by the use of any other available legal processes and remedies. A lien shall exist against all property on which city property taxes are levied, as of the assessment day of January 1 of each year, which shall be superior to all other liens except that it shall have equal dignity with those for federal, state or county taxes.
Sec. 5.12. - Transfer of executions.
The Clerk of the City of Lovejoy shall be authorized to transfer and assign any fi. fa. or execution issued for street, sewer, or any other assessment in the same manner, upon the same terms, and to the same effect, and thereby vest the purchaser or transferee with the same rights as in cases of sales or transfers of fi. fas., as now provided by law; and all sales of property hereafter made under execution in behalf of the city for the collection of street, sewer and other assessments, the owner or owners, as the case may be, are authorized to redeem same within the same time and in compliance with the same terms and payment of the same premium, interest and costs, as in cases of redemption of property where sold under state or county ad valorem tax fi. fa. as the same now exists or as may from time to time be provided by law.
ARTICLE VI. - ELECTIONS

Sec. 6.01. - Regular elections; time for holding and taking office.
The regular elections for mayor and councilmen, as provided herein, shall be held in accordance with Chapter 2 of Title 21 of the O.C.G.A. (O.C.G.A. § 21-2-1 et seq.), the "Georgia Election Code," as now or hereafter amended. Officials elected at any regular election shall assume office on January 1st in the year immediately.
(Ord. No. 2014-07, § 6, 12-15-2014)
Sec. 6.02. - Qualification of candidates.
Any person desiring to become a candidate in any regular election shall file written notice of his candidacy with the city clerk at least fifteen (15) but not more than forty-five (45) days as provided by ordinance, prior to the date fixed for the holding of such election. In the case of a special election, said notice must be filed at least ten (10) but not more than thirty (30) days, as provided by ordinance, prior to the date fixed for the holding of such election. His notice of candidacy shall be accomplished by such qualification fee, if any, as may be required by ordinance, provided, however, such qualification fee shall not exceed one hundred dollars ($100.00).
Sec. 6.03. - Qualification of electors.
Any person meeting the qualifications of an elector of members of the General Assembly under state law who has been a bona fide resident of the City of Lovejoy for ninety (90) days next preceding the election in which he desires to vote, or for such period as may otherwise be provided by the Georgia Municipal Election Code, shall be qualified to register as an elector in any city election held under this Charter.
Sec. 6.04. - Applicability of general laws.
Except as otherwise provided by this Charter, the election of all officials of the City of Lovejoy where provision is made for election by the qualified electors thereof, shall be conducted as to special or general elections in conformity so far as applicable with the provisions of the Georgia Municipal Election Code and Title 34A of the Code of Georgia of 1933 [See now O.C.G.A. § 21-2-1 et seq.] as it now exists or may hereafter be amended. Whenever any time period established by said Election Code is altered so as to change or supersede any time period provided herein, it shall be considered that the time periods provided herein will be correspondingly changed so as to avoid any conflict between this Charter and the general laws of the state.
Sec. 6.05. - Time of election.
The polls shall be opened from 7 o'clock a.m. local time to 7 o'clock p.m. local time.
Sec. 6.06. - Place of elections.
The polling place or places for holding elections shall be prescribed by the mayor and council and shall be published in the election notice as required by law; provided, however, any change in a polling place shall be effected as provided by section 34A-604 of the Georgia Municipal Election Code [see now O.C.G.A. § 21-2-265] as it now exists or may hereafter be amended.
Sec. 6.07. - Voter registration.
In all elections held in the City of Lovejoy, whether special or general elections, the electors, in addition to the qualifications already prescribed, shall be registered as may be prescribed by ordinance.
Sec. 6.08. - Rules.
The mayor and council is hereby authorized to enact by ordinance such additional rules consistent with this Charter and general laws as are deemed necessary for the conduct of elections.
Sec. 6.09. - Call for elections.
Any call for an election which is required to be made by the laws of this state shall be made by the mayor and council.
Sec. 6.10. - Absentee ballots.
The mayor and council may provide by ordinance for absentee ballots for any city election.
ARTICLE VII. - MUNICIPAL COURT

Sec. 7.01. - Creation.
There is hereby established a court to be known as the "municipal court," City of Lovejoy, which shall have jurisdiction and authority to try offenses against laws and ordinances of said city and to punish for a violation of the same. Such court shall have the power to enforce its judgments by the imposition of such penalties as may be provided by law; to punish witnesses for nonattendance, and to punish also any person who may counsel, aid, encourage, or persuade another whose testimony is desired or material in any proceeding before said court, to go or move beyond the reach of the process of the court; to try all offenses within the territorial limits of the City of Lovejoy constituting traffic cases which under the laws of Georgia are placed within the jurisdiction of municipal or police courts to the extent of and in accordance with the provisions of such laws and all laws subsequently enacted amendatory thereof; to establish bail and recognizances to insure the presence of those charged with violations and to prescribe the conditions of forfeiture of the same; and to administer oaths and to perform all other acts necessary and proper for the conduct of said court. The presiding officer of such court shall be known as the municipal judge. Said court shall be convened at such times as designated by ordinance or at such times as deemed necessary to keep current the dockets thereof. The court shall sit at a place designated by the mayor and council.
Sec. 7.02. - Municipal judge.
(a)
No person shall be qualified or eligible to serve as municipal judge unless he shall have attained the age of twenty-one (21) years, and shall be a resident of Clayton County. Compensation of the municipal judge shall be fixed by the mayor and council.
(b)
Before entering on duties of the office, the municipal judge shall take an oath before an officer duly authorized to administer oaths in this state, that he will truly, honestly, and faithfully discharge the duties of his office to the best of his ability without fear, favor or partiality. This oath shall be entered upon the minutes of the meeting of the mayor and council.
Sec. 7.03. - Jurisdiction.
The municipal judge shall have power to impose fines, costs and forfeitures for the violations of any law or ordinance of the City of Lovejoy passed in accordance with this Charter; for each offense, in an amount not to exceed one thousand dollars ($1,000.00), to imprison offenders for a period of not more than six (6) months or at labor on the roads and streets or other public works of said city for not more than six (6) months; and the said municipal judge shall have the power and authority to impose any one or more of the these punishments when he shall find that the facts of the case so justify. Said municipal judge shall not have the authority to inflict a greater punishment for contempt than to impose a fine of one hundred dollars ($100.00) or imprisonment not exceeding twenty (20) days, or any combination of the two. He shall be to all intents and purposes a justice of the peace, so as to enable him to issue warrants for offenses committed within the limits of the City of Lovejoy where warrants may be executed by any officer of said city; and to commit offenders to jail or admit them to bail in bailable cases for their appearances at the next term of court of competent jurisdiction to be held in said city. The municipal court shall also have concurrent jurisdiction with that of the justice of peace over offenses against the criminal laws of the state committed within the corporate limits. Except as may be herein otherwise specified, the municipal judge is vested with all of the jurisdiction and powers as to the entire area within the corporate limits of the City of Lovejoy. The municipal court is specifically vested with all jurisdiction and powers throughout the entire area within the corporate limits granted by the state laws generally to municipal courts, and particularly such laws as to authorize the administration of oaths.
(Ord. No. 2014-07, § 7, 12-15-2014)
Sec. 7.04. - Right of appeal.
The right of appeal to the Superior Court of Clayton County from the municipal court shall lie in the same manner and under the same procedure as generally prescribed for appeals from the probate court; provided, however, any person shall have thirty (30) days to file such appeal. An appeal to the superior court shall be a de novo proceeding. Unless otherwise prescribed by ordinance, all bonds required on appeal shall be the same as prescribed for appeal bonds for appeals from the probate court as established by state law.
Sec. 7.05. - Court costs.
In all cases in the Municipal Court of the City of Lovejoy, the costs incurred and allowable herein may be computed under the provisions of the laws of the State of Georgia fixing the costs in the justice of the peace courts of said state, or the mayor and council may establish a schedule of fees to defray the costs of operation. The mayor and council may also provide a uniform scale of costs of the clerk and police officers of said city for all services in the arrest and prosecution of offenders in the municipal court and in the issuance and collection of tax and other executions; and for their collections and payment in the city treasury. The municipal judge is hereby authorized to use subpoenas to compel the attendance of witnesses at said municipal court and to issue such other processes as may be necessary for the proper administration of said court.
Sec. 7.06. - Rules of court.
With the approval of the mayor and council, the municipal judge shall have full power and authority to make reasonable rules and regulations necessary and proper to secure the efficient and successful administration of the business of said court; provided, however, that the mayor and council may adopt in part or in toto the rules and regulations relative to the procedures to the operation of the superior courts under the general laws of the State of Georgia.
ARTICLE VIII. - SEVERABILITY

Sec. 8.01. - [Severability.]
In the event any section, subsection, sentence, clause or phrase of this Act shall be declared or adjudged invalid or unconstitutional, such adjudication shall in no manner affect the other sections, subsections, sentences, clauses, or phrases of this Act, which shall remain of full force and effect, as if the section, subsection, sentence, clause or phrase so declared or adjudged invalid or unconstitutional were not originally a part hereof. The General Assembly hereby declares that it would have passed the remaining parts of this Act if it had known that such part or parts hereof would be declared or adjudged invalid or unconstitutional.
ARTICLE IX. - REPEALER

Sec. 9.01. - [Specific repealer.]
An Act creating and incorporating the Town of Lovejoy in the County of Clayton, approved September 26, 1891 (Ga. L. 1890-91, Volume II), as amended by an Act approved August 24, 1905 (Ga. L. 1905, p. 955), as amended by an Act approved August 17, 1929 (Ga. L. 1929, p. 1157), as amended by an Act approved April 2, 1963 (Ga. L. 1963, p. 2723), is hereby repealed in its entirety.
Sec. 9.02. - [Electrical suppliers exempt.]
Notwithstanding any other provisions herein contained, this Act is not intended to and shall not be applicable to regulation of or over the property, activity, rates, services or operations of any electric supplier as defined in the Georgia Territory Electric Service Act (Ga. L. 1973, p. 200) [O.C.G.A. § 46-3-1 et seq.].
Sec. 9.03. - [General repealer.]
All laws and parts of laws in conflict with this Act are hereby repealed.
