Chapter 1 - GENERAL PROVISIONS

Sec. 1-1. - Designation and citation of Code.
The ordinances embraced in the following chapters and sections and appendix A shall constitute and be designated "The Code of the City of Lovejoy, Georgia," and may be so cited.
(Ord. No. 2001-07, § 3(1-1), 10-15-2001)
State Law reference— Duty to codify ordinances, O.C.G.A. § 36-80-19.
Sec. 1-2. - Definitions and rules of construction.
In the construction of this Code and of all ordinances, the following definitions and rules of construction shall be observed, unless inconsistent with the manifest intent of the mayor and council or the context clearly requires otherwise:
Generally.
(1)
In all interpretations, the courts shall look diligently for the intention of the mayor and council, keeping in view, at all times, the old law, the evil, and the remedy. Grammatical errors shall not vitiate, and a transposition of words and clauses may be resorted to when the sentence or clause is without meaning as it stands.
(2)
All general provisions, terms, phrases, and expressions contained in this Code shall be liberally construed in order that the true intent and meaning of the mayor and council may be fully carried out. In the interpretation and application of any provision of this Code, they shall be held to be the minimum requirements adopted for the promotion of the public health, safety, comfort, convenience, and general welfare.
(3)
Where any provision of this Code imposes greater restrictions on the subject matter than the other provisions of this Code, the provisions imposing the greater restriction or regulation shall be deemed to be controlling. The specific controls over the general.
As soon as possible. The term "as soon as possible" means within a reasonable time, having due regard to all the circumstances.
Bond. When a bond is required by law, an undertaking in writing, without seal, is sufficient. In all bonds where the names of the obligors do not appear in the bond, but are subscribed thereto, they shall be bound thereby.
City. The term "city" means the City of Lovejoy, Georgia.
Code. The term "Code" means The Code of the City of Lovejoy, Georgia, as designated in section 1-1. Appendix A is a part of this Code.
Computation of time. Except as otherwise provided by time period computations specifically applying to other laws, when a period of time measured in days, weeks, months, years or other measurement of time except hours is prescribed for the exercise of any privilege or the discharge of any duty, the first day shall not be counted but the last day shall be counted; and if the last day falls on Saturday or Sunday the party having such privilege or duty shall have through the following Monday to exercise the privilege or to discharge the duty. When the last day prescribed for such action falls on a public and legal holiday, the party having the privilege or duty shall have through the next business day to exercise the privilege or to discharge the duty. When the period of time prescribed is less than seven days, intermediate Saturdays, Sundays and legal holidays shall be excluded in the computation.
Conjunctions. Where a provision involves two or more items, conditions, provisions, or events connected by any of the conjunctions "and," "or," "either…or," or "neither…nor," the conjunction shall be interpreted as follows, provided in appropriate cases the terms "and" and "or" are interchangeable:
(1)
The term "and" indicates that all the connected items, conditions, provisions or events shall apply.
(2)
The term "or" indicates that the connected items, conditions, provisions, or events may apply singly or in any combination.
(3)
The terms "either…or" and "neither…nor" indicate that the connected items, conditions, provisions, or events shall apply singly, but not in combination.
County. The term "county" means Clayton County, Georgia.
Delegation of authority. Whenever a provision requires the head of a department or an official of the city to do some act or perform some function, it shall be construed to authorize the head of such department or the official to designate, delegate and authorize subordinates to do the required act or perform the required function, unless the terms of the provision designate otherwise.
Gender. A word importing one gender shall extend and be applied to the other genders.
Joint authority. A joint authority given to any number of persons or officers may be executed by a majority of them, unless it is otherwise declared.
Keeper andproprietor. The terms "keeper" and "proprietor" mean and include persons, as the term "person" is defined herein, whether acting by themselves or through an agent or employee.
May. The term "may" is to be construed as being permissive.
Mayor and council. The term "mayor and council" means the mayor and council of the city.
Month. The term "month" means a calendar month.
Must. The term "must" is to be construed as being mandatory.
Nontechnical and technical words. The ordinary significance shall be applied to all words, except words of art, or words connected with a particular trade or subject matter, in which case they shall have the significance attached to them by experts in such trade or with reference to such subject matter.
Number. The singular or plural number each includes the other, unless expressly excluded.
Oath; affirm and affirmed, swear and sworn. The term "oath" includes an affirmation in all cases in which by law an affirmation may be substituted for an oath, and in such cases the words "affirm" and "affirmed" shall be equivalent to the words "swear" and "sworn."
O.C.G.A.; state acts. The abbreviation O.C.G.A. means the Official Code of Georgia Annotated, as amended. References to state acts are to state acts, as amended.
Officials, officers, etc. References to officials, employees, boards, commissions, or other agencies by title only shall be construed as referring to the city officials, city employees, city boards, city commissions, or other city agencies.
Owner. The term "owner," when applied to buildings or land, includes any part owner, joint owner, tenant in common, joint tenant or tenant by the entirety, of the whole or part of such building or land.
Person. The term "person" includes individuals and any association, club, society, firm, corporation, limited liability company, partnership, body politic and corporate, or any combination thereof.
Personal property. The term "personal property" includes every species of property except real property.
Preceding; following. The terms "preceding" and "following" mean, generally, next before and next after, unless the context requires a different significance.
Property. The term "property" includes real and personal property.
Real property. The term "real property" includes lands, tenements and hereditaments.
Residence. The term "residence" means the place adopted by a person as his place of habitation and to which, whenever he is absent, he has the intention of returning. When a person eats at one place and sleeps at another, the place where such person sleeps shall be deemed his residence.
Right-of-way. The term "right-of-way" means land that is dedicated or otherwise legally established for public use.
Roadway. The term "roadway" means that portion of a street improved, designed or ordinarily used for vehicular traffic.
Shall. The term "shall" is mandatory.
Sidewalk. The term "sidewalk" means that portion of the street right-of-way which is improved and designated for the use of pedestrians.
Signature; subscription. The terms "signature" and "subscription" include the mark of an illiterate or infirm person.
State. The terms "state," "the state" and "this state" mean the State of Georgia.
Street. The term "street" means and includes any public way, road, highway, street, avenue, boulevard, parkway, lane, path, viaduct, bridge or any other name by which a street is commonly known, or any public place and the approaches thereto within the city when any part thereof is open to the use of the public and established for the purposes of vehicular traffic.
Tenant; occupant. The terms "tenant" and "occupant," applied to a building or land, include any person who occupies the whole or part of such building or land, whether alone or with others.
Tense. Words used in the past or present tense include the future as well as the past and the present.
Week. The term "week" means seven calendar days, unless otherwise specified.
Will. The term "will" is to be construed as being mandatory.
Writing; written. The terms "writing" and "written" include printing and all numerals, and also pictures, illustrations and printed or written designs.
Year. The term "year" means a calendar year.
(Ord. No. 2001-07, § 3(1-2), 10-15-2001)
State Law reference— Computation of time, O.C.G.A. § 1-3-1; construction of definitions, O.C.G.A. § 1-3-2; meaning of certain words, O.C.G.A. § 1-3-3.
Sec. 1-3. - Catchlines of sections; history notes and references.
(a)
The catchlines of the several sections of this Code printed in boldface type are intended as mere catchwords to indicate the contents of the section and shall not be deemed or taken to be titles of such sections or to be any part of the section, nor, unless expressly so provided, shall they be so deemed when any of such sections, including the catchlines, are amended or reenacted.
(b)
The history or source notes appearing in parentheses after sections in this Code are not intended to have any legal effect but are intended merely to indicate the source of matter contained in the section. Editor's notes, Charter references and state law references and other references that appear after sections or subsections of this Code or which otherwise appear in footnote form are provided for the convenience of the user of the Code and have no legal effect.
(c)
All references to chapters, articles, divisions, subdivisions, or sections are to chapters, articles, divisions, subdivisions, or sections of this Code, unless sections of this Code unless otherwise specified.
(Ord. No. 2001-07, § 3(1-3), 10-15-2001)
State Law reference— Notes and catchlines of Code sections not part of law, O.C.G.A. § 1-1-7.
Sec. 1-4. - Ordinances not affected by Code.
(a)
Nothing in this Code or the ordinance adopting this Code shall be construed to repeal or otherwise affect the validity of any of the following:
(1)
Any ordinance amending the Charter.
(2)
Any offense or act committed or done or any penalty or forfeiture incurred or any contract or right established or accruing before the effective date of this Code.
(3)
Any ordinance or resolution promising or guaranteeing the payment of money for the city or authorizing the issuance of any bonds of the city or any evidence of the city's indebtedness.
(4)
Any contract or obligation assumed by the city.
(5)
Any ordinance fixing the salary of any city officer or city employee.
(6)
Any right or franchise granted by the city.
(7)
Any ordinance dedicating, naming, establishing, locating, relocating, opening, widening, paving, etc., any street or public way in the city.
(8)
Any appropriation ordinance.
(9)
Any ordinance which, by its own terms, is effective for a stated or limited term.
(10)
Any ordinance providing for local improvements and assessing taxes therefor.
(11)
Any ordinance rezoning property.
(12)
Any ordinance dedicating or accepting any subdivision plat.
(13)
Any ordinance describing or altering the boundaries of the city.
(14)
The administrative ordinances or resolutions of the city not in conflict or inconsistent with the provisions of this Code.
(15)
Any ordinance levying or imposing taxes not included in this Code.
(16)
Any ordinance establishing or prescribing street grades in the city.
(b)
Such ordinance shall not be construed to revive any ordinance or part thereof that has been repealed by a subsequent ordinance which is repealed by the ordinance adopting this Code. All ordinances listed in this section are hereby recognized as continuing in full force and effect to the same extent as if set out at length in this Code.
(Ord. No. 2001-07, § 3(1-4), 10-15-2001)
Sec. 1-5. - Provisions considered continuation of existing ordinances.
The provisions appearing in this Code, so far as they are the same as ordinances adopted prior to this Code and included in such Code, shall be considered as continuations thereof and not as new enactments.
(Ord. No. 2001-07, § 3(1-5), 10-15-2001)
Sec. 1-6. - Prior offenses, penalties, contracts or rights not affected by adoption of Code.
(a)
Nothing in this Code or the ordinance adopting this Code shall affect any offense or act committed or done or any penalty or forfeiture incurred or any contract or right established or accruing before the effective date of this Code.
(b)
The adoption of this Code shall not be interpreted as authorizing or permitting any use or the continuance of any use of a structure or premises in violation of any ordinance or resolution in effect on the date of adoption of this Code.
Sec. 1-7. - Effect of repeal of ordinances.
(a)
The repeal of an ordinance shall not revive any ordinance in force before or at the time the ordinance repealed took effect.
(b)
The repeal of an ordinance shall not affect any punishment or penalty incurred before the repeal took effect, or any suit, prosecution or proceeding pending at the time of the repeal, for an offense committed or matter covered under the ordinance repealed.
(Ord. No. 2001-07, § 3(1-6), 10-15-2001)
Sec. 1-8. - Amendments to Code.
(a)
All ordinances passed subsequent to this Code which amend, repeal or in any way affect this Code may be numbered in accordance with the numbering system of this Code and printed for inclusion in the Code. In the case of the repeal of chapters, sections and subsections or any part thereof by subsequent ordinances, such repealed portions may be excluded from this Code by omission from reprinted pages affected thereby. The subsequent ordinances as numbered and printed, or omitted in the case of repeal, shall be prima facie evidence of such subsequent ordinances until such time that this Code and subsequent ordinances numbered or omitted are readopted as a new Code of Ordinances by the board of commissioners.
(b)
Amendments to any of the provisions of this Code may be made by amending such provisions by specific reference to the section number of this Code in the following language: "Section (division, article or chapter) _____ of The Code of the City of Lovejoy, Georgia, is hereby amended to read as follows:…." The new provisions shall then be set out in full as desired.
(c)
If a new section not heretofore existing in the Code is to be added, the following language shall be used: "The Code of the City of Lovejoy, Georgia, is hereby amended by adding a section (division, article or chapter) to be numbered _____, which section (division, article or chapter) reads as follows:…." The new section, division, article or chapter shall then be set out in full as desired.
(d)
All sections, divisions, articles, chapters or other provisions desired to be repealed should be specifically repealed by section, division, article or chapter number, as the case may be.
(Ord. No. 2001-07, § 3(1-7), 10-15-2001)
Sec. 1-9. - Supplementation of Code.
(a)
By contract or by city personnel, supplements to this Code shall be prepared on an annual basis. A supplement to the Code shall include all substantive, permanent and general parts of ordinances passed by the mayor and council during the period covered by the supplement and all changes made thereby in the Code. The pages of a supplement shall be so numbered that they will fit properly into the Code and will, where necessary, replace pages that have become obsolete or partially obsolete, and the new pages shall be so prepared that, when they have been inserted, the Code will be current through the date of the adoption of the latest ordinance included in the supplement.
(b)
In preparing a supplement to this Code, all portions of the Code which have been repealed shall be excluded from the Code by the omission thereof from reprinted pages.
(c)
When preparing a supplement to this Code, the codifier, meaning the person, agency or organization authorized to prepare the supplement, may make formal, nonsubstantive changes in ordinances and parts of ordinances included in the supplement, insofar as it is necessary to do so to embody them into a unified code. For example, the codifier may:
(1)
Organize the ordinance material into appropriate subdivisions.
(2)
Provide appropriate catchlines, headings and titles for sections and other subdivisions of the Code printed in the supplement, and make changes in such catchlines, headings and titles.
(3)
Assign appropriate numbers to sections and other subdivisions to be inserted in the Code and, where necessary to accommodate new material, change existing section or other subdivision numbers.
(4)
Change the words "this ordinance" or words of the same meaning to "this chapter," "this article," "this division," etc., as the case may be, or to "sections _____ to _____," inserting section numbers to indicate the sections of the Code which embody the substantive sections of the ordinance incorporated into the Code.
(5)
Make other nonsubstantive changes necessary to preserve the original meaning of ordinance sections inserted into the Code.
In no case shall the codifier make any change in the meaning or effect of ordinance material included in the supplement or already embodied in the Code.
(Ord. No. 2001-07, § 3(1-8), 10-15-2001)
Sec. 1-10. - Liability for violations by corporations, other associations.
(a)
Any violation of this Code by any officer, agent or other person acting for or employed by any corporation or unincorporated association or organization, while acting within the scope of his office or employment, shall in every case also be deemed to be a violation by such corporation, association or organization.
(b)
Any officer, agent or other person acting for or employed by any corporation or unincorporated association or organization shall be subject and liable to punishment as well as such corporation or unincorporated association or organization for the violation by it of any provisions of this Code, where such violation was the act or omission, or the result of the act, omission or order, of any such person.
(Ord. No. 2001-07, § 3(1-9), 10-15-2001)
Sec. 1-11. - General penalty.
(a)
In this section, the term "violation of this Code" means:
(1)
Doing an act that is prohibited or made or declared to be unlawful, a misdemeanor, an offense, or a violation by ordinance or by rule or regulation authorized by ordinance;
(2)
Failure to perform an act that is required to be performed by ordinance, rule, or regulation authorized by ordinance; or
(3)
Failure to perform an act if the failure is declared an offense, a misdemeanor or a violation by ordinance, rule, or regulation authorized by ordinance.
(b)
The term "violation of this Code" does not include the failure of a city officer or city employee to perform an official duty, unless it is provided that failure to perform the duty is to be punished as provided in this section or it is clear from the context of this Code that it is the intent of the city to impose the penalty provided for in this section upon the city officer or city employee.
(c)
Except as otherwise provided, a person convicted of a violation of this Code shall be punished by a fine not exceeding $1,000.00, imprisonment for a term not exceeding six months, labor on the roads and streets or other public works of said city for not more than six months, or any combination thereof.
(d)
Except as otherwise provided:
(1)
With respect to violations that are continuous with respect to time, each day that the violation continues is a separate offense.
(2)
As to other violations, each act is a separate offense.
(e)
Violations of this Code that are continuous with respect to time are a public nuisance and may be abated by injunctive or other equitable relief and by such other means as are provided by law.
(f)
The imposition of a penalty does not prohibit equitable relief.
(g)
The imposition of a penalty shall not prevent the forceable removal or abatement of unlawful conditions and the imposition of a lien on the subject property for the cost thereof. The imposition of a penalty does not prohibit revocation or suspension of a license, permit, or franchise or the imposition of other administrative sanctions.
(Ord. No. 2001-07, § 3(1-12), 10-15-2001)
State Law reference— Penalty for ordinance violations, O.C.G.A. § 36-35-6(a)(2).
Sec. 1-12. - Severability of parts of Code.
(a)
It is hereby declared to be the intention of the mayor and council that all sections, paragraphs, sentences, clauses and phrases of this Code are and were, upon their enactment, believed by the mayor and council to be fully valid, enforceable and constitutional.
(b)
It is hereby declared to be the intention of the mayor and council that, to the greatest extent allowed by law, each and every section, paragraph, sentence, clause or phrase of this Code is severable from every other section, paragraph, sentence, clause or phrase of this Code. It is hereby further declared to be the intention of the mayor and council that, to the greatest extent allowed by law, no section, paragraph, sentence, clause or phrase of this Code is mutually dependent upon any other section, paragraph, sentence, clause or phrase of this Code.
(c)
In the event that any section, paragraph, sentence, clause or phrase of this Code shall, for any reason whatsoever, be declared invalid, unconstitutional or otherwise unenforceable by the valid judgment or decree of any court of competent jurisdiction, it is the express intent of the mayor and council that such invalidity, unconstitutionality or unenforceability shall, to the greatest extent allowed by law, not render invalid, unconstitutional or otherwise unenforceable any of the remaining sections, paragraphs, sentences, clauses, or phrases of this Code and that, to the greatest extent allowed by law, all remaining sections, paragraphs, sentences, clauses, or phrases of this Code shall remain valid, constitutional, enforceable, and of full force and effect.
(Ord. No. 2001-07, § 3(1-12), 10-15-2001)
State Law reference— Severability, O.C.G.A. § 1-1-3.
