ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 26-1. - Definitions.
(a)
Rules of construction. Terms not defined here have the same meaning as is found in most dictionaries, where consistent with the content. The term "must" or "shall," is mandatory in nature, indicating that an action shall be done. The term "may" or "should" is permissive and allows discretion regarding an action. When consistent with the context, words used in the singular number include the plural, and those used in the plural number include the singular. Words used in the present tense include the future. The planning director is charged with providing the definition of any word not listed and the interpretation of any word not adequately defined.
(b)
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this subsection, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Access means the place, or way by which pedestrians or vehicles shall have safe, adequate, or usable ingress and egress to a property, use, or parking space.
Access easements means an area legally identified by deed and/or plat to allow for vehicular travel across one or multiple properties to grant entry to another's property. An access easement is privately maintained, and shall not be maintained by the county. Often referred to as an "easement" by general definition. See Easement.
Accessory structure or accessory use means a structure or use incidental and subordinate to the main use of property and located on the same lot as the main use.
Agriculture means the tilling of the soil, the raising of crops, dairying, animal husbandry, forestry, and horticulture.
Alley means a minor public right-of-way, which is used primarily for vehicular service access to the back or side of properties otherwise abutting on a street.
Alter means a change, addition, or modification in construction or occupancy of a building or structure (alteration).
Amendment means a change in the wording, content or substance of the land use resolution, or a change in any other regulation or ordinance.
Appeal means the process by which an aggrieved party may petition for review of a decision made by an official or department of county government.
Applicant means the owner of land proposed to be subdivided or a person requesting a permit for an action, and any representative who shall have express written authority to act on behalf of the owner.
Block means a tract of land bounded by streets, or by a combination of streets and public parks, cemeteries, waterways, or boundary lines of local governments.
Bond means any form of a surety bond in an amount and form satisfactory to the governing body.
Buffer means a horizontal distance designed to provide attractive space or distance, obstruct undesirable views, serve as an acoustic barrier, or generally reduce the impact of adjacent development.
Buffer, natural, means a natural buffer (also known as an undisturbed buffer) is a prescribed area that is left in its natural condition with all vegetation undisturbed.
Buffer, planted, means a planted buffer is a buffer within which specified plantings are used to obstruct views. A planted buffer may be used to supplement a natural buffer where vegetation is sparse.
Buffer, supplemented, means a natural buffer that has added plantings to provide adequate screening where the natural vegetation is sparse.
Building means a structure built and maintained for the support, shelter, or enclosure of persons, motor vehicles, animals, or personal or real property of any kind. The term "building" includes the word structure.
Building height means the vertical distance from the average grade to the highest point of the coping of a flat roof or to the deck line of a mansard roof or the average point of a pitch or hip-roof.
Building line means a line that coincides with the front side of the building or structure.
Building permit means a written permit issued by the planning department authorizing construction, renovation, or repairs to a structure.
Caliper (tree) means a measurement of the diameter of the tree trunk measured six inches above the ground for up to a four-inch caliper size, and measured 12 inches above the ground for larger sizes.
Cluster development means a subdivision, planned development, or grouping of lots or dwellings arranged in such a way that open space is maintained throughout the area, that sensitive lands such as wetlands and steep slopes remain undeveloped and the lot layout requires a reduced amount of street and utility placement.
Commercial driveway means any private entrance, exit ramp, tunnel, bridge, side road or other vehicular passageway to any property used for commercial purposes, except a farm or dwelling house not exceeding a four-family capacity and which leads to or from any public road on the county highway system.
Commissioners means the board of commissioners of the county.
Common open space means publicly or privately owned undeveloped open space intended for aesthetic, recreation, public safety, or other conservation purposes, to be used by the owners or residents of a particular development or the public in general.
Construction plan means the maps or drawings and schedule accompanying a subdivision plat and showing the specific location and design of improvements to be installed in a subdivision or on a site in accordance with the requirements of this regulation and the planning commission as a condition of the approval of the plat.
Conventional construction means a building constructed on the building site from basic materials delivered to the site and from lumber cut on the job, also called "stick built." A conventional building is subject to local codes and ordinances.
County means the County of Lumpkin.
County road means a public road that is included in the official records as a county maintained road.
Court means an open unoccupied space other than a yard, on the same lot with a building and bounded on two or more sides by such building.
Cross drain means the pipe system designed to accommodate a drainage basin's 25-year stormwater runoff and passing under a driveway or street.
Covenants means a legal document that obligates the purchaser of a tract of land to certain requirements.
Cul-de-sac means a local street with one lone outlet, closed and terminated by a vehicular turnaround.
Density, gross, means a number indicating dwellings per acre using the total size of the parcel with no deductions.
Density, net, means a number indicating dwellings per net acre, based on the total area of the parcel and excluding separate or noncontiguous lands, designated common open space, and excluding rights-of-way or easements.
Developer includes a firm, corporation, partnership, association, institution, or person.
Development means any manmade change on improved or unimproved real estate, including but not limited to, buildings, structures, mining, dredging, filling, grading, paving, excavation, drilling, or permanent storage of materials or equipment.
Development standard means a specific requirement of this chapter regulating land use, generally quantitative in nature.
Driveway means a paved or unpaved area used for ingress or egress of vehicles and allowing access from a street or alley to a building or other structure or facility.
Dwelling, apartment or multiple-family, means a building designed and used for occupancy by three or more families, all living independently of each other, and having separate kitchen facilities for each family.
Dwelling, condominium, means a building containing multiple single-family dwelling units connected together with each unit having housekeeping facilities for only one family.
Dwelling, single-family, means a detached building designed or used exclusively for the occupancy of one family and having housekeeping facilities for only one family.
Dwelling, two-family (duplex), means a building designed or used exclusively for the occupancy of two families living independently of each other and having separate housekeeping facilities for each family.
Dwelling unit means one or more rooms, meeting the minimum size requirements of the building code, designed for occupancy by one family and not having more than one cooking facility.
Easement means authorization by a property owner for another to use the owner's property for a specified purpose.
Engineer means a registered, practicing engineer, licensed by the state.
Factory-built housing. Georgia law has now changed "factory-built housing" to "industrialized building." See Industrialized building.
Family means one person or two or more persons related by blood, marriage, legal adoption, or guardianship; or a group of not more than five persons (excluding servants) all or part of whom are not related by blood, marriage, legal adoption, or guardianship living together as a single housekeeping unit in a dwelling unit.
Fence means a barrier constructed of wood, metal, masonry or other materials commonly used for fence construction. A fence is not required to meet the setback requirements of this chapter.
Fence, sight obscuring, means a fence consisting of wood, metal, masonry, or similar materials, or an evergreen hedge or other evergreen planting arranged in such a way as to obscure vision by at least 80 percent.
Fill means the placement earth or fill material to raise the elevation of an area of land.
Final subdivision plat means the map of a subdivision to be recorded after approval by the planning commission.
Floor area means the sum of the gross horizontal area of several floors of a building, measured from the exterior faces of the exterior walls, or from the centerline of walls separating two buildings.
Frontage means the portion of a lot that abuts on a street.
Goal means a general statement establishing a direction for policies, resolutions, or actions.
Governing body means the body of the local government having the power to adopt local ordinances or regulations. The board of commissioners of the county is the governing body of the county.
Grade, ground level, means the average of the finished ground level at the center of all walls of a building. Where the walls are parallel to and within five feet of a public sidewalk, alley, or public way, the ground level shall be measured at the average elevation of the sidewalk, alley, or public way.
Green space means a platted and/or designated area recognized by the county that is to remain in a natural and/or vegetative state. For the purposes of applying to subdivision developments, the green space may be divided into no less than two acre section, and each section shall be: a contiguous and uninterrupted area (except for a subdivision street), and be no less than 20 feet in width at any point, and have access off an internal subdivision road. Up to ten percent of the total green space area may be used for future community development of limited impact and limited impervious surfaces. Permissive uses include passive recreation (hiking trails, parks, etc.) The planning director shall make the determination of allowable uses, with any variances to go before the county planning commission. (Additional provisions for the green space area are allowed under a class V subdivision.)
Hazards means threats of life, property, or the environment such as landslides, flooding, subsidence, erosion, or fire.
Health department means the county health department.
Hospitals means institutions devoted primarily to the rendering of healing, curing, and/or nursing care, which maintain and operate facilities for the diagnosis, treatment, and care of two or more nonrelated individuals suffering from illness, injury, or deformity or where obstetrical or other healing, curing, and/or nursing care is rendered over a period exceeding 24 hours.
Hotel (motel, motor, hotel, tourist, court) means a building or group of buildings used for transient residential purposes containing guestrooms that are designed to be used, or which are used, rented, or hired out for sleeping purposes.
Industrial park means a tract of land subdivided and developed according to a comprehensive development plan for the use of business or industry.
Industrialized building means any structure or component thereof which is wholly or in substantial part made, fabricated, formed or assembled in manufacturing facilities for installation or assembly in facilities for on or assembly on a building site and has been manufactured in such a manner that all parts or processes cannot be inspected at the site without disassembly, damage to, or destruction thereof.
Junk or wrecking yard means any property where a person is engaged in breaking up, dismantling, sorting, storing, distributing, buying or selling of auto parts, equipment parts or any scrap or waste material.
Land lease community. See Manufactured Home Park.
Land use means any use of the land including, but not limited to, commercial, industrial, institutional, public or government, residential, agriculture, recreation, public utilities, forest management, or natural uses.
Land use district means land use districts are areas of land within the county that have different development standards and criteria. These differences are intended to promote the separation of incompatible uses to help maintain property values and retain the character of the community.
Land use plan means an element of the comprehensive plan of the county. The land use plan provides an inventory of existing land uses, a description of existing and future land uses by planning areas and a discussion of land use problems and issues.
Loading space means an off-street space or berth on the same lot, or parcel with a building or use, or contiguous to a group of buildings or uses, for the temporary parking of a vehicle while loading or unloading persons, merchandise, or materials, and which space or berth abuts upon a street, alley, or other appropriate means of ingress and egress.
Lot means a lot is a parcel of land of at least sufficient size to meet the minimum requirements for use, coverage, and area and to provide such yards and other open spaces as are herein required. The term "lot" includes the words "plot" or "parcel." Such lot shall have frontage on an improved public street, or on an approved private street or easement, and may consist of:
(1)
A single lot of record.
(2)
A portion of a lot of record of sufficient size to meet the minimum requirement.
(3)
A combination of complete lots of record, of complete lots of record and portions of lots of records, or of portions of lots of record combined so as to create a parcel of sufficient size to meet the minimum requirements of this chapter.
(4)
A parcel of land described by metes and bounds; provided that in no case of division or combination shall any residual lot or parcel be created which does not meet the requirements of this chapter.
Lot area means the total area of a lot measured in a horizontal plane within the lot boundary lines exclusive of public streets or rights-of-way.
Lot coverage means the portion of a lot or parcel of land that is covered with buildings, parking, drives and maneuvering area, patios, decks, covered or paved storage area, or any other impervious surface.
Lot depth means the average distance measured from the front lot line to the rear lot line.
Lot, flag (panhandle lot), means a flag lot is a lot that is designed to provide access to a street, water or other feature by shaping a portion of the lot to resemble a long handle or flagpole.
Lot line, front, means or an interior lot, a line separating the lot from the street and for a corner lot, a line separating either (but not both) frontage of the lot from the street. If the structure is designed to face the corner the setback shall be measured as the front setback from both rights-of-way.
Lot line, rear, for an interior lot, means a line separating one lot from another on the opposite side of the lot from the front lot line; for corner lot either (but not both) interior lot line separating one lot from another, and for an irregular or triangular shaped lot, a straight line ten feet in length that is parallel to and at the maximum distance from the front lot line.
Lot line, side, for an interior lot, means a line separating one lot from the abutting lot or lots fronting on the same street, for corner lots, a line separating the lot from the abutting lot along the same frontage.
Lot width means the average distance between side lot lines.
Manufactured home means a structure transportable in one or more sections and which is built on a permanent chassis and designed to be used as a dwelling with or without a permanent foundation when connected to the required utilities, and includes the plumbing, heating, air-conditioning, and electrical systems contained therein, and is constructed in accordance with national codes.
Manufactured home lot means a parcel of land for the placement of a single manufactured home and the exclusive use of its occupants.
Manufactured home park means a privately owned parcel of land where two or more manufactured homes used for human occupancy are parked. A manufactured home park may contain either or both single-section and multisection manufactured homes. Homes may be rental units or owner occupied units on rental land; also called a land lease community.
Manufactured home site. See Manufactured home lot.
Manufactured home stand means that part of an individual lot that has been reserved for the placement of a manufactured home, appurtenant structures, or addition.
Mobile home. See the definition of Manufactured home. The 1980 Housing and Community Development Act, effective October 1980, changed the term "Mobile Home" to "Manufactured Home."
Modular housing means a dwelling unit constructed on site in accordance with the state code and composed of components substantially assembled in a manufacturing plant and transported to the building site for final assembly on a permanent foundation. See Industrialized housing also.
Multifamily housing development means the planning, construction, or operation of any development consisting of one or more structures intended for use or used as a dwelling for two or more independent housekeeping units.
Multisection manufactured home (MSMH) means a manufactured home (AKA a doublewide mobile home) that is factory finished in two or more sections built on a permanent chassis and towed to a building site where the sections are joined together.
Multiuse development means any development that contains more than one commercial use, whether in the same building or separate buildings on the parent tract.
Nonconforming structure or use means a lawful existing structure or use, at the time the ordinance from which this chapter is derived or any amendment thereto become effective, which does not conform to the requirements of this chapter.
Nonresidential subdivision means a subdivision whose intended use is other than residential, such as commercial or industrial. Such subdivision shall comply with the applicable provisions of these regulations.
Open area means the area devoted to lawns, setbacks, buffers, landscaped areas, natural areas, outdoor recreation areas, and similar types of uncovered open area and maintained in plant cover, and excluding storage areas for materials, boats, or vehicles.
Owner means any individual, firm, association, syndicate, co-partnership, corporation, trust or any other legal entity having sufficient proprietary interest in the land, including the attorney and agent thereof.
Parcel means a unit of land that is created by a partitioning of land.
Parent parcel means a tract of land as shown on the 2009 Lumpkin County Tax Parcel Maps. If a tract is physically separated by a public road right-of-way, it may be considered as multiple parcels with respect to development at the discretion of the planning director.
Parking area, private, means privately or publicly owned property, other than streets or alleys, on which parking spaces are defined, designated, or otherwise identified for use by the tenants, employees, or owners of the property for which the parking area is required by this chapter and not open for use by the general public.
Parking area, public, means privately or publicly owned property, other than streets or alleys, on which parking spaces are defined, designated, or otherwise identified for use by the general public, either free or for remuneration. Public parking areas may include parking lots that may be required by this chapter for retail customers, patrons, and clients.
Parking space means an area permanently available for the parking of a full size automobile, having dimensions of not less than nine feet by 18 feet.
Pavement means that portion of a street having an all-weather, stable constructed surface and subsurface for the support and movement of vehicular traffic.
Pavement width means the shortest distance as measured from edge of pavement to edge of pavement exclusive of curb and gutter.
Person means any natural person, firm, partnership, association, social or fraternal organization, corporation, estate, trust, receiver, syndicate, branch of government or any other group or combination acting as a unit.
Planned unit development means a form of development usually characterized by a unified site design for a number of housing units, clustered buildings, common open space, and a mix of building types and land uses in a slightly more dense setting than allowable on separate lots.
Planning commission means the county planning commission.
Plat means includes a final map, diagram, drawing, replat or other writing containing all the descriptions, locations, specification, dedications, provisions, and information concerning a single lot, multiple lots or a subdivision. (See also Preliminary plat and Final plat.)
Policy means a definitive statement of requirement of the comprehensive plan or development ordinance, generally qualitative in nature.
Prefabricated building means a broad term applied to any building completed in a factory setting.
Preliminary plat means the preliminary drawing or drawings, described in these regulations, indicating the proposed manner or layout of the subdivision to be submitted to the planning commission for approval.
Private road means a privately maintained road, a road that is not maintained by the county.
Professional engineer means an engineer duly registered or otherwise authorized by the state to practice in the field of civil engineering.
Professional surveyor means a surveyor duly registered or otherwise authorized by the state to practice in the field of land surveying.
Protective covenants means contracts made between private parties as to the manner in which land may be used, with the view toward protecting and preserving the physical and economic integrity of any given area.
Public improvement means any drainage ditch, roadway, parkway, sidewalk, pedestrian way, tree, lawn, off-street parking area, other improvement, or other facility for which the county may ultimately assume the responsibility for maintenance and operation thereof or which may affect an improvement for which county responsibility is established.
(1)
Public road. Roads or streets open for use by the general public, does not include access easements.
(2)
Arterial. Roads designed to move traffic at higher speeds over greater distances within or between communities. They are usually but not necessarily state and federal highways.
(3)
Collector roads. Collector roads connect residential streets and rural roads to arterial roads.
(4)
Local road and street. Local roads or streets are designed to provide access to abutting property such as a local street in a municipal area. Local roads and streets are not intended for through traffic.
(5)
Residential street. A residential street is designed to provide access within residential communities. They are designed for low speeds and relatively low volumes of traffic.
a.
Street. May be a major or minor street that connects other streets, courts, etc.
b.
Lane. A residential street that serves a maximum of ten dwelling units.
c.
Court. A residential street designed as a cul-de-sac.
d.
Circle. A residential street designed as a loop with both ends connecting to the same street.
Public utilities means water, sanitary and storm sewer, natural gas, electrical and communications lines and facilities owned by local governments, authorities, public or private corporations.
Recreation, active, means leisure activities that are facility oriented, such as swimming pools, tennis courts, and ball fields.
Recreation, passive, means leisure activities that are natural resource oriented, such as hiking trails, conservation areas, and nature preserves.
Reservation means a method of holding land for future public use by showing proposed public areas on a subdivision plat.
Reserve strip means a strip of land across the end of, or along the edge of, a street, alley, or lot for the purpose of controlling access which is reserved or held until future street extension or widening.
Resubdivision means a legal subdivision which has been altered by changing of a line, bearing, or other measurement, which either reduces or enlarges the number of lots or size of lot originally created, and which is subsequently platted and recorded in a legal manner.
Right-of-way means a strip of land occupied or intended to be occupied by any or all of the following: a street, crosswalk, railroad, road, electrical transmission line, oil or gas pipeline, water main, sanitary or storm sewer main or for another special use. The usage for the term "right-of-way," for land platting purposes, means that every right-of-way hereafter established and shown on a final plat is to be separate and distinct from the lots or parcels adjoining such right-of-way and not included within the dimensions or areas of such lots or parcels.
Scenic views and sites means those geographic areas containing visually significant or unique natural features.
Screen means a fence, wall, berm, hedge, tree row, or other dense structure intended to visually perform a buffering effect in a limited space.
Sensitive natural areas means any area, as identified now or hereafter by the department of natural resources, which contains one or more of the following:
(1)
Habitat, including nesting sites, occupied by rare or endangered species.
(2)
Rare or exemplary natural communities.
(3)
Significant landforms, hydroforms, or geological features.
(4)
Other areas so designated by the department of natural resources and which is sensitive or vulnerable to physical or biological alteration.
Septic tank means an approved watertight tank designed or used to receive sewage from a building sewer and to affect separation and organic decomposition of sewerage solids, and discharging sewage effluent to an absorption field or other management system.
Setback means the minimum allowable horizontal distance measured from the furthest projection of the structure to the adjacent property line.
Shoulder means a portion of a street or road from the outer edge of the paved surface or back of curb to the inside edge of the ditch or gutter or original ground surface.
Sidewalk means the portion of the right-of-way that is parallel to the street or road and intended for pedestrian traffic.
Sign means any device for visual communication used for the purpose of bringing the subject to the attention of the public including but not limited to an identification, description, illustration, or device which is affixed to or represented, directly or indirectly, upon a building, or land and which directs attention to a product, place, activity, person, institution, or business. Each display surface shall be considered to be a sign.
Single-section manufactured home (SSMH) means a manufactured home (AKA a single-wide mobile home) in one section with dimensions limited to highway clearance 14 feet wide and providing between 600 and 1,000 square feet of living space.
Site-built means constructed on site (stick-built) but includes pre-constructed wall units, etc., including packaged homes, as opposed to industrialized building.
Slope means the rate of deviation of the ground surface from the horizontal surface, expressed as a percent.
Specimen tree means any tree other than a pine with a minimum diameter of 24 inches at average breast height (approximately 48 inches).
State waters means any and all rivers, streams, creeks, branches, lakes, reservoirs, drainage systems, springs, wells, and other bodies of surface or subsurface water, natural and artificial, lying within of forming a part of the boundaries of the state which are not entirely confined and retained completely upon the property of a single individual, partnership, or corporation, except as may be defined in O.C.G.A. § 12-7-17(7).
Storm sewer means the pipe system designed to accommodate and carry the stormwater runoff.
Street means a public thoroughfare or right-of-way which affords the principal means of access to abutting property, including avenue, place, way, drive, lane, boulevard, highway, road and any other thoroughfare, except as excluded in this chapter. The term "street" includes all arterial highways, freeways, collector streets, local streets, and lanes. See Public road, County road.
Structure means something constructed or built or having a fixed base on, or fixed connection to, the ground or another structure. For the purpose of setbacks, the term "structure" does not include fences.
Subdivide land means to divide a parcel or tract of land. (See chapter 26, pertaining to land development, for restrictions.)
Subdivider means any individual, firm, association, syndicate, co-partnership, corporation, trust, or any other legal entity commencing proceedings under this chapter to effect a subdivision of land hereunder for himself or for another.
Subdivision means all divisions of a tract or parcel of land. (See chapter 26, pertaining to land development, for restrictions.)
Use means the purpose for which land or a structure is designed, arranged, or intended, or for which it is occupied or maintained.
Used or occupied, as applied to any land or building, include the words "intended," "arranged" or "designed to be used or occupied."
Utility means public or private water or sewer piping systems, water or sewer pumping stations, electric power lines, fuel or gas pipelines, telephone lines, roads, cable telephone line, fiber optic cable, driveways, bridges, river/lake access facilities, stormwater systems and drainageways or other utilities identified by the county. As appropriate to the context the term "utility" may also include all persons, companies, or governmental agencies supplying the same.
Variance means a grant of relief from the strict requirements of a resolution or ordinance that allows the applicant to proceed in a manner that would otherwise be prohibited by the regulations.
Vehicle means a device in, upon, or by which any person or property is or may be transported or drawn upon a public highway, except devices moved by human power or used exclusively upon stationary rails or tracks.
Water-related means uses which are not directly dependent upon access to a water body, but which provide goods or services that are directly associated with water-dependent land or waterway use, and which, if not located adjacent to water, would result in a public loss of the quality of goods or services offered.
Water system, public, means an EPD approved water system operated by a county; city or state authorized authority that has met all federal, state and local requirements.
Water system, shared/community, means a water system operated by an individual, a company, a homeowners association or group of homeowners which may or may not require approval by the EPD.
Yard means a required open space other than a court unoccupied and unobstructed by any structure or portion of a structure from 30 inches above the general ground level of the graded lot upward, provided, however, that fences, walls, poles, poles, posts, and other customary yard accessories, ornaments, and furniture may be permitted in any yard subject to height limitations and requirements limiting obstruction of visibility.
(Res. No. 2002-44, 12-1-2002; Res. No. 2005-60, 10-21-2005; Res. No. 2005-61, 10-21-2005; Res. No. 2007-44, 9-20-2007; Res. No. 2007-55, 11-15-2007; Res. No. 2009-50, § 107, 7-16-2009)
Sec. 26-2. - Short title.
This document, containing certain regulations and standards having been properly adopted according to law, shall be known and may be cited as the land development regulations of the county.
(Res. No. 2002-44, 12-1-2002; Res. No. 2005-60, 10-21-2005; Res. No. 2005-61, 10-21-2005; Res. No. 2007-44, 9-20-2007; Res. No. 2007-55, 11-15-2007; Res. No. 2009-50, § 100, 7-16-2009)
Sec. 26-3. - Jurisdiction.
It is the intent of these regulations to provide guidance and requirements for the development of lands within the unincorporated limits of the county, whether the developments involve the subdivision of land or the construction of buildings and/or other improvements on single or multiple parcels of land.
(Res. No. 2002-44, 12-1-2002; Res. No. 2005-60, 10-21-2005; Res. No. 2005-61, 10-21-2005; Res. No. 2007-44, 9-20-2007; Res. No. 2007-55, 11-15-2007; Res. No. 2009-50, § 101, 7-16-2009)
Sec. 26-4. - Content.
These regulations, among other things, require and regulate the preparation of preliminary plans and final plans for the subdivision of land; establish minimum design and construction standards for subdivisions, streets and improvements; set forth the procedure to be followed in applying these regulations; and set forth other matters pertinent to the development of land.
(Res. No. 2002-44, 12-1-2002; Res. No. 2005-60, 10-21-2005; Res. No. 2005-61, 10-21-2005; Res. No. 2007-44, 9-20-2007; Res. No. 2007-55, 11-15-2007; Res. No. 2009-50, § 102, 7-16-2009)
Sec. 26-5. - Purpose.
The various articles and sections of these regulations have been adopted by proper resolution in order:
(1)
To promote the health safety, and morals, convenience, order, prosperity and general welfare of the present and future inhabitants of the county.
(2)
To encourage economically sound and stable land development.
(3)
To encourage the development of economically sound and stable communities.
(4)
To ensure the provision of required streets, utilities, and other facilities and services to new land developments;
(5)
To ensure the adequate provision of safe and convenient traffic, access and circulation both vehicular and pedestrian, in new land developments.
(6)
To ensure the provision of needed natural areas, public open spaces and building sites in new developments through the dedication or reservation of land for recreational, educational and other purposes.
(7)
To ensure, in general, the wise development of new areas, in harmony with the comprehensive plan of the county.
(8)
To lessen congestion in the streets and roads, to secure safety from fire and other dangers, to provide adequate light and air, to promote such development of land as will tend to facilitate and conserve adequate provision for transportation, water supply, drainage, sanitation, and for other purposes.
(Res. No. 2002-44, 12-1-2002; Res. No. 2005-60, 10-21-2005; Res. No. 2005-61, 10-21-2005; Res. No. 2007-44, 9-20-2007; Res. No. 2007-55, 11-15-2007; Res. No. 2009-50, § 103, 7-16-2009)
Sec. 26-6. - Scope; applicability of regulations.
(a)
No person shall divide or subdivide, or cause a subdivision to be made, by deed or map, of any parcel of land located within the boundaries of the county as the same may, from time to time, be established according to law, except as provided for in this resolution and in applicable federal and state laws. A list of some laws which may apply are:
(1)
Georgia Air Quality Act of 1978.
(2)
Georgia Ground Water Use Act of 1972.
(3)
Georgia Water Quality Control Act.
(4)
Endangered Wildlife Act of 1973.
(5)
Wildflower Preservation act of 1973.
(6)
Georgia Safe Dams Act of 1978.
(7)
Burial Grounds and Cemeteries.
(b)
Owners and developers have the responsibility to determine and comply with any local, state or federal laws that may apply. A permit from the county does not release you from compliance with other laws.
(c)
Any owner or developer of any tract of land situated within the county who subdivides the same shall cause a plat of such subdivisions to be made in accordance with the requirements of this chapter and applicable state laws and be recorded in the office of the clerk of the superior court of the county. No such plat of subdivision shall be filed or recorded unless and until it shall have been submitted to and approved by the county planning commission or its designated representative.
(d)
These regulations bear no relation to any private easement, covenant, agreement, or restriction; and the responsibility of enforcing such private easement, covenant, agreement, or restriction is not implied herein to any public official. When these regulations call for more restrictive standards than those required by private contract the provisions of these regulations shall control.
(e)
If a request for a subdivision, other than a class I, is denied by the planning commission another subdivision request for the same parcel may not be submitted until six months from the date of the denial.
(Res. No. 2002-44, 12-1-2002; Res. No. 2005-60, 10-21-2005; Res. No. 2005-61, 10-21-2005; Res. No. 2007-44, 9-20-2007; Res. No. 2007-55, 11-15-2007; Res. No. 2009-50, § 104, 7-16-2009)
Sec. 26-7. - Interpretation.
The provision of these regulations shall be the minimum requirements for development of subdivisions, preparation of plats, creation of roads and recording of all plans and plats. Words used in the present tense include the future tense, except where the construction of these regulations indicate otherwise; words in the singular number include the plural number, words in the plural number include the singular, "shall" is mandatory and not discretionary; "may" is permissive.
(Res. No. 2002-44, 12-1-2002; Res. No. 2005-60, 10-21-2005; Res. No. 2005-61, 10-21-2005; Res. No. 2007-44, 9-20-2007; Res. No. 2007-55, 11-15-2007; Res. No. 2009-50, § 105, 7-16-2009)
Sec. 26-8. - Administration.
(a)
Administrative body. The county planning commission, the county planning director or any other duly authorized representative is hereby delegated the authority and power to administer these regulations.
(b)
Authority. The planning commission or their duly appointed representative is vested with the authority to review, approve, conditionally approve, and disapprove applications for the subdivision of land, including sketch, preliminary, and final plats in accordance with these regulations. The planning commission may grant variances from any of these regulations pursuant to the provisions contained in this chapter.
(c)
Duties. The planning commission and the planning director shall perform all duties in respect to subdivision and re-subdivision in accordance with these regulations. It shall be the duty of the planning director to interpret and enforce these regulations. The county attorney shall advise the planning director in the event of any conflict, violation or lack of compliance herewith.
(d)
Professional consultation and technical assistance. In the performance of its duties the planning commission or planning director may call for opinions or decisions, either oral or written from the county attorney, the county surveyor, or other departments and agencies in considering details of any submitted plat.
(e)
Development of regional impacts (DRIs). Prior to any action taken by the planning commission or county commission, on any and all applications, the planning director, or designated representative, shall determine if the proposed subdivision qualifies as a development of regional impact (DRI). If so, then the county will request a formal review by the state mountains regional development center (GMRDC) under the state guidelines for development of regional impact.
(f)
Additional authority. In addition to the regulations herein contained with respect to the administration of the regulation themselves, the planning commission may, from time to time, establish any reasonable additional administration for the purpose of promoting the intent and purpose of the regulations. The planning commission may direct minor changes to these regulations for the purpose of correcting conflicting sections or clarifying the intent of these regulations.
(Res. No. 2002-44, 12-1-2002; Res. No. 2005-60, 10-21-2005; Res. No. 2005-61, 10-21-2005; Res. No. 2007-44, 9-20-2007; Res. No. 2007-55, 11-15-2007; Res. No. 2009-50, § 106, 7-16-2009)
Secs. 26-9—26-34. - Reserved.
