ARTICLE VI. - ACTIVITIES REQUIRING SPECIAL LAND USE APPROVAL
The activities contained in this article must undergo a review by the planning commission with a recommendation to the board of commissioners as outlined in section 27-8.1.4 - Special land use approval process. This requirement is in addition to any applicable standards found elsewhere in this Performance Zoning Ordinance. See section 27-2.2.3. Any potential land use that is not identified in this ordinance may be subject to the SLUA process.
1.
Bulk storage of fuel or liquid asphalt and distribution (Extensive). Bulk storage of fuel or liquid asphalt and distribution: (Extensive) fuel and liquid asphalt facilities with a combined capacity of greater than 100,000 gallons involved in the manufacture of or the receiving of liquids, gases, or solids by truck, tank vessel, pipelines, tank car, or tank vehicle, and storing, processing, or blending them in bulk for the purpose of distributing such liquids, gases, or solids by truck, tank vessel, pipeline, tank car, tank vehicle, portable tank, or container.
2.
Hazardous materials production/storage, handling and distribution. Hazardous materials production/storage, handling and distribution: any activity involving the storage, processing, manufacture, repackaging, or distribution of hazardous materials as defined in Federal and State regulations.
3.
Manufacturing (Extensive). Manufacturing (Extensive): manufacturing activity not included within limited manufacturing which is conducted within an enclosed space except for the following or similar activities: arsenals, explosives and fireworks plants; asphalt batch plants; chemical manufacturing in excess of one ton per day; offal processing; paper mill; petroleum refining; pulp mill and manufacturing; and waste disposal by incineration or other means. In addition to the type of manufacturing processes and materials allowed, this activity occurs in buildings whose total size is larger than 200,000 square feet but no more than 500,000 square feet.
4.
Salvage yard (Outdoor). Salvage yard (Outdoor): the dismantling or wrecking of used automobiles, vehicles, crafts and trailers, or the storage, or sale of dismantled or wrecked vehicles or their parts which does not occur entirely within an enclosed structure. This activity may also include other salvage materials like major household appliances, but does not include scrap metal processing. The presence on any parcel of land of five or more motor vehicles or bulk of five or more vehicles, which for a period exceeding 30 days have not been capable of operating under their own power and/or from which parts have been or are to be removed for reuse or sale, shall constitute prima-facie evidence of a salvage yard. This activity may also be referred to as a junk yard.
5.
Scrap metal processing. Scrap metal processing: the reclamation of scrap metal for delivery to steel mills, foundries, exporters, or other entities for re-melting, reusing, recycling, or other uses. It is operated from a fixed location utilizing heavy machinery such as cranes, balers, grinders, and shearers for processing and manufacturing iron, steel, or non-ferrous metallic scrap.
(Res. No. 2022-20, 5-3-2022)
