Chapter 48 - SOLID WASTE[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
State Law reference— Solid waste management generally, O.C.G.A. § 12-8-20 et seq.; hazardous waste management generally, O.C.G.A. § 12-8-60 et seq.; tire disposal restrictions, O.C.G.A. § 12-8-40.1; yard trimmings and disposal restrictions, O.C.G.A. § 12-8-40.2; authorization for local government units to enforce collection of taxes, fees, or assessments for solid waste management, O.C.G.A. § 12-8-39.3; authority of local governments to adopt and enforce local regulations for the handling and disposal of solid waste, O.C.G.A. § 12-8-30.9.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 48-1. - Adoption of joint solid waste plan.
The county and the City of Dahlonega have jointly adopted the county solid waste plan, a copy of which is on file in the office of the county clerk. The solid waste plan is incorporated herein by reference as though fully set forth in this chapter, as it may be amended from time to time.
(Res. No. 2005-55, 9-15-2005; Res. No. 2009-44, 5-21-2009; Res. No. 2010-08, 2-17-2010)
Sec. 48-2. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Commercial solid waste means all types of solid waste generated by stores, offices, restaurants, warehouses and other nonmanufacturing activities, excluding residential and industrial wastes.
Disposal facility means any facility or location where the final deposition of solid waste occurs and includes, but is not limited to, landfilling and solid waste thermal treatment technology facilities.
Dump means to throw, discard, place, deposit, discharge, bury, burn, or dispose of a substance.
Industrial waste means solid waste generated by manufacturing or industrial processes or operations. Such waste includes, but is not limited to, waste resulting from the following manufacturing processes: electric power generation; fertilizer and agricultural chemicals; food and related products and byproducts; inorganic chemicals, iron and steel products; leather and leather products; nonferrous metal and foundry products; organic chemicals; plastics and resins; pulp and paper; rubber and miscellaneous plastic products; stone, glass, clay, and concrete products; textiles; transportation equipment; and water treatment. This term does not include mining waste or oil and gas waste.
Inert waste means wastes that will not or are not likely to cause production of leachate of environmental concern. Such wastes are limited to earth and earth-like products, concrete, cured asphalt, rock, bricks, yard trimmings, stumps, limbs, and leaves. This definition excludes industrial and demolition waste not specifically listed.
Litter means all discarded sand, gravel, slag, brickbats, rubbish, waste material, tin cans, refuse, garbage, trash, debris, dead animals or other discarded materials of every kind and description which are not waste as such term is defined in this section.
Municipal solid waste means any solid waste derived from households, including garbage, trash, and sanitary waste in septic tanks and means solid waste from single-family and multifamily residences, hotels and motels, bunkhouses, campgrounds, picnic grounds, and day-use recreation areas. The term includes yard trimmings and commercial solid waste, but does not include solid waste from mining, agricultural, or silvicultural operations or industrial processes or operations.
Open dump means a disposal facility at which solid waste from one or more sources is left to decompose, bum or to otherwise create a threat to human health or the environment.
Person means the state or any other state or agency or institution thereof, and any municipality, county, political subdivision, public or private corporation, solid waste authority, special district empowered to engage in solid waste management activities, individual, partnership, association or other entity in Georgia or any other state. This term also includes any officer or governing or managing body of any municipality, political subdivision, solid waste authority, special district empowered to engage in solid waste activities, or public or private corporation in Georgia or any other state. This term also includes employees, departments, and agencies of the federal government.
Public or private property means the right-of-way of any road or highway; any body of water or watercourse or the shores or beaches thereof; any park, playground, building, refuge, or conservation or recreation area; and residential or farm properties, timberlands, or forests.
Recovered materials means those materials which have known use, reuse, or recycling potential; can be feasibly used, reused or recycled; and have been diverted or removed from the solid waste stream for sale, use, reuse or recycling, whether or not requiring subsequent separation and processing.
Recovered materials processing facility means a facility engaged solely in the storage, processing, and resale or reuse of recovered materials. Such term shall not include a solid waste handling facility; provided, however, any solid waste generated by such facility shall be subject to all applicable laws and regulations relating to such solid waste.
Retail tire dealer means a person actively engaged in the business of selling new replacement tires.
Scrap tire means a tire that is no longer suitable for its original intended purpose because of wear, damage, or defect.
Scrap tire carrier means any person engaged in picking up or transporting scrap tires not otherwise exempted in the Georgia Rules for Solid Waste Management for the purpose of removal to a scrap tire processor, end user, or disposal facility.
Scrap tire generator means any person who generates scrap tires. Generators may include, but are not limited to, retail tire dealers, retreaders, scrap tire processors, automobile dealers, private company vehicle maintenance shops, garages, service stations, and city, county, and state governments.
Scrap tire processor means any person who is approved by the environmental protection division to receive scrap tires from scrap tire generators or scrap tire carriers for the purpose of scrap tire processing.
Scrap tire sorter means any person, other than the original scrap tire generator, who handles mixed tires by separating used tires and retreadable casings from scrap tires.
Solid waste means any garbage or refuse; sludge from a wastewater treatment plant, water supply treatment plant, or air pollution control facility; and other discarded material including solid, liquid, semisolid, or contained gaseous material resulting from industrial, commercial, mining, and agricultural operations and from community activities, but does not include recovered materials; solid or dissolved materials in domestic sewage; solid or dissolved materials in irrigation return flows or industrial discharges that are point sources; or source, special nuclear, or byproduct material.
Solid waste handling means the storage, collection, transportation, treatment, utilization, processing, or disposal of solid waste, or any combination of such activities.
Waste means all discarded substances and materials whatsoever exceeding ten pounds in weight or 15 cubic feet in volume, or any such substance in any weight or volume if biomedical waste, hazardous waste, a hazardous substance, or any such substance or material dumped for commercial purposes. With the exception of nonhazardous, low-impact animal byproducts classified by the state department of natural resources; "waste" includes, without limitation, sand, gravel, slag, brickbats, rubbish, waste material, tin cans, refuse, garbage, trash, debris, dead animals, bottles, boxes, containers, papers, tobacco products, tires, appliances, mechanical equipment or parts, building or construction materials, tools, machinery, wood, motor vehicles and motor vehicle parts, vessels, aircraft equipment, waste oil, batteries, antifreeze, sludge from a wastewater treatment facility, water supply treatment plant, or air pollution control facility, air contaminants from any source or facility, and any other discarded material or substance of every kind and description resulting from domestic, industrial, commercial, mining, or governmental operations.
Yard trimmings means leaves, brush, grass clippings, shrub and tree prunings, discarded Christmas trees, nursery and greenhouse vegetative residuals, and vegetative matter resulting from landscaping development and maintenance other than mining, agricultural, and silvicultural operations.
(Res. No. 2003-13, § I, 5-15-2003)
Sec. 48-3. - Violations and penal fines.
Any person, firm, or corporation violating any portion of this chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, in the magistrate court of the county, shall be punished as follows:
(1)
For the first offense: By a fine of not less than $200.00 and not more than $1,200.00, or up to 30 days imprisonment, or both. Each day the violation continues shall constitute a separate offense. However, this section shall not preclude the county from choosing to seek civil redress in a court of competent jurisdiction in addition to the criminal prosecution, it being the intent of the county to have both the civil and criminal rights of prosecution in this area;
(2)
For the second or more offense: The violator shall be guilty of a misdemeanor of high and aggravated nature punishable by a fine of not less than $750.00 and not more than $1,200.00, or up to 60 days imprisonment, or both. Each day the violation continues shall constitute a separate offense; and/or
(3)
In the sound discretion of the judge of the court with jurisdiction, the person may also be directed to pick up and remove from any public road or highway and/or other public right of way for a distance not to exceed one mile, any litter the person has deposited and any and all litter deposited thereon by anyone else prior to the date of execution of sentence; and/or
(4)
In the sound discretion of the judge of the court with jurisdiction, the person may be directed to pick up and remove from any public health, public park, private right-of-way, or with the prior permission of the legal owner or tenant in lawful possession of such property, any private property upon which it can be established by competent evidence that the person has deposited litter, any and all litter deposited thereon by anyone prior to the date of execution of sentence; and/or
(5)
The court may order the publication of the names and photographs of persons convicted of violating this chapter; and/or
(6)
The court may order the person to repair or restore property damaged, or pay damages resulting from such violations, or perform public service related to the repair or restoration of property damaged by the violation; and/or
(7)
In case of an open dump or improper solid waste, litter or waste disposal site, the property owner, contractor, developer, builder or other person responsible for the property shall cause the property to be cleaned and to come into full compliance with this chapter. The county shall not be responsible for any costs of cleanup or remediation; and/or
(8)
The expenses incurred by the county for cleanup, enforcement of violations and penalties shall be chargeable to the violator, including, but not limited to: court costs, filing fees, special investigations, mutual aid assistance from other agencies and other costs necessary for the reasonable enforcement of this chapter.
(9)
In addition to actions filed by the county for violations of this chapter, any state or federal agency may independently file separate or concurrent charges within their respective applicable authority and seek conviction within a court of competent jurisdiction.
(Res. No. 2003-13, § VIII, 5-15-2003)
Sec. 48-4. - Enforcement.
(a)
Enforcement of this chapter shall be the responsibility of the county commission, the environmental education and enforcement officer or his/her designee, and/or the county sheriff's office.
(b)
Any person authorized to enforce this chapter shall be empowered to enter any property, upon reasonable cause, at reasonable or necessary times in order to property inspect for violations of this chapter, subject to the condition that to allow entry onto private property for inspection, the alleged violation of this chapter must be visible from a public road or right-of-way, or upon said person having received a valid complaint alleging a violation of this chapter, or by a judge's order upon said person having received information/allegations that constitute reasonable suspicion that a serious unlawful act or threat to the health and safety of the community and/or the environment has occurred or is about to occur.
(c)
Appeals for the violation of this chapter may be made to the magistrate court of the county, or higher court if the person so chooses. The person always has the right to consult his/her attorney at any time before the hearing is scheduled for court.
(Res. No. 2003-13, § IX, 5-15-2003)
Sec. 48-5. - Civil remedies and abatement.
(a)
In the event that any person violates any provision of this chapter, the county or other appropriate authority may, in addition to other remedies, institute an action for injunction, cleanup or stop work orders, mandamus, irreversible damage fines, lien on property or other appropriate action or proceeding to prevent such unlawful acts or to correct or abate any such violation. In addition, the county may immediately revoke or suspend any and all business, building, development or any and all other county issued permits related to the property or properties involved with the violation until such time that compliance is met, or until the ruling of a court of competent jurisdiction is obtained, at which time respective permits may be reissued.
(b)
Upon finding evidence, a written notice of violation may be issued at the discretion of the enforcing officer in lieu of a citation. In the absence of corrective action or in the event that a second violation occurs, the evidence constituting the notice of violation may be submitted as evidence for consideration as a first offense before a court with competent jurisdiction and the pending case treated as a second offense by the court as defined in section 48-3(a)(2).
(c)
If a person is found guilty of a violation of the provisions of this chapter, the court and/or the county commission may cause written notice to be given, or incorporate into the court order to the violator instructing that person to properly address any provision still remaining in violation of this chapter for which said violation is convicted. Such notice shall be by personal service and in the event the violation cannot be so served, then by registered mail sent to the violator's last known address.
(d)
Upon failure, neglect or refusal of any person so notified to properly address said provisions within 20 days after receipt of notice as provided in this section, the county commission is hereby authorized and empowered to cause the cleanup, removal or disposal of, including but not limited to, any litter, or any type of waste as defined in this chapter, dumped, deposited, thrown, or left on public or private property in violation of the chapter on behalf of the county. The expenses incurred by the county, shall be chargeable to the violator and the county commission and/or the court shall send a statement of the amount due for said expenses by registered mail.
(e)
When the full amount of such charges are not paid by the violator within 30 days after receipt of said statement as provided for in this section, the county commission shall cause to be recorded in the execution docket a sworn statement showing the cost and expense incurred by the county, the dates of county action, the location of the property for which action was taken, and the name of the person to be charged for the expenses incurred. The recordation of such statement shall constitute a lien on the personal and real property of the person to be charged and shall remain in full force and effect until final payment is received in full, including accrued interest from the date of recording and any and all costs. Such amount as shall constitute final payment shall be subject to collection in the manner fixed by law for the collection of taxes.
(f)
This section shall apply with full force and effect regardless of the provisions of any order of the court in which the violator was convicted. This section should not be construed as an excuse for failure on the part of the violator to perform any cleanup ordered by the court, nor shall it be considered as a mitigating factor in any contempt action against a violator who has failed to obey the order of the court.
(Res. No. 2003-13, § X, 5-15-2003)
Sec. 48-6. - Evidence of violations.
(a)
Whenever litter, or any type of waste as defined in this chapter, is thrown, deposited, dropped, or dumped by any person or from any motor vehicle, boat, airplane, or other conveyance in violation of this chapter, it shall be prima facie evidence that said person or the operator of the conveyance has violated this chapter.
(b)
Whenever any litter, or any type of waste as defined in this chapter, which is dumped, deposited, thrown, or left on public or private property in violation of this chapter is discovered to contain any article or articles, including, but not limited to letters, bills, publications, or other writings which display the name of a person thereon in such a manner as to indicate that the article belongs or belonged to such person, it shall be a rebuttable presumption that such person has violated this chapter.
(Res. No. 2003-13, § XI, 5-15-2003)
Sec. 48-7. - Recovered materials.
Recovered materials and recovered materials processing facilities are subject to rules as defined in Ga. Adm. Code § 391-3-4 et seq. of the Georgia Rules for Solid Waste Management.
(Res. No. 2003-13, § VI, 5-15-2003)
Sec. 48-8. - Yard trimmings.
Yard trimmings shall not be placed in or mixed with solid waste. Yard trimmings shall not be disposed at any solid waste disposal facility having lines and leachate collection systems or requiring vertical expansion within the county. Yard trimmings shall be sorted and stockpiled or chipped, composted, used as mulch or otherwise beneficially reused or recycled to the maximum extent feasible. Any yard trimmings to be collected by any entity other than the property owner shall be sorted and stored in such a manner as to facilitate collection, composting, or other handling.
(Res. No. 2003-13, § XII, 5-15-2003)
Sec. 48-9. - Recycling.
The county commission hereby finds that it is in the best interest of citizens of the county, in order to promote the health, safety, and welfare of the citizens of the county, to recycle as many waste materials as economically feasible in order to reduce the accumulation of litter and garbage and solid waste materials which must be properly disposed of; therefore, it is the policy of the county commission to encourage recycling whenever practicable and economical.
(Res. No. 2003-13, § XIII, 5-15-2003)
Secs. 48-10—48-20. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - WASTE DISPOSAL

Sec. 48-21. - Generally.
(a)
The owner or occupant of any premises shall be responsible for the sanitary handling and disposal of all litter, waste, scrap tires, and municipal, commercial or industrial solid waste on the premises used or occupied by such person.
(b)
It shall be unlawful to dump, open dump, or permit the dumping of litter, waste, scrap tires, municipal, commercial, or industrial solid waste or recyclables at any place in the county including, and without limitations, in or on any public highway, road, alley, or thoroughfare, including any portion of the right-of-way thereof, any public or private property in the county or any waters in the county unless:
(1)
Such litter or waste originates in the county or other areas authorized by the county commission;
(2)
The property is designated by the commission or his duly designated agent for the disposal of litter, waste, municipal, commercial or industrial solid waste, scrap tires or recovered materials and the person is authorized to use such property;
(3)
The litter, waste, municipal, commercial or industrial solid waste, recyclables or scrap tires are placed into a receptacle or container installed specifically for such property; and
(4)
The property has a valid solid waste handling permit issued by the state environmental protection division (EPD) when required.
(c)
All persons defined as scrap tire generators, scrap tire carriers, scrap tire processors, including scrap tire sorters, and retail tire dealers shall be subject to rules as defined in Ga. Adm. Code § 391-3-4 et seq. of the Georgia Rules for Solid Waste Management and shall handle scrap tires in accordance with the provisions of O.C.G.A. § 12-8-20 et seq. and the Georgia Rules for Solid Waste Management, Ga. Adm. Code § 391-3-4 et seq., applicable to solid waste.
(d)
This section shall not limit the disposal of rural household waste by burning and the burning of agricultural fields and debris as may otherwise be authorized by law.
(Res. No. 2003-13, § II, 5-15-2003)
Sec. 48-22. - Dumping of household garbage prohibited; violations; private landfills permitted.
(a)
It is unlawful for any person or legal entity to dump or otherwise dispose of any household garbage unless the same is disposed of by placing it in authorized containers or landfill.
(b)
Any person who violates this section shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
(c)
This section shall not prohibit any person or legal entity from operating a private landfill, provided the same complies with all applicable county, state and federal regulations.
Sec. 48-23. - Burning prohibited.
No burning of garbage at the county waste site shall be permitted and violators will be subject to punishment of a misdemeanor.
Sec. 48-24. - Transporting solid waste and litter.
(a)
All vehicles, driving or stationary, within the county shall be so constructed, loaded, covered, or securely fastened so as to prevent municipal, commercial, or industrial solid waste or any load, contents, litter, or other such waste or materials from flowing freely, being blown, scattered, leaked, spilt, or in any manner deposited in or upon any highway, road, alley, or thoroughfare, including any portion of the right of way thereof, sidewalk, other motor vehicles, pedestrians, or other public place, or upon private property within the county. However, this section shall not prohibit the necessary and permitted spreading of any substance in public road maintenance or public road construction operations.
(b)
It shall be unlawful for a business or private person engaged in waste hauling or transportation for hire from businesses or private residences to dispose of materials as solid waste that have been intentionally sorted as recyclables by the business or private residence to a lawfully permitted disposal facility rather than placing the materials in the location designated by the county or appropriate authority for said recyclables.
(c)
It shall be unlawful for any person to drive or move any vehicle within the county, the wheels or tires of which carry unto or deposit in or upon any highway, road, alley, or thoroughfare, including any portion of the right of way thereof, sidewalk, or other public place or upon private property within the county, mud, dirt, sticky substance, litter or foreign matter of any kind.
(Res. No. 2003-13, § III, 5-15-2003)
Sec. 48-25. - Regulation of landfills and solid waste collection and recycling centers.
(a)
No landfill shall be operated in the county other than a landfill designated by the county commission as the county landfill, and no private municipal solid waste landfill shall be operated in the county without a solid waste handling permit issued by the state environmental protection division.
(b)
No person shall deposit solid waste of any kind outside the gate of a solid waste collection and recycling center.
(c)
No scavenging operation of any kind shall be allowed at a solid waste collection and recycling center.
(d)
No person shall move, remove, or cross any fence, gate, barrier, or sign at a solid waste collection and recycling center.
(e)
Price on solid waste brought to said center will be set to defray total cost of solid waste and recycling operations.
(f)
Hours of operation of said centers will be set to maximize convenience to residents of that area.
(g)
All recovered materials (recyclables) brought to collection centers will be accepted free of charge provided they are separated under current market specifications and likewise uncontaminated.
(h)
All collection centers will be manned during hours of operation to ensure compliance with this chapter and all applicable state and/or federal laws.
(i)
Attendant on duty will have full authority of said center consistent with this chapter.
(j)
All rules listed above shall apply to all public and/or private property in said county, all waters and/or waterways of said county, and all county solid waste collection and recycling centers.
(Res. No. 2003-13, § V, 5-15-2003)
Secs. 48-26—48-59. - Reserved.
ARTICLE III. - LITTERING

Sec. 48-60. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Dumpster site means any site within the county provided by the governing authority of the county for the disposal or recycling of metal, glass, aluminum, cardboard, paper products and household garbage.
Household garbage means animal, vegetable and fruit refuse matter and other refuse matter ordinarily generated by byproducts of a household such as cans, bottles, paper, cardboard, plastics, and wrapping or packaging materials.
Litter means all sand, gravel, slag, brickbats, rubbish, waste material, tin cans, refuse, garbage, trash debris, dead animals, scrap tires or discarded materials of every kind and description.
Public or private property means the right-of-way of any road or highway, any body of water or watercourse or the shores or beaches thereof; any park, playground, building, refuge, or conservation or recreation area; and residential and farm properties, timberlands and forests.
Recycling container means a receptacle provided by the governing authority of the county at a dumpster site for the purpose of depositing materials for recycling.
Sec. 48-61. - Placement of litter receptacles; posting of signs.
The county may establish and maintain receptacles for the deposit of litter at appropriate locations where the property is frequented by the public. The county shall also post signs directing persons to the receptacles and giving notice of the provisions of this article, and otherwise publicize the availability of litter receptacles and requirements of this article.
Sec. 48-62. - Regulation of solid waste or litter containers and receptacles.
(a)
All solid waste or litter containers or receptacles and their surrounding area shall be maintained in as sanitary a manner as is reasonably possible consistent with its use for solid waste and litter disposal.
(b)
Persons using solid waste and litter containers or receptacles shall deposit only authorized solid waste and refuse in the appropriate container or receptacle.
(c)
No person shall deposit a scrap tire in any container or receptacle unless authorized by the owner of the receptacle or the county commission or its designee.
(d)
No person shall deposit any burning or smoldering material in such container or receptacle, or set fire to the contents of any such container or receptacle.
(e)
No person shall deposit large noncompatible articles in containers or receptacles such as but not limited to, stoves, refrigerators, bedsprings, automobile parts, boat parts, large tree limbs or air conditioning units, except containers or receptacles designated for that purpose only.
(f)
No person shall deposit any flammable or explosive materials in any such container or receptacle.
(g)
No dead animals shall be deposited in any such container or receptacle, except containers or receptacles designed for such purpose and so designated by the county commission.
(h)
No person shall willfully damage or alter the location of any such container or receptacle without the written consent of the county commission.
(i)
No salvage or scavenging operations shall be conducted in or around such containers or receptacles except by written consent of the county commission.
(j)
No person shall indiscriminately scatter or disperse the contents of any containers or receptacles.
(k)
No person shall deposit any solid waste at a county solid waste collection and recycling center unless such solid waste is contained in a manner that it can be handled by the attendant and shall be deposited only during the official hours of operation unless express written permission is given by the county commission or its designee.
(l)
No person shall deposit solid waste, litter or liquid of any kind at any county solid waste collection and recycling center into county-owned receptacles or containers designated for the collection of recovered materials. Only authorized materials such as glass, aluminum, newspaper, cardboard, plastic, and tin or other accepted material may be deposited in the appropriate container designated for said material.
(Res. No. 2003-13, § IV, 5-15-2003)
Sec. 48-63. - Accumulation.
(a)
No owner or occupant of any such property shall bury or burn litter or waste without prior authorization and written consent from the applicable regulatory agency, including but not limited to, the United States Environmental Protection Agency, state environmental protection division and/or the state forestry commission. Nothing in this provision shall authorize or be construed to permit the burial or burning of any material which is otherwise prohibited by state and/or federal law.
(b)
No owner or occupant of any property shall cause, suffer or allow the accumulation, on his or her premises, of garbage, litter or waste where such material creates or causes a health hazard to neighbors or other citizens, or which is unsightly or emits foul or obnoxious odors.
(c)
The conduct described in subsections (a) and (b) of this section shall constitute a separate violation of this chapter for each day the garbage, litter or waste material remains or continues to unlawfully pollute, contaminate or burn on such premises.
(Res. No. 2003-13, § VII, 5-15-2003)
Sec. 48-64. - Dumping prohibited.
It shall be unlawful for any person to dump, deposit, throw, or leave or to cause or permit the dumping, depositing, placing, throwing or leaving of litter on any public or private property in the county or any waters in this county unless:
(1)
The property is designated by this county or by any of its agencies or political subdivisions for the disposal of litter and the person is authorized by this county to use such property;
(2)
The litter is placed in a litter receptacle or container installed on such property for such purpose; or
(3)
The person is the owner of tenant in lawful possession of such property or has first obtained consent of the owner or tenant in lawful possession or unless the act is done under the personal direction of the owner or tenant, all in a manner consistent with state, federal and local regulations and with the public welfare.
Sec. 48-65. - Littering from vehicles prohibited; presumption.
Whenever litter is thrown, deposited, dropped, or dumped from any motor vehicle, boat, airplane, or other conveyance in violation of this article, it shall be prima facie evidence that the operator of the conveyance has violated this article.
Sec. 48-66. - Identification information; presumption.
Whenever any litter which is dumped, deposited, thrown, or left on public or private property in violation of this article is discovered to contain any article, including, but not limited to, letters, bills, publications or other writings which display the name of a person thereon in such a manner as to indicate that the article belongs or belonged to such person, it shall be a rebuttable presumption that such person has violated this article.
Sec. 48-67. - Vandalizing containers prohibited.
It shall be unlawful for any person to set fire to the contents of, indiscriminately scatter or disperse the contents of, or otherwise vandalize any containers provided by any county for the dumping of trash or garbage.
Sec. 48-68. - Recycling containers to be used for recyclable materials only.
No person shall deposit in a recycling container any material other than that for which the recycling container is labeled to receive.
