ARTICLE V. - BOARDS, AUTHORITIES, COMMISSIONS AND COMMITTEES
DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Sec. 2-260. - Legislatively created boards and authorities.
Certain boards and authorities for the county, individually or in association with other local government units, have been created by legislative acts including, but not limited to, the following:
(1)
Lumpkin County Industrial Building Authority, 1962 Ga. Laws (Act No. 223), page 1095, as subsequently amended;
(2)
Lumpkin County Board of Education, 1982 Ga. Laws (Act No. 1058), page 4277, as subsequently amended;
(3)
Lumpkin County Water and Sewerage Authority, 1984 Ga. Laws (Act No. 1022), page 4500, as subsequently amended;
(4)
Lumpkin County Public Building Authority, 2001 Ga. Laws (Act No. 5), page 3501, as subsequently amended; and
(5)
Lumpkin County Board of Elections, 2003 Ga. Laws (Act No. 288), page 4354, as subsequently amended.
Selected portions of these local acts are included in this Code.
Sec. 2-261. - County public bodies to provide monthly reports and minutes to county clerk.
All county boards, committees, authorities, commissions and agencies shall keep minutes of all meetings and work sessions and as otherwise required for public bodies and shall provide monthly reports of all meetings, including minutes thereof, to the county clerk.
Sec. 2-262. - Committees to comply with the Georgia Open Meetings Act.
Each committee created by the governing authority of Lumpkin County, or which is created by statute and operates as a part of or subordinate to the governing authority of Lumpkin County, shall accomplish the following:
(1)
Within 30 days of the adoption of this resolution each chairman of such a committee shall provide to the Lumpkin County Clerk a signed letter from said committee providing the current name of the secretary of said committee;
(2)
Within 30 days of the adoption of this resolution each secretary of said committee shall attach a copy of the minutes of the last meeting, to include the names of all members present, and a copy of all minutes taken at each meeting during the current calendar year;
(3)
Following the initial report each secretary shall provide to the county clerk a copy of each notice of meeting sent to the news outlets and posted prior to the meeting of the committee (such notice as provided by law);
(4)
Following each meeting each secretary shall provide to the county clerk the initial minutes within five business days of the meeting, with final minutes to be provided after subsequent approval by the members;
(5)
Reports and minutes of committee meetings shall be provided monthly for review prior to the work session of the board of commissioners.
(Res. No. 2012-33, 6-19-2012)
Editor's note— Res. No. 2012-33, adopted June 19, 2012, added provisions that were not specifically amendatory. At the editor's discretion, said provisions were included as § 2-262.
Secs. 2-263—2-283. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - REGIONAL LIBRARY BOARD

Sec. 2-284. - Regional board established by agreement.
The county participates in a regional library board pursuant to an agreement dated August 13, 1997, a copy of which is on file in the office of the county clerk.
Secs. 2-285—2-301. - Reserved.
DIVISION 3. - BOARD OF HEALTH

Sec. 2-302. - Established; rules and regulations.
The county has established a county board of health which is authorized to and has promulgated rules and regulations from time to time, subject to approval by the county board of commissioners.
Sec. 2-303. - Health department rules and regulations adopted.
The rules and regulations of the county board of health, approved by the board of commissioners, are incorporated in this Code as if fully set forth herein.
Secs. 2-304—2-324. - Reserved.
DIVISION 4. - HOSPITAL AUTHORITY[4]

Footnotes:
--- (4) ---
State Law reference— County and municipal hospital authorities, O.C.G.A. § 31-7-70 et seq.

Sec. 2-325. - Creation; members; term.
Pursuant to the Hospital Authorities Law, O.C.G.A. § 31-7-70 et seq., the county has created a county hospital authority, consisting of seven members. The initial terms of the members shall be staggered. Each term after the initial term shall be for a period of one year or until the member's successor is appointed and qualified. Appointments to fill unexpired terms shall be for the remainder of such unexpired term, and members of the authority shall be eligible for reappointment.
(Res. No. 1973-1, 3-2-1973)
Secs. 2-326—2-353. - Reserved.
DIVISION 5. - DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY[5]

Footnotes:
--- (5) ---
State Law reference— Downtown development authorities, O.C.G.A. § 36-42-1 et seq.; county and county development authorities, O.C.G.A. § 36-62-1 et seq.; municipal business improvement districts, O.C.G.A. § 36-43-1 et seq.; redevelopment authority of municipalities, O.C.G.A. § 36-44-1; county and municipal urban development, O.C.G.A. § 36-61-1 et seq.; training for members of local development authorities, O.C.G.A. § 36-62A-21; exception to training requirements for directors of downtown development authorities, O.C.G.A. § 36-62A-22.

Sec. 2-354. - Creation; purpose and intent.
Pursuant to the Development Authorities Law, O.C.G.A. § 36-62-1 et seq., the county has created a development authority for the purpose of developing and promoting for the public good and general welfare trade, commerce, industry and employment opportunities in the county, thereby promoting the general welfare of the citizenry and, in the furtherance of that purpose, to finance projects for air and water pollution control facilities by industries.
Sec. 2-355. - Powers.
The county development authority shall be deemed to exercise public and essential governmental functions and shall have all of the powers necessary or convenient to carry out and effectuate the purposes and provisions of the Development Authorities Law, O.C.G.A. § 36-62-1 et seq., including, but without limiting the generality of the foregoing, the following powers:
(1)
To sue and be sued;
(2)
To adopt and amend a corporate seal;
(3)
To make and execute contracts and such other instruments necessary to exercise the powers of the authority, any of which contracts may be made with the county in which the authority is located or may be made with any one or more municipal corporations in such county, and each such county and all municipal corporations therein are hereby authorized to enter into contracts with such authority;
(4)
To receive and administer gifts, grants and devises of any property and to administer trusts;
(5)
To acquire by purchase, gift or construction any real or personal property desired to be acquired as part of any project or for the purpose of improving, extending, adding to, reconstructing, renovating, or remodeling any project or part thereof already acquired, or for the purpose of demolition to make room for such project or any part thereof;
(6)
To sell, lease, exchange, transfer, assign, pledge, mortgage, or dispose of, or grant options for any such purposes, any real or personal property or interest therein;
(7)
To mortgage, convey, pledge, or assign any properties, revenues, income, tolls, charges, or fees owned or received by the authority;
(8)
To issue revenue obligations for the purpose of providing funds for carrying out the purpose of the authority;
(9)
To appoint officers and retain agents, engineers, attorneys, fiscal agents, accountants, and employees and to provide their compensation and duties;
(10)
To construct, acquire, own repair, remodel, maintain, extend, improve, and equip projects located on land owned or leased by the authority, and to pay all or part of the costs of any such project from the proceeds of revenue bonds of the authority or from any contribution or loans by persons, firms, or corporations, or any other contributions, all of which the authority is hereby authorized to receive and accept and use;
(11)
To issue revenue bonds for the purpose of paying all or a part of the cost of any project, including the cost of extending, adding to, or improving such project, or for the purpose of refunding any such bonds of the authority theretofore issued;
(12)
To do all things necessary or convenient to carry out the powers expressly conferred by the Development Authorities Law, O.C.G.A. § 36-62-1 et seq., as presently amended or as the same may hereafter be amended, and shall in all things possess all of the powers authorized thereby.
(Res. No. 1974-4, § 2, 3-7-1974)
Sec. 2-356. - Composition; terms.
The county development authority shall consist of a board of nine directors to be appointed by the board of commissioners for terms of four years. All successor terms shall be for four years from the date of expiration of the preceding term.
(Res. No. 1974-4, § 3, 3-7-1974; Res. No. 01-09, 2-15-2001)
Sec. 2-357. - Filling of vacancies.
The successors of all of said directors shall be appointed for terms of six years from the dates of expiration of their respective terms of office. Except that any person appointed to fill a vacancy (created during a term) shall be appointed for the unexpired term of the director whom he succeeds. Any member of said authority shall be eligible for reappointment. All appointments shall be made by the board of commissioners. The directors shall elect one of their members as chairperson and another as vice-chairperson; and shall also elect a secretary and a treasurer. No director or other person executing certificates or other obligations on behalf of the authority shall be personally liable thereon.
(Res. No. 1974-4, § 3, 3-7-1974)
Secs. 2-358—2-414. - Reserved.
DIVISION 6. - PLANNING COMMISSION

Sec. 2-415. - Reserved.
Sec. 2-416. - Members; compensation; training; attendance.
Compensation for planning commission members is hereby approved and set as follows: $75.00 per meeting for the members and $100.00 per meeting for the chairman of the planning commission, which compensation shall only be paid to members in attendance; and
It is further resolved that members of the planning commission shall be required to attend the Planning and Zoning 101: The Basics course offered by The Carl Vincent Institute within the first year of his or her appointment to the planning commission, and all current members of the planning commission shall be required to attend the course within one year of the adoption of this resolution, which course shall be paid for by the county; and
It is further resolved that any member that fails to complete the required training with the specified time may be removed from the planning commission; and
It is further resolved that any member of the planning commission that misses three regularly scheduled meetings within a year may be removed from the planning commission.
(Ord. No. 2018-19, 2-20-2018)
Secs. 2-417—2-484. - Reserved.
DIVISION 7. - AIRPORT AUTHORITY[6]

Footnotes:
--- (6) ---
Editor's note— Ord. No. 2018-09, adopted February 20, 2018, repealed the former Div. 7, §§ 2-485—2-488, and Res. No. 2018-10, adopted February 20, 2018, enacted a new Div. 7 as set out herein. The former Div. 7 pertained to the airport committee and derived from Res. No. 83-27, §§ 1, 2—9, 3-16-1983; Res. No. 84-18, 11-7-1984; Res. No. 2010-46, exh. A, 10-21-2010.

Sec. 2-485. - Established.
The Lumpkin County Airport Authority will own, operate and manage the current airport and any future airports in the county; and
The Authority shall be composed of five members who shall serve without pay and who shall be appointed by the governing authority of Lumpkin County. Members of the Authority shall be at least 21 years of age and have been a resident of Lumpkin County for at least one year prior to the date of such person's appointment and shall not have been convicted of a felony. Additionally, the members of the authority, as a whole, shall possess general knowledge of, or experience in, general aviation and/or airport operations matters, as well as large business management, banking and/or finance. The five members shall have the following experience:
a.
At least one member shall have experience in banking and/or finance. This shall be known as Seat A.
b.
At least one member shall have experience in a business requiring interaction with the public. This shall be known as Seat B.
c.
At least one member shall be an aircraft owner with an aircraft based at the Lumpkin County Airport. This shall be known as Seat C.
d.
At least one member shall have experience in local, state or national government activities, to include military or other experience. This shall be known as Seat D.
e.
One member shall be chairperson of the Board of Commissioners of Lumpkin County. The chairperson of the Board Of Commissioners of Lumpkin County may nominate a district commissioner to serve on the authority in his or her stead. The chairperson shall nominate such commissioner at any regular or special meeting of the board, and the board shall consider and vote upon the nomination in the same manner as any other motion. If approved, the nominated commissioner shall serve on the authority until the commission term of the chairperson is complete or until the commission term of the nominated commissioner is complete, whichever first occurs. If not approved, the chairperson of the board may nominate an alternative district commissioner in the same manner provided by this subsection. This shall be known as Seat E.
f.
No more than two of the five members shall be aircraft owners with aircraft based at the Lumpkin County Airport.
g.
The terms of office of such members shall be for four years and until their respective successors are appointed, except that the initial terms of members may be staggered such that the terms of no more than two members expire annually; and
The board of commissioners now desires to appoint members to serve on the Lumpkin County Airport Authority.
(Res. No. 2018-10, 2-20-2018)
Editor's note— The list of persons appointed to the County Airport Authority, as well as the seats and terms can be found at the County Clerk's office.
Secs. 2-486—2-500. - Reserved.
DIVISION 8. - AUDIT COMMITTEE

Sec. 2-501. - Establishment.
This committee will establish by-laws and will consist of eight members. The committee will meet once quarterly and at other times as needed during the course of each annual audit. The committee will review financial statements to ensure that they are meeting the needs of the end users. This committee will become an information gathering committee and will provide feedback to departments and officials, as needed.
In the event that concerns are brought to the committee by the employee representative the committee will discuss those concerns and determine whether to seek outside help or handle matters internally with existing staff (for example, internal audits or random cash counts).
As a link between the external auditor and the board of commissioners, the committee will consider any findings or concerns that arise from the audit and recommend remedies to those situations. Such procedures, if needed in the form of a policy, will be presented to the full board for consideration.
The make-up of the committee will be as follows:
Two members from the board of commissioners, appointed annually;
One constitutional officer, appointed, annually;
One front-line employee, appointed annually;
One citizen, appointed annually;
The county manager;
The finance director;
The budget/grant analyst;
The purchasing agent.
The following persons are appointed to the Lumpkin County Audit Committee. Those members appointed for Seats 1—4 shall serve for a term ending December 31 of the year for which they are appointed. Members designated by position shall serve so long as they remain in such position.
Seat 1. Commissioner;
Seat 2. Commissioner;
Seat 3. Constitutional officer;
Seat 4. An employee of Lumpkin County;
Seat 5. One citizen, appointed annually;
Seat 6. County manager;
Seat 7. Finance director;
Seat 8. Budget/grant analyst;
Seat 9. Purchasing agent.
(Res. No. 2011-05, exh. A, 1-18-2011; Res. No. 2013-51, exhs. A and B, 8-20-2013)
Editor's note— Res. No. 2011-05, adopted Jan. 18, 2011, was not specifically amendatory. At the editor's discretion, these provisions have been included as § 2-501. The citizen at large seat adopted by Res. No. 2011-05, exh. A has been reinstated in the audit committee, at the direction of the county on July 9, 2018.
Secs. 2-502—2-506. - Reserved.
DIVISION 9 - BUILDING COMMITTEE

Sec. 2-507. - Established.
An ad hoc committee be established for the specific purpose of monitoring and advising on capital improvements to existing Lumpkin County facilities and for planning, monitoring and advising on the construction of new public facilities; and
The committee shall be known as the Lumpkin County Building Committee and shall have nine members as follows:
EXPAND
Seat 1 Commission Chairperson
Seat 2 District 3 Commissioner
Seat 3 County Manager
Seat 4 Division Director — Planning and Public Works
Seat 5 Public Buildings Manager
Seat 6 Division Director — Emergency Services
Seat 7 Division Director - Finance and Support Services
Seat 8 Lumpkin County Employee
Seat 9 Lumpkin County Citizen
  Members designated by position (Seats 1 - 7) shall serve so long as they remain in such position. Members serving in seats 8 and 9 shall be nominated by the commission chairperson and appointed for an annual term expiring December 31 of the year for which they are appointed.
The committee chair shall be the commission chairperson, who shall set the meeting schedule for the committee.
(Res. No. 2018-21, 3-20-2018)
Editor's note— The list of persons appointed to the County Building Committee, as well as the seats and terms can be found at the County Clerk's office.
Sec. 2-508. - Lumpkin County facility naming policy.
(a)
Purpose. The Lumpkin County Board of Commissioners, recognizing that some public facilities house programs that are dependent, in part, on private funding, encourages those programs to seek the support of friends, corporations, and other private individuals and organizations and does hereby set a policy regarding the naming of facilities and/or rooms.
(b)
General. Funds raised from private donations may be used in support of the mission and objectives of the program, including funds for the construction of physical facilities, and gifts and grants for other purposes as may be designated by the donor. However, programs are not authorized to commit any county funds for challenge or matching grants or gifts for the construction of facilities or for other purposes. The board of commissioners shall not consider gifts, contributions, or income in determining the allocation of county funds to that program. Private donations shall not be subject to control by the board of commissioners or the county administration except as otherwise provided in board policy or by the Memoranda of Understanding established between a program and the county. A program may not accept gifts of real property without the prior approval of the board of commissioners. A program may otherwise accept gifts, bequests, agreements, or declarations of trust that do not carry obligations to the county that may conflict with state law and that do not impose a financial burden on the program beyond that which can be managed within the program's current budget. If acceptance of the gift or donation would require the program to incur additional cost that cannot be borne within the program's current resources, the program must obtain the approval of the board of commissioners before accepting the gift or donation. Each program must maintain a report of all gifts received by the program and its cooperative organizations through private donations and shall provide an annual report of such gifts to the board of commissioners. Each program is authorized to execute those documents necessary to provide proper fiscal management of those funds accepted under this authorization and to further delegate the authority to execute such documents to the chief financial officer of the program.
(c)
Introduction. The act of naming a facility is the conferral of not only a high honor but also a conspicuous honor. It publicly exhibits the judgment and standards of the county as well as the board of commissioners and signifies lasting approval of the actions of the honoree.
The board of commissioners considers the naming of county real estate and facilities in honor of an individual, family, corporation, foundation, or organization to be one of the highest distinctions it can bestow. Namings may be authorized for a person who has attained prominence generally recognized throughout the county, for outstanding and distinguished accomplishments, for service, or for philanthropic giving. In light of the importance and magnitude of this honor, the following guidelines and process shall apply to all place naming on all property owned or leased by the county under the auspices of a county program.
The board of commissioners may establish an (ad hoc or standing) advisory committee to make naming recommendations to the board. The chairman of the advisory committee is the final arbiter of all decisions related to place naming prior to submittal to the board of commissioners for approval in accordance with board policy and procedures.
(d)
Process for place naming. When the desire for naming is apparent and/or it appears that a contribution (gift) to benefit the program will result in a naming request for a donor or other individual, the county manager must be notified and provided with a profile of the donor or individual being honored, the area of interest along with any proposed stipulations, and information about how the contribution (gift) will be paid. The program seeking donations in exchange for naming rights should ensure that the proposed naming is consistent with the interest of the board of commissioners and is commensurate with the level of prominence, accomplishment, service or philanthropic giving from the person, persons, group, or groups for which the naming will be made. Namings authorized without associated fund raising should be the exception. The board of commissioners will authorize external namings to honor a living person only when that person has been disassociated from employment from local, state, or federal government employment for at least two years prior to seeking the board of commissioner's approval.
After review by the county manager, the information will be forwarded to the chairman for his consideration. If approved, the chairman will submit the naming recommendation to the board of commissioners for approval in accordance with board policy and procedures. All naming of facilities, rooms, real estate, facilities, and property owned or leased by the board of commissioners, including facilities constructed, donated, or acquired by affiliated organizations of the county, requires prior authorization by the board of commissioners.
In order to assure county and program coordination of naming ceremonies, such events typically are planned through the county manager's office in coordination with the associated program office(s).
(e)
Signage. All signage to be affixed on or adjacent to any, building, facility, or interior space shall be approved by the board of commissioners (in consultation with the donor). All signage shall be consistent with the county's master plan and design criteria. No signage shall be approved and/ or erected that is in contravention of board of commissioner's policy. All signage must be ADA compliant.
(f)
Contribution guidelines. When the naming of a facility is based on a monetary contribution, the following guidelines apply:
(1)
Building: Any person or entity desirous of having a building named shall be able to pursue this end in consideration of a financial contribution so long as the gift amount is at least ten percent of the cost to construct the building or of the estimated value for existing buildings. The gift must be secured at least four months prior to the announcement of the naming and may only occur in accordance with the approval of the board of commissioners.
(2)
Interior: Any person or entity desirous of having an interior space such as rooms, hallways, etc., named shall be able to pursue this end in consideration of a financial contribution of at least $10,000.00 or $50,00 per square foot whichever is greater. The gift must be secured at least four months prior to the announcement of the naming and may only occur with the approval of the board.
At the discretion of the board, there may be reasonable exceptions to the above.
The gift, or a signed pledge for the gift, must have been received by the institution before the naming is completed. Deferred or estate gifts are preferred to be irrevocable and defined in writing. Deferred gifts such as bequests, charitable gift annuities, charitable trusts, and life insurance policies may be appropriate for current naming opportunities. Options should be discussed with donors and appropriate assurances secured by the program.
Any gift, for a place naming shall be paid over a period of no longer than five years and outlined in writing in a commitment signed by the donor. All other gifts for interiors must be paid in full once approved by the board of commissioners. The gift may be unrestricted or to establish a program endowment or in other ways selected by the donor and is not intended to be restricted to construction and/or facilities related costs.
It is the policy of Lumpkin County to forward the formal naming request to the board of commissioners only after at least 20 percent of the gift has been received by the program. Should the request be denied, funds will be returned to the donor. The board of commissioners may also consider in-kind contributions to a project in exchange for naming rights to facilities or rooms.
(g)
Removal or modification of names. Namings authorized by the board of commissioners shall not be modified without approval of the board.
From time to time, situations may occur which would warrant the removal of a name from a building or room in a facility. When the naming authority lies with the board of commissioners, so does the authority and responsibility to remove a name when appropriate.
Circumstances may dictate that the parameters under which a place name was bestowed at the program have changed to the extent that consideration must be given to removing the name. These circumstances may include, but are not limited to the following circumstances:
The honoree does not follow through on a financial commitment; The honoree fails to maintain the high standards of the county or program or the board of commissioners; or
The honoree, person or entity, engages in conduct that constitutes an act of moral turpitude; or for other appropriate reasons.
The board of commissioners judges each naming removal situation individually based on the facts. No decision will be made without taking into account all of the facts that are relevant to the decision. The board will endeavor to ensure that the removal of a name is consistent with the interests of county, board of commissioners, and the program.
The Lumpkin County Board of Commissioners makes no assurances that a naming will remain beyond the useful life of the facility or in perpetuity. If a facility or feature is substantially changed, a named facility or feature may no longer exist and the program director, in his or her discretion, may seek the board of commissioner's approval to transfer the name to a new facility or feature.
(h)
Procedures for the removal of names. When it becomes apparent that there may be a reason to consider the removal of a name from a facility, the county manager shall be supplied with the original naming history and all salient circumstances surrounding the removal recommendation.
The county manager will present the naming history to the board of commissioners who shall make a determination as to whether a name shall be removed.
The removal of a name from a room or other interior space(s) of a facility must be approved by the board of commissioners.
(i)
Periodic review of naming policy. The county manager shall review this guideline on a regular and recurring schedule in order to assure that it continues to be in compliance with the policies of the board of commissioners.
(Ord. No. 2018-41, Exh. A, 7-24-2018)
Secs. 2-509—2-536. - Reserved.
