Chapter 20 - FIRE PREVENTION AND PROTECTION[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
State Law reference— Fire prevention and protection generally, O.C.G.A. § 25-1-1 et seq.; local fire departments generally, O.C.G.A. § 25-3-1 et seq.; minimum requirements for local fire departments, O.C.G.A. § 25-3-20 et seq.; authority of local government units to enact fire prevention regulations, O.C.G.A. § 25-3-4; firefighter standards and training, O.C.G.A. § 25-4-1; regulation of blasting generally, O.C.G.A. § 25-8-1 et seq.; regulation of fireworks, O.C.G.A. § 25-10-1 et seq.; volunteer firefighters for counties and municipalities, O.C.G.A. § 36-60-23.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Secs. 20-1—20-18. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - FIRE CODE

Sec. 20-19. - Adopted.
The county hereby adopts as though fully set forth in this article the State's minimum fire safety standards promulgated by the Safety Fire Commissioner as set forth in the Rules and Regulations of the State of Georgia - Chapter 120-3-3 Rules and Regulations of the Safety Fire Commissioner for the State Minimum Fire Safety Standards as authorized by O.C.G.A. § 25-2-4.
(Res. No. 2019-55, 10-15-2019)
Sec. 20-20. - Enforcement.
The fire prevention code adopted herein shall be enforced by the fire chief and such subordinate officers and firefighters of the fire department as are required to effectuate the provisions of said code.
Sec. 20-21. - Power to make modifications.
The chief of the fire department is authorized to modify any of the provisions of the adopted fire prevention code upon application in writing by the owner or lessee of any property or his duly authorized agent when there are practical difficulties in the way of carrying out the strict letter of the code; provided, however, that the spirit of the code shall be observed and the public safety secured. The particulars of any modification when granted or allowed, and the decision of the fire chief thereon, shall be entered upon the records of the department, and a signed copy shall be forwarded to the applicant.
Secs. 20-22—20-47. - Reserved.
ARTICLE III. - FIRE DEPARTMENT

Sec. 20-48. - Composition.
The fire department shall consist of a chief and such subordinate officers and firefighters as may from time to time be provided for by the board of commissioners.
Sec. 20-49. - Appointment of fire chief.
The fire chief shall be appointed by the county manager.
Sec. 20-50. - Powers and duties of fire chief.
The fire chief shall be responsible for and have control over the fire department and all fire apparatus belonging to the county, and shall have the following duties:
(1)
To see to the proper and speedy extinguishment of all accidental or intentionally caused fires;
(2)
To see to the enforcement of the fire prevention code adopted by the board of commissioners;
(3)
To keep or cause to be kept adequate records of all fires, inspections, equipment, fire prevention efforts, and other activities of the department;
(4)
To submit a monthly written report to the board of commissioners on the activities of the department;
(5)
To establish rules and regulations concerning the discipline, good order, proper conduct, care, and management of the fire department, subject to approval by the county manager; and
(6)
To investigate or have investigated the causes of all extended or destructive fires occurring within the county.
Sec. 20-51. - Firefighters—Qualifications.
Any person seeking a position in the county as a firefighter/EMT shall be qualified under the state firefighter standards and training council and shall be certified as an EMT Intermediate or EMT Medic as approved by the state.
Sec. 20-52. - Same—Duties.
It shall be the duty of all firefighters to become familiar with and proficient in the handling of all of the apparatus of the fire department and have knowledge of county roads and fire hydrant locations, to be prepared at a moment's notice:
(1)
To respond to all alarms of fires;
(2)
To observe all rules and regulations of the fire department established by the fire chief; and
(3)
To obey all orders of the commanding officer at all fires.
Sec. 20-53. - Inspections of fire station and equipment.
Each fire station and its equipment shall be examined not less than monthly. Inspections shall be rigidly made and shall ensure that all apparatus is maintained in excellent working condition at all times, ready for immediate service, and that all fire stations and surroundings are in a clean and sanitary condition.
Sec. 20-54. - Command at fires.
In case of fire, the officer of the highest rank at the fire shall take command of the fire department and direct the management thereof for the suppression of the fire in the best manner possible. Such commanding officer may cause buildings to be removed, torn down, or destroyed when such acts are necessary for the protection of other property and for the prevention of the spread of the conflagration.
Sec. 20-55. - Standard operating procedures.
(a)
The fire department has adopted standard operating procedures with regard to the management and operation of the fire department. The fire chief is hereby authorized to distribute the operating procedures for the use of the employees and volunteers in the fire department and require the adherence to the rules.
(b)
The operating procedures may be amended from time to time as necessary, with a copy of each amendment to be filed with the county clerk and supplied to the appropriate employees and volunteers.
Sec. 20-56. - Fire service fees.
Any time the county's fire equipment is dispatched for fires, medical emergencies or other emergencies, the department shall charge a rolling fee in the amount provided in the fee schedule. If the dispatch results from an actual or threatened structural fire or a bomb threat, the rolling fee shall be billed to the owner and occupant of the property.
Secs. 20-57—20-87. - Reserved.
ARTICLE IV. - PROHIBITED ACTS

Sec. 20-88. - Tampering with fire alarms prohibited.
It shall be unlawful for any person to tamper with any fire alarm except in case of fire, except by authority from the county or its authorized employees.
State Law reference— False fire alarms, O.C.G.A. § 16-10-27.
Sec. 20-89. - Tampering with equipment.
No persons other than those firefighters on official business shall tamper with firefighting equipment either on public or private property.
Sec. 20-90. - Obstructing fire equipment.
It shall be unlawful for any person to obstruct in any manner any firefighting apparatus or any of the officers or members of the fire department in the performance of their duties. It shall be unlawful for any person to obstruct any fire hydrant so as to obstruct approaches to the same by the fire department.
Sec. 20-91. - Persons permitted in vicinity of fire.
No persons other than firefighters, county officials and law enforcement officers shall be allowed within the immediate vicinity of a fire, unless such persons are given permission to do so by the fire chief.
Sec. 20-92. - Extraordinary fire hazards.
It shall be unlawful for any person to build, maintain, suffer or permit an extraordinary fire hazard on his premises or on premises occupied or used by him, either in the construction of buildings, storage of inflammables, explosives or combustibles, the use of open flames, etc. The term "extraordinary fire hazard," as used in this section, means any condition that would be manifestly unsafe as a fire hazard or that would greatly increase the probability of fire or the injury of persons by fire. In this connection the minimum standards promulgated in such cases by the National Board of Fire Underwriters shall be considered as prima facie evidence of such hazard.
Secs. 20-93—20-149. - Reserved.
ARTICLE V. - FIREWORKS

Sec. 20-150. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Fireworks.
(1)
The term "fireworks" means any combustible or explosive composition or any substance or combination of substances or article prepared for the purpose of producing a visible or audible effect by combustion, explosion, deflagration, or detonation, including blank cartridges, balloons requiring fire underneath to propel them, firecrackers, torpedoes, skyrockets, Roman candles, bombs, sparklers, and other combustibles and explosives of like construction, as well as articles containing any explosive or flammable compound and tablets and other devices containing an explosive substance.
(2)
The term "fireworks" shall not include model rockets and model rocket engines, designed, sold, and used for the purpose of propelling recoverable aero models, toy pistol paper caps in which the explosive content does not average more than one-fourth grain of explosive mixture per paper cap nor toy pistols, toy cannons, toy canes, toy guns, or other devices using such paper caps; nor shall the term "fireworks" include ammunition consumed by weapons used for sporting and hunting purposes; nor shall the term include inflatable balloons in which human beings are transported.
Sec. 20-151. - Purpose of regulations.
The purpose of this article is to protect and safeguard the public health and welfare, and to prevent fires, and to eliminate unnecessary noises, explosions and public annoyances and hazards.
Sec. 20-152. - Compliance with state law and permit required.
It shall be unlawful for any person to offer for sale, expose to sale, sell, use, possess or explode within the county any fireworks, except as permitted by state law and pursuant to a permit issued by the fire chief. Applications for permit shall be made to the fire chief on forms provided by him, and accompanied by a permit fee in the amount provided in the county fee schedule. The fire chief may issue the permit subject to such conditions as he deems necessary or advisable for public safety purposes. Anyone aggrieved by the fire chief's denial of a fireworks permit may appeal the decision to the board of commissioners.
State Law reference— Similar provision, O.C.G.A. § 25-10-2.
Sec. 20-153. - Seizure.
The fire chief or other official authorized by the county is authorized and directed, at any time, at the expense of the owner, to seize, take, or cause to be removed to a place of safety, any stock of fireworks or combustibles possessed, used, displayed, sold, offered or exposed for sale, or held in any manner in violation of this article.
State Law reference— Authority, O.C.G.A. § 25-10-6.
Secs. 20-154—20-174. - Reserved.
ARTICLE VI. - ALARMS
DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Secs. 20-175—20-201. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - FALSE ALARMS

Sec. 20-202. - Purpose; applicability.
(a)
The purpose of this article is to encourage owners and fire alarm businesses to properly use and maintain the operational effectiveness of fire alarm systems and to reduce or eliminate false fire alarms.
(b)
This article governs fire alarm systems intended to summon fire department personnel and other emergency responders and requires the assessment of fees for excessive false fire alarms, and provides procedures for repeat offenders.
(Res. No. 2006-29, § I, 6-15-2006)
Sec. 20-203. - Violations.
Any person who violates this article shall be amenable to the jurisdiction of the county magistrate court. Each violation as set forth herein shall constitute a separate offense.
(Res. No. 2006-29, § VII, 6-15-2006)
