ARTICLE 15. - WATER RESOURCES

Sec. 15.1. - Introduction.
The water resources ordinance is established to help protect the valuable natural water resources in the City of Luthersville and the surrounding areas. These resources include groundwater recharge areas and wetlands, as well as all of the natural features that relate to these resources. The City of Luthersville Water Resources District Map delineates these resource districts and is an official part of this appendix.
(Ord. No. 2001-07, § 15.1, 4-10-2001)
Sec. 15.2. - Definitions.
Aquifer means any stratum or zone of rock beneath the surface of the earth capable of containing or producing water from a well.
Buffer means a natural or enhanced vegetated area with no or limited minor land disturbances, such as trails and picnic areas, located adjacent to reservoirs or perennial streams within a water supply watershed.
Corridor means all land within the buffer areas established adjacent to reservoirs or perennial streams within a water supply watershed and within other setback areas.
Drastic means the standardized system for evaluating groundwater pollution potential using the hydrogeologic settings described in U.S. Environmental Protection Agency document EPA-600-2-87-035. (Note: the DRASTIC methodology is the most widely used technique for evaluating pollution susceptibility).
Impervious surface means a manmade structure or surface that prevents the infiltration of stormwater into the ground below the structure or surface. Examples are buildings, roads, driveways, parking lots, decks, swimming pools, or patios.
Perennial stream means a stream that flows throughout the whole year as indicated on a USGS Quad map.
Pollution susceptibility means the relative vulnerability of an aquifer to being polluted from spills, discharges, leaks, impoundments, applications of chemicals, injections and other human activities in the recharge area.
Pollution susceptibility map means the relative vulnerability to pollution prepared by the Department of Natural Resources, using the DRASTIC methodology (Georgia Department of Natural Resources Hydrologic Atlas 20: Groundwater Pollution Susceptibility Map of Georgia).
Recharge area means any portion of the earth's surface where water infiltrates into the ground to replenish an aquifer.
Regulated activity. Any activity which will, or which may reasonably be expected to, result in the discharge of dredged or fill material into waters of the U.S. excepting those activities exempted in section 404 of the Federal Clean Water Act.
Reservoir boundary means the edge of a water supply reservoir defined by its normal pool level.
Significant recharge areas means those areas mapped by the Georgia Department of Natural Resources in Hydrologic Atlas 18 (1989 edition).
Utility means public or private water or sewer piping systems, water or sewer pumping stations, electric power lines, fuel pipelines, telephone lines, roads, driveways, bridges, river/lake access facilities, stormwater systems and railroads or other utilities identified by a local government.
Water resource district map. This map delineates the location of groundwater recharge areas, wetlands, and water supply watersheds within the City of Luthersville.
Water supply reservoir means a governmentally owned impoundment of water for the primary purpose of providing water to one or more governmentally owned public drinking water systems. This excludes the multipurpose reservoirs owned by the U.S. Army Corp of Engineers.
Wetlands. Those areas that are inundated or saturated by surface [water] or groundwater at a frequency and duration sufficient to support, and that under normal circumstances do support, a prevalence of vegetation typically adapted for life in saturated soil conditions. Wetlands generally include swamps, marshes, bogs, and similar areas. The ecological parameters for designating wetlands include hydric soils, hydrophilic vegetation, and hydrological conditions that involve a temporary or permanent source of water to cause soil saturation.
Wetlands map, generalized. The current U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service National Wetlands Inventory Maps for the City of Luthersville, Georgia.
Wetlands, jurisdictional. An area that meets the definitional requirements for wetlands as determined by the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers.
Wetlands, jurisdictional determination. A delineation of jurisdictional wetland boundaries by the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, as required by section 404 of the Clean Water Act, 33 USC 1344, as amended.
(Ord. No. 2001-07, § 15.2, 4-10-2001)
Sec. 15.3. - Groundwater recharge areas.
1.
Purpose. In order to provide for the health, safety, and welfare of the public and a healthy economic climate within the City of Luthersville and the surrounding communities, it is essential that the quality of public drinking water be ensured. For this reason, it is necessary to protect the subsurface water resources that the city and surrounding communities rely on as sources of public water. Groundwater resources are contained within underground reservoirs known as aquifers. These aquifers are zones of rock beneath the earth's surface capable of containing or producing water from a well. They occupy vast regions of the subsurface and are replenished by infiltration of surface water runoff in zones of the surface known as groundwater recharge areas. Groundwater is susceptible to contamination when unrestricted development occurs within significant groundwater recharge areas. It is, therefore, necessary to manage land use within groundwater recharge areas in order to ensure that pollution threats are minimized.
2.
Establishment of the Groundwater Recharge Area Protection District. The Groundwater Recharge Area District is hereby established which shall correspond to all lands within the jurisdiction of the City of Luthersville, Georgia, that are mapped as significant recharge areas by the Georgia Department of Natural Resources in Hydrologic Atlas 18, 1989 edition, and reflected on the City of Luthersville Water Resource District Map.
3.
Determination of pollution susceptibility. Each recharge in the City of Luthersville has been determined to be of low pollution susceptibility, as shown by Hydrologic Atlas 20, 1989 edition.
4.
Protection criteria.
A.
No construction may proceed on a building or mobile home to be served by a septic tank unless the Meriwether County Health Department first approves the proposed septic tank installation as meeting the requirements of the Georgia Department of Human Resource for On-Site Sewage Management (hereinafter DHR Manual), and [subsections B. and C. of this section].
B.
New homes served by a septic tank/drain field system shall be on lots having minimum size limitations as follows, based on application of Table MT-1 of the DHR Manual (hereinafter DHR Table MT-1). The minimums set forth in Table MT-1 may be increased further based on consideration of other factors (set forth in sections A through F) of the DHR Manual.
1.
110% of the subdivision minimum lot size calculated based on application of DHR Table MT-1 if they are within a low pollution susceptibility area.
C.
New mobile home parks served by septic tank/drainfield systems shall have lots or spaces having minimum size limitations as follows, based on application of Table MT-2 of the DHR Manual (hereinafter DHR Table MT-2). The minimums set forth in Table MT-2 may be increased further based on consideration of other factors (set forth in sections A through F) of the DHR Manual.
1.
110 percent of the subdivision minimum lot or space size calculated based on application of DHR Table MT-2 if they are within a low pollution susceptibility area.
D.
New agricultural waste impoundment sites shall be lined if they are within a high pollution susceptibility area; a medium pollution susceptibility area and exceed 15 acre-feet; or a low pollution susceptibility area and exceed 50 acre-feet. As a minimum, the liner shall be constructed of compacted clay having a thickness of one-foot and a vertical hydraulic conductivity of less than 5 × 10 -7 cm/sec or other criteria established by the Natural Resource and Conservation Service.
E.
New aboveground chemical or petroleum storage tanks, having a minimum volume of 660 gallons, shall have secondary containment for 110 percent of the volume of such tanks or 110 percent of the volume of the largest tank in a cluster of tanks. Such tanks used for agricultural purposes are exempt, provided they comply with all federal requirements.
F.
New facilities that handle hazardous materials of the types listed in section 312 of the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act of 1976 (excluding underground storage tanks) and in amounts of 10,000 pounds or more on any one day, shall perform their operations on impervious surfaces and in conformance with any applicable federal spill prevention requirements and local fire code requirements.
G.
Permanent stormwater infiltration basins shall not be constructed in areas having high pollution susceptibility.
5.
Exemptions. Any lot of record approved prior to the adoption of this appendix is exempt from the minimum lot size requirements contained in [subsections 4.B. and C. of this section].
(Ord. No. 2001-07, § 15.3, 4-10-2001)
Sec. 15.4. - Wetlands.
1.
Purpose. The wetlands in the City of Luthersville are indispensable and fragile natural resources with significant development constraints due to flooding, erosion, and soils limitations. In their natural state, wetlands serve man and nature. They provide habitat areas for fish, wildlife and vegetation; water quality maintenance and pollution control; flood control; erosion control; natural resource education; scientific study; and open space and recreational opportunities. In addition, the wise management of forested wetlands is essential to the economic wellbeing of many communities within the State of Georgia. Nationally, a considerable number of these important natural resources have been lost or impaired by draining, dredging, filling, excavating, building, pollution and other acts. Piecemeal or cumulative losses will, over time, destroy additional wetlands. Damaging or destroying wetlands threatens public safety and the general welfare. The purpose of this appendix is to promote wetlands protection, while taking into account varying ecological, economic development, recreational and aesthetic values. Activities that may damage wetlands should be located on upland sites to the greatest degree practicable as determined through a permitting process.
2.
Establishment of the Wetlands Protection District. The Wetlands Protection District is hereby established which shall correspond to all lands within the jurisdiction of the City of Luthersville, Georgia, that are mapped as wetland areas by the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service National Wetlands Inventory Maps, and reflected on the City of Luthersville Water Resource District Map. This map shall be referred to as the generalized wetlands map and is hereby adopted by reference and declared to be a part of this appendix, together with all explanatory matter thereon and attached thereto. The generalized wetlands map does not represent the boundaries of jurisdictional wetlands within the City of Luthersville and cannot serve as a substitute for a delineation of wetland boundaries by the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, as required by section 404 of the Clean Water Act, as amended. Any local government action under this appendix does not relieve the landowner from federal or state permitting requirements.
3.
Protection criteria. Requirement for local permit or permission: No regulated activity will be permitted within the Wetlands Protection District without written permission from the City of Luthersville Planning Commission. If the area proposed for development is located within 50 feet of a Wetlands Protection District boundary, as determined by the city or agent of the city and planning commission using the generalized wetlands map, a U.S. Army Corps of Engineers determination shall be required. If the Corps determines that wetlands are present on the proposed development site, the local permit or permission will not be granted until a section 404 permit or letter of permission is issued.
4.
Permitted uses. The following uses shall be allowed as of right within the Wetlands Protection District to the extent that they are not prohibited by any other ordinance or law, including laws of trespass, and provided they do not require structures, grading, fill, draining, or dredging except as provided herein:
1.
Conservation or preservation of soil, water, vegetation, fish and other wildlife, provided it does not affect waters of Georgia or of the United States in such a way that would require an individual 404 permit.
2.
Outdoor passive recreational activities, including fishing, bird watching, hiking, boating, horseback riding, and canoeing.
3.
Forestry practices applied in accordance with best management practices approved by the Georgia Forestry Commission and as specified in section 404 of the Clean Water Act.
4.
The cultivation of agricultural crops. Agricultural activities shall be subject to best management practices approved by the Georgia Department of Agriculture.
5.
The pasturing of livestock provided that riparian wetlands are protected, that soil profiles are not disturbed and that approved agricultural best management practices are followed.
6.
Education, scientific research, and nature trails.
5.
Prohibited uses. The following uses are not permitted within the Wetlands Protection District.
1.
Receiving areas for toxic or hazardous waste or other contaminants;
2.
Hazardous or sanitary waste landfills;
3.
Any land use that would require a General Industrial zoning designation.
(Ord. No. 2001-07, § 15.4, 4-10-2001)
