ARTICLE 5. - ZONING DISTRICT STANDARDS AND PERMITTED USES

Sec. 5.1. - District lot area, yard and height standards.
The requirements regarding lot size, building size, and building placement on the lot for each zone district shall be met as indicated in Table 5.1: Zoning District Area Yard and Height Requirements.
EXPAND
Table 5.1: Zoning District Area Yard and Height Requirements
Zoning District Minimum Lot Area Min. lot width at setback line (feet) Front Yard (feet) from arterial & collector/local street* Side Yard (feet) Rear Yard (feet) Max. Building Height (feet)
Rural Development (RD) 2 acres 200 50/35 40 50 35
Single-Family Residential (R-45) 1 acre 100 40/25 15 30 35
Single-Family Residential Multi-Family (R-66) (Duplex Only) 1.5 acres 90 35/20 15 25 35
General Commercial (GC) 1 acre 100 40/25 15 15 40
General Industry (GI) 1 acre 100 40/25 15 15 40
*Note: These distances are distance from the right-of-way.
  (Ord. No. 2001-07, § 5.1, 4-10-2001)
Sec. 5.2. - Appearance standards.
Appearance standards shall apply to all single-family detached dwellings, including site-built housing, industrialized housing, and manufactured homes. A certificate of occupancy shall be granted upon the finding that such development shall meet or exceed the appearance standards as shown in Table 5.2: Development Standards for Residential Structures.
EXPAND
Table 5.2: Development Standards for Residential Structures
RD R-45 R-66
Min. dwelling width 24' 20' 16'
Min. roof pitch 4/12 4/12 4/12
Min. floor area 1,800 sq. ft. 1,400 sq. ft. 1,300 sq. ft.
Roof materials (1) (1) (1)
External siding
materials (2) (2) (2)
Foundation (3) (3) (3)
Utility meter Mounted on structure Mounted on structure Mounted on structure
  Notes:
1.
The roof shall have a surface of wood shakes, asphalt composition, wood shingles, concrete, fiberglass or metal tiles, slate, built up gravel materials or other materials approved by the city.
2.
The exterior siding materials shall consist of wood, masonry, concrete, stucco, masonite, metal or vinyl lap or other materials of like appearance approved by the city.
3.
Permanent foundation (including manufactured homes) shall meet the requirements of a standard building.
4.
For manufactured homes, a front landing area is required of at least 100 square feet with a side-to-side dimension of at least eight feet, on a poured concrete footing, no less than 12 inches by 12 inches by 12 inches. All other landings to be a minimum of five feet by five feet on not less than a fabricated masonry footing.
5.
Manufactured homes are required to remove all towing devices and axles prior to the issuance of a certificate of occupancy.
(Ord. No. 2001-07, § 5.2, 4-10-2001)
Sec. 5.2A. - Development standards for all structures.
(a)
All structures which face or have frontage on arterial or collector streets, as defined in this appendix, shall having an exterior surface of stone, brick, or other masonry surface on that portion of the structure which faces the arterial or collector street, and for a minimum of ten feet around each side of the structure.
(b)
Each commercial structure or business which has outside storage of merchandise, materials, or vehicles shall be required to install a wooden fence so as to prevent such merchandise, materials, or vehicles from being visible from the street adjacent to the front of the structure.
(Ord. No. 2005-02, § 1, 5-10-2005)
Sec. 5.3. - Permitted uses.
No principal building, structure or land use shall be permitted except in the zoning districts indicated and for the purposes permitted in Table 5.3. Each use is mutually exclusive and does not include other uses listed in the table.
X = Permitted Use
S = Special Use Permit Required
Blank = Not Permitted
Any use which is not specifically permitted is prohibited.
EXPAND
Table 5.3: Permitted Uses
Permitted Uses Zoning Districts
RD R-45 R-66 GC GI
Accessory uses - Subject to requirements in article 8. X X X X X
Advertising display, sales and manufacturing X X
Agriculture equipment sales, supply and storage X X
Ambulance service buildings X X
Animal care facility - Provided [that an] animal hospital or clinic shall be located at least 100 feet from any property zoned for residential use. X X
Antique shop X
Apparel and accessory store X
Appliance sales and repair X
Art gallery X
Athletic/health club and facilities X X
Assembly hall, civic center X X
Automobile and truck sales, service and repair X X
Automobile repair and body shop X X
Bait shop X
Bakery/pastry shop X X
Bank or financial institution, full-service X X
Bank auto teller X X
Bar, tavern, night club X X
Barber shop S S S X X
Baseball batting cages X X
Beauty shop S X X
Bed and breakfast home - Provided that: a) Rooms for rent are within a single-family dwelling occupied by the owner as his/her principle residence.
b) The same rental occupants shall not reside at the bed and breakfast for more than seven consecutive days.
c) Breakfast is the only meal served and only to registered overnight guests.
d) All employees must reside at the bed and breakfast home.
e) The exterior appearance of the dwelling is not altered from its residential character except for safety purposes. f) The identification sign shall be no longer than two square feet and not internally lighted. S S X
Bed and breakfast inn - A building, not necessarily owner-occupied, that offers transient lodging accommodations and breakfast for four or more guests rooms for compensation, provided that: a) There is compliance with the same licensing, inspection and taxation requirements as hotels, motels, and restaurants.
b) If within a residential district, the building shall be residential in character.
c) Breakfast is the only meal served and only to overnight guests.
d) The owners may have nonresident employees.
e) In a residential district, signage shall be limited to one sign and maximum size of two square feet. S S X
Boat storage X X
Boat sales, service and repair X X
Books, cards and stationary stores X
Bottling plant X
Bowling alley X
Builder supplies and storage X X
Building materials sales, supplies and storage X X
Bus station X X
Car wash manual or automatic X X
Carpet cleaning store X X
Carpet and rug sales, floor covering and storage X X
Cemetery, private - Any plot of ground, building, mausoleum, or other enclosure used for the burial of persons of one collateral line of descent. Minimum of five acres not located in floodplain or wetlands. X X X X
Cemetery, public - A plot of ground, building, mausoleum, or other enclosure not located on property owned by or adjacent to a religious institution but used for the burial of persons. Minimum of five acres not located in floodplain or wetlands. X X S
Cemetery, religious institution - A plot of ground, building, mausoleum, or other enclosure owned by or adjacent to a religious institution but used for the burial of persons who are generally members of that religious institution. Minimum of five acres not located in floodplain or wetlands. S S S S S
Child care center, group X
Child care facility X
Child care home S S S
Churches S S S X X
Cinema, movie theater X
Clinic, public or private X X
Club and lodges X
College, university or junior college S S X
Concrete/stone cutting, fabrication X
Congregate personal care home S X
Contractor equipment, material storage X X
Convenience stores without fuel pump service X X
Convenience stores with fuel pump service - Provided that all fuel pumps shall be at least 15 feet from the street right-of-way. X X
Curio and souvenir shops X
Drug stores, pharmacies X
Dwelling, multi-family (duplex only) X
Dwelling, single-family detached type I X X
Equipment rental, industrial X X
Equipment supplies (business/industrial) X X
Farming, horticulture for personal use X X X
Flea market - Must be in an enclosed structure. X X
Florist shop X
Funeral home, mortuary X X
Furniture, home furnishings and equipment store X X
Game room X X
Garden landscaping supplies X X
Gasoline station with auto service - Provided all fuel pumps shall be at least 15 feet from the street right-of-way. X X
Golf courses and club houses S S S X X
Golf driving range X X
Government buildings S S S X X
Grocery/general merchandise store X X
Group care personal home S S S
Hardware, paint and wallpaper store X X
Hobby, toy and game store X
Home occupation - Subject to article 9 regulations. S S S
Hospital, health and medical institution X X
Hotel X X
Jewelry store X
Junk yard, salvage yard S
Kennel X
Laundry, commercial services X X
Laundry, pick-up and dry cleaning services X X
Laundry, coin-operated X X
Library X
Livestock, raising/keeping for personal pleasure - Provided that all structures used for housing or feeding livestock shall be at least 100 feet from any property line. X
Machine shop, fabrication, welding, sales, etc. X
Machinery sales, service and repair X X
Manufacturing facility involving the mechanical or chemical conversion of raw materials into semi-finished or finished products. X
Manufacturing facility involving only the assembly of pre-manufactured component parts. X
Massage therapy - Secondary use to health clubs, chiropractic office, beauty salon, physical therapy clinic, medical facility and athletic club. S X
Mini-warehouse (self-storage facility) X X
Motel X
Museum X
Nursery and greenhouse - Provided that no structure shall be located closer than 100 feet to any adjoining residential property. S X X
Office, business and professional X X
Office supplies X X
Parking lot or garage, commercial X X
Parks and recreation facilities S S S X S
Pet and dog grooming shop X X
Print shop X X
Railroad station X X
Recycling center with processing facilities X
Recycling collection station X X
Repair service, general merchandise X
Repair service, heavy equipment X X
Restaurant, drive-in X
Restaurant, non-drive-in X
Retail stores offering common merchandise X
Roominghouse and boardinghouse S S S X
School, public, private or parochial S S S S S
Sewerage treatment facilities, public or private S S S X
Shoe repair X
Shopping center X
Taxidermy X X
Tire sales and service X X
Transfer station, solid waste X
Travel center S X
Truck stop S X
Truck terminals, freight handling X
Utility facilities (gas, electric, telephone transformer stations) transmission lines only. X X X X X
Veterinary clinic/animal hospital/grooming X X
Video sales and rental X
Vocational school S S S X X
Water treatment facilities X
Wholesale trade/warehouse/distribution facilities X
Wreckage services, temporary storage of wrecked and inoperable vehicles. S
  (Ord. No. 2001-07, § 5.3, 4-10-2001; Ord. No. 2005-03, § 1, 7-12-2005)
