ARTICLE 14. - NONCONFORMITY

Sec. 14.1. - Intent.
A.
Within the districts established by this zoning ordinance or amendments that may later be adopted there may exist: (1) lots; (2) structures; (3) uses of land and structures; or (4) characteristics of use which were lawful before this zoning ordinance was passed or amended, but which would be prohibited, regulated or restricted under the terms of this zoning ordinance or such amendment. It is the intent of this zoning ordinance to permit these nonconformities to continue until they are removed, but not to encourage their survival. It is further the intent of this article that nonconformities shall not be enlarged upon, expanded or extended, nor be used as grounds for adding other structures or uses prohibited elsewhere in the same district.
B.
Nonconforming uses are declared by this zoning ordinance to be incompatible with permitted uses in the districts involved. A nonconforming use of a structure, a nonconforming use of land, or a nonconforming use of structure and land in combination shall not be extended or enlarged after passage of this zoning ordinance by attachment on a building or premises of additional signs intended to be seen from off the premises, or by the addition of other uses, of a nature which would be prohibited generally in the district involved.
C.
To avoid undue hardship, nothing in this zoning ordinance shall be deemed to require a change in the plans, construction or designated use of any building on which actual construction was lawfully begun prior to the effective date of this zoning ordinance or any amendment hereto and upon which actual building construction has been carried out diligently. Actual construction is hereby defined to include the placing of construction materials in a permanent position and fastened in a permanent manner. Where excavation or demolition or removal of an existing building has been substantially begun preparatory to rebuilding, such excavation or demolition or removal shall be deemed to be actual construction, provided that work shall be carried on diligently.
(Ord. No. 2001-07, § 14.1, 4-10-2001)
Sec. 14.2. - Nonconforming lots of record.
A.
In any district in which single-family dwellings are permitted, a single-family dwelling and customary accessory buildings may be erected on any single lot of record at the effective date of adoption or amendment of this zoning ordinance, notwithstanding limitations imposed by other provisions of this zoning ordinance only so long as it is used for a single-family residence. Such lot must be in separate ownership and not of continuous frontage with other lots in the same ownership. This provision shall apply even though such lot fails to meet the requirements for area or width, or both, that are generally applicable in the district, provided that yard dimensions and requirements other than those applying to area or width, or both, of the lot shall conform to the regulations for the district in which such lot is located. Variance of yard requirements shall be obtained only through the action of the city council.
B.
If two or more lots or combinations of lots and portions of lots with continuous frontage in single ownership are of record at the time of passage or amendment of this zoning ordinance, and if all or part of the lots do not meet the requirements established for lot width and area, the lands involved shall be considered to be an undivided parcel for the purpose of this zoning ordinance, and no portion of said parcel shall be used or sold in a manner which diminishes compliance with lot width and area requirements established by this zoning ordinance, nor shall any division of any parcel be made which creates a lot with width or area below the requirements stated in this zoning ordinance.
C.
In cases where land is taken for public purposes from legal lots of record at the time of such taking, the lots remaining shall also be construed as nonconforming.
(Ord. No. 2001-07, § 14.2, 4-10-2001)
Sec. 14.3. - Nonconforming uses of land.
Where at the time of passage of this zoning ordinance or any amendments hereto, lawful use of land exists which would not be permitted by the regulations imposed by this zoning ordinance or such amendments, and where such use involves no individual structure with an appraised value exceeding $1,000.00, the use may be continued so long as it remains otherwise lawful, provided:
A.
No such nonconforming use shall be enlarged or increased, nor extended to occupy a greater area of land than was occupied at the effective date of this zoning ordinance or such amendments.
B.
No such nonconforming use shall be moved in whole or in part to any portion of the lot or parcel other than that occupied by such use at the effective date of this zoning ordinance or any amendments hereto.
C.
If any such nonconforming use of land ceases for any reason for a period of more than 30 days, any subsequent use of such land shall conform to the regulations specified by this zoning ordinance for the district in which such land is located.
D.
No additional structure not conforming to the requirements of this article shall be erected in connection with such nonconforming use of land.
(Ord. No. 2001-07, § 14.3, 4-10-2001)
Sec. 14.4. - Nonconforming structures.
Where a lawful structure exists at the effective date of adoption or amendment of this zoning ordinance that could not be built under the terms of this zoning ordinance by reason of restrictions on area, lot coverage, height, yards, location on the lot, or requirements concerning the structure, such structure may be continued, so long as it remains otherwise lawful, subject to the following provisions:
A.
No such nonconforming structure may be enlarged or altered in a way which increases its nonconformity, but any structure or portion thereof may be altered to decrease its nonconformity.
1.
Single-family residential structures. Should such nonconforming single-family residential structure or nonconforming portion of structure be destroyed, by any means, in whole or in part, it may be reconstructed in the same location, and upon its previous foundation and to its previously existing height, provided said reconstruction does not increase the previously existing degree of nonconformity, that said reconstructed structure is used for a permitted use and that reconstruction shall begin within 12 months of the destruction and be diligently carried to completion.
2.
All other structures. Should such nonconforming or nonconforming portion of a structure be destroyed by any means to an extent of more than 50 percent of its appraised valuation, it shall not be reconstructed or repaired except in conformity with the provisions of this appendix. The "appraised valuation" is the value of the structure prior to such destruction or damage having occurred, and shall be the appraised value established by the Meriwether County Tax Assessor.
3.
Accessory structures. When nonconforming, accessory structures shall be subject to the same provisions as govern the primary structure to which they are an accessory.
B.
Should such structure be moved for any reason for any distance whatever, it shall thereafter conform to the regulations for the district in which it is located.
(Ord. No. 2001-07, § 14.4, 4-10-2001)
Sec. 14.5. - Nonconforming uses of structures or of structures and premises in combination.
If lawful use involving individual structures with an appraised value exceeding $1,000.00, or of structure and premises in combination, exists at the effective date of this zoning ordinance or any amendment hereto, that would not be allowed in the district under the terms of this zoning ordinance, the lawful use may be continued so long as it remains otherwise lawful subject to the following provisions:
A.
No existing structure devoted to a use not permitted by this zoning ordinance or such amendment, in the district in which it is located shall be enlarged, extended, constructed, reconstructed, or moved except in changing the use of the structure to a use permitted in the district in which it is located.
B.
Any nonconforming use may be extended throughout any parts of a building which were manifestly arranged or designed for such use at the effective date of this zoning ordinance or such amendment, but no such use shall be extended to occupy any land outside such building.
C.
If no structural alterations are made, any nonconforming use of a structure, or structure and premises, may as an exception be changed to another nonconforming use provided that the mayor and council, either by general rule or by making findings in the specific case, shall find that the proposed use is equally appropriate or more appropriate to the district than the existing nonconforming use. In permitting such change, the mayor and council may require appropriate conditions and safeguards in accordance with the provisions of this zoning ordinance.
D.
Any structure, or structure and land in combination, in or on which a nonconforming use is superseded by a permitted use shall thereafter conform to the regulations for the district, and the nonconforming use may not hereafter be resumed.
E.
When a nonconforming use of a structure, or structure and premises in combination, is discontinued or abandoned for six consecutive months or for 18 months during any three-year period (except when government action impedes access to the premises), the structure, or structure and premises in combination, shall not thereafter be used except in conformity with the regulations of the district in which it is located.
F.
Where a nonconforming use status applies to a structure and premises in combination, removal or destruction of the structure shall eliminate the nonconforming status of the land. "Destruction," for the purpose of this subsection, is defined as damage to an extent of more than 50 percent of the appraised value at the time of destruction.
G.
Except with regard to single-family residences, all other structures, where damage is below 50 percent of said structures appraised valuation, may be restored to the same or lesser size in the same location; provided, however, that restoration shall begin within 12 months of the damage and be diligently carried to completion; and the nonconforming use may be resumed and continued as before, or on a lesser scale, but shall not be enlarged or intensified. Unless restoration is so initiated and completed, the use shall terminate and not be resumed. Remodeling shall not be deemed removal or destruction. Destruction made necessary by repairs, maintenance and/or remodeling shall not be construed to be removal or destruction.
(Ord. No. 2001-07, § 14.5, 4-10-2001)
Sec. 14.6. - Changes in zoning.
Any nonconformance created by a change in district boundaries or ordinance regulations after the date of passage of this appendix shall also be governed by the provisions of this section.
