ARTICLE 3. - DEFINITIONS

Sec. 3.1. - Rules.
For the purpose of this appendix, certain terms and words are hereby defined. Words used in the present tense shall include the future; the singular number shall include the plural and the plural the singular; the word structure shall include the word building; the word shall is mandatory and not discretionary.
(Ord. No. 2001-07, § 3.1, 4-10-2001)
Sec. 3.2. - Use of definitions.
Any word not herein defined shall be as defined elsewhere in the zoning ordinance or, if not defined elsewhere in the zoning ordinance, as defined in Webster's New World Dictionary of the American Language, Second College Edition, the said definition to be read in context with the purposes and provision of the part of the ordinance it is being used to define.
Sec. 3.3. - Definitions.
Accessory structure. A structure detached from the principal building on the same lot and customarily incidental and subordinate to the principal building.
Accessory use. A use of land or of a building or portion thereof customarily incidental and subordinate to the principal use of the land or building and located on the same lot with the principal use.
Addition. To an existing building any walled or roofed expansion to the perimeter of a building in which the addition is connected by a common load bearing wall other than a fire wall. Any walled and roofed addition which is connected by a fire wall or is separated by an independent perimeter load bearing wall is new construction.
Alley. A public thoroughfare which affords only a secondary means of access to abutting property and not intended for general traffic circulation.
Alteration. Any change in the supporting members of a building or structure, such as bearing walls, columns, and girders, except such emergency change as may be required for safety purposes; any addition to a building; any change in use from one district classification to another; or any movement of a building from one location to another.
Animal hospital. Facility for the temporary boarding and treatment of domestic animals operated under the supervision of a licensed veterinarian.
Apartment. See Dwelling, multi-family.
Basement. The area below the first floor level in a building and having not more than one-half of its height above grade level.
Bed and breakfast home. A building, owner occupied, which offers transient lodging accommodations and breakfast for eight guest rooms or less for compensation, provided:
1.
That rooms for rent are within a single-family dwelling occupied by the owner as his/her principle residence.
2.
The same rental occupants shall not reside at the bed and breakfast for more than seven consecutive days.
3.
Breakfast is the only meal served and only to registered overnight guests.
4.
All employees must reside at the bed and breakfast home.
5.
The exterior appearance of the dwelling is not altered from its residential character, except for safety purposes.
6.
The identification sign shall be no longer than two square feet and not internally lighted.
7.
There shall be one parking space per room rented and two parking spaces provided for residents of the home.
Bed and breakfast inn. A building, not necessarily owner occupied, which offers transient lodging accommodations and breakfast for eight guest rooms or less for compensation, provided:
1.
Compliance with the same licensing, inspection and taxation requirements as hotels, motels, and restaurants.
2.
If within a residential district, the building shall be residential in character.
3.
Breakfast is the only meal served and only to overnight guests.
4.
The owners may have employees not residents of the inn.
5.
The owner shall provide one off-street parking space for each rental room and one space for each employee.
6.
In a residential district, signage shall be limited to one sign and a maximum size of two square feet, not internally lighted.
Berm. A mound of earth or the act of pushing earth into a mound. A berm is usually two to six feet high and is used to shield, screen, and buffer undesirable views or to separate incompatible land uses. In traffic work, berm refers to the raised area between the curb line and right-of-way line.
Buffer. A portion of a lot set aside for open space and/or screening purposes, to shield or block noise, light, glare, or visual or other nuisances; to block physical passage to dangerous areas; or to reduce air pollution, dust, dirt and litter. A buffer may contain a barrier, such as a berm, wall or fence, where such additional screening is necessary to achieve the desired level of buffering between various activities and/or land uses.
Building. Any structure having a roof supported by columns or walls designed or built for the support, enclosure, shelter, or protection of persons, animals, or property of any kind.
Building height. The vertical distance measured from the highest grade adjacent to the highest point of roof surface of a flat roof, to the deck line of a mansard roof, or to the average height between eaves and ridges of a gable, hip or gambrel roof.
Building line. A line parallel to the street right-of-way line at a distance from the right-of-way line equal to the depth of the required front yard for the zoning district in which the lot is located.
Cemetery, private. Any plot of ground, building, mausoleum, or other enclosure not located on property owned by or adjacent to a religious institution but used for the burial of deceased persons.
Cemetery, public. Any plot of ground, building, mausoleum, or other enclosure used for the burial of deceased persons of one collateral line of descent.
Cemetery, religious institution. A plot of ground, building, mausoleum, or other enclosure owned by or adjacent to a religious institution and used for the burial of deceased persons who are generally members of that religious institution.
Child care facility. A building or portion of a building where care and supervision is provided to persons away from their place of residence for less than 24 hours per day on a regular basis for compensation; serves 19 or more persons and is licensed by the State of Georgia; for children, the outdoor play area shall be enclosed by a fence of not less than four feet in height in the rear yard only. For the purpose of this appendix, the term "child care" shall include, but not be limited to, the terms "day care," "nursery school," "early learning center," "pre-kindergarten," "private kindergarten," "play school" and "pre-school."
Child care home, family. A customary home occupation which provides for six or less persons who are not residents of the premises; care and supervision by a State of Georgia registered resident adult for less than 24 hours per day on a regular basis for compensation.
Child care, group. A building or portion of a building which provides care and supervision of persons away from their place of residence for less than 24 hours a day on a regular basis for compensation; serves seven to 18 persons and is licensed by the State of Georgia.
Church. A building or structure, or groups of buildings or structures, which, by design and construction, are primarily intended for conducting organized religious services and associated accessory uses.
City council. The city council of the City of Luthersville, Georgia.
Clinic. An establishment where patients are admitted for examination and treatment on an outpatient basis by one or more physicians, dentists, other medical personnel, psychologists, or social workers and where patients are not lodged overnight.
Club, private. An establishment or premises owned or operated by a corporation, association, person or persons for a social, educational or recreational purpose but not primarily for profit or to render a service which is customarily carried on as a for-profit business.
Comprehensive plan. An all-inclusive, long-range plan intended to guide the growth and development of a community or region which typically includes inventory and analytic sections leading to a recommendation for the community's future economic development, housing, recreation, transportation, community facilities and land use, all related to the community's goals and objectives for these elements.
Construction, new. Any act or process that adds an addition onto an existing building or erects a new principal or accessory structure on a lot which is subject to the design standards for the zoning district in which the property is located.
Development. Subdividing a tract of land into two or more lots, whether for sale or rental; construction, erection or expansion of a structure; or filling, grading, excavation, or land-disturbing activities that affect more than one acre.
District. A delineated section or sections of the City of Luthersville for which the zoning regulations governing the use of buildings and premises, the height of buildings, the size of yards, and the intensity of use are uniform.
Dwelling. A building, or part of a building, containing living, sleeping, and housekeeping accommodations, and sanitary facilities for occupancy by one or more families, including single-family and multi-family residential buildings, rooming and boarding houses, manufactured homes and industrialized homes, but not including hotels and motels.
Dwelling, apartment. See Dwelling, multi-family.
Dwelling, loft. A dwelling unit, occupied by no more than six persons, and located within the same structure as the commercial business.
Dwelling, single-family attached. A building containing two or more dwelling units, each of which is deeded with separate ownership and has primary ground floor access to the outside and which are attached to each other by party walls without openings. The term can include fee-simple townhouses and condominiums.
Dwelling, single-family detached. A residential building containing not more than one dwelling unit entirely surrounded by open space. A single family detached dwelling includes site-built houses, and manufactured and industrialized houses. (A mobile home is not a single-family detached dwelling.) All single-family detached dwellings shall meet the appearance standards as provided in section 5.1.
Dwelling, multi-family. A building designed as two or more separate units for or occupied exclusively by two or more families.
Easement. A grant of one or more property rights to and/or for a person, government agency, or public utility company to use public or private land owned by another for a specific purpose.
Family. One or more related individuals permanently occupying a dwelling unit and living as a single housekeeping unit, including one kitchen, as distinguished from persons occupying a boarding house, group home, or hotel, as defined in this appendix.
Flood. A rise in stream flow or stage that results in temporary inundation of the areas adjacent to the channel.
Floor area, gross. The gross heated areas of all floors, measured from the exterior faces of the exterior walls of the building.
Game room. Any establishment which operates solely on the proceeds from any amusement machine or device operated by means of insertion of a coin, token, or similar object for the purpose of amusement or skill and for playing where a fee is charged.
Garage, private. An accessory building designed or used for the storage of motor-driven vehicles owned and used by the occupants of the buildings to which it is an accessory.
Grade. The average level of the finished ground surface adjacent to the exterior walls of the building.
Group home. A residence composed of not more than eight non-related handicapped individuals with one or more surrogate parents or supervisors that function as a singular housekeeping unit. All group homes shall be approved and licensed by the State of Georgia Department of Human Resources.
Handicap. Shall have the same meaning as the definition of such term set forth in the Fair Housing Act, 42 USC 3602(h).
Hardship. An unusual situation on the part of an individual property owner which will not permit the owner to enjoy the full utilization of the property which is given to others in the community. A hardship exists only when it is not self-created, or when it is not economic in nature.
Health department. The Meriwether County Health Department.
Home occupation. An occupation customarily carried on by an occupant of a dwelling unit as a secondary use which is clearly incidental to the use of the dwelling unit for residential purposes and operated in accordance with the provisions of these regulations.
Industrialized home. Any structure or component thereof which is wholly or in substantial part made, fabricated, formed, or assembled in manufacturing facilities for installation on a building site and has been manufactured in such a manner that all parts or processes cannot be inspected at the installation site without disassembly, damage, or destruction thereof. Industrialized buildings are constructed and regulated in accordance with the Industrialized Building Act, 1982 Ga. Laws (Act No. 1466) pages 1637—1643, and O.C.G.A. title 8, ch. 2, art. 2, part 1.
Junk. The term "junk," as used by this appendix, means any used article of commerce which is composed principally of iron, steel, brass, copper, or zinc, or their alloys, or any other base metal, and which is commonly bought for the purpose of resale and refabrication, either or both (See O.C.G.A. § 43-22-1); provided further, the term "junk," as used by this appendix, means worn out and discarded material that may be returned to some use, especially old rope, chain, iron, copper, parts or machinery, electrical and electronics equipment, and bottles gathered or brought up by trade persons called junk dealers; hence, rubbish of any kind; odds and ends, provided further, the term "junk," as used by this appendix, does not include scrap or steel recovered from automobiles, etc., being cut to size with or without being baled to meet specifications of steel mills and foundries for remelting.
Junk business. For the purposes of this appendix, the term "junk business" is the pursuit, for profit, of purchasing old iron, brass, bottles, etc., and selling them again in the condition in which they were purchased by said dealer.
Junk dealer. A junk dealer is any person, firm or corporation having a fixed place of business, or officer, agent and employee of any person, firm or corporation who engages in the purchase of used articles of commerce principally composed of iron, steel, brass, copper, or zinc, or their alloys, or any other base metals, and which is commonly bought for the purpose of resale and refabrication, either or both (See O.C.G.A. § 43-22-1).
Junk yard. An uncovered lot or part thereof, whether enclosed or not, used for the collection, storage, keeping, sale, abandonment, or resale of junk, including scrap metal, rags, paper and other scrap materials and equipment, or for the dismantling, demolition or abandonment of three or more inoperable automobiles, not bearing current auto tags/decals, or other machinery, appliances or parts thereof.
Kennel. Any location where breeding, raising, boarding, caring, and the keeping of more than five dogs or cats or other small animals or a combination thereof (except litters of animals not more than six months of age) is carried on for commercial purposes.
Land-disturbing activity. Any grading, scraping, excavating, or filling of land, clearing of vegetation; and any construction, rebuilding, or alteration of a structure. Land-disturbing activity shall not include activities such as ordinary maintenance and landscaping operations, individual home gardens, yard and grounds upkeep, repairs, additions, or minor modifications to a single-family dwelling, and the cutting of firewood for personal use.
Livestock. The [term] "livestock," as used herein, shall mean and include cattle, horses, goats, sheep, swine, rabbits, poultry, ducks, geese, and other fowl customarily bred or raised in captivity, owned and kept for pleasure.
Lot. A designated parcel, tract or area of land established by plat, subdivision or as otherwise permitted by law, to be separately owned, used, developed or built upon. The word "lot" includes the words "plot" and/or "parcel."
Lot, corner. A lot abutting upon two or more streets at their intersection.
Lot, through. A lot other than a corner lot abutting two streets.
Lot of record. A lot which exists prior to the first published notice or subsequent amendment of this appendix, as shown or described on a plat recorded in the records of the Meriwether County Superior Court, or deed in the records of the local registry of deeds.
Lot width. The width of the lot at the front setback line.
Manufactured home. A structure defined by and constructed in accordance with the National Manufactured Housing Construction and Safety Standards Act of 1974 as amended, 42 USC 5401 et seq., and constructed within five years of the date an application for a building permit is filed with the city.
Motel. A permanent building or group of permanent buildings in which overnight sleeping accommodations are provided for travelers and having a parking space near or adjacent to the entrance of the room. Such use has 80 percent of the rooms occupied by a different registered guest every five days, provides patrons with daily maid service, 24-hour desk/counter clerk service, and a telephone service to receive incoming and outgoing messages, and shall comply with the applicable requirements of the county health department and O.C.G.A. § 31-28-1 et seq., and may provide additional services, such as restaurants, retail gift shops, meeting rooms, swimming pools and exercise facilities.
Nonconforming use. The use of any building or land which was lawful at the time of passage of this appendix, or amendment thereto, but which use does not conform, after the passage of this appendix or amendment thereto, with the regulations of the district in which it is situated.
Parking lot. An open area used exclusively for the temporary parking of vehicles and bicycles and which no gasoline or vehicular accessories are sold or no other business is conducted.
Parking space. A space, enclosed or unenclosed, having an area of not less than 108 square feet (9' by 12') exclusive of access, permanently reserved for the temporary storage of one vehicle and having access to the street.
Permit. Any written authorization for building, construction, alteration, development, occupancy, or other matter required by this appendix to be approved a designated commission, board, official or employee. The person to whom such permit is issued shall be known as the permittee.
Permitted use. Any use allowed in a zoning district and subject to the restrictions applicable to that zoning district.
Personal care home. A building or group of buildings, facility or place in which is provided two or more beds and other facilities and services, including rooms, meals and personal care, for non-family ambulatory adults. For the purpose of these rules, personal care homes shall be classified as: family care personal care home, group personal care home, or congregate personal care home. This term does not include buildings which are devoted to independent living units which include kitchen facilities where residents have the option of preparing and serving some or all of their own meals or boarding facilities which do not provide personal care.
1.
Family personal care. A home for adults in a family type residence, noninstitutional in character, which offers care for two to six persons (Special exception use in a residential district).
2.
Group personal care home. A home for adult persons in a residence or other type building(s), noninstitutional in character, which offers care for seven to 15 persons.
3.
Congregate personal care home. A home for adults, which offers care to 16 or more persons.
Planning commission. The City of Luthersville Planning Commission.
Plat. A map, plan or layout of a county, city, town, lot, section, subdivision or development indicating the location and boundaries of properties.
Principal building. A building where the main or principal use of the lot is conducted.
Roof pitch. A roof's minimum vertical rise for each foot of horizontal run. For example, a 4/12 roof pitch shall require a vertical rise of four feet for each 12 feet of horizontal run.
Scale of development. The relationship of a particular project or development, in terms of size, height, bulk, intensity and aesthetics.
Setback. The mean horizontal distance between the front street right-of-way line and the front line of the building or the allowable building lines as defined by the front yard regulations of this appendix.
Setback line. The line which is the required minimum distance from any lot line and that established the area within which the principal structure must be erected or placed.
Sign. A name, identification, description, display, or illustration which is affixed to, painted or represented, directly or indirectly, upon a building, structure, parcel or lot and which directs attention to an object, product, place, activity, person, institution, organization, or business located on the premises. The term "sign" shall not be deemed to include official court, governmental notice, traffic warning or control devices or street signs, flags, emblems or insignias of a nation, school or religion. See Figure 1.
Figure 1: Sign Types
Special exception uses. A use not ordinarily permitted but which may be permitted with imposition of conditions related to the promotion of the public health, safety, morals, or general welfare, and designed to minimize the negative impact on surrounding lands. Such conditions may include, but are not limited to, restriction on land use; height, setback and other non-use requirements; physical improvements, including infrastructure, to the property.
Street. A public right-of-way, whether designated as an avenue, boulevard, road, highway, expressway, lane or other way, that is dedicated or devoted to the public pedestrian or vehicular use by deed, plat, and/or prescription, which affords the principal means of access to abutting property.
1.
Major arterial [street]. A street with access control channelized intersections and restricted parking, and that collects and distributes traffic to and from collector streets.
2.
Minor arterial [street]. A street with signals at important intersections and stop signs on the side streets, and [that] collects and distributes traffic to and from collector streets.
3.
Collector street. A street that collects traffic from local streets and connects with minor and major arterials.
4.
Local street. A street designed to provide vehicular access to abutting property and to discharge through traffic. See Figure 2.
Figure 2: Street Types
Temporary structure. A structure without any foundation or footings and which is removed when the designated time period, activity or use for which the temporary structure was erected has ceased.
Travel center. Any single commercial development which includes restaurants, hotels, motels and other commercial uses which cater primarily to commercial vehicles.
Truck stop. Any building, premises or land in which or upon which a business, service or industry involving the maintenance, servicing, storage, or repair of commercial vehicles is conducted or rendered, including dispensing of motor fuel or other petroleum products directly into motor vehicles and the sale of accessories or equipment for trucks and similar commercial vehicles. A truck stop also may include overnight accommodations and restaurant facilities primarily for the use of truck crews.
Variance. Permission to depart from the literal requirements of a zoning ordinance.
Variance use. A variance granted for a use or structure that is not permitted in the zone.
Yard. An open space that lies between the principal building or buildings and the nearest lot line. The minimum required yard as set forth in this appendix is unoccupied and unobstructed from the ground upward except as may be specifically provided in the zoning ordinance.
Yard, front. A space extending the full width of the lot between any building and the front lot line and measured perpendicular to the lot line at the closest point to the building.
Yard, rear. A space extending across the full width of the lot between the principal building and the rear lot line and measured perpendicular to the lot line to the closest point of the building.
Zoning. The delineation of districts and the establishment of regulations governing the use, placement, spacing and size of land and buildings.
Zoning map. The map which is part of the zoning ordinance and delineates the boundaries of zone districts.
(Ord. No. 2001-07, § 3.3, 4-10-2001)
