Chapter 54 - SIGNS[1]

Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Cross reference— Buildings and construction, ch. 14; planning, ch. 50; streets, sidewalks and other public places, ch. 62; zoning, app. A.
State Law reference— Signs used by retail distilled spirits dealers, signs advertising Georgia lottery, O.C.G.A. § 3-4-3; control of signs and signals, O.C.G.A. § 32-6-50 et seq.; unlawful placement of signs within right-of-way of public road, O.C.G.A. § 32-6-51; outdoor advertising near state highways, O.C.G.A. § 32-6-70 et seq.

Sec. 54-1. - Outdoor advertising signs.
It shall be unlawful for any person to erect, place or maintain any outdoor advertising sign which:
(1)
Outdoor advertising signs may be erected in the commercial and industrial districts of the city. All structures will be composed of metal and steel construction. The maximum area of any outdoor advertising sign shall not exceed 300 square feet in sign area. Such area not to include as part of the measurement the structural components or trim of such sign. No outdoor advertising sign shall be erected to exceed 30 feet above grade of highway. If additional height is needed a conditional use permit may be issued. No outdoor advertising sign shall exceed 50 feet in length and the bottom coping of sign shall be a minimum of three feet above ground level.
(2)
Contains more than one face visible from the same direction on the main traveled way. Back-to-back, and V-type constructed signs shall, for the purpose of determining compliance with size and spacing limitation, be considered as one sign.
(3)
Is within 500 feet of a public park, public playground, public recreation area, public forest scenic area, cemetery, church or historic landmark.
(4)
All outdoor advertising signs permitted to be erected under this chapter shall not be erected after the passage of this chapter unless the sign to be erected is spaced a minimum of 1,500 feet from a then existing outdoor advertising sign on either side of the road as measured along a parallel to such road. This spacing does not include back-to-back, or V-type sign structures, as such sign structures are considered one sign structure for spacing requirements. Side-by-side signs are not allowed. No signs shall be stacked one above the other. No sign shall be erected or maintained within 20 feet of the nearest edge of any right-of-way or public utility easement. This distance shall be measured from the nearest outer edge of the sign.
(5)
All illuminated outdoor advertising signs shall be so illuminated so as to adhere to the customary practices of the industry in the state at the time of passage of this chapter, providing that no light device shall be used which in any way initiates any traffic control device, railroad sign or signal, or highway directional sign, or law enforcement of emergency vehicle lights, or in any manner flashing lights to a residential zone, or in any way creates a traffic hazard.
(6)
No outdoor advertising sign shall be erected or maintained which is in an area not zoned for commercial or industrial activity and within 300 feet in any direction from a residence without the written consent of such residential property owner.
(7)
No person shall engage within the corporate limits of the city in the business of erecting or maintaining outdoor advertising signs as required under this chapter until after such persons shall have filed with the city clerk evidence of liability insurance coverage of $50,000.00 property damage, $100,000.00 personal injury to any one person and $200,000.00 for personal injury growing out of any one occurrence. Such liability insurance will save and keep the city, and all of its officials, employees and agents, harmless from all damages, liabilities, losses or judgments resulting by reason of the erection or maintenance of any such sign, and of any injury to persons or damages to property resulting therefrom.
(Code 1977, § 17.5-21; Ord. of 1-5-1999)
