DIVISION 20. - DEFINITIONS

Sec. 2-587. - Related terms.
modified
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Adverse action means an action taken that results in a disciplinary suspension without pay, disciplinary demotion or disciplinary dismissal.
Adverse effect means the results of an action or decision that is not an adverse action but which deprives the employee of income or the opportunity to earn more income.
Appointing authority means the person who has, among other authorities, the authority to appoint and discharge all employees. The county commissioners are the appointing authority for the county. However, the county commissioners have designated the county manager to administer these policies. Constitutional officers shall be the appointing authority for their respective departments.
Constitutional officer means the clerk of the superior court of the county, the judge of the probate court of the county, the sheriff and the tax commissioner.
County commission means the governing authority and financial authority of the county.
Days, when used as a method of counting, means calendar days unless stated otherwise.
Department refers to the different departments under the county manager.
Designee means the person or persons to whom the appointing authority delegates certain authorities for the administration of their offices. The county manager is hereby designated to administer these policies.
Handicapped means any person who has a physical or mental impairment that substantially limits one or more major life activities, who has a record of such an impairment, or who is regarded as having such an impairment.
Should denotes a condition that is desirable but not mandatory.
Unlawful discrimination means employment practices which are prohibited by state and federal laws and which include discrimination because of race, color, sex, religion, national origin, age, mental or physical handicap, and political affiliation.
Working test means a period of time during which a new employee or an employee who has been transferred or promoted to a higher position is being tested on job capability and performance.
(Mo. of 12-4-2007, appendix)
Secs. 2-588—2-605. - Reserved.
