SECTION 10.
(a)
Those members of the board of commissioners of Bibb County elected to take office in January, 2013, and the mayor and those members of the commission of the City of Macon who are serving as such on the second Monday of January, 2013, and any persons filling vacancies in such offices shall continue to serve as such members until the second Monday of January, 2014, and then all such offices shall be abolished and all terms of office shall expire. After the second Monday of January, 2013, no further elections shall be conducted to elect members of the board of commissioners of Bibb County and the mayor and members of the commission of the City of Macon and all elections for the mayor and the members of the commission shall be conducted pursuant to this charter.
(b)
The initial mayor shall be elected in a nonpartisan election to be held on the third Tuesday in July, 2013. Candidates shall be elected by majority vote as provided in this section. The person elected as mayor at such election shall take office on the second Tuesday of January, 2014, for an initial term of three years and until a successor is elected and qualified. Thereafter, each successor to the office of mayor shall be elected at the general nonpartisan election to be held on the third Tuesday in July immediately preceding the expiration of a term of office, shall take office on the first day of January immediately following the date of the election, and shall have a term of office of four years and until a successor is elected and qualified. The mayor shall be elected by a majority vote on a county-wide basis by the electors of the entire county.
(c)
No person shall be eligible to serve as mayor unless he or she:
(1)
Has been a resident of Macon-Bibb County for a period of one year immediately prior to the date of the election;
(2)
Continues to reside within the Macon-Bibb County during his or her term of office;
(3)
Is a registered and qualified elector of Macon-Bibb County; and
(4)
At the time of his or her election, is at least 27 years of age, is a citizen of the United States, and has been a citizen of this state for at least two years.
(d)
Except as otherwise provided in this section, all elections for the mayor and members of the commission shall be in accordance with the provisions of Chapter 2 of Title 21 of the O.C.G.A., the 'Georgia Election Code,' as now or hereafter amended. Any person who is a registered voter of Macon-Bibb County shall be eligible to vote in any election under this section.
(e)
The mayor shall be limited to serving a total of no more than two four-year terms. Each commission member shall be limited to serving a total of three four-year terms. An initial term of less than four years shall nevertheless be deemed a full term for purposes of this subsection. Prior service as an officer of the City of Macon or Bibb County shall not be computed for such limitations.
( H.B. 610 , ยง 1, 5-3-2021)
