Chapter 22 - MANUFACTURED HOMES[1]
modified

Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
State Law reference— Standards and requirements for installation, and licensing of manufactured homes and mobile homes, O.C.G.A. § 8-2-110 et seq.; the Uniform Standards Code for Manufactured Homes Act, O.C.G.A. § 8-2-130 et seq.

Sec. 22-1. - Minimum health and safety standards for pre-owned manufactured homes.
(a)
The general assembly of the state has declared that no county shall impose any health or safety standards or conditions based upon the age of a manufactured home.
(b)
Under authority of the state constitution and O.C.G.A. § 8-2-170 et seq., a county may establish standards, conditions, and an inspection program for pre-owned manufactured homes which are relocated.
(c)
Promotion and maintenance of property values within the jurisdiction and the health and general welfare of the citizens of the county are furthered when standards for the condition of structures, including pre-owned manufactured homes, are established and enforced.
(d)
All manufactured homes relocated to or within the jurisdiction shall comply with the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. No. 2011-2, preamble, 3-17-2011)
Sec. 22-2. - Definitions.
modified
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Applicant means any person seeking to install a pre-owned manufactured home in the unincorporated area of the county.
Building inspector means the person appointed, employed, or otherwise designated as the director of planning, permits and inspections; the county building official or any assistants to the county building official.
Certificate of occupancy means a document issued by the building inspector certifying that a pre-owned manufactured home is in compliance with applicable requirements set forth by this chapter, and indicating it to be in a condition suitable for residential occupancy.
Guarantee of condition bond means a surety bond to guarantee that the affidavit and photographs required by section 22-4 reasonably portray or represents the existing condition of the pre-owned manufactured home proposed for relocation. In lieu of the bond, a cash deposit may be deposited with the county.
Install means to construct a foundation system and to place or erect a manufactured home on such foundation system. The term "install" includes, without limitation, supporting, blocking, leveling, securing, or anchoring such manufactured home and connecting multiple or expandable sections of such manufactured home.
Jurisdiction means the unincorporated areas of Macon County, Georgia.
Manufactured home means a structure, transportable in one or more sections, which, in the traveling mode, is eight-body feet or more in width or 40 body-feet or more in length or, when erected on site, is 320 or more square feet and which is built on a permanent chassis and designed to be used as a dwelling with or without a permanent foundation when connected to the required utilities and includes the plumbing, heating, air-conditioning, and electrical systems contained therein; except that the term "manufactured home" includes any structure which meets all the requirements of this definition except the size requirements and with respect to which the manufacturer voluntarily files a certification required by the secretary of housing and urban development and complies with the standards established under the National Manufactured Housing Construction and Safety Standards Act of 1974, 42 USC 5401 et seq.
Pre-owned manufactured home means any manufactured home that has been previously used as a residential dwelling and has been titled.
(Ord. No. 2011-2, § 1, 3-17-2011)
Sec. 22-3. - Conditions.
All pre-owned manufactured homes located in the jurisdiction shall bear a label certifying it was constructed in compliance with the National Manufactured Housing Construction and Safety Standards Act of 1974, 42 USC 5401 et seq. (the HUD Code) and shall be installed in accordance with O.C.G.A. § 8-2-160 et seq.
(Ord. No. 2011-2, § 2, 3-17-2011)
Sec. 22-4. - Permitting, inspection, certificate of occupancy and fees.
modified
A permit shall be required to locate a pre-owned manufactured home in the jurisdiction. All permits shall be issued upon receipt of all items listed in subsection (1)(a) through (d) of this section.
(1)
Permit. To obtain a permit, applicants shall provide to the building inspector:
a.
An affidavit signed by the applicant that the pre-owned manufactured home meets health and safety standards required by the National Manufactured Housing Construction and Safety Standards Act of 1974, 42 USC 5401 et seq. (the HUD Code);
b.
Photographs of the interior and exterior of the pre-owned manufactured home providing evidence that home meets the minimum health and safety standards of section 22-5;
c.
A $500.00 refundable guarantee of condition bond or $500.00 refundable cash deposit; and
d.
The permit and inspection fee required by subsection (4) of this section.
(2)
Inspection. Upon receipt of a permit, applicants may relocate the manufactured home on a residential site for the purposes of inspection. The applicant shall arrange for an inspection to be held once the installation of the manufactured home is complete.
(3)
Certificate of occupancy. A certificate of occupancy shall be issued to the applicant at such time that the building inspector certifies that the requirements of this section have been met.
(4)
Fee. A permit and inspection fee shall be charged to the applicant to cover the cost to the county to process the permit application and inspect the pre-owned manufactured home. Such fee shall cover the initial inspection and one follow-up inspection. The applicant shall be charged for each additional follow-up inspection that may be necessary. The amounts of the permit and inspection fee and the follow-up inspection fee shall be as established by the board of county commissioners from time to time.
(5)
Alternative inspection. At the request of the applicant, the building inspector may, at such building inspector's discretion, inspect a pre-owned manufactured home prior to its being relocated if the home is then located at another site within the county.
(Ord. No. 2011-2, § 3, 3-17-2011)
Sec. 22-5. - Compliance to minimum health and safety standards.
modified
All pre-owned manufactured homes shall comply with the following before being issued a certificate of occupancy by the building inspector:
(1)
HUD code. Every pre-owned manufactured home located in the jurisdiction shall be in compliance with the Federal Manufactured Housing Construction and Safety Standards Act, 42 USC 5401—5445 (the HUD code) and shall not have been altered in such a way that the home no longer meets the HUD code.
(2)
Interior condition. Every floor, interior wall, and ceiling of a pre-owned manufactured home shall be in sound condition. Doors and windows shall be operable, watertight and in good working condition. The floor system shall be in sound condition and free of warping, holes, water damage, or deterioration.
(3)
Exterior condition. The exterior of all pre-owned manufactured homes shall be free of loose or rotting boards or timbers and any other conditions that might admit rain or moisture to the interior portions of the walls or to occupied spaces. The exterior siding shall be free of rot and rust. Roofs shall be structurally sound and have no obvious defects that might admit rain or cause moisture to collect on the interior portion of the home.
(4)
Sanitary facilities. Every plumbing fixture, water, and waste pipe of a pre-owned manufactured home shall be in a sanitary working condition when properly connected, and shall be free from leaks and obstructions. Each home shall contain a kitchen sink. Each bathroom shall contain a lavatory and water closet. At least one bathroom shall contain a tub and/or shower facilities. Each of these fixtures shall be checked upon being connected to ensure they are in good working condition.
(5)
Heating systems. Heating shall be safe and in working condition. Unvented heaters shall be prohibited.
(6)
Electrical systems. Electrical systems (switches, receptacles, fixtures, etc.) shall be properly installed and wired and shall be in working condition. Distribution panels shall be in compliance with the approved listing, complete with required breakers, with all unused openings covered with solid covers approved and listed for that purpose. The home shall be subject to an electrical continuity test to ensure that all metallic parts are properly bounded.
(7)
Hot water supply. Each home shall contain a water heater in safe and working condition.
(8)
Egress windows. Each bedroom of a manufactured home shall have at least one operable window of sufficient size to allow egress if necessary.
(9)
Ventilation. The kitchen in the home shall have at least one operating window or other ventilation device.
(10)
Smoke detectors. Each pre-owned manufactured home shall contain one operable battery-powered smoke detector in each bedroom and in the kitchen, which must be installed in accordance with the manufacturer's recommendations.
(11)
Entrances. All entrances (doors) must have steps with landings and hand rails within 30 days of power being turned on. Landings must be no less than three feet by three feet. The minimum width of any stair serving as a means of egress shall be a minimum of 36 inches. The width of the landing shall not be less that the width of stairways they serve. All steps and landing must have proper hand and guard railing where required. No loose block steps will be allowed.
(12)
Skirting. To be installed within 30 days after the power inspection of the manufactured home. Clothes dryer exhaust vents and a/c condensation drain must extend through the skirting. A minimum of four ventilation openings are required. The minimum ventilation shall be 1/1,500 of the area of the crawl space.
(13)
Floor zone requirements. Only for manufactured or mobile homes located in the flood zone:
a.
Concrete footings. Pour concrete footings a minimum of 16 inches by 16 inches wide and six inches deep.
b.
Piers. Piers must have mortar joints or sure wall (not stacked).
c.
Height of home.
1.
With base flood elevation. First floor at its finished level two feet above base flood elevation or anything that penetrates the finished floor two feet above based floor (example: HVAC duct work). Outside electrical equipment raised to first-floor level (HVAC unit). Certified surveyor has to determine the base flood elevations.
2.
Without base flood elevation. First floor finished level three feet above highest point of the property where the manufactured or mobile home will be set-up. Elevation certificate must be provided by a surveyor.
(Ord. No. 2011-2, § 4, 3-17-2011)
Sec. 22-6. - Enforcement.
(a)
Permanent connection to utilities shall not be approved until the building inspector has issued a certificate of occupancy.
(b)
Owners of pre-owned manufactured homes that are not in compliance upon a third inspection shall have their permit revoked and shall be required to remove the home from the jurisdiction at their own expense.
(c)
The guarantee of condition bond or cash deposit will be forfeited after 90 days from the date of inspection, unless all conditions and standards are met prior to the end of the 90 days or an extension has been issued in writing by the building inspector.
(Ord. No. 2011-2, § 5, 3-17-2011)
Sec. 22-7. - Penalties.
Failure to remove a pre-owned manufactured home from the jurisdiction upon failure to receive a certificate of occupancy shall be punishable according to the section 1-15. Each day any violation under this chapter continues shall be considered a separate offense.
(Ord. No. 2011-2, § 6, 3-17-2011)
