DIVISION 12. - WORKER'S COMPENSATION PROCEDURES

Sec. 2-370. - Non-emergency occupational; accidents or disease.
The following provisions apply in cases of non-emergency occupational accidents or disease:
(1)
Must be reported to department head within 24 hours.
(2)
Department head investigates the accident and fills a report of injury or disease in full detail and immediately forwards the report to the county manager's office.
(3)
If the medical attention of a physician is needed, the county manager's office shall make the appointment for employee with the physician of employee's choice, selected from the three physicians appointed by the county for worker's compensation treatment.
(4)
Employee is given form CT-555-Treatment Authorization to submit to the doctor's office at the time of the first treatment.
(5)
Employee returns CT-555-Treatment Authorization to the department immediately after treatment is received.
(6)
Department head forwards copies of the complete CT-555-Treatment Authorization to the county manager's office.
(7)
Department head should direct any problem or questions concerning the claim to the county manager's office for discussion.
(8)
County manager's office must be informed of the date employee returns to work.
(Mo. of 12-4-2007, § 12.01)
Sec. 2-371. - Emergency accidents.
(a)
If a work-related accident occurs that requires immediate emergency treatment, the supervisor should be notified immediately and treatment received at the emergency room.
(b)
After treatment is received, the report of occupational injury or disease should be filled out in detail and submitted to the county manager's office.
(c)
Subsequent treatment must be directed to one of the county worker's compensation insurance physicians unless the injury requires specialized treatment and the emergency doctor refers the employee to a physician who specializes in the type of injury incurred.
(Mo. of 12-4-2007, § 12.02)
Note— If a non-emergency occupational disease or accident should occur at night or on weekends that requires medical attention before regular office hours, procedures for emergency accidents should be followed.
Secs. 2-372—2-400. - Reserved.
