SECTION 19.
(a)
Six members of the commission shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of ordinary business, but the affirmative vote of at least five members shall be required for the commission to take official action. Official action of the commission shall be entered upon its minutes. Any member of the commission shall have the right to request a roll-call vote.
(b)
The commission may fix the date and time of regular meetings in the commission rules of procedure but there shall be at least one regular meeting each month.
(c)
Special meetings of the commission may be held on call of the mayor pro tempore or a majority of all members of the commission. The mayor shall also be authorized to call special meetings regarding fiscal affairs or emergencies involving public safety. Notice of a special meeting shall be served on all other members personally, or by telephone personally, at least 48 hours in advance of the meeting. If, after diligent effort, personal service is not possible, notice shall be deemed to have been served if delivered to the residence of record of the member by a law enforcement officer who certifies that such delivery was made at least 24 hours prior to the convening of the meeting. This notice to commissioners shall not be required if all commissioners are present when the special meeting is called. This notice of any special meeting may be waived by a commissioner in writing before or after such a meeting, and attendance at the meeting shall also constitute a waiver of notice on any business transacted in the commissioner's presence. Only the business stated in the call may be transacted at the special meeting.
(d)
All meetings of the commission shall be public to the extent required by general state law and notice to the public of special meetings shall be made fully as is reasonably possible 48 hours prior to the meetings.
(e)
(1)
To meet a public emergency affecting life, health, property, or public peace, the commission may convene on call of the mayor, the mayor pro tempore, or a majority of all commissioners and promptly adopt an emergency ordinance, but this ordinance may not levy taxes; grant, renew, or extend a franchise; regulate the rate charged by any public utility for its services; or authorize the borrowing of money except for loans to be repaid within 30 days. An emergency ordinance shall be introduced in the form prescribed for ordinances generally, except that it shall be plainly designated as an emergency ordinance and shall contain, after the enacting clause, a declaration stating that an emergency exists and describing it in clear and specific terms. An emergency ordinance may be adopted with or without amendment or rejected at the meeting at which it is introduced. It shall become effective upon adoption and approval or at any later time as it may specify. Every emergency ordinance shall automatically stand repealed 30 days following the date upon which it was adopted, but this shall not prevent reenactment of the ordinance in the manner specified in this section if the emergency still exists. An emergency ordinance may also be repealed by adoption of a repealing ordinance in the same manner specified in this section for adoption of emergency ordinances.
(2)
Such emergency meetings shall be open to the public to the extent required by law and notice to the public of emergency meetings shall be made as fully as is reasonably possible in accordance with Code Section 50-14-1 of the O.C.G.A. or such other applicable laws as are or may hereafter be enacted.
