ARTICLE III. - ADULT ENTERTAINMENT REGULATIONS

Sec. 4-71. - Obscene, lewd or indecent entertainment on premises where alcoholic beverages are offered for sale.
(a)
Findings; public purpose.
(1)
Based on the demonstrated experience of other urban counties and municipalities, including but not limited to, Atlanta and Fulton County, Georgia; DeKalb County, Georgia; Orange County, Florida; Indianapolis, Indiana; Los Angeles, California; Beaumont, Texas; Phoenix, Arizona; St. Paul, Minnesota; and Austin, Texas, which experience is found to be relevant to the problems that face Macon-Bibb County, Georgia, and based on the documentary evidence and oral testimony presented at the public safety committee meeting of the precursor governments to Macon-Bibb County by citizens, a number of whom are familiar with conditions resulting in other localities, and experts, the commission takes note of the notorious and self-evident conditions and secondary effects attendant to the commercial exploitation of human sexuality, which do not vary greatly among the various communities within our country, particularly the problems of crime, blight, and deterioration which are brought about by alcohol and live nudity.
(2)
It is the finding of the board that public nudity (either partial or total) under circumstances related to the sale and consumption of alcoholic beverages in so-called "nude bars" or establishments offering so-called "nude entertainment" or "adult entertainment" in conjunction with the sale of alcoholic beverages, begets criminal behavior and tends to create undesirable community conditions.
(3)
Among the acts of criminal behavior found to be associated with nudity and alcohol are disorderly conduct, prostitution, public indecency and drug trafficking. Among the undesirable community conditions identified with the concentration of adult entertainment are depreciation of property values in neighborhoods surrounding nude bars or adult entertainment establishments where alcoholic beverages are sold, increased expenditure for and allocation of law enforcement personnel to preserve law and order, increased burdens on the judicial system as a consequence of the criminal behavior hereinabove described, and acceleration of community blight by the concentration of adult entertainment establishments in particular areas.
(4)
Other negative effects which are found by the commission are the apparent connection of these establishments to organized crime and illegal drug sales; the potential spread of communicable diseases to law enforcement personnel who answer calls at adult establishments and to patrons of such establishments; and the potential proliferation of adult entertainment establishments after the initial siting of an adult entertainment establishment in a particular neighborhood.
(5)
Macon-Bibb County therefore finds that it is in the best interest of the health, welfare, safety and morals and preservation of its businesses, neighborhoods, and of churches, schools, and parks to prevent the adverse impact of adult entertainment establishments. Therefore, the board finds that the prohibition of live nude conduct in establishments licensed to serve alcohol for consumption on the premises is in the public welfare by furthering legitimate government interests, such as reducing criminal activity, protection against property devaluation and deterioration, and eliminating undesirable community conditions normally associated with establishments which serve alcohol and allow and/or encourage nudity, and that such prohibition will not infringe upon the protected constitutional rights of freedom of speech. To that end, this Section is hereby adopted.
(b)
Definitions. As used in this Section, the following words shall have the meaning as set forth below unless otherwise required by context:
(1)
Alcoholic beverages means and includes all alcohol, distilled spirits, beer, malt beverage, wine or fortified wine as more specifically defined in Section 4-1 of this Code.
(2)
Business establishment means a business within the Macon-Bibb County where alcoholic beverages are offered for sale for consumption on the premises pursuant to a license issued by the governing body.
(3)
Licensee means any person to whom a license for sale for consumption on the premises of alcoholic beverages has been issued by the governing body, including the officers and agents of the licensee.
(4)
License means a license for sale for consumption on the premises of alcoholic beverages issued by the governing body.
(5)
Live means any activity or entertainment which is carried on by actual living persons in the physical presence of the patrons.
(6)
Live entertainment means entertainment for the benefit of patrons which is carried on in the actual physical presence of such patrons, including, but not limited to dancing.
(7)
Mainstream performance house means a theater, concert hall, auditorium or similar establishment which regularly features live performances such as plays or concerts which are not distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on the depiction, description or display or the featuring of specified anatomical areas or specified sexual activities and where such depiction, if any, is only incidental to the primary purpose of any performance.
(8)
Person means a human being.
(9)
Premises means the definite closed or partitioned establishment, whether room, shop or building wherein alcoholic beverages are sold or consumed, including the sidewalk serving area or outside, open air or patio-type serving area on the private property of an establishment, as defined in Section 4-1 of this Code.
(10)
Specified anatomical areas means any of the following:
a.
Less than completely and opaquely covered human genitals or pubic region; cleft of the buttocks; or any portion of the female breast encompassed within an area falling below the horizontal line one would have to draw to intercept a point above the top of the areola, or any portion of the areola, or any simulation thereof. This definition shall include the entire lower portion of the human female breast, but shall not include any portion of the cleavage of the human female breast exhibited by a dress, blouse, shirt, leotard, bathing suit, or other wearing apparel, provided the areola is not so exposed.
b.
Human male genitalia in a discernibly turgid state, even if completely and opaquely covered.
(11)
Specified sexual activities means and includes any of the following:
a.
The fondling or other erotic touching of human genitals, pubic region, buttocks, anus or female breasts;
b.
Sex acts, normal or perverted, actual or simulated, including intercourse, oral copulation or sodomy;
c.
Masturbation, actual or simulated;
d.
The displaying of the male or female pubic hair, anus, vulva or genitals; or
e.
Excretory functions as part of or in connection with any of the activities set forth in subsections (11)a. through d.
(c)
Conduct prohibited. The following types of entertainment, attire and conduct are prohibited upon any premises licensed to sell, serve or dispense alcoholic beverages for consumption on the premises within Macon-Bibb County:
(1)
The employment or use of any person live, in any capacity, in the sale or service of alcoholic beverages or food while such person is unclothed or in such attire, costume or clothing, as to expose any portion of his or her specified anatomical areas.
(2)
Live entertainment where any person appears unclothed or in such attire, costume or clothing as to expose any portion of his or her specified anatomical areas or where such person performs acts of specified sexual activities or acts which simulate specified sexual activity, as defined herein.
(3)
The holding, promotion, sponsoring or allowance of any contest, promotion, special night, event or any other activity where live patrons of the licensed establishment are encouraged or allowed to engage in any of the conduct proscribed in subsections (c)(1) and (2).
(4)
Nothing contained in this Section shall apply to the premises of any mainstream performance house or museum which derives less than twenty (20) percent of its gross annual income from the sale of alcoholic beverages.
(d)
Penalties.
(1)
It shall be unlawful for any person to perform any acts prohibited in subsection (c) and any such conduct will be a violation of this Code and shall be punishable in the Municipal Court of Macon-Bibb County as provided under this Code.
(2)
It shall be unlawful for a licensee to permit any conduct prohibited in subsection (c) which he knows or has reasonable cause to know is taking place on the premises. Any such conduct by a licensee shall be a violation of this Code and shall be punishable in the municipal court as provided under this Code. Also, upon conviction, a licensee may have his license revoked as provided in this Code.
(Ord. No. O-18-0109 , § 1, 12-4-2018)
Secs. 4-72—4-90. - Reserved.
