Chapter 34 - SOLID WASTE[1]
modified

Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
State Law reference— Municipal authority to provide for garbage and solid waste collection and disposal, Ga. Const. 1983, Art. IX, § II, ¶ III(a)(2); Georgia Comprehensive Solid Waste Management Act, O.C.G.A. § 12-8-20 et seq.

Sec. 34-1. - Amount and collection of tax.
(a)
Each residential and commercial unit located within the unincorporated area of the county shall be charged a fee as established by the board of commissioners from time to time.
(b)
The occupant and/or the owner of the residential or commercial unit according to the tax digest for the county shall be billed for the fee collected under this chapter. The occupant and/or the owner shall be billed monthly by the county showing the amount due and payable. The term "residence" shall be defined as all single-family dwelling units, including mobile homes and modular homes, and each individual unit of any multi-family structure, such as duplexes and apartment buildings. The term "commercial" shall be defined as any hotel, motel, restaurant, business, public or semi-public establishment of any kind.
(c)
Said fee shall be due and payable by the tenth day of each following month. A late payment penalty and an assessment of interest shall be imposed on each account for which payment is not made within the prescribed time limit. There shall also be imposed on each such delinquent account the administrative cost of reviewing and processing such delinquent account, and the cost of preparing, issuing, and filing writs of fieri facias thereon. The occupant and/or the owner of each residential or commercial unit may pay the entire amount due for the calendar year in advance if the occupant and/or the owner desires.
(d)
The collection of residential and commercial solid waste fees and administrative and other costs levied pursuant to the terms of this chapter and all late charges accruing thereto are hereby deemed to be and are constituted a tax, and are hereby levied severally against the owner and the occupant of each residential and commercial unit, including all residential units located in mobile home courts and/or trailer courts. The fees, administrative and other costs, late charges and interest billed in this section shall be treated in all respects as provided by law with respect to ad valorem and state taxes; and uncollected fees, administrative costs, late charges, and interest shall constitute a continuing lien against the real property upon which the residential or commercial unit is located, on all of the real property generally of the owner, and on personal property composing a residential or commercial unit, and upon the personal property of the owner and of the occupant of each residential or commercial unit until paid. Said liens shall attach by operation of law upon the date each such fee, late charges, administrative and other costs and interest shall become due, and shall constitute continuing liens upon the properties from those dates until paid and satisfied, and this chapter shall constitute notice to the world of the attachment of and the existence of said liens binding upon the world and upon all subsequent successors in title and lien holders, irrespective of whether writs of fieri facias shall have been issued and/or recorded. Writs of fieri facias may be issued by the county for fees, costs and other charges, which are past due, and collection may be effected as provided by law for ad valorem or other state taxes as provided by O.C.G.A. § 12-8-39.3 or other applicable law. The county manager is authorized to enforce the provisions for collection as provided herein and is authorized to execute writs of fieri facias and all documents necessary for collection once an account is 90 days in arrears.
(e)
Any individual, business, corporation, partnership, or any other entity of any type that occupies any residence or undertakes any commercial activity as defined in this chapter shall notify the county solid waste department within ten days of occupying a residence or commercial building. Any new resident or commercial enterprise shall be considered a customer of the county solid waste department, and all taxes and fees imposed by this chapter shall be levied and assessed from the date of beginning of service or ten days from the date of occupancy of the residence or commercial unit as determined by the director of the county solid waste department.
(f)
It shall be the duty of the county manager to review the status of the fees, late charges and interest levied by the chapter on March 15, June 15, September 15, and December 15, and to issue a writ of fieri facias for the collection of each such fee, late charges and interest which shall not have been paid, and for the administrative costs as herein provided, and for all costs of collection and enforcement as in the case of executions for county ad valorem taxes, and to record said writs on the general execution document in the office of the clerk of the superior court in the county in which the property is located. Should in any case this procedure not be followed, such failure shall in no way affect the lien and notice of lien provisions of subsection (d) of this section.
(Ord. No. 06-2009-1, § 1, 7-7-2009)
Sec. 34-2. - Use of taxes and fees.
All taxes and fees imposed by this chapter shall be used and appropriated to pay for the collection and disposal of all solid waste within the county. The taxes and fees shall be deposited in a special account set up by the county specifically for this purpose.
(Ord. No. 06-2009-1, § 2, 7-7-2009)
Sec. 34-3. - Solid waste storage and collection.
(a)
For purposes of this chapter, the term "solid waste" means putrescible animal or vegetable waste resulting from the handling, preparation, cooking, serving, or consumption of food, including food containers, and nonputrescible solid waste consisting of combustible and noncombustible materials, including waste paper, metals, cans, glass, plastics, and/or other similar materials.
(b)
All solid waste shall be free from excessive liquid and placed in plastic bags or vinyl containers supplied by the county or its designated collector.
(c)
Containers must be placed at the curbside of the nearest public road by 7:00 a.m. on regular collection days or on the next collection day if the regular collection day falls on a holiday. Containers from residential units must be moved from curbside to a place on the side or rear within 24 hours of the collection.
(d)
The county shall have the exclusive right to collect and dispose of all solid waste (including recyclables) within the unincorporated areas of the county either through employers of the county or by contract issued to a person, firm, corporation, partnership, or entity engaged in the business of solid waste collection and disposal. No person, firm, corporation, partnership, or entity shall collect, remove, transport, or dispose of any solid waste (including recyclables) within the district except as provided for herein, except with the express permission of the county.
(e)
Solid waste shall be collected once a week from residential units on a day to be established by the county board of commissioners. The frequency of collection for commercial units shall be at least once per week. More frequent collections from commercial units may be required if sanitary conditions in and around the container dictate.
(f)
The county or the designated contract collector may decline to collect any solid waste containing excess liquid, which is not properly contained, or is contained in unauthorized containers.
(g)
The county or the designated collector shall not be responsible for collection of discarded building materials, dirt, or rock.
(h)
The county or the designated collector may elect to collect yard waste, including grass clippings, trees, and tree branches (cut to a length of no more than four feet), and/or other vegetation, each week on a day to be established by the county board of commissioners.
(Ord. No. 06-2009-1, § 3, 7-7-2009)
Sec. 34-4. - Violation of chapter.
Each violation of any provision of this chapter shall be punishable by a fine not to exceed $500.00 or 30 days imprisonment in the county jail or both. Ordinance violations may be tried upon citations with or without a prosecuting attorney as well as accusations, as provided by O.C.G.A. § 15-10-60 et seq. Citations shall be issued by the county manager or designee.
(Ord. No. 06-2009-1, § 4, 7-7-2009)
