ARTICLE VIII. - AGRICULTURAL RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT (AG-2) AND RIVER PROTECTION (RP) DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS

Sec. 1. - Agricultural Development Requirements and Standards.
Agricultural Residential District. Minimum lot size (AG-2) is two (2) acres. This is for one primary resident and the Minimum width at setback line is 210' the front yard setback is 150' side yard setback 50' and rear setback 50'. There is a maximum building height of 40'.
1.
Protective Screening between Agricultural and Residential Districts. Protective screening for Agricultural Residential District (AG-2) and Residential (R-1, R-2, R-3) adjacent to or across the street (with the exception of major arterial or major collector roads) from residential districts shall be in compliance with applicable sections of this Code. See Article XVI: Protective Screenings and Buffers.
1.1
Compatibility. The development standards for the Agricultural Intensive and Agricultural Residential are the same, except for the ability to create a farm workers resident area as stated in Article VIII, Section 1, Agricultural Residential District.
1.2
Conflicts. By their very nature, some agricultural activities generate noise, odor and insects detrimental to nearby land uses/occupants. To the extent which these conflicts are a function of size of the specific agricultural activity, the adverse or negative effects of some of these noises, odors and insects can be mitigated somewhat by distance. For the purpose of mitigating said impacts, minimum distances between agricultural activities and surrounding land uses are hereby established (Sections 5, 6 and 7) on the basis of low-density and high-density agricultural operations.
1.3
Non-Commercial Farm Animal Operations.
1.
Farm animal operations of sizes smaller or equal to the following thresholds are classified as non-commercial:
EXPAND
Dairy Cows 66
Ducks 500
Horses 50
Poultry 60,000
Sheep/ Goats 1,000
Steers/Heifers 100
Swine 250
Turkeys 5,500
  1.4
All non-commercial farm animal operations constructed or expanded shall construct all buildings and fencing used for animal confinement (e.g. poultry house, farrowing house, milk parlor) at least 1000 feet from the property line; provided, however, that, upon approval of the Board of Commissioners of Macon County in accordance with the provisions of Article XIX, Section 14, a non-commercial farm animal operation may be constructed closer to an existing use if an agricultural adjacency waiver is submitted in connection with the application for a building permit. See definition of agricultural adjacency waiver.
Confinement fencing is not to be confused with boundary fencing, the latter of which may be constructed along the right-of-way and property line. The area between confinement fencing and boundary fencing may be used for row crop, vegetable or orchard production, or pasture. In the event said area is used for pasture, it shall not be stocked at a rate higher than recommended by generally accepted animal husbandry practices for open grazing of the specific animal species.
Where said area is grazed, fencing, as necessary, shall be erected around any surface feature, e.g. bog, to prevent livestock from congregating along boundary fencing adjacent to the property line. Livestock catch pens shall be allowed in this grazing area provided the specific site does not retain water.
1.5
Any site(s) used for temporary storage, or active or passive treatment, of any waste or by-product of a low-density farm animal operation shall be located at least 300 feet from the property line, and 1000 feet from existing dwellings. All handling and land application of waste and by-products from the operation shall comply with all applicable state and federal regulations.
1.6
Machinery and equipment used to ventilate animal confinement buildings must be installed in such a way that air removed from said buildings is directed away from nearby existing developments and or housing.
1.7
Any development proposed for a site adjacent to an existing non-commercial farm animal operation shall be constructed at least 1000 feet from the adjoining property line when said development is adjacent to a non-commercial operation; provided, however, that such proposed development may be constructed closer to an existing non-commercial farm animal operation if an agricultural adjacency waiver is submitted in connection with the application for a building permit. See definition of agricultural adjacency waiver.
1.8
All dead animals shall be disposed of by a method approved by the Georgia Environmental Protection Division and the Georgia Department of Agriculture in a manner that does not adversely affect ground or surface water or create a public health concern.
1.9
A farm animal operation that is in compliance with the requirements of this ordinance and the requirements of all state, federal and local laws, rules and regulations shall be presumed not to be a nuisance.
2.
Low-density Farm Animal Operations.
2.1
Farm animal operations between the following thresholds are classified as low density:
EXPAND
Dairy Cows 67—250
Ducks 501—1,500
Horses 51—150
Poultry 60,001—200,000
Sheep/ Goats 1,001—3,000
Steers/Heifers 101—300
Swine 251—750
Turkeys 5,501—16,500
  2.2
All low-density farm animal operations constructed or expanded shall construct all buildings and fencing used for animal confinement (e.g. poultry house, farrowing house, milk parlor) at least 1000 feet from the property line; provided, however, that, upon approval of the Board of Commissioners of Macon County in accordance with the provisions of Article XIX, Section 14, a low-density farm animal operation may be constructed closer to an existing use if an agricultural adjacency waiver is submitted in connection with the application for a building permit. See definition of agricultural adjacency waiver.
Confinement fencing is not to be confused with boundary fencing, the latter of which may be constructed along the right-of-way and property line. The area between confinement fencing and boundary fencing may be used for row crop, vegetable or orchard production, or pasture. In the event said area is used for pasture, it shall not be stocked at a rate higher than recommended by generally accepted animal husbandry practices for open grazing of the specific animal species.
Where said area is grazed, fencing, as necessary, shall be erected around any surface feature, e.g. bog, to prevent livestock from congregating along boundary fencing adjacent to the property line. Livestock catch pens shall be allowed in this grazing area provided the specific site does not retain water.
2.3
Any site(s) used for temporary storage, or active or passive treatment, of any waste or by-product of a low-density farm animal operation shall be located at least 200 feet from the property line, and 1000 feet from existing dwellings. All handling and land application of waste and by-products from the operation shall comply with all applicable state and federal regulations.
2.4
Machinery and equipment used to ventilate animal confinement buildings must be installed in such a way that air removed from said buildings is directed away from nearby existing developments.
2.5
Any development proposed for a site adjacent to an existing low-density farm animal operation shall be constructed at least 1000 feet from the adjoining property line when said development is adjacent to a low-density operation; provided, however, that such proposed development may be constructed closer to an existing low-density farm animal operation if an agricultural adjacency waiver is submitted in connection with the application for a building permit. See definition of agricultural adjacency waiver.
2.6
All dead animals shall be disposed of by a method approved by the Georgia Environmental Protection Division and the Georgia Department of Agriculture in a manner that does not adversely affect ground or surface water or create a public health concern.
2.7
A farm animal operation that is in compliance with the requirements of this ordinance and the requirements of all state, federal and local laws, rules and regulations shall be presumed not to be a nuisance.
3.
High-density Farm Animal Operations.
3.1
Farm animal operations exceeding the following thresholds are classified as high density:
EXPAND
Dairy cows 250
Ducks 1,500
Horses 150
Poultry 200,000
Sheep/ Goats 3,000
Steers/Heifers 300
Swine 750
Turkeys 16,500
  3.2
All high-density farm animal operations constructed or expanded shall construct farm buildings and fencing used for animal confinement (e.g. poultry house, farrowing house, milking parlor) at least 2500 feet from the property line; provided, however, that, upon approval of the Board of Commissioners of Macon County in accordance with Article XIX, Section 14, a high-density farm animal operation may be constructed closer to an existing use if an agricultural adjacency waiver is submitted in connection with the application for a building permit. See definition of agricultural adjacency waiver.
Confinement fencing is not to be confused with boundary fencing, the latter of which may be constructed along the right-of-way and property line. The area between confinement fencing and boundary fencing may be used for row crop, vegetable or orchard production, or pasture. In the event said area is used for pasture it shall not be stocked at a rate higher than recommended by generally accepted animal husbandry practices for open grazing of the specific animal species.
Where said area is grazed, fencing, as necessary, shall be erected around any surface feature, e.g., bog, to prevent livestock from congregating along boundary fencing adjacent to the property line. Livestock catch pens shall be allowed in this grazing area provided the specific site does not retain water.
3.3
Any site(s) used for temporary storage, or active or passive treatment, of any waste or by-product of a high-density farm animal operation shall be located at least 500 feet from road property line and 1500 feet from an existing dwelling. All handling and land application of waste and by-products from the operation shall comply with all applicable state and federal regulations.
3.4
Machinery and equipment used to ventilate animal confinement buildings must be installed in such a way that air removed from said buildings is directed away from nearby existing developments and/or housing.
3.5
Any development proposed for a site adjacent to an existing high-density farm animal operation shall be constructed at least 2500 feet from the adjoining property line when said development is adjacent to a high-density operation; provided, however, that such proposed development may be constructed closer to an existing high-density farm animal operation if an agricultural adjacency waiver is submitted in connection with the application for a building permit. See definition of agricultural adjacency waiver.
3.6
All dead animals shall be disposed of by a method approved by the Georgia Environmental Protection Division and the Georgia Department of Agriculture in a manner that does not adversely affect ground or surface water or create a public health concern.
3.7
Any farm animal operations exceeding the following thresholds are considered to be conditional uses subject to review, evaluation and permitting by the Macon County Board of Commissioners:
EXPAND
Dairy Cows 2,100
Ducks 5,000
Horses 1,500
Poultry 375,000
Sheep/ Goats 30,000
Steers/Heifers 3,000
Swine 7,500
Turkeys 165,000
  3.8
No high-density farm animal operation shall be constructed within one mile of the corporate limits of the Cities of Ideal, Marshallville, Montezuma, Oglethorpe or Andersonville as said corporate limits exist at the time the permit for construction is issued or within one mile of the property lines of the Andersonville National Historic Site or Massey Lane Gardens.
3.9
A farm animal operation that is in compliance with the requirements of this ordinance and the requirements of all state, federal and local laws, rules and regulations shall be presumed not to be a nuisance.
Sec. 2. - River Protection District (RP).
new
1.
Land Conversion. No acreage in forest land/woodland at the time this ordinance becomes effective shall be converted to any use other than forest land/woodland or agriculture row-crop, except as provided herein below.
2.
Limitations on Development.
2.1
The following thresholds shall apply to development in the River Protection zone (as shown on the map) which is applicable to all other districts.
2.2
On parcels of public record of three acres or less as of the effective date of this ordinance, a maximum of one (1) acre may be developed.
2.3
The maximum developable area on parcels of public record as of the effective date of this ordinance which are greater than three acres and up to fifty (50) acres is 1.5 acres.
2.4
The maximum developable area on parcels of public record as of the effective date of this ordinance which are greater than fifty (50) acres is 3.0%, not to exceed ten (10) acres.
2.5
The Georgia Erosion and Sedimentation Act restricts land disturbance and trimming of vegetation within 25 foot buffer adjacent to creeks, streams, rivers, saltwater marshes, and most lakes and ponds. Macon County has added a 25 foot buffer to this for any and all development in this area.
3.
No improved roads shall be constructed. All existing, interior roads must maintain dirt or gravel surface.
4.
Harvest of forests and all other silvicultural practices shall conform to the Best Management Practices for Forestry as published by the Georgia Forestry Commission.
5.
Row-crop agricultural activities shall conform to Best Management Practices for Agriculture as published by the Georgia Soil and Water Conservation Commission.
