ARTICLE V. - OFFICIALS AND DEPARTMENTS
DIVISION 1. - EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT

Sec. 2-351. - Emergency management agency established, composition.
The Emergency Management Agency ("EMA") is hereby created, utilizing to the fullest extent personnel and facilities of existing Macon-Bibb County departments and agencies. A director, under the general direction of the Mayor and County Manager, shall be responsible for its organization, administration and operation. The organization shall consist of the following:
(a)
A director of the emergency management agency nominated by the mayor for appointment by the governor of the state, and any assistants, clerical help, other employees and emergency management volunteers as are deemed necessary to the proper functioning of the organization;
(b)
The employees, equipment and facilities of all Macon-Bibb County departments and agencies suitable for or adaptable to emergency management and designated by the mayor to participate in the emergency management activities;
(c)
Emergency Management Agency employees assuming the duties of office, each shall take substantially the following oath:
"I do solemnly swear or affirm that I will faithfully perform all the duties of my office, and that I will faithfully observe all the rules, orders and regulations of the Emergency Management Agency. I further swear or affirm that I will obey all laws of Macon-Bibb County, the State of Georgia, and any other state, or the United States of America." This oath shall be administered, and badge presented by the Emergency Management Agency Director, or the Mayor.
(d)
Emergency management volunteers, including persons of private agencies or governmental units offering services to the organization. The emergency management agency shall be established around existing Macon-Bibb County departments and agencies and emergency functions are assigned to departments and agencies as provided in the emergency management plan;
(e)
All heads of departments are responsible for developing the plan for their assigned emergency function. Each plan shall be submitted through the emergency management director to the mayor and to the commission for approval by resolution.
(Ord. No. O-21-0048 , § 2, 6-15-2021)
Sec. 2-352. - Duties of director of emergency management.
(a)
The director shall be the executive head of the emergency management agency, and shall have the responsibility, under the direction of the mayor, for the organization, administration and operation of the emergency management functions and shall:
(1)
Represent the governing officials of Macon-Bibb County on matters pertaining to emergency management;
(2)
Assist Macon-Bibb County officials in organizing Macon-Bibb County departments for emergency operations;
(3)
Develop, in conjunction with other Macon-Bibb County departments, the plan for emergency functions, provided the plan will be consonant with the state emergency plan and shall be submitted to the commission for approval by resolution and thence to the state director for approval;
(4)
Maintain the emergency management office in carrying out the day-to-day administration of the emergency management and disaster program, including the rendering of required reports to the state emergency management office;
(5)
Render reports on finances and daily activity as required by the mayor in keeping with good business practices;
(6)
During periods of a declared emergency, and under the supervision of the mayor, coordinate the operations of the Macon-Bibb County emergency operating center staff, including but not limited to, Macon-Bibb County Government employees, non-profit agencies, private businesses, and community organizations working in the emergency management space;
(7)
Develop, in cooperation with the state emergency management agency, with the federal emergency management agency, and with other selected public or private agencies within this state, and recommend to the mayor and the commission for approval by resolution, mutual aid agreements for reciprocal mutual aid and assistance in case of an emergency too great to be dealt with unassisted;
(8)
Make a continuing study of the emergency management and disaster plan of Macon-Bibb County in light of current needs and developments, and recommend to the mayor and to the commission for adoption by resolution, amendments and improvements thereof to meet changing conditions and to keep the plan in a state of readiness at all times;
(9)
Survey the resources and facilities and study and ascertain the requirements of Macon-Bibb County for food, medicine, clothing and shelter; medical, health, police, firefighting, rescue, transportation, engineering and construction services, equipment, and personnel; and any other supplies, equipment, facilities, personnel and services as may be needed in event of an emergency, and recommend to the mayor and the commission a plan for the procurement thereof;
(10)
Coordinate all activities in Macon-Bibb County for emergency management and maintain relationships and cooperate with other interested and affected agencies, public and private, provided, nothing contained in this division shall be construed to limit or in any way affect the responsibilities of the non-affiliated Macon-Bibb County Government organization under federal or state law;
(11)
Coordinate the recruitment and training of volunteer personnel and agencies to augment the personnel and facilities of the Macon-Bibb County Government for emergency management purposes.
(b)
The EMA Director may issue proper badging, insignia, or documentation to emergency management staff, either paid or volunteer and other people directly working with emergency management in accordance with state regulations.
(c)
The director may remove or cause to be removed, any individual previously certified as civil defense or emergency management volunteer in accordance with the Georgia Emergency Management Agency Act of 1981, as now or hereafter amended.
(Ord. No. O-21-0048 , § 2, 6-15-2021)
Secs. 2-353—2-359. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - E-911 DEPARTMENT

Sec. 2-360. - E-911 department established; composition.
The E-911 department is hereby established as a department of Macon-Bibb County. The department shall be composed of the E-911 director and any other employees as may be necessary. Subject to the direction of the Mayor, the supervision and control of the department is vested in the director. The department shall be responsible for operating the Macon-Bibb County E-911 Center in compliance with applicable federal, state, and Macon-Bibb County laws and regulations.
( Ord. No. O-2014-2, § 1, 1-21-2014 )
Secs. 2-361—2-399. - Reserved.
DIVISION 3. - COUNTY ATTORNEY.

Sec. 2-400. - Settlement of legal claims.
In matters of actual or threatened litigation in which Macon-Bibb County is named as a party defendant or in which a legal claim is presented to Macon-Bibb County ante litem, the mayor may authorize the county attorney or other legal counsel to execute, any documents relating to the settlement of legal claims so long as there are appropriated funds available to pay for the costs of such settlement.
(Ord. No. O-21-0084 , § 2, 10-19-2021)
Sec. 2-401. - Use of employees as confidential agents.
For purposes relating to the performance of his or her official duties, the county attorney and any assistant county attorneys shall have the authority to utilize any Macon-Bibb County employee as confidential support staff, and to require any such employee to take appropriate steps to protect the privilege and confidentiality of any particular official matter. Any employee designated as confidential support staff will remain so designated for the duration of the official matter only, and the duty to maintain privilege and confidentiality of any work performed in relation to such matter shall survive the employee's separation from employment to the extent enforceable by law. Any employee who knowingly, willfully, or negligently violates a duty of privilege or confidentiality imposed under this Section may be subject to discipline in accordance with the disciplinary policies and procedures of Macon-Bibb County, up to and including termination, in addition to any other remedies available under the law.
(Ord. No. O-21-0084 , § 2, 10-19-2021)
Secs. 2-402—2-580. - Reserved.
