Chapter 6 - ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES[1]
modified
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
State Law reference— Georgia Alcoholic Beverage Code, O.C.G.A. § 3-1-1 et seq.; authority to adopt rules and regulations relating to manufacture, sale and distribution of distilled spirits, O.C.G.A. § 3-4-49.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 6-1. - Definitions.
modified
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Alcoholic beverages means and includes all alcohol, distilled spirits, beer, malt beverages, wine, or fortified wine.
Church means any permanent building where persons regularly assemble for religious worship.
Employee means any person who performs any service for a licensee at the business location of the licensee whether for compensation or otherwise when the services performed directly relate to the sale of wine, malt beverages and/or distilled spirits (liquor).
Malt beverages or beer means any alcoholic beverage obtained by the fermentation of any infusion or decoction of barley, malt, hops, or any other similar product, or any combination of such products in water, containing not more than 14 percent alcohol by volume and including ale, porter, brown, stout, lager beer, small beer, and strong beer. The term "malt beverages or beer" does not include sake, known as Japanese rice wine.
Package store license means a license issued to a retail dealer for the sale of malt beverages, wine and/or distilled spirits (liquor) in sealed containers, for consumption off the premises, generally known as sale of malt beverages, wine and distilled spirits (liquor) "to go."
Premises means the building or structure for which the license is granted together with the lands reasonably surrounding said building or structure and includes any and all parts of said building or structure which shall be covered by one common roof or roofline regardless of whether said part or parts are separated by permanent or temporary walls or partitions.
Private club means a non-profit association organized and existing under the laws of the state, which has been in existence for a period of at least one year prior to the filing of its application for a license hereunder which has at least 75 members regularly paying dues, organized and operated exclusively for pleasure, recreation and other non-profit purposes, no part of the net earnings of which inures to the benefit of any shareholder or member, and owning, hiring or leasing a building or space therein for the reasonable use of its members with suitable kitchen and dining room space and equipment, and maintaining and using a sufficient number of employees for cooking, preparing and serving meals for its members and guests; provided that no member or officer, agent or employee of the club is paid, directly or indirectly receives, in the form of salary or other compensation any profits from the sale of spirituous liquors, wines, champagnes or malt beverages beyond the amount of such salary as may be fixed to him by its members at a prior annual meeting or by the governing body out of the general revenue of the club. For the purpose of this chapter, tips which are added to the bills under club regulations shall not be considered as spirits hereunder.
Private residence means the house or dwelling wherein not less than one nor more than three families customarily reside and does not include a mobile home, a boardinghouse where there are five or more boarders or roomers, or any residence which has been unoccupied for a period of six consecutive months immediately preceding the filing of an application.
Retail dealer orretailer means, except as to distilled spirits, any person who sells alcoholic beverages, either in unbroken packages or for consumption on the premises, at retail only to consumers and not for resale. With respect to distilled spirits, the term "retail dealer" or "retailer" means any person who sells distilled spirits in unbroken packages at retail only to consumers and not for resale.
School means only such state, county, city, church or other school that teaches the subjects commonly taught in the common schools of this state and does not include private schools where only specialized subjects such as law, stenography, business, music, art, medicine, dentistry, vocational occupations and other special subjects are taught. School grounds include the entire campus as defined by state law.
Wine orvinous liquors mean fermented beverages made from grapes, berries and other fruits, including fortified wines, provided the same shall not contain more than 21 percent alcohol by volume, but the term "wine" or "vinous liquors" does not include cooking wine mixed with salt or other ingredients so as to render it unfit for human consumption as a beverage.
(Ord. of 12-6-1988, pt. 1)
Sec. 6-2. - Penalties.
(a)
Upon conviction in the county magistrate court or superior court of any violation of any penal provision of this chapter, unless otherwise provided, the punishment shall be as set by the judge as allowed by the Charter of the county and the laws of the state.
(b)
Any license, issued under this chapter, may be suspended for a period of time now exceeding six months or may be revoked by the commissioners by reason of any disturbance, acts of disorderly conduct, violence, gambling or by reason of any conviction for violation of this chapter having occurred in the establishment or on the premises thereof; provided that when the license of any establishment has been revoked, no further license shall be issued under this chapter to any person, firm or corporation at that location for a period of 12 months from the date of revocation.
(c)
All owners or officers of establishments licensed under this chapter shall be criminally responsible for any violation of this chapter by an employee thereof, provided the court may only impose a just fine under this subsection.
(d)
Any violation of the provisions of this chapter shall be treated as a misdemeanor and shall be subject to punishment as described by the general penalties in section 1-15. The sentence shall be set by the judge of the magistrate court of the county or the judge of the superior court of the county.
(Ord. of 12-6-1988, pt. 8)
Secs. 6-3—6-22. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - APPLICANTS AND APPLICATIONS

Sec. 6-23. - License required.
No malt beverages, wine or distilled spirits (liquor) shall be sold legally in the county, outside the limits of incorporated municipalities, except under a license granted by the commission as herein provided.
(Ord. of 12-6-1988, § 2.1)
Sec. 6-24. - Applications to be made in person.
All applications for licenses for the sale of malt beverages, and/or distilled spirits (liquor) shall be filed in person by the applicant at the office of the commissioners, and shall consist of a completed form furnished for application purposes by said commissioners and fully in accordance with the criteria hereinafter set out.
(Ord. of 12-6-1988, § 2.2)
Sec. 6-25. - Fingerprints to be furnished.
(a)
As a prerequisite to the issuance of any license hereunder, the applicant shall furnish to the sheriff of the county a complete set of fingerprints which shall be forwarded by said sheriff to the division of investigation of the state which shall search the files of the state crime information center for a period of at least two years immediately preceding the date of such application for any instance of criminal activity, and the division of investigation shall submit such fingerprints to the Federal Bureau of Investigation under the rules established by the United States department of justice for processing and identification of records. Said records, if any, shall be obtained and returned to the commissioners and shall be made a part of the application.
(b)
In the case of private clubs, the officers of said club shall provide fingerprints for each officer.
(c)
There shall be a charge for said fingerprint report which must be paid in advance. The amount of the charge shall be as established by the board of commissioners, from time to time.
(Ord. of 12-6-1988, § 2.3)
Sec. 6-26. - Character.
(a)
In no event shall any license be granted to any person, firm or corporation where any of the individuals, or officers, as the case may be, have within ten years immediately prior to the filing of the application, have entered a plea of guilty, a plea of nolo contendere, or shall have suffered any conviction of any kind involving particularly, but not limited to, alcoholic beverages, of the state or of any locality of the United States, if such plea or conviction tends to indicate that the applicant will not maintain the operation for which the applicant is seeking a license in conformity with local, state or federal laws. Should any licensee, individually, or employee, partner or officer of a licensee corporation, after any license has been granted hereunder, be convicted or plead guilty or nolo contendere to a crime as defined herein of the state or any locality of the United States, the license shall stand revoked and cancelled as to such licensee, subject to the provisions for revocation hereinafter set out.
(b)
Private clubs shall submit a list of all dues paying members to the commission.
(Ord. of 12-6-1988, § 2.4)
Sec. 6-27. - Bond.
All applicants for licenses for the sale of malt beverages, wine and/or distilled spirits (liquor) herein provided shall file for such license applied for, a personal performance bond in the amount of $2,000.00 issued by an insurance company licensed to do business in the state, such bond to ensure compliance with all laws, rules, regulations and resolutions of the county. If the applicant is approved said bonds shall remain in force so long as the license is valid.
(Ord. of 12-6-1988, § 2.5)
Sec. 6-28. - Completed application required.
All applications for licenses on the forms provided by the commission shall be completely and fully executed and each question on the application form shall be answered accurately and under oath. Failure of an applicant to furnish complete answers, as well as failure to comply with all other prerequisites as herein provided shall be cause for denying the application with prejudice. The willful making of any false statement as to a material matter on any application for a license to sell malt beverages, wine, distilled spirits (liquor) which shall be found to be false shall constitute grounds for denying said license or for revocation of any license issued.
(Ord. of 12-6-1988, § 2.6)
Sec. 6-29. - Execution of application.
If the applicant is an individual, the applicant shall sign the application personally. If the applicant is a firm or partnership, each member or partner shall execute it. If the applicant is a corporation, it shall be executed by at least two officers of the corporation. If the applicant is a private club, it shall be executed by at least two officers of said club.
(Ord. of 12-6-1988, § 2.7)
Sec. 6-30. - Payment of application fee and license fee.
There shall be attached to the application form a bank money order, certified check, or like remittance as an application fee. The amount of the application fee shall be as established by the board of commissioners, from time to time. There shall also be attached to the application form a bank money order, certified check, or like remittance for the full amount of the fee for the license applied for. The license fee shall not be prorated for a part of a year but the full license fee shall be payable for any part of the year. The applicant shall not be entitled to a return of any portion of the application fee so paid, and the application fee shall not be considered as a part of any license fee due upon issuance of any license. If the license applied for should not be issued, the applicant shall be entitled to a return of the full amount of the license fee so paid.
(Ord. of 12-6-1988, § 2.8)
Sec. 6-31. - Publication of notice.
All persons, firms, partnerships or corporations shall advertise their intention to make application to the commission for issuance of any license hereunder, and shall be responsible for paying the cost of the advertisement. Such advertisement shall contain a statement of intention to apply for a license and the type of license to be applied for, shall show the location of the proposed licensed business, and the name of the applicant. If the applicant is a firm or a partnership, such notice shall show the names of the members or partners, and if a corporation shall show the names of the corporate officers, and if a private club, the names and addresses of all officers. Said advertisement shall follow generally the format to be furnished by the clerk. Such notice shall be published twice, on different days, in the official newspaper of the county in which legal advertisements are published, and shall be published prior to the filing of the application. The applicant shall obtain an affidavit of publication and attach such affidavit to the application. The advertisement herein prescribed shall not be required of applicants where the license sought is a renewal of a prior license issued to the same applicant for the same location.
(Ord. of 12-6-1988, § 2.9)
Secs. 6-32—6-50. - Reserved.
ARTICLE III. - CRITERIA FOR DENIAL AND ISSUANCE OF LICENSES

Sec. 6-51. - Denial of license application; granting.
(a)
The county commissioners may deny a county license under this chapter on any of the following grounds:
(1)
Failure to meet state requirements for state license;
(2)
Failure to pay required fees and taxes;
(3)
Failure to provide required valid information, documents and the like;
(4)
False information in the application or attached documents;
(5)
Failure to pass review by the sheriff;
(6)
Improper residency;
(7)
Prior convictions as herein provided;
(8)
Failure to meet any other requirements in this chapter for a license of the class applied for;
(9)
The proposed premises is inappropriate or unsuitable by reason of disturbances or acts of disorderly conduct, violence or gambling, having occurred in or about said premises;
(10)
The existence of dangerous traffic conditions at the proposed premises or a determination by the county commissioners that the granting of a license would cause dangerous traffic conditions as determined by reports from the sheriff's department, department of public safety and/or department of transportation; or
(11)
A determination by the county commissioners that the granting of the license would adversely affect the neighborhood or cause a substantial diminution in value of the immediately adjacent and surrounding property.
(b)
Otherwise, the county commissioners may issue any county license provided for in this chapter.
(Ord. of 12-6-1988, § 3.1)
Sec. 6-52. - Distances from certain uses.
No application for any license to sell malt beverages or wines shall be approved where the proposed location of the business is within 1,200 feet of a church, school or college campus, or within 1,200 feet of a funeral home or cemetery and 1,200 feet for distilled spirits (liquor). The distance herein prescribed shall be measured in a straight line from the nearest corner of the building housing the business to the nearest corner of such church building or funeral home, or to the nearest corner of the school ground, college campus, or cemetery grounds.
(Ord. of 12-6-1988, § 3.2)
Sec. 6-53. - Payment of fees and taxes.
No application hereunder shall be approved unless the applicant therefor shall have fully paid all license fee and ad valorem taxes due to the county.
(Ord. of 12-6-1988, § 3.3)
Sec. 6-54. - Prerequisites.
No application hereunder shall be approved until all the prerequisites as set out in article II of this chapter shall have been fully and completely complied with.
(Ord. of 12-6-1988, § 3.4)
Sec. 6-55. - Other criteria.
In determining whether or not any application hereunder shall be granted, in addition to all other provisions of this chapter, the following shall be considered by the commission in the public interest and welfare and no application shall be approved when it is found that:
(1)
The applicant or any employee of the business is then afflicted with alcoholism or other clearly defined alcoholic beverage use problems, and no person known to the licensee to be so afflicted may at any time be employed by the licensee in the licensed business.
(2)
The applicant or any employee of the business has at any time previously had a malt beverage or alcoholic beverage license revoked at any location, whether in the county or otherwise.
(3)
If the applicant has any interest in or is employed at more than two other such licensed business at any separate location.
(Ord. of 12-6-1988, § 3.5)
Sec. 6-56. - Public hearing.
After receipt of the application and all other prerequisites as herein set out, the clerk shall review the application and shall submit the application to the board for approval. If, the board upon consideration, finds that the application fails to satisfy any of the requirements for issuance of a license, the board shall take no action at such time, but shall notify the applicant in writing mailed to the address given in the application, or have the written application personally delivered to the applicant with an affidavit of service returned to the clerk, so that such notification shall be received at least three days prior to a day and time certain set for a hearing before the full commission. Said notice shall state specifically the time, date and place for the hearing, a complete statement of the requirements which have not been satisfied and upon which the commission proposes to take action, that the applicant must appear in person and has the right to be accompanied by an attorney, the names of any witnesses at the time known who may be called by the commission and that the applicant shall have the right to confront and cross examine such witnesses, that the applicant has the right to call any witnesses in the applicant's behalf who may be examined by the commission, and that all testimony and evidence shall be introduced and given under oath and shall be recorded. If the applicant fails to appear and has not been excused or granted an extension of time, the application shall be denied. If the applicant appears and fails to satisfy the requirements of this chapter as stated in the written notice, the application shall be denied. If the applicant appears and all requirements are satisfied, the application shall be granted.
(Ord. of 12-6-1988, § 3.6)
Sec. 6-57. - Rehearing.
Any person, firm, partnership or corporation aggrieved by any act or omission of the commission with respect to its proceedings as to the issuance of a license hereunder shall have the right to move for a rehearing and reconsideration of the matter. Such motion for rehearing shall be filed within five days after the action complained of, shall be in writing and shall outline the manner in which such protestant believes that the commission has erred, that the motion relates to a matter as to which evidence has been heard, no additional evidence or argument shall be permitted on the motion for rehearing except after a grant thereof by the commission for good cause shown. If the matter of which complaint is made was not the subject of a prior hearing at which the protestant was permitted to be present and heard, the commission shall afford a rehearing within 20 days after the filing of the motion, with at least three days written notice having been served upon the protestant, which notice shall state the protestant has the right to appear in person at a date and time specified in said notice, and that the protestant shall be allowed to be represented by counsel, and may introduce oral and documentary evidence under oath, and may examine and cross examine witnesses.
(Ord. of 12-6-1988, § 3.7)
Secs. 6-58—6-87. - Reserved.
ARTICLE IV. - LICENSES

Sec. 6-88. - Transferability.
No license issued hereunder shall be assignable or transferrable, and in the event a licensed business is moved, sold or closed or no longer directly operated by the licensee, the licensee shall immediately surrender the business' license to the clerk. All licenses shall be issued to specific persons, firms, partnerships or corporations and for a specific location. Changes of business interest from one party at interest named in the original application to another party at interest named in the original application shall not be deemed a transfer of a license. In such instance, however, the licensee shall notify the clerk in writing of such change, and fully disclose the facts in connection therewith, within ten days from the date of such change.
(Ord. of 12-6-1988, § 4.1)
Sec. 6-89. - Renewals.
(a)
The issuance of a license hereunder for any calendar year or portion thereof shall not be deemed to vest the licensee or any person having an interest in the business with any right to automatic renewal thereof. The duration and renewal of licenses under this chapter shall be as for a business license generally. Upon the expiration of any license by its terms, the licensee shall be required to apply for a new license for the succeeding calendar year, except as otherwise provided herein. Nothing contained herein shall prevent a licensee from applying for a renewal license for the succeeding calendar year within a period of 60 days next prior to the expiration of the license then held.
(b)
No license issued under this chapter may be renewed if the licensee could be denied a new license under this chapter.
(Ord. of 12-6-1988, § 4.2)
Sec. 6-90. - Term of license.
All licenses shall be issued on a calendar year basis and shall expire, regardless of the date of issuance, on December 31 of each year.
(Ord. of 12-6-1988, § 4.3)
Sec. 6-91. - Sale to persons under the age of 21 years.
No licensee shall furnish or cause to be furnished or permit any person in his employ to furnish any malt beverages or wine to any person under the age of 21. The licensee shall be held responsible for any such sale made by the licensee's employees or others in the licensed business premises. The prohibition of this section includes the sale, gift or any other furnishing of malt beverages or wine to persons under the age of 21 years as provided by state law.
(Ord. of 12-6-1988, § 4.4)
Sec. 6-92. - Posting of notice.
The holder of any license hereunder shall post in a conspicuous place in the license holder's place of business a notice with letters not less than four inches in height which shall be clearly visible to all customers entering the establishment, as follows: "Sale of Malt Beverages, Beer, Wine and/or Distilled Spirits (Liquor) to Persons Under the age of 21 is Strictly Prohibited."
(Ord. of 12-6-1988, § 4.5)
Sec. 6-93. - Elections.
Sale of malt beverages, wine and/or distilled spirits shall be allowed on election days provided said sale is not prohibited by state or federal law.
(Ord. of 12-6-1988, § 4.6)
Sec. 6-94. - Hours of operation.
No licensee shall engage in the sale of malt beverages or wine and/or distilled spirits (liquor) between the hours of 12:00 midnight on Saturday night and 7:00 a.m. on the following Monday morning, nor between the hours of 1:00 a.m. and 7:00 a.m. on the other days of the week.
(Ord. of 12-6-1988, § 4.7)
Sec. 6-95. - State and federal laws.
No licensee shall engage in the sale of malt beverages, wine and/or distilled spirits in violation of any state or federal law.
(Ord. of 12-6-1988, § 4.8)
Sec. 6-96. - Open to inspection.
Any establishment holding a license issued under this chapter shall at all times, during the period allowable by law for operation of the business, be open to inspection by an officer of the sheriff's department or any licensed inspector of the county or to any person designated by the sheriff or commissioners. In addition, if the premises are being used after hours by employees or the owners or their agents, the owners or their agents must notify the county sheriff's department and be available for inspection by a sheriff's deputy or other licensed inspection in the event inspection is deemed necessary.
(Ord. of 12-6-1988, § 4.9)
Sec. 6-97. - Consumption on premises.
No retail dealer for the sale of wine, beverages and/or distilled spirits (liquor) shall allow wine, malt beverages or distilled spirits (liquor) to be consumed on the retail dealer's premises. Any dealer with a license shall be held responsible for such consumption by the dealer's customers or other parties. This section shall not apply however to holders of a private club license.
(Ord. of 12-6-1988, § 4.10)
Sec. 6-98. - Familiarity with resolution.
All holders of a license for the sale of wines, malt beverages and/or distilled spirits (liquor) shall keep a copy of this chapter in the license holder's premises and instruct any person working there with respect to the terms herein, and each licensee and each person selling wine, malt beverages or distilled spirits (liquor) shall at all times be familiar with the terms of this chapter.
(Ord. of 12-6-1988, § 4.11)
Sec. 6-99. - Signs.
Licensee shall be allowed to advertise the sale of the beverages herein licensed by use of signs under the following conditions:
(1)
Only one sign visible from outside the premises, whether attached to the building or otherwise will be allowed advertising the sale of beverages hereby licensed for each business establishment which signs may be double faced;
(2)
The maximum dimensions for any such sign shall be four feet in height and six feet in width;
(3)
Any such sign may be a lighted sign;
(4)
All signs advertising the sale of wine, malt beverages or distilled spirits (liquors) must be located on the premises of the establishment selling the same.
(Ord. of 12-6-1988, § 4.12)
Sec. 6-100. - Anyone under the age of 21 years; prohibited practice.
(a)
It shall be unlawful for any person under the age of 21 years to buy or allow to be bought for any person under the age of 21 any alcoholic beverage from any place. It shall be unlawful for any person in charge of, or employed in any place of business where alcoholic beverages are kept, to permit any person under the age of 21 years to buy or to allow to be bought for any person under the age of 21 years any alcoholic beverages in or from the place of business. It shall be unlawful for any person under the age of 21 years when on the premises of a drive-in restaurant, whether in or outside of a motor vehicle, to have in such person's possession or under such person's control any alcoholic beverage. Any attempt to commit any act made unlawful by this section shall be itself unlawful and subject to punishment in the magistrate court or superior court.
(b)
It shall be unlawful for any person under the age of 21 years to falsely misrepresent such person's age, in any manner whatsoever, for the purpose of illegally obtaining any alcoholic beverages.
(c)
It shall be unlawful for any person to allow or require a person in such person's employment under 21 years of age to sell any alcoholic beverage; provided, however, that the provisions of this section shall not prohibit persons under 21 years of age who are employed in supermarkets, convenience stores or drug stores from selling or handling alcoholic beverages which are sold for consumption off the premises.
(d)
It shall be unlawful for any person who is under the age of 21 years, to have in such person's possession, or under such person's control, at any place whatever in the unincorporated areas of the county, any alcoholic beverage.
(e)
It shall be unlawful for a licensee not to post in a conspicuous place in said licensee's establishment a sign printed letters at least four inches high reading as follows:
"SALE OF ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES TO ANYONE UNDER THE AGE OF 21 STRICTLY PROHIBITED".
(f)
Violation of any provisions of this section shall constitute an offense hereunder and shall be punishable in the county magistrate court or superior court; provided, violation of this section by persons who have not yet reached the age of 17 years shall be handled as provided by the juvenile court code of the state.
(Ord. of 12-6-1988, § 4.13)
Sec. 6-101. - Furnishing to certain other persons prohibited.
No licensee shall sell or permit to be sold or otherwise furnished any wine or malt beverages to any person who is physically or mentally incapacitated due to the consumption of any alcoholic beverage or drugs.
(Ord. of 12-6-1988, § 4.14)
Sec. 6-102. - License fees.
The amounts of the fees for a package store license in malt beverages and/or wine, a package store license in distilled spirits (liquors), or a private club license shall be as established by the board of commissioners, from time to time.
(Ord. of 12-6-1988, pt. 6)
Secs. 6-103—6-130. - Reserved.
ARTICLE V. - REVOCATIONS

Sec. 6-131. - Grounds for suspension or revocation.
The following shall be considered just cause for suspension or revocation of any license issued hereunder:
(1)
The performance of any act prohibited by this chapter or the failure to perform any act required by this chapter, as well as the violation of any state, local or federal law, particularly, but not limited to those involving alcoholic beverages, if such violation tends to indicate that the licensee will not maintain the operation of the business licensed in conformity with state, local or federal laws. If such act, omission or violation is done by any agent, servant, employee or officer of the licensee, the lack of knowledge on the part of the licensee or the lack of authorization for such act or omission or violation shall be no defense.
(2)
The entry of a plea of guilty or nolo contendere, or the conviction of any licensee, partner, or any officer of a licensee corporation with respect to a charge or violation of any of the laws of the state or the United States or any locality particularly but not limited to those involving alcoholic beverages, if such violation tends to indicate that the licensee will not maintain the operation of the business licensed in conformity with state, local or federal laws.
(3)
The occurrence on three or more occasions within any 12-month period on the licensed premises of fights, disorderly conduct, drunkenness, breach of the peace and other similar conduct whether the same be committed by the licensee or by customers or by others.
(4)
Any violation of the reasons given to deny a license under this chapter shall be grounds for revocation or suspension of said license by the commissioners. In addition, if the owner or manager of the licensed business violates any other terms and provisions of this article or knowingly allows others to violate them while in the licensed establishment or its parking lot, then this shall also be grounds for suspension or revocation of the license.
(Ord. of 12-6-1988, § 5.1)
Sec. 6-132. - Suspension or revocation of license.
(a)
Any license issued under this article may be suspended for a definite time or may be revoked if the licensee or any employee of licensee has been convicted of the violation of any act prohibited by this article or of failure to perform any act required by this article or is convicted of the violation of any other ordinance of the county or any state or federal law relating to the sale of alcoholic beverages. The forfeiture of bond or collateral or a plea of nolo contendere shall be considered a conviction for the purposes of this subsection.
(b)
Any license issued under this article may be suspended for a definite time or revoked if the county magistrate court judge has determined that there is probable cause to believe that the licensee or an employee of licensee has violated a state or federal law relating to the sale of alcoholic beverages. The procedure for making such determination shall be:
(1)
The sheriff, after obtaining reliable information that such a violation has been committed, shall cite the licensee to appear for a hearing on a day certain before the county magistrate court and shall advise the licensee of the law believed to have been violated.
(2)
The county magistrate court judge, after hearing evidence, shall make a determination whether there is probable cause to believe the alleged violation has been committed. If the hearing results in a determination that probable cause does exist, the findings shall be reduced to writing and filed with the clerk, who shall report same to the county commissioners at the next regular meeting thereof.
(Ord. of 12-6-1988, § 5.2)
Sec. 6-133. - Notice and hearing; appeal.
No licenses issued under this article may be suspended or revoked unless the licensee has been afforded the opportunity for a hearing before the county commissioners or a committee designated by the commissioners. The licensee shall be given at least five days' written notice delivered to the licensee in person or by certified mail of the time, place and purpose of the hearing and the grounds for suspension or revocation. At such hearing the licensee shall have the right to appear in person and by attorney and to have witnesses appear in the licensee's behalf. All witnesses shall be sworn or shall make affirmation and shall be subject to reasonable cross examination. If a license be suspended or revoked by a committee designated by the commissioners, such suspension or revocation may be appealed by the licensee to the county commissioners by filing a notice of appeal with the clerk of the commissioners within a period of ten days following the date of the order of the committee suspended or revoking said license and the decision of the commissioners on any such appeal shall be final. The reason or reasons for suspension or revocation, whether by a committee or by the county commissioners shall be specifically stated in writing and delivered to the licensees.
(Ord. of 12-6-1988, § 5.3)
Sec. 6-134. - Time limitation on new license.
When a license has been suspended or revoked under the provisions of this article, no application for a new license for the same location will be received for a period of 12 months thereafter; and no application for a new license from the licensee involved shall be received for a period of 24 months.
(Ord. of 12-6-1988, § 5.4)
Sec. 6-135. - Rehearing.
Any person, firm or corporation aggrieved by any act or omission of the commission with respect to its proceedings involving revocation or suspension or forfeiture of any part of a bond under this resolution shall have the right to move for a rehearing. Such motion for rehearing shall be filed within five days after the act or omission complained of, shall be in writing, and shall outline the manner in which such protestant believes that the commission has erred. If the motion relates to a matter as to which evidence has already been heard, no additional evidence or argument shall be permitted on the motion for rehearing except after a grant thereof by the commission. If the matter of which complaint is made is not the subject of a prior hearing at which the protestant was permitted to be present and heard, the commission shall afford a hearing within ten days after the filing of the motion, of which three days written notice shall be given to the protestant, at which rehearing the protestant shall be allowed to appear, be represented by counsel, introduce oral and documentary evidence, and examine and cross examine witnesses.
(Ord. of 12-6-1988, § 5.5)
Secs. 6-136—6-176. - Reserved.
ARTICLE VI. - TAXES ON WINE, MALT BEVERAGES AND DISTILLED SPIRITS

Sec. 6-177. - License fee for wholesale dealers.
The license fee for a wholesale dealer shall be in an amount as established by the board of commissioners, from time to time.
(Ord. of 12-6-1988, § 7.2)
Sec. 6-178. - Taxes on wine.
(a)
It is hereby levied and imposed upon each wholesale dealer or distributor, distributing wine to retail dealers within the limits of the county and outside of the corporate limits of any municipality within said county a wine tax of $0.22 per liter and a proportionate tax at the same rate on all fractional parts of a liter.
(b)
The tax herein levied shall be paid by each wholesale dealer who has sold wine within the county, and outside the corporate limits of any municipality within said county. Each wholesale dealer or distributor shall file a report by the tenth of each month itemizing for the preceding calendar month the exact quantity of all wine, by size and type of container for the month sold within the county, and outside the corporate limits of any municipality within the county. Each such wholesale dealer or distributor shall remit to the county, on the tenth day of the month next succeeding the calendar month in which such sales were made, the amount of tax due in accordance with this resolution.
(c)
No decal, stamp or other identifying marking shall be required to be affixed to wine sold within the county, outside the corporate limits of any municipality within the county.
(d)
The wine taxes herein provided shall be in addition to any license fee, tax, or charge which may now be imposed upon the business of selling wine at retail or wholesale within the county, outside the corporate limits of any municipality within the county.
(e)
The failure to make a timely report and remittance as provided for in this section, shall render a wholesale dealer for a penalty equal to ten percent of the total amount due during the first 30-day period following the date such report and remittance were due and further penalty of 25 percent of the amount of such remittance for each successive 30-day period or any portion thereof, during which such report and remittance are not filed. The filing of a false or fraudulent report shall render the wholesale dealer making such report liable for a penalty equal to 50 percent of the amount of the remittance which would be required under an accurate and truthful report.
(f)
Said tax may be adjusted from time to time to comply with applicable state and federal law.
(Ord. of 12-6-1988, § 7.3)
Sec. 6-179. - Tax on malt beverages.
(a)
Except as provided hereinafter, there is hereby levied and opposed upon each wholesale dealer selling malt beverages within the county, outside the corporate limits of any municipality within said county, an excise tax in the amount of $0.05 per 12-ounce or proportionately thereof, of malt beverages sold by such wholesale dealer within the county, outside the corporate limits of any municipality within said county.
(b)
All malt beverages sold in or from a barrel or bulk container and being commonly known as tap or draft beer, shall not be subject to the excise tax provided for hereinabove, but in lieu thereof there is hereby imposed upon such wholesale dealer selling malt beverages within the county, outside the corporate limits of any municipality within said county, and excise tax of $6.00 for each barrel or bulk container having a capacity of 15½ gallons sold by such wholesale dealer within the county, and a like rate for fractional parts thereof.
(c)
Each wholesale dealer who has sold malt beverages within the county shall file a report by the tenth day of each month itemizing for the preceding calendar month the exact quantities of all malt beverages by size and type of container for the month sold within the county. Each such wholesale dealer shall remit to the county, on the tenth day of the month next succeeding the calendar month in which sales were made, the amount of tax due in accordance with this provision.
(d)
No decal, stamp or other identifying marking shall be required on malt beverages sold within the county, outside the corporate limits of any municipality within the county.
(e)
The excise taxes provided for in this section shall be in addition to any license fee, tax or charge which may now be imposed upon the business of selling malt beverages at retail or wholesale within the county.
(f)
The failure to make a timely report and remittance shall render a wholesale dealer liable for a penalty equal to ten percent of the total amount due during the first 30-day period following the date such report or remittance were due and a further penalty of 25 percent of the amount of such remittance for each successive 30-day period or any portion thereof, during which said report and remittance are not filed. The filing of a false or fraudulent report shall render the wholesale dealer making such report liable for a penalty equal to 50 percent of the amount of the remittance which would be required under an accurate and truthful report.
(g)
Said tax may be adjusted from time to time to comply with applicable state and federal law.
(Ord. of 12-6-1988, § 7.4)
Sec. 6-180. - Tax on distilled spirits (liquors).
(a)
Except as provided hereinafter, there is hereby levied and opposed upon each wholesale dealer selling distilled spirits (liquor) within the county, outside the corporate limits of any municipality within said county, an excise tax in the amount of $0.22 per liter or $0.65 per ounce and a proportionate tax at the same rate on all fractional parts of a liter or an ounce.
(b)
Each wholesale dealer who has sold distilled spirits (liquor) within the county, shall file a report by the tenth day of each month itemizing for the preceding calendar month the exact quantities of all distilled spirits (liquor) by size and type of container for the month sold within the county. Each such wholesale dealer shall remit to the county, on the tenth day of the month next succeeding the calendar month in which sales were made, the amount of tax due in accordance with this resolution.
(c)
No decal, stamp or other identifying marking shall be required on distilled spirits (liquor) sold within the county, outside the corporate limits of any municipality within the county.
(d)
The excise taxes provided for in this section shall be in addition to any license fee, tax or charge which may not be imposed upon the business of selling distilled spirits (liquor) retail or wholesale within the county.
(e)
The failure to make a timely report and remittance shall render a wholesale dealer liable for a penalty equal to ten percent of the total amount due during the first 30-day period following the date such report or remittance were due and a further penalty of 25 percent of the amount of such remittance for each successive 30-day period or any portion thereof, during which said report and remittance are not filed. The filing of a false or fraudulent report shall render the wholesale dealer making such report liable for a penalty equal to 50 percent of the amount of the remittance which would be required under an accurate and truthful report.
(f)
Said tax shall be adjusted from time to time to comply with applicable state and federal law.
(Ord. of 12-6-1988, § 7.5)
Sec. 6-181. - Failure to make timely reports.
The failure of any wholesale dealer in wine, malt beverages and/or distilled spirits (liquor) to make a timely report or remittance as provided in this article, or the filing of a false or fraudulent report shall constitute grounds for the revocation of the license issued to buy in the county, to said wholesale dealer. Any such revocation may be made by the commission upon a hearing granted to said wholesale dealer after written notice to the dealer made at least three days prior to the date for said hearing which notice shall specify the time, place and purpose of the hearing and the statement of the specific charge upon which the commission proposes to take action. At such hearing, the dealer shall have the right to appear in person and by attorney, and evidence shall be given under oath, and the commission and the dealer shall have the right to examine and cross examine witnesses. The dealer shall have the rights to present documents and records pertaining to said matter, and the commission shall have the right to inspect and examine such records and documents.
(Ord. of 12-6-1988, § 7.6)
