Chapter 58 - SOLID WASTE[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Editor's note— Amd. of 9-10-2012(4), § 1(Exh. A), repealed the former Ch. 58, §§ 58-1, 58-2, 58-31, 58-32, and enacted a new Ch. 58 as set out herein. The former Ch. 58 pertained to similar subject matter and derived from Code 1991, §§ 27-106, 27-107; Res. of 11-9-1992; Ord. of 10-14-1996, § 2(a), (b); Ord. of 1-10-2000.
Cross reference— Removal of dead animals, § 14-3; buildings and building regulations, ch. 18; environment, ch. 38; utilities, ch. 82.
State Law reference— Georgia Comprehensive Solid Waste Management Act, O.C.G.A. § 12-8-20 et seq.; local, multijurisdictional and regional solid waste plans, O.C.G.A. § 12-8-31.1; scrap tire disposal restrictions, O.C.G.A. § 12-8-40.1; Litter Control Law, O.C.G.A. § 16-7-40 et seq.; transporting garbage or waste across state or county boundaries without permission, O.C.G.A. § 36-1-16; littering highways, O.C.G.A. § 40-6-249; solid waste management education program, establishment of Georgia Clean and Beautiful Advisory Committee and Interagency Council on Solid Waste Management, O.C.G.A. § 50-8-7.3.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 58-1. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Garbage is defined as household waste, including food products, containers, bottles, clothing, paper and other waste that is and can be placed in a garbage container, but specifically excluding animal and human litter, auto parts or any metal objects, building materials, rocks, dirt, motor oil, chemicals, ashes or hazardous materials as defined by federal, state or local law.
Trash is defined as rubbish, vegetation, debris, furniture, noncommercial appliances, but specifically excluding building scraps, roofing and gutters.
(Amd. of 9-10-2012(4), § 1(Exh. A))
Sec. 58-2. - Compliance.
The city shall only collect or cause to be collected and dispose of garbage and trash that has met the requirements of this chapter.
(Amd. of 9-10-2012(4), § 1(Exh. A))
Sec. 58-3. - Garbage containers.
(a)
The public works department shall provide each household with one container; provided that the city may require bulk containers for use in multifamily housing areas and mobile home parks where the city determines use of individual containers is economically unfeasible.
(b)
Such containers shall remain the sole property of the public works department.
(c)
Each container becomes the full responsibility of the occupant to whom it has been assigned, and the head of household may be assessed such sum as fixed from time to time by the city council should the container become damaged or stolen.
(d)
Each container shall be embossed with the name "City of Madison" and shall not be marked, painted, cut or otherwise abused by anyone.
(e)
Should the container become damaged or stolen or if parts become stolen, loose or damaged, the occupant shall notify the public works department, by telephone, during normal business hours.
(f)
Should the occupant change address, the public works department shall be notified so that the container may be picked up. Under no circumstances shall the container be taken with the occupant to a new residence.
(Amd. of 9-10-2012(4), § 1(Exh. A))
Sec. 58-4. - Garbage collection service charges.
All owners, occupants, tenants and lessees of buildings and premises, except as hereinafter provided, who receive services from the city for the collection and disposal of garbage, trash and rubbish shall hereafter pay a charge for such services to the city in such amount as set forth in the schedule of fees and charges on file in the office of the city clerk, such charge being included in the monthly statement mailed to such individuals by the utility department; and such charge shall be subject to the same penalties as authorized for late payment of other charges billed by the finance or utility department.
(Amd. of 9-10-2012(4), § 1(Exh. A))
Sec. 58-5. - Businesses.
(a)
All businesses located within the corporate boundaries of the city shall use containers for garbage as provided and prescribed by the public works department. Such containers must be of a type that can be hydraulically picked up and transported by vehicles of the public works department utilized for such purposes. Service charges, in such amount as set forth in the schedule of fees and charges on file in the office of the city clerk, shall be charged to businesses. Businesses may use private vendors for solid waste services not provided by city such as roll off service, compactor service, construction and demolition material removal, and recycling.
(b)
The rate of service charge per business shall be established by the city based upon the usage of such containers. A schedule of charges on all businesses under this section shall be available at the clerk's office for inspection.
(c)
All containers as provided and prescribed for businesses shall be located at the business as specified by the department head of the public works department.
(d)
A hardened surface made of concrete or similar material shall be provided meeting the specification as required by the department head of the public works department to enable any sanitation vehicle to safely and efficiently service the container provided for garbage; provided, however, the department head of the public works department may approve other arrangements that satisfactorily enable any sanitation vehicle to safely and efficiently service the container provided for garbage.
(e)
All businesses and/or property owners shall maintain on-site conditions where wear and tear might occur on approach surfaces to a garbage container to an acceptable level as specified by the department head of the public works department. Where any approach surface required to service a garbage container becomes damaged or altered to any unacceptable condition in the opinion of the department head of the public works department, the condition as specified by the department head shall be corrected within 60 days from the date of receipt by the business or property owner of the deficiency. The department head may specify a lesser period of time for corrections of deficiencies where conditions are of a minor degree.
(Amd. of 9-10-2012(4), § 1(Exh. A))
Sec. 58-6. - Reserved.
Sec. 58-7. - Garbage collection procedures.
All owners, occupants, tenants and lessees of buildings and premises, to whom services from the city for the collection and disposal of garbage are offered, shall comply with the following procedures:
(1)
The person having authority to control the disposal of garbage in any household, premises or building shall cause all garbage collected therein to be placed in approved containers provided by the city public works department. All garbage placed in containers shall be bagged.
(2)
All such containers shall be placed in normal locations (to the rear or side of the structure) until pushed to the curb not earlier than 5:00 p.m. on the day before the date of collection. Dates and times of collections and collection procedures shall be set forth by the public works department. No such container shall be placed in the street except on the shoulders or areas not reserved for vehicular travel. No such container or plastic bags shall be placed on a sidewalk.
(3)
Provisions shall be made to exempt occupants who are physically unable to push their containers to the curb.
(4)
Exemption forms are available upon request at the city clerk's office or may be filled out over the phone by calling city hall.
(5)
After collection by the public works department of the garbage within any container, all containers placed at curbside shall be promptly removed from the street right-of-way to their normal locations (to the rear or side of the structure) by the person having authority to control the disposal of garbage in any household, premises or building. Any person responsible for any such container not removed by 5:00 p.m. of the day following the day the garbage container was emptied by the public works department shall be deemed to be in violation of this section.
(6)
Poisons, acids, caustics, explosives or other hazards or dangerous materials, soils, or any type of construction materials and furniture shall not be placed in any container provided for garbage.
(Amd. of 9-10-2012(4), § 1(Exh. A))
Sec. 58-8. - Trash collection procedures.
All owners, occupants, tenants and lessees of buildings and premises, to whom services from the city for the collection and disposal of trash and rubbish are offered, shall comply with the following:
(1)
All trash and rubbish must be placed on or near the curb, abutting a public street in the city, but the same shall not be placed in the street or in a drainage ditch along such street. Trash and rubbish shall not be placed on a sidewalk. Household trash items (appliances, furniture, bedding, etc.) must be separated from rubbish. Household trash items shall be placed at the street to pick up no sooner than one day before the designated pickup day. The current pickup day is Wednesday of each week but may change due to holiday schedules. Therefore, no household trash items shall be placed at the street before Tuesday morning.
(2)
Services for accumulations of trash or rubbish shall be limited to one truck load at any one time. Any type of trash that necessitates the use of more manpower than customary will be picked up by the public works department for such charge as fixed from time to time by the mayor and city council. Items considered dangerous to city personnel as determined by the department head of the public works department will not be picked up. Cuttings by commercial tree surgeons, tree cutters, or lawn maintenance service must be removed by said commercial tree surgeon, tree cutters, or lawn maintenance service or by property owner at property owners expense.
(Amd. of 9-10-2012(4), § 1(Exh. A); Amd. of 5-10-2021 , § 1(Exh. A))
