ARTICLE II. - BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS STATEMENTS OF POLICIES AND PROCEDURES

Sec. 2-21. - Vice-chairman.
The board of commissioners shall vote to elect a vice-chairperson for a 12-month period.
(Ord. of 1-9-2012, § 2(A); Ord. of 1-7-2013(1) ; Ord. 1-6-2014(2) ; Ord. of 1-5-2015(2) ; Ord. of 1-4-2016(1) ; Ord. of 1-9-2017(3) ; Ord. of 2-6-2017(1) )
Sec. 2-22. - Equipment.
County equipment shall not be loaned to any person, firm or corporation unless approved by the chairman.
(Ord. of 1-9-2012, § 2(B); Ord. of 2-6-2017(1) )
Sec. 2-23. - Conduct.
All board members must abide by the state code of ethics.
(Ord. of 1-9-2012, § 2(C))
Sec. 2-24. - Committee appointments.
The board of commissioners has the duty to make appointments to certain boards and committees. In order to fairly represent all citizens of Madison County, no one person shall serve on more than one county appointed board or committee. The Sheriff of Madison County is excluded from this policy. Resignations of committee or board members shall be submitted in writing to the chairman of the board of commissioners, and once so submitted may not be withdrawn without approval of the board of commissioners. The office of the Madison County Board of Commissioners shall on the first Monday of February each year, publish in the legal organ a listing of all commissions, boards, authorities and councils with a current member listing — also post a listing of all vacancies that will occur during that calendar year for each. The publishing shall request and encourage citizens of Madison County to submit their names for consideration to fill any vacancies that will occur.
(Ord. of 1-9-2012, § 2(D))
Sec. 2-25. - Acceptance of deeds.
No deed dedicating real estate to the county for public use shall be deemed to have been accepted unless and until such dedication is approved by the county attorney and such deed is accepted by the board of commissioners, and such acceptance is noted on the official minutes of the board of commissioners.
(Ord. of 1-9-2012, § 2(E))
Sec. 2-26. - Legal expenses.
(a)
In accordance with O.C.G.A. § 45-9-21, Madison County will undertake to defend civil, criminal, or quasi-criminal actions brought or maintained against members of the board of commissioners, or against supervisors, administrators, employees, or other elected or appointed county officers, arising out of the performance of their duties or in any way connected therewith, whether based upon negligence, violation of contract rights, or violation of civil, constitutional, common law, or statutory rights. Defense shall be provided to the extent authorized by O.C.G.A. § 45-9-21, except as provided in subsection 2-36(c) below, and compliance by the person(s) desiring such defense with all requirements of O.C.G.A. § 45-9-21 shall be a prerequisite to the county's obligation to provide defense.
(b)
Any and all persons desiring representation under this policy shall submit a request for such representation, in writing, to the county clerk, and such request shall then be considered by the board of commissioners. The board of commissioners shall respond to the person(s) making such request, in writing, within 20 days of such submission, indicating whether representation will be provided. If the board of commissioners does not respond within 20 days, such request shall be deemed denied.
(c)
Notwithstanding anything to the contrary herein, representation shall not be provided or expenses of representation reimbursed to any person for political processes, to include, but not limited to, recall elections. However, reasonable expenses of legal representation may be reimbursed for legal proceedings instituted under O.C.G.A. § 21-4-6 by members of the board of commissioners or other elected county officers if, and only if, such proceeding, including any appeals, results in a finding of lack of sufficiency. Nothing herein shall be construed as absolving any person from compliance with O.C.G.A. § 21-4-16, concerning the Georgia Ethics in Government Act.
(Ord. of 1-9-2012, § 2(F))
Sec. 2-27. - Notice to commissioners.
The chairman shall provide notice to all commissioners, of each meeting, seven days before said meeting, or when notice of said meeting is made available for publication to the public, whichever shall occur earliest. Further, when providing notice to all commissioners, the chairman shall make available copies of the agenda and all documents or other pertinent materials necessary for review of those matters to come before the board of commissioners.
(Ord. of 1-9-2012, § 2(G))
Sec. 2-28. - Review of financial records.
All financial records of the preceding month, covering all revenues and expenses on all accounts, shall be furnished to the entire board of commissioners at the beginning of each month.
(Ord. of 1-9-2012, § 2(H); Ord. of 2-6-2017(1) )
Sec. 2-29. - Executive session.
No individual, individuals, or county employee shall be present in any executive session held by the board of commissioners, except the county attorney and the county clerk. Any other exception shall be approved by a majority vote of the board of commissioners.
(Ord. of 1-9-2012, § 2(I); Ord. of 5-8-2017(1) )
Sec. 2-30. - Signatures on county checks.
All county checks and drafts shall be signed by the chairman of the board of commissioners and the county clerk. In the absence or unavailability of the chairman or the county clerk, the vice-chair of the board of commissioners may sign in his/her stead.
(Ord. of 1-9-2012, § 2(J); Ord. of 3-6-2017(1) )
Sec. 2-31. - Monthly progress reports.
At the monthly business meeting, the chair or his designee shall provide a report to the board listing each current and ongoing public works (including, but not limited to, roads) construction, maintenance, or improvement project approved by the board. As to each project listed, the report shall include the following information: the individual or department of government in charge of the project, the estimated project completion date, and any foreseeable reasons the estimated completion date might not be met.
(Ord. of 1-9-2012, § 2(K))
Sec. 2-32. - Credit card usage by elected officials.
(a)
The chairman and members of the board of commissioners may be issued government credit cards, the use of which is strictly governed hereby.
(b)
Before being issued a government card, the user shall sign and accept an agreement with the county that he/she will use such card only in accordance with county policy.
(c)
The monthly transaction limit for the chairman's card is established at $4,000.00, and the monthly transaction limit for each board member card is established at $2,500.00.
(d)
Cards may only [be] used for:
(1)
For the chairman and board members, travel expenses permitted by the county's travel policy; and
(2)
For the chairman only, purchases made on behalf of the county in accordance with the county's purchasing policy.
(e)
Any use of a card except as set forth above is prohibited. Such prohibited uses include, but are not limited to:
(1)
Personal purchases or cash withdrawals;
(2)
Cash advances;
(3)
Gift card purchases; and
(4)
Food or gratuity purchases except as specifically permitted by the county's travel policy.
(f)
The county's finance director is designated as the government credit card administrator.
(g)
Credit card usage shall be audited and reviewed in accordance with the standards of the governmental accounting standards board, and in accordance with such further guidance as the county's independent auditing firm may provide.
(h)
The first violation of this policy will result in the immediate suspension of credit card privileges for 30 days. The second violation of this policy will result in the immediate suspension of credit card privileges for 60 days. The third violation of this policy will result in charging privileges being revoked indefinitely. Nothing herein nor any administrative action taken pursuant hereto shall preclude any other civil or criminal remedy under any other provision of law.
(Res. of 9-28-2015 )
Secs. 2-33—2-40. - Reserved.
