ARTICLE V. - FINANCE

Section 5-101. - Financial report to be published.
The councilmen shall each year cause to be printed a detailed itemized statement of the receipts and disbursements of the city.
(Ga. L. 1923, p. 739, Sec. 14)
Section 5-102. - Ad valorem tax authorized; limitation.
For the purpose of raising revenue for the support and maintenance of city government, the mayor and council of said city shall have full power and authority, and shall provide by ordinance for the assessment and collection of ad valorem tax, on all real and personal property within the corporate limits of said city which is subject to be taxed by the state; said tax not to exceed one and one-half of one percent (1½ of 1%) upon the value of said property, for ordinary expenses. In addition to the taxes for ordinary current expenses herein allowed, the mayor and council may levy an "extraordinary tax," not exceeding one-half of one percent (½ of 1%) on the taxable property of said city, to be used only for paving or macadamizing or otherwise improving the streets or for paving [sic] the interest and principal of the public debt.
(Ga. L. 1909, p. 1071, Sec. 17 as amended by Ga. L. 1921, p. 1005, Sec. 1)
Section 5-103. - Failure to return property for assessment.
In case any property shall be subject to taxation was not assessed, if realty, by the tax assessors, or returned for taxation, if personalty, or for any reason has not been assessed for taxation and taxes collected thereon, in any year then passed, the city assessors may, at any time, assess said property for the said year or years, and double tax it, if there has been failure to return it as required by law, and if the mayor and council shall have provided for double taxing of defaulters, and execution shall then issue therefor, as in other cases, at the rates for the several years in which no taxes were paid. This section shall apply to the assessment of property which before the passage of this act in any year, was not assessed for taxation, or was not returned for taxation and taxes omitted from any cause from return or assessment, and the collection of taxes thereon omitted in any year. And assessments may be made and execution issued hereunder, as well as for years prior to the passage of this act, as thereafter. And in case assessment has been made for any year or years, or shall be so made, and no execution issued, and no taxes have been paid on such property so assessed, then executions may issue at any time, based on said assessments, for the purpose of collecting the amount of taxes due on said property in such years; whether prior or subsequent to the passage of this act. The mayor and council may provide by ordinance for the execution of the provisions of this section wherever ordinances are necessary. And said mayor and council shall provide by ordinance for notice to parties whose property has been, or may be, assessed for back taxes, and the hearing of any complaint. All assessments referred to in this section shall be made by the city tax assessors.
(Ga. L. 1909, p. 1071, 2nd Sec. 19)
Section 5-104. - Due dates; payment; executions; penalties.
The mayor and council shall have power and authority to provide by ordinance when the taxes of said city shall fall due, and in what length of time said taxes may be paid, when tax executions shall be issued against all persons who have not paid their taxes by the time fixed by ordinance, and to fix a penalty for the nonpayment of taxes when due.
(Ga. L. 1909, p. 1071, Sec. 20)
Section 5-105. - Collection of delinquent revenues.
Executions for any and all taxes or fines, license fees, assessments or forfeitures, or demands due said city, or its corporate authorities, against any person or persons, firm, company or corporation, or against any property subject thereto, shall be issued by the clerk of said city, signed by him, bear test in the name of the mayor, and be directed to the marshal of said city; and all and singular the sheriffs, deputy sheriffs and constables of this state, commanding them that any property belonging to the defendant against whom said execution is issued, or of the certain property described in the execution, the amount of said execution be made with cost. The mayor and council shall provide by ordinance for advertising of, method of conducting, and all other regulations governing the sales by the marshal under city executions. The sheriffs and constables of this state shall have the same power and authority to levy and collect executions issued by the City of Manchester as they have to levy and collect executions for the various courts of this state.
(Ga. L. 1909, p. 1071, Sec. 21)
