Chapter 46 - ROADS AND BRIDGES
ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 46-1. - National Highway System.
The Georgia Department of Transportation take the necessary steps to revise the National Highway System as shown on the sketch map numbered 069R and as described as follows: Add to the National Highway System as a STRAHNET Route a section of State Route 26, beginning at the junction of State Route 26 with State Routes 1 and 520/U.S. Routes 27 and 280 in Chattahoochee County and extending in a generally easterly direction along State Route 26 via the Marion County Line, Buena Vista, Schley County Line, Ellaville, Macon County Line, Oglethorpe, Montezuma, Houston County Line, Pulaski County Line, Hawkinsville, Bleckley County Line, Cochran and the Laurens County Line to its interchange with Interstate 16/State Route 404 for 112.29 miles/180.67 km.
(Ord. of 6-12-2007)
Secs. 46-2—46-30. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - HAULING AND LOGGING
DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Sec. 46-31. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Access site means any temporary roadway, drive, structure, fill or device, existing or constructed, that is used or employed for the purpose of crossing, travel upon or use of county road rights-of-way.
County right-of-way means the shoulder, front slope, ditch, drain and back slope, facility or any appurtenance of any county road.
County road means any county-owned or maintained highway, road, street, avenue, drive, detour or other way open to the public and intended or used for the passage of motor vehicles.
Harvester means any person involved in loading and hauling pulpwood, stone, fill dirt, construction material or logging and timber operations coming under the provisions of this article.
Heavy equipment machinery and vehicles means any and all devices in, upon or by which any person or property may be transported or drawn, including but not limited to semitrailers, trailers, tractors and truck-tractors; provided, however, that vehicles in use immediately for the control or extinguishing of wild fire shall be exempt from this article.
Loading and unloading shall be defined by its everyday meaning but also shall include any activity known as harvesting or mining of any product or material.
Operations means those activities contemplated by this article, including the loading or transporting of raw materials such as stone, timber, pulpwood, fill dirt and construction material.
Operator means any person, and the officer's agents, and employees thereof, carrying out the activities contemplated by this article.
Sec. 46-32. - Penalty for violations.
Any person violating any of the provisions of this article shall be liable to fines and or injunctive relief or any other legal procedure authorized by law. Any fine imposed shall be as provided in section 1-17.
Sec. 46-33. - Scope.
This article shall cover any person who uses a county right-of-way in carrying out its business by loading, transporting, or unloading materials of any nature, whether on the road surface or a county right-of-way, or crossing the unpaved portion of the right-of-way, including ditches or embankments, except farmers and landowners harvesting timber for their own use.
Sec. 46-34. - Inspection of site.
Upon completion of operations under this article, the operator shall give written or oral notification to the code enforcement officer. The site shall be inspected by a county official from the code enforcement office, road department, or county engineer's office, and the code enforcement officer shall provide notice of release of liability to the operator within ten days of notification of completion.
Sec. 46-35. - Exemptions.
Small and limited operations of less than three tons in load less than 48 hours in duration and using existing driveways may be exempted from the bonding requirements of this article within the reasonable discretion of the code enforcement officer.
Sec. 46-36. - Liability for damages; bond.
Any provisions of this article notwithstanding, an applicant or operator shall be liable to the county for the full amount of any damages caused by such operations, the amount of bond notwithstanding.
Sec. 46-37. - Arbitration of amount of damages.
If the parties cannot agree on the amount of damages, then the applicant shall have the right to request arbitration in writing. The county shall choose one arbitrator and the operator shall choose the second, both of whom shall be residents of the county. Together, the two designees shall choose a third arbitrator who shall be a registered forester residing in the county or a county contiguous thereto. Within 30 days of their designation, such arbitration panel shall review the damages and render a decision which shall be subject to appeal to the county superior court.
Secs. 46-38—46-60. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - PERMIT

Sec. 46-61. - Required.
No harvester shall use an existing driveway or access point or install any new driveway, temporary driveway, or means of ingress and egress to any property abutting a county road or county-maintained road without first making application to the board of commissioners through its code enforcement officer for and receive a permit authorizing such installation or use, except farmers and landowners harvesting timber for their own use.
Sec. 46-62. - Application.
The application for permits required by this division shall consist of the following:
(1)
The name, address and phone number of the party which will be loading or unloading.
(2)
The approximate location of access sites to the county road.
(3)
The date work will commence.
(4)
Name of the title owner of the tract.
Sec. 46-63. - Bond.
modified
(a)
Required. An applicant for a permit under this division, unless otherwise exempted, shall file a bond in the amount of $5,000.00 with the application, either in cash, cashiers check or certified check. The bond shall be conditioned to protect and save harmless the board of commissioners from all claims and damages for cleaning and repairing any county road. A bond will be required for each separate operation.
(b)
Multiple operations. An existing bond may be used by an applicant for more than one operation, provided there are no violations of any of the operations, and provided further that no more than three operations shall be covered by the same bond. Any operation lasting longer or expected to last longer than 30 days shall be subject to a separate bond.
(c)
Release. Upon completion of the operations and inspection by the code enforcement office, at the request of the applicant, the bond shall be returned to the applicant subject to deductions for repairs that are reasonably required under this article.
(d)
Denial of permit. No permit shall be issued to any applicant who has failed to satisfy any bonding requirements imposed upon persons engaged in the kind of work or activity proposed to be done or has not satisfactorily completed repairs and cleanup from any previously approved site, or such applicant's agents.
(Memo of 7-29-2021)
Sec. 46-64. - Display of permit.
It shall be the duty of any permittee under this division to post the permit issued to the applicant in a conspicuous place at the worksite. It shall be unlawful for any person to exhibit a permit at or about any location not covered thereby, or to misrepresent the number of the permit or the date of the expiration of the permit.
Secs. 46-65—46-80. - Reserved.
DIVISION 3. - OPERATION REQUIREMENTS

Sec. 46-81. - Loading sites.
All harvesting, grading or loading shall be conducted at a loading site off of county rights-of-way and behind the established ditch line of county roads.
Sec. 46-82. - Ditches.
Ditches within 50 feet of a temporary driveway or right-of-way crossing shall be kept clear of all debris or residue at all times to allow for proper drainage. Culverts shall be installed at temporary entrances, as needed, to facilitate proper drainage flow. The code enforcement officer shall notify the operator of the requirement for a culvert based on good engineering and driveway maintenance practices.
Sec. 46-83. - Warning signs.
Any person operating on county rights-of-way shall be required to post warning signs at least 500 feet on both sides of a temporary driveway adequately warning oncoming traffic of persons, vehicles, equipment or machinery entering the roadway.
Sec. 46-84. - Roadway.
County roads shall be kept serviceable and open at all times for school buses, emergency vehicles, mail carriers and traffic of the general public.
Sec. 46-85. - Adjacent properties.
The operations will not unreasonably interfere with vehicular and pedestrian traffic and the means of ingress and egress from the affected and adjacent properties.
Sec. 46-86. - Supervision and inspection.
All work for which a permit is required under this article shall be subject to inspection and supervision by the county code enforcement officer, after consultation with the road superintendent and/or county engineer. The code enforcement officer shall have the authority to order the applicant to cease all hauling and logging operations immediately when the weather conditions compromise public safety or public property or when operations are in violation of the provisions of this article.
