ARTICLE 4-4-10 - CONFLICT OF INTEREST, POLITICAL ACTIVITIES AND CODE OF ETHICS

4-4-10-010 - Acceptance of gifts, gratuities, special privileges.
A.
Employees shall not accept any gifts, loans, rewards, favors or services that may reasonably tend to improperly influence them in the discharge of their official duties. This limitation is not intended to prohibit the acceptance of articles of negligible value which are distributed generally nor to prohibit employees from accepting loans from regular lending institutions. It is particularly important that employees guard against relationships which might be construed as or give the appearance of favoritism, coercion, unfair advantage or collusion.
B.
Employees shall not use or attempt to use their position to secure an economic benefit or advantage, special privileges or exemptions for themselves or others including the use of knowledge obtained through their employment or by virtue of their position and/or assignment. All fundraisers conducted on city/BLW time or worksites for charities and/or other causes must be specifically approved in writing by the city manager or his designee. All employees who have supervisory authority over any other employee are strictly prohibited from actively soliciting contributions, donations, etc., for any fundraiser or other cause from any employee under their supervision.
C.
Employees shall not accept employment or engage in any business or professional activity which they may reasonably expect would require or induce them to disclose confidential information acquired by them by reason of their official position.
D.
Employees shall not accept payment from outside sources for professional services rendered (i.e. teaching, instructing, speaking engagements, consulting, honorariums) when such activities are done on city time or when such services pertain to the purchase or sale of city/BLW property.
E.
City/BLW employees are prohibited from performing any non-city/BLW work inside the city limits or within the BLW service district if such work would require the inspection and/or approval for a city/BLW permit issued by their department. Nothing herein shall prohibit an employee from performing work on property owned by the employee.
(Code 1978, § 4-1061; Ord. No. 5575, 6/12/96; Ord. No. 7028, 4/11/2007, § 2)
4-4-10-020 - Proprietorship of creations.
All plans, designs, reports, specifications, drawings, devices, inventions, and other items produced or created by employees during working hours or through the use of city/BLW facilities or equipment or at the request of the city/BLW shall be and become the sole property of the city/BLW.
(Code 1978, § 4-1062; Ord. No. 5575, 6/12/96)
4-4-10-030 - Confidential information.
Employees shall not disclose confidential information gained by reason of their official position and/or assignment, nor shall they otherwise use such information for their personal gain or benefit.
(Code 1978, § 4-1063; Ord. No. 5575, 6/12/96; Ord. No. 7024, 3/15/2007, § 15)
4-4-10-040 - Conflict of interest.
A.
If an employee of the city is an officer, director, agent or member of, or owns interest in any entity which is subject to the regulation of, or which has financial commitments with the city, they shall file a sworn statement to this effect with the city clerk.
B.
Employees shall not transact any business in their official capacity with any business entity of which he or she is an officer, director, agent, member, or in which he or she owns a controlling interest, excluding civic, charitable or religious organizations.
C.
Employees shall not have personal investment in any enterprise which will create a conflict or a perceived conflict between their private interest and the public interest.
(Code 1978, § 4-1064; Ord. No. 5575, 6/12/96)
4-4-10-050 - Political activity.
A.
No person employed by the city shall either publicly or otherwise hold himself out as a candidate in any city election while holding employment with the city.
B.
City employees shall not take any part in political management or political campaigns in election of the mayor or any member of the city council for the City of Marietta during any period of time for which he is expected to perform work or receive compensation from the city.
C.
No employee, official or other person shall solicit, orally or by letter, or be in any other manner concerned in obtaining any assessments, contributions, or services for any political party from any employee during his hours of duty, service or work with the city. Employees are also prohibited from utilizing at any time any document or information obtained through their employment to solicit assessments, contributions or services for any political party or campaign except such documents or information, as the city/BLW may be required to produce under the Georgia Open Records Act.
D.
Employees shall not wear or represent the city/BLW by wearing any uniform or portion thereof, including, but not limited to clothing, badges, or city/BLW identifying emblems or markings, that is issued by the city/BLW or for any item for which a city/BLW allowance has been provided while he is participating in any campaign activities, demonstrations or political gatherings or while attending any other governmental meeting unless on official business.
E.
The city in no way seeks to influence employees in their choice of party affiliations or candidates, recognizing that this is a matter for each person to decide. Therefore, nothing contained herein shall be construed to restrict the right of the employee to hold membership in and support a political party, to vote as he chooses, to express opinions on political subjects or candidates, to maintain political neutrality, to attend political parties after working hours, or to campaign actively during off duty hours in all areas of political activity.
F.
Employees shall not utilize any city equipment or vehicles in support of any political campaign.
(Code 1978, § 4-1065; Ord. No. 5575, 6/12/96; Ord. No. 7024, 3/15/2007, § 16)
