ARTICLE XII. - COMMERCIAL ZONING DISTRICT

Sec. 12.01. - Statement of purpose.
The commercial district is composed of certain parcels having non-residential, non- agricultural and non-industrial characteristics. The parcel / lot sizes will vary depending on the type of retail or wholesale activity taking place. The purpose of this district is to;
a)
Promote quality growth of Marion County through organized use of land with regard to commerce.
b)
Establish a zoning district which focuses on commerce while discouraging any practices which may be a nuisance to neighboring residential districts.
(Res. of 3-8-2008)
Sec. 12.02. - Permitted uses.
The following are permitted in a commercial district:
a)
Day care and nursery school facilities.
b)
Green house and plant nurseries.
c)
Offices (law, doctors, insurance etc.).
d)
Convenience stores (without fuel pumps).
e)
Grocery and department stoics.
f)
Churches.
g)
Hardware and supply stores.
h)
Laundry and dry cleaning establishments.
i)
Beauty shops, barber shops and similar personal services.
j)
Restaurants.
k)
Self storage facilities (mini warehouses).
l)
Commercial recreation facility (indoors) in flea market / bargain store (indoors).
(Res. of 3-8-2008)
Sec. 12.03. - Conditional uses.
The following are conditional uses in the commercial district:
a)
Pet stores.
b)
Veterinary clinics and dog kennels.
c)
Social or fraternal clubs, lodge, union halt and similar use.
d)
Government facilities other than offices.
e)
Service and repair stations.
f)
Natural gas propane or other fuel storage facilities.
g)
Convenience stores (with fuel pumps).
h)
Automobile, truck, RV and heavy equipment sales.
i)
Adult business.
j)
Community recreation facilities (including play grounds).
k)
Model Homes, manufactured homes, relocated homes and home storage.
l)
Outdoor shooting range (rifles, shot guns, pistols, archery and paintball).
m)
Miniature golf (unless indoor), golf driving ranges.
n)
Race tracks (animal/motorized).
o)
Construction field office.
p)
Commercial recreation facility (outdoor).
q)
Manufacturing and fabrication.
r)
Junk, salvage or waste business.
s)
Flea market, bargain sales (outdoor).
t)
Tracking, transfer and transport business.
u)
Moving company storage facilities.
v)
Any structure over two stories or 24 feet or taller in wall height.
w)
Any business open for more than 12 continuous hours or Sundays
x)
Any bulk fertilizer, chemical or combustible storage facility.
y)
Motels and hotels.
z)
Multi-front and plaza type buildings which maybe designed to share one or more walls of a building and malls.
(Res. of 3-8-2008)
Sec. 12.04. - General requirements.
A)
Property lines separating commercial zoning district with any residential district with any residential district must be screened with either:
1)
A privacy fence constructed of preservative treated lumber to a minimum height of six feet
2)
Natural vegetative screening as per the requirements laid out in section 4.12 protective screening
3)
If the commercial property is to use canine security, the containment area must have a security fence to a minimum height of six feet constructed from chain link or other suitable industrial grade fencing material. This type of fence will not take the place of screening.
4)
All fences and vegetative screening will not obscure a motorist's vision.
5)
Privacy fences and natural vegetative screening need not be placed on street and road front property lines.
B)
Any security dogs will not be allowed to become a noise or smell nuisance.
C)
All commercial properties will not be allowed to store in the open (or open buildings) any junk or wrecked vehicles, power driven equipment or any miscellaneous scrap or salvageable material in quantity, e.g. used lumber, metal or rubbish.
D)
The state department of transportation must be consulted for any requirements regarding entrances, exits, deceleration lanes, culverts or any other restraints regarding properties abutting state roads. The county roads superintendent must be consulted for any similar requirements for properties abutting county roads.
E)
Any parking area used by customers and/or surfaces used by delivery trucks must be paved with an eight inch base and three inch thick of asphalt or 3½ inch thick concrete within twelve months of being open to public. Exceptions may be granted by the County Commission through variances..
F)
Any and all water run off, soil disturbance and sedimentation issues that should arise will be promptly handled using the best management practices mandated by the Georgia Soil and Water Conservation Commission.
G)
Any commercial business must contact the state fire marshall for a safety inspection prior to opening and then must correct any deficiencies within ninety days of being open to the public.
H)
Any outdoor areas of commercial property that are used by the general public during hours of limited visibility must have adequate working light fixtures that direct light downward. These lights are the business owner's responsibility to maintain. Whenever the business is open during said hours of limited visibility these lights must be on.
I)
No outside loitering will be allowed by the business owners.
(Res. of 3-8-2008)
Sec. 12.05. - Setback requirements.
Minimum lot size per unit: 1.0 acre.
Minimum lot width at set back: 175 feet.
Minimum building setbacks:
Front of building to edge of right of way: 80 feet.
Rear and side of building to property line: 50 feet.
NOTE: Set back retirements may be modified based on the differing commercial needs through variance by the County Commission.
(Res. of 3-8-2008)
Secs. 12.06—12.25. - Reserved.
