ARTICLE IV. - FINANCE
DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Sec. 2-151. - [Indigent burial policy.]
new
The Marion County Board of Commissioners will pay up to $500.00 to a funeral director for interment of an indigent person who dies in Marion County, upon documentation of low-income status from the department of family and children services for such decedent, his family and immediate kindred and an itemized statement of services from a licensed funeral home.
(Res. of 12-11-2012)
Editor's note— A resolution adopted Dec. 11, 2012, did not specify manner of inclusion; hence, codification as § 2-151 was at the discretion of the editor.
Secs. 2-152—2-170. - Reserved.
new
DIVISION 2. - PURCHASING, SALES AND CONTRACTS

Sec. 2-171. - Contracts for public works.
All contracts to build or repair any public building, bridge, causeway, road or other public work shall be let and contracted for in the manner prescribed by O.C.G.A. § 36-10-1 et seq., or that is otherwise authorized by law or county ordinance.
Sec. 2-172. - Bidding procedures.
All purchases which are required to be made by competitive bid shall be made in accordance with formal competitive bidding procedures as set forth in the laws of the state or by county ordinance.
Sec. 2-173. - Sale of surplus personal property.
The board of commissioners shall have the authority to sell personal property of the county which has become unsuitable for use, provided that surplus, unusable or obsolete supplies and equipment shall be sold only upon the adoption of a resolution by the board of commissioners specifying the manner in which such sale shall be conducted.
Sec. 2-174. - Sale of small parcels of surplus real property.
The county shall have the authority to sell and convey parcels of small or narrow strips of land, so shaped or so small as to be incapable of being used independently as zoned or under applicable subdivision or other development ordinances or land use plans, or as streets, whether owned in fee or used by easement, to abutting property owners upon the following terms and conditions:
(1)
Such sale and conveyance facilitates the enjoyment of the highest and best use of the purchaser's abutting property;
(2)
The property has been declared by the board of commissioners to be surplus real property;
(3)
Each owner of property which abuts the surplus property has been notified, at least 14 calendar days prior to such conveyance, by certified mail, return receipt requested, that the surplus property is being offered for sale and is given the opportunity to purchase such property under the terms and conditions set out in this section;
(4)
The sale has been authorized by resolution of the board of commissioners;
(5)
Title to the surplus real property shall be conveyed by quit claim deed;
(6)
The purchase price shall be payable in cash at closing, which closing shall occur within 30 days of the approval of the sale by the board of commissioners; and
(7)
The purchaser shall be responsible for payment of all costs associated with the purchase of the surplus property, including, but not limited to, any attorney's fees, surveyor's fees and recording fees in connection therewith.
Sec. 2-175. - County contracts.
(a)
Execution. Unless otherwise specified by a majority of the entire board of commissioners, the chairperson or, in his absence, the vice-chairperson shall execute all contracts to be entered into by the county. The county clerk or, in his absence, any deputy county clerk may attest the signature of the chairperson or vice-chairperson on any such contract.
(b)
Authorization. All contracts entered into by the board of commissioners shall be authorized as required by section 2-94.
Secs. 2-176—2-200. - Reserved.
