DIVISION 728 - PLATTING PROCEDURES[1]

Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Cross reference— Required plat endorsements, app. A.

728.01 - Generally.
No lot or parcel in the City of Marietta shall hereafter be combined, subdivided or have a boundary line revision without obtaining prior approval from the City. The applicant shall submit a preliminary plat proposal in sufficient detail to the Planning and Zoning Director who shall verify conformity with all City regulations. The Public Works Director and the Planning and Zoning Director shall represent the City of Marietta in all negotiations with property owners concerning platting changes prior to submission of such plat for recording at the Clerk of the Superior Court, however, the Mayor and Council maintain final approval of all plats within the City except as otherwise noted herein.
728.02 - Preapplication procedures.
Prior to the preparation and recording of a new or revised plat, the applicant shall confer with the Planning and Zoning Director and Public Works Director by submitting the proposal in sufficient detail as to allow staff to verify conformity with current regulations as well as determine whether the proposal requires additional right-of-way, street improvements or utility installations. General information submitted should include a description or outline of the existing and proposed conditions of the site, existing covenants, available community facilities and utilities, a sketch map containing the proposed layout of streets, lots and other features salient to the proposal.
A.
If the proposed replatting requires the dedication of additional street right-of-way, additional street improvements or utility installations other than house connections, the applicant must obtain approval from the Mayor and Council in accordance with the requirements of this Article prior to submitting such plat for recording at the Clerk of the Superior Court.
B.
Minor revision of bearings and distances may be approved by Planning and Zoning Director, who shall also receive certification that the applicant maintains over 50% ownership interest of all parcels affected by the revision. Any revised final plat must be re-recorded at the Clerk of the Superior Court. The Public Works Director shall receive a reproducible copy of the final plat to be filed in the City records.
(Code 1996, §§ 7-8-4-6-010, 7-8-4-6-060, 7-8-4-6-070, 7-8-4-6-080)
728.03 - Exemption plats.
In those instances in which staff determines that the proposal does not require the dedication of additional street right-of-way, additional street improvements or utility installations other than house connections, the applicant shall be required to submit an exemption plat to the Planning and Zoning Director for City approval prior to recording such plat with the Clerk of the Superior Court. The Department of Planning and Zoning shall retain 1 copy.
728.04 - Preliminary plat application procedures.
All plats which require the approval of the Mayor and Council shall be submitted for review through the preparation of preliminary plat in accordance with those standards set forth herein.
A.
The preliminary plat and supplementary data shall be submitted to the Development Services Director for review by all relevant City staff. Each department will either recommend approval or reject the plat with written comments within 45 days of receipt. If not recommended for approval, the applicant shall revise the plat and resubmit until deemed in compliance with all necessary codes. Once staff concludes their review and recommends approval, the preliminary plat shall automatically be placed on the next City Council meeting agenda, regular or called, for their consideration. If the plat in question is approved, either as is or as amended, the plat shall be approved as per the motion. If the plat is not approved, it shall be referred back to the Development Services Director for modification and resubmission by the developer/applicant, and the process shall start over.
B.
The Development Services Director shall return 1 copy of the preliminary plat to the applicant, with all comments, actions taken, and any changes required noted thereon. The Department of Development Services shall retain 2 copies of all approved preliminary plats.
C.
Approval of a preliminary plat shall not constitute approval of the final plat. Rather, it shall be deemed an expression of conditional approval of the layout submitted on the preliminary plat as a guide to the preparation of the final plat, which must be submitted for approval by the Mayor and Council upon completion of all required improvements, including, but not limited to, roadways, water distribution lines, sanitary sewer lines, storm drainage facilities, and other required improvements. The Public Works Director shall verify the completion of said improvements and any other conditions prior to the acceptance of any proposed final plat.
(Code 1996, § 7-8-4-6-040; Ord. No. 7800, 3/11/2015, § 1)
728.05 - Data requirements for preliminary plats.
All preliminary plat shall contain that data necessary to allow complete and proper review by staff as required to support the preliminary design of the proposed development. Such information shall be at a scale of not less than 1:100 and include at a minimum:
A.
Boundary lines - bearings and distances.
B.
Easements - location, width, purpose and controlling entity.
C.
Streets on and adjacent to the tract - name and right-of-way width and location; type, width and elevation of surfacing; any legally established centerline elevations; walks, curbs, gutters, culverts, etc.
D.
Utilities on and adjacent to the tract - location, size and invert elevation of sanitary and storm and combined sewers; location and size of water mains; location of gas lines, fire hydrants, electric and telephone poles, and street lights; if water mains and sewers are not on or adjacent to the tract, indicate the direction and distance to and size of nearest ones, showing invert elevation of sewers.
E.
Ground elevation on the tract - from an original topographic survey a contour interval of not more than 2 feet based on a sea level datum plane approved by the Public Works Director.
F.
All sites to be reserved or dedicated for parks, playgrounds, or other public uses.
G.
All sites to be utilized for nonpublic uses exclusive of single family dwellings.
H.
Minimum building setback lines.
I.
Site data - including number of residential lots, typical lot size, and acres in park.
J.
Title, graphic scale, north arrow, and date.
K.
Tree protection plan in conformity with Section 712.08.
L.
Subsurface conditions on the tract - if required by the Public Works Director, location and results of tests made to ascertain subsurface soil, rock and ground water conditions; depth to ground water unless test pits are dry at a depth of 5 feet; location and results of soil percolation tests if individual sewage disposal systems are proposed.
M.
Other significant conditions on the tract such as water courses, marshes, rock outcroppings.
N.
Proposed public improvements including roadway or other major improvements planned by public authorities for future construction on or near the tract.
O.
Key plan or vicinity map showing location of the relating or surrounding area and streets.
P.
Title and certificate - present tract designation according to official records in office of appropriate recorder; title under which proposed subdivision is to be recorded, with names and addresses of owner, designer, and person to whom official notices of hearing are to be sent, notation stating acreage, graphic scales, north arrow, datum, benchmarks; certification of registered civil engineer or surveyor; date of survey.
(Code 1996, §§ 7-8-4-8-020, 7-8-4-8-030)
728.06 - Subdivision improvements required.
Upon approval of a preliminary plat or a Planned Development's general plan, the applicant shall submit to the Public Works Director 7 sets of subdivision improvement construction plans which must include the following:
A.
Site plan containing the information required in this Article.
B.
Grading plan indicating the existing and proposed final topographic information.
C.
Horizontal and vertical alignment of the proposed roadways with appropriate construction details including, at a minimum, typical paving sections, curb and gutter dimensions, intersection details, cul-de-sac dimensions, and road widening specifications.
D.
Storm drainage plan, which shall contain the following information:
1.
Location of proposed drainageways, streams and ponds in the subdivision.
2.
Location and size of proposed drainage structures, including culverts, bridges, pipes, drop inlets and headwalls.
3.
Area of land contributing runoff to each drainage structure, and name of formula and runoff constant used.
4.
Location of easements and right-of-way for drainage ways maintenance accesses therefor.
5.
Typical cross-section of each drainageway.
6.
Direction of water flow throughout the subdivision.
E.
Sanitary sewer plan, which shall contain the following information:
1.
Location and size of all existing and proposed sewers in the subdivision and tie points of the subdivision. Location of sewer laterals.
2.
Direction of flow of each sewer line.
3.
Location of each manhole and other sewerage system appurtenances, inducting lift stations, oxidation ponds and treatment plants.
F.
Water distribution plan including the location and size of water distribution systems, including pipes, valves, fittings, hydrants, high pressure pumping equipment, and other integral units of the water system.
G.
Tree protection plan in conformity with section 712.08.
(Code 1996, § 7-8-4-8-040)
Cross reference— Required improvements, div. 732.
728.07 - Final plat application procedures.
Final plats shall conform substantially to the preliminary plat as approved. If desired by the applicant, the final plat may constitute only a portion of an approved preliminary plat provided that such portion conforms to all requirements of these obligations. At the time the final plat is submitted for approval, the applicant shall provide a maintenance bond or other acceptable performance guarantee for a period of 12 months after the final plat is approved in the amount of 10% of the total cost of the subdivision improvements. The applicant shall be responsible for repairing streets and related subdivision improvements which may be damaged or fail due to improper installation for a period of 12 months from the date of the final plat approval by the Mayor and Council. All required subdivision improvements shall comply with Public Law 101-336, the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990. Any improvements which do not comply with said Act shall be redone at the applicant's expense and final approval of the plat shall not be given until such work is completed in compliance with the Act. All plans submitted to the City for review shall contain a certificate that said improvements fully comply with the American with Disabilities Act of 1990. Public Law 101-336, as amended and the City will rely upon such certificate in approving preliminary and final plats.
A.
The final plat and supplementary data shall be submitted to the Development Services Director within 12 months after approval of the preliminary plat, otherwise the approval of the preliminary plat shall become null and void unless an extension of time is applied for and granted by the City Council.
B.
The Public Works Director and Development Services Director shall investigate the final plat and supplementary data to determine whether it conforms to the approved preliminary plat (including any required changes) and all other city regulations. The final plat and supplementary data shall be submitted to the Development Services Department for review by all relevant city staff. Each department will either approve or reject the plat with written comments within 45 days of receipt. If not recommended for approval, the applicant shall revise the plat and resubmit until deemed in compliance with all necessary codes. Once staff concludes their review and recommends approval of the final plat, the final plat shall automatically be placed on the next City Council meeting agenda, regular or called, for their consideration. If the plat in question is approved, either as is or as amended, the plat shall be approved as per the motion. If the plat is not approved, it shall be referred back to the Development Services Director for modification and resubmission by the developer/applicant, and the process shall start over.
C.
Within 30 days of approval of the final plat by the Mayor and Council, the applicant shall have a copy of the final plat recorded by the Clerk of the Superior Court of Cobb County, Georgia. The original plat shall be returned to the submitting surveyor or engineer only after the Public Works Director has received a reproducible copy of the final plat to be filed in the City records.
(Code 1996, § 7-8-4-6-050; Ord. No. 7800, 3/11/2015, § 2)
728.08 - Data requirements for final plats.
A.
All plats shall be prepared in accordance with O.C.G.A. § 15-6-67 and drawn in ink on permanent reproducible drafting materials and shall be at a scale of not less than 1:100. If necessary, the plat may be on several sheets accompanied by an index sheet showing the entire subdivision. For large subdivisions the final plat may be submitted for approval progressively in contiguous sections satisfactory to the Mayor and Council. The final plat shall contain, at a minimum:
1.
Primary control points, approved by the Public Works Director, or descriptions and "ties" to such control points, to which all dimensions, angles, bearings, and similar data on the plat shall be referred.
2.
Tract boundary lines, right-of-way lines of streets, easements and other right-of-way, and property lines of residential lots and other sites: with accurate dimensions, bearings, or deflection angles, radii arcs, and central angles of all curves.
3.
Name and right-of-way width of each street or other right-of-way.
4.
Location, dimensions and purpose of any easement. Flood plain and flood way boundaries as shown on the Official City of Marietta Flood Boundary and Floodway Map which is hereby incorporated herein by reference. A copy of which shall be maintained on file with the City Clerk for inspection and review by the public.
5.
The final plat shall show the number to identify each block, lot or site and shall be submitted to the appropriate city department for the assignment of street addresses.
6.
Purpose for which sites, other than residential lots, are dedicated or planned.
7.
Minimum building setback line on all lots and other sites.
8.
Location and description of monuments.
9.
Name of record owners of adjoining unplatted land.
10.
Name of recorded subdivision plats of adjoining platted lands.
11.
A certification by surveyor or engineer certifying to accuracy of survey and plat.
12.
A certification of title showing that applicant is the land owner.
13.
Statement by owner dedicating streets, right-of-way and any other sites for public use.
14.
Title, graphic scale, north arrow and date.
15.
A certificate of approval by the Public Works Director upon determination that a maintenance bond or agreement has been posted by the applicant and that the applicant has complied with 1 of the following alternatives:
a)
All utilities and other improvements have been installed in accordance with the requirements of these regulations.
b)
A bond or certified check or other acceptable guarantee has been posted with the City in significant amount to insure completion of improvements.
16.
Such other information as is required by state law.
17.
A certification of approval for recording by the Mayor and Council.
18.
A copy of the protective covenants suitable for recording.
19.
The size, length and location of all surface drainage pipes or structures shall be shown on the final plat.
20.
The original plat shall contain those endorsements and dedications required of preliminary plats addressing issues including, but not limited to, plat dimensions, property ownership and approval blocks for the Public Works Director, Planning and Zoning Director and City Council.
B.
Fee simple subdivision final plats may be submitted twice. The first submittal shall show the proposed location in "blocks" or "rows" of units, along with all required data for a subdivision excluding property lines for individual units. The second submittal shall be made after each individual unit is constructed. The second submittal shall consist of a revision of the first plat and shall depict each individual property line with bearings and distances.
C.
Industrial, commercial and office park subdivision final plats shall meet all data requirements of subsection (A) above, except that interior lot lines need not be depicted.
(Code 1996, § 7-8-4-8-050; Ord. No. 6151, 8/9/2000, § 1)
728.09 - Digital data standards.
All plats submitted in accordance to this article shall also be submitted in a digital format which meets or exceeds City standards.
