ARTICLE VI - MUNICIPAL COURT
Editor's note— Ga. L. 1982, p. 4561, sec. 5, struck the former Art. VI in its entirety and inserted the provisions codified below in lieu thereof.

Section 6.1 - Creation; jurisdiction.
There shall be a court of the city, to be known as "The Municipal Court of Marietta, Georgia," which shall be vested with all the jurisdiction and powers throughout the city generally granted to mayor's, recorder's, police courts, or municipal courts and particularly as to the abatement of nuisances, prosecution of traffic violations, and violations of other ordinances of the city.
(Ga. L. 1982, p. 4561, Sec. 5)
Section 6.2 - Chief judge, associate judges; compensation; oaths; removal.
The municipal court shall be presided over by a chief judge and by such associate judges.
(a)
Only persons who are active members of the State Bar of Georgia and in good standing shall be qualified and eligible to serve as judge of the municipal court.
(b)
Compensation of the judges shall be fixed by ordinance.
(c)
Before entering on the duties of the office, each judge shall take an oath given by the mayor, mayor pro-tem or other judicial officer that he or she will honestly and faithfully discharge the duties of the office to the best of his or her ability without fear, favor, or partiality. The oath shall be entered upon the minutes of the council.
(Ga. L. 1982, p. 4561, Sec. 5; Ord. No. 7935, 1/11/17, Sec. 3; Ord. No. 7942, 2/8/17, Sec. 3)
Section 6.3 - Convening; powers; punishments.
(a)
The municipal court shall convene in the council room or such other place as the council may designate.
(b)
The municipal court shall have the authority to:
(1)
preserve order, continue cases, and assess bail for the appearance of the accused party;
(2)
compel the production of evidence in the possession of any party with the same authority as the superior court and compel the presence of all parties, residents within or without the limits of the city, necessary to a proper disposal of each case by the issuance of subpoenas and warrants which may be served and executed by an officer as authorized by ordinance or by general state law;
(3)
administer all oaths and perform all other acts necessary in the conduct of said court; and
(4)
in cases where it is made to appear that state law has been violated, bind the offender over to the proper court for trial and to assess bail for his appearance at said court.
(c)
The municipal court shall have the power and authority to impose upon the violator of any state law or city ordinance for each violation thereof the following punishments; a fine not to exceed $1,000, commitment at labor upon the public works and streets of the city for a period of not more than 60 days, confinement in the jail or other place of imprisonment in the county for a period of not more than six (6) months; or any one or all of the foregoing punishments when the facts of the case justify such punishment; provided, however, that violations of the Uniform Rules of the Road, as adopted by ordinance, may be punished by a fine not to exceed $1,000 or confinement in a jail for a period of not more than 12 months, unless a lesser penalty is otherwise established by state law for a violation of the Uniform Rules of the Road.
(d)
The municipal court and the judges thereof shall have such additional jurisdiction, powers, and authority as may be conferred by ordinance and the laws of the state.
(Ga. L. 1982, p. 4561, Sec. 5 as amended by Ord. No. 4197, 8/14/85; Ord. No. 4607, 12/9/87)
Editor's note— Ord. No. 4607, 12/9/87 is recorded at Ga. L. 1989, p. 5131.
Amendment note—Penalties in Subsec. (c) were amended by Ord. No. 4197 and Ord. No. 4607.
Section 6.4 - Rules of court.
The chief judge shall have full power and authority to make reasonable rules and regulations necessary and proper to secure the efficient and successful administration of the court. The rules and regulations made or adopted by said court shall be filed with the city clerk and shall be made available for public inspection.
(Ga. L. 1982, p. 4561, Sec. 5)
Section 6.5 - Certiorari.
When any party in any cause in the municipal court shall be dissatisfied with the decision or judgment in such cause, such party may apply for and obtain a writ of certiorari by petition to the superior court, as provided by general law.
(Ga. L. 1982, p. 4561, Sec. 5)
Section 6.6 - Prosecuting attorney.
(a)
A prosecuting attorney and such assistant prosecuting attorneys as may be deemed appropriate may be appointed by the governing authority of the City of Marietta. All prosecuting attorneys shall serve for a two (2) year term unless removed by the governing authority as set forth herein. The prosecuting attorney or any assistant prosecuting attorneys shall be appointed by the governing authority at the first regular City Council meeting of the newly seated Mayor and Council, the first being January, 2018, and every two (2) years thereafter unless same shall be removed from office as provided herein.
(b)
Compensation of the prosecuting attorneys shall be fixed by ordinance.
(c)
The duties of the prosecuting attorneys shall be to:
(1)
prosecute persons charged with violating ordinances of the city;
(2)
aid the police department in the preparation of cases for trial;
(3)
assist the judges and other officers and personnel of the courts in achieving justice in all cases and in the efficient and expeditious performance of their duties; and
(4)
perform such other duties as are or may be required by law or by ordinance or which necessarily appertain to the office.
(d)
The prosecuting attorney and assistant prosecuting attorneys shall meet all of the qualifications set forth in the Charter for the City of Marietta and O.C.G.A. § 15-18-92.
(e)
The prosecuting attorney and assistant prosecuting attorneys shall take the oath of office set forth in O.C.G.A. § 15-18-93.
(f)
The prosecuting attorney and assistant prosecuting attorney may be removed from office by a two-thirds vote of the entire governing authority of the City of Marietta as follows:
1)
Willful misconduct in office;
2)
Willful and persistent failure to perform duties;
3)
Habitual intemperance;
4)
Conduct prejudicial to the administration of justice which brings the judicial office into disrepute; or
5)
Disability seriously interfering with the performance of duties, which is, or is likely to become, of a permanent character.
g)
Removal proceedings pursuant to this section may be initiated only by written petition setting forth the grounds for removal of a prosecuting attorney or assistant prosecuting attorney signed by one or more members of the governing authority of the City of Marietta. Upon submission of the petition to remove the prosecuting attorney or assistant prosecuting attorney to such governing authority, the governing authority may consider the petition and determine if the petition relates to and adversely affects the administration of the office of the prosecuting attorney or assistant prosecuting attorney and the rights and interests of the public. If it is determined at a public meeting by a two-thirds vote of the entire governing authority of the City of Marietta that there is an adverse impact, the prosecuting attorney or assistant prosecuting attorney may be suspended immediately and without further action for up to 60 days pending the final determination pursuant to subsection (5) of this Code section. A prosecuting attorney or assistant prosecuting attorney suspended pursuant to this subsection shall continue to receive the compensation from his or her office until the final determination on the petition or expiration of the suspension.
h)
If by the expiration of the suspension period no formal resolution of the petition has been made, the prosecuting attorney or assistant prosecuting attorney shall be reinstated.
Removal proceedings shall consist of an open and public hearing held by the governing authority of the municipal corporation, provided that the prosecuting attorney or assistant prosecuting attorney against whom such charges have been brought shall be furnished a copy of the charges at least ten days prior to the hearing. At the conclusion of the hearing, the governing authority of the City of Marietta shall determine whether or not to remove the prosecuting attorney or assistant prosecuting attorney from office. The governing authority of the City of Marietta may adopt rules governing the procedures at such hearings, provided that such hearings comport with due process. The right of certiorari from the decision to remove a prosecuting attorney or assistant prosecuting attorney from office shall exist as set forth in O.C.G.A. § 5-4-1, et seq.
(Ga. L. 1982, p. 4561, Sec. 5; Ord. No. 7935, 1/11/17, Sec. 4; Ord. No. 7942, 2/8/17, Sec. 4)
Section 6.7 - Municipal court clerk.
A municipal court clerk may be appointed by the concurrence of the mayor and a majority of the council and such clerk shall serve at the pleasure of the mayor and council and may be removed by the concurrence of the mayor and a majority of the council. The compensation of the municipal court clerk shall be fixed by ordinance. The municipal court clerk shall perform such duties as may be established by the council.
(Ga. L. 1982, p. 4561, Sec. 5)
Section 6.8 - Probation office.
There is created a probation office which shall be under the supervision of the municipal court judge. The probation office shall have the duty of supervising persons convicted in the municipal court when so directed by the municipal court judge. The probation office shall have such other duties as may be given to it by the municipal court judge or by ordinance. All matters relating to the operation of the probation office shall be as directed by ordinance. The probation office may collect from a defendant on probation a monthly probation fee not to exceed $30, as set by the municipal court judge.
(Ga. L. 1986, p. 5068, as amended by Ga. L. 1989, p. 4583, Sec. 5; Ord. No. 4728, 9/13/89, Sec. 2; Ord. No. 5361, Sec. 1, 10/12/94)
Editor's note— Ord. No. 4728, 9/13/89, was enacted under the city's home rule powers; it struck the former wording of the section in its entirety. The 1989 act established authority of the judge over the probation officer and added authority for monthly fees. Such provisions are recorded at Ga. L. 1990, p. 5492, Sec. 2.
