PART 2 - EDUCATION
Cross reference— Division I, Part 1, Sec. 5.14 and 9.1
State Law reference— See generally, Ga. Code Ann., Title 32
ARTICLE I - CONSTITUTIONAL PROVISIONS

Section 2.101 - Bonds and taxes for education purposes (constitutional amendment).
Article VII, Section VII, Paragraph I of the Constitution is hereby amended by adding at the end thereof the following:
"Without regard to any limitations or restrictions imposed by this constitution, the governing authority of the City of Marietta is hereby authorized to create bonded indebtedness from time to time for the support of education and educational facilities within said city. The funds derived from the issuance of such bonds may be expended for all educational purposes, including but not limited to: (1) the repair, expansion and maintenance of any existing educational facilities; (2) the acquisition of property for new educational facilities; (3) the construction and maintenance of new educational facilities; (4) the payment of salaries or other types of compensation for teachers, administrative personnel, and other personnel who are now or may hereafter be employed by the board of education of the City of Marietta.
The bonds herein authorized shall bear the rate or rates of interest and mature at the years and amounts determined by the governing authority of the City of Marietta, and the procedure of validation, issuance and delivery shall be in all respects in accordance with the Revenue Bond Law, approved March 31, 1937 (Ga. L. 1937, p. 761) as amended, as if said obligations had been originally authorized to be issued thereunder.
In order to repay the bonded indebtedness herein authorized, the governing authority of the City of Marietta, without regard to any limitations or restrictions imposed by this constitution, is hereby authorized to levy and collect an additional annual tax, not to exceed seven (7) mills, upon all taxable property located within the corporate limits of the City of Marietta. The funds derived from such tax shall be separately accounted for and shall be used only for the repayment of the bonded indebtedness herein authorized.
All bond issues proposed to be made, pursuant to the authority herein granted, must be approved by a majority of the qualified voters of the City of Marietta voting in an election held for that purpose before such bonds are issued and any debt herein authorized is created. The governing authority of the City of Marietta is hereby authorized to call and hold such elections from time to time to carry out the requirements herein provided for."
(Ga. L. 1965, p. 680)
Editor's note— The above provision was continued as a local constitutional amendment by Ga. L. 1986, p. 4406.
Section 2.102 - Excise tax on alcoholic beverages, portion to boards of education (constitutional amendment).
Article VIII, Section XII, Paragraph I of the Constitution is hereby amended by adding at the end thereof the following:
"From the revenue received from taxes authorized by the `Revenue Tax Act to Legalize and Control Alcoholic Beverages and Liquors,' approved February 3, 1938 (Ga. Laws 1937-38, Ex. Sess., p. 103), as the same may now or hereafter be amended, excluding business license fees, on the wholesale and retail sale of alcoholic beverages and liquors which are sold, dispensed or delivered within Cobb County or within any incorporated municipality located within Cobb County, the governing authorities of Cobb County and of each incorporated municipality shall pay one-half (1/2) of the net revenue collected from such taxes to the board of education of the county or independent school district within the area from which such tax revenues were derived. The funds received from such taxes shall not be included for purposes of calculating the millage rate limitation provided for in this constitution to be levied for educational purposes. The monies derived hereunder shall be spent exclusively for educational purposes within the respective school district from which collected. The governing authority of the county and of each municipality located therein shall deduct not more than 10 percent as administrative costs for the direct costs of collection of such taxes. Said costs shall include the salaries of personnel required to administer the legalizing, control, policing, licensing and taxation of such beverages and the costs of supplies, data processing and all other incidental expenses. The term `net revenue,' as used herein, means the total revenues from all taxes, excluding business license fees, on the wholesade [wholesale] and retail sale of such alcoholic beverages and liquors minus administrative costs of not more than 10 percent of such revenues. The total revenues before administrative costs are deducted shall include all receipts from the legalizing, controlling and taxing of the sale of alcoholic beverages and liquors, including but not limited to all interests, costs and fi. fas. on delinquent accounts and shall exclude any business license. The governing authorities shall pay such revenues to the boards of education within 30 days of the last day of the month in which such revenues were collected."
(Ga. L. 1974, p. 1730)
ARTICLE II - CITY BOARD OF EDUCATION

Section 2.201 - Original referendum.
Be it enacted by the General Assembly of Georgia, the corporate authorities of the City of Marietta having so recommended, that an election shall be held in the City of Marietta, in the County of Cobb, as soon after the passage of this act as the mayor and council thereof may decide, to determine the question of establishing and maintaining a system of public schools in said city and creating a bonded indebtedness therefor. All persons entitled to vote for mayor and councilmen in said city shall be entitled to vote in said election, and said election shall be held under the same rules and regulations as the municipal elections of said city are held. Those favoring said public school system shall have on their ballots the words "for public schools and for bonds," and those opposing the system shall have on their ballots the words, "against public schools and bonds."
(Ga. L. 1890-91, Vol. II, p. 1014, Sec. I)
Editor's note— This section of the original 1890 act and portions of the following section are included for historical purposes only.
Section 2.202 - Board members appointed; terms; qualifications; vacancies; removal.
(a)
The board of education of the City of Marietta shall consist of seven (7) members who shall be elected in nonpartisan races. The present members of the appointed board of education shall serve until December 31, 1993, on which date the term of each appointed member shall end. On the Tuesday next following the first Monday in November, 1993, and every four (4) years on said day thereafter an election shall be held in said city for seven (7) members of the board of education. The terms of office of said members of the board of education so elected shall begin on the first day in January following their election, and they shall hold their office for four (4) years and until their successors are elected and qualified. No candidate shall be nominated for the office of board of education or elected to any such office in any election unless the candidate shall have received a majority of the votes cast to fill such nomination or office. Certificates of election shall be recorded by the city clerk upon the book of minutes or other book kept for such purposes. Such record shall be evidence of the result of said election and of the authority of those elected to act. In the event no candidate receives the majority of the votes cast, a run-off election shall be held between the two (2) candidates receiving the highest number of votes. Such run-off election shall be held two (2) weeks from the date of the regular election or in a special election as the case may be. The members of the board of education shall serve for terms of four (4) years.
(b)
The ward boundaries, ward number, and polling places for the board of education shall be the same as those set forth in City of Marietta Code Section 1-2008, or succeeding code sections, as may be hereafter amended. Each candidate for election to the board of education shall reside within the ward for which election is sought. The qualification fee for every candidate shall be the fee set forth in Code Section 21-3-90 of the O.C.G.A., as may be hereafter amended, and the qualifying period shall be the same as that set for members of the city council.
(c)
In the event that a position on the board of education shall become vacant for any cause whatsoever, the board or those remaining thereon shall order a special election to fill the balance of the unexpired term of such office in accordance with Chapter 3 of Title 21 of the O.C.G.A., the "Georgia Municipal Election Code." Only those registered voters residing in the ward or wards from which such board member was elected shall be entitled to vote in such special election; provided, however, that if such vacancy occurs within six (6) months of the expiration of the term of that office, the board or those remaining thereon shall appoint a successor from the same ward for the remainder of the term. In all other respects, the special election shall be held and conducted in accordance with Chapter 3 of Title 21 of the O.C.G.A., the "Georgia Municipal Election Code."
(d)
The members of said board shall subscribe an oath on the minutes of the council to faithfully discharge the duties of their office to the best of their ability.
(e)
The residency requirements for a person seeking to be elected to the board of education shall be:
(1)
In the case of a general election, the person shall be a resident of the ward for which the office is sought on or before July 1 next preceding the date of taking of office and, in addition, the person shall be a resident of the City of Marietta on or before January 1 next preceding the date of taking office; and
(2)
In the case of a special election, the person shall be a resident of the ward for which the office is sought for a minimum of six (6) months next preceding the date of taking of office and, in addition, the person shall be a resident of the City of Marietta for a minimum of 12 months next preceding the date of taking of office; provided, however, that the residency requirements for 1993 shall be the lessor of the requirements set forth in this paragraph or the effective date of this law pursuant to Section 5 of the federal Voting Rights Act of 1965, as amended, 42 U.S.C. 1973 (C).
(f)
Any other election requirement or issue shall be consistent with the requirements for the election of members of the city council and in accordance with state law.
(g)
No person shall qualify to run for office or hold office unless he or she:
(1)
Is a citizen of the United States;
(2)
Is at least 21 years of age;
(3)
Is registered to vote pursuant to Code Section 21-3-125; and
(4)
Meets the residency requirements set forth in subsection (e) of this section.
(Ga. L. 1890-91, Vol. II, p. 1014, Sec. 11, as amended by Ga. L. 1967, p. 2590, Secs. 1 and 2; Ga. L. 1982, p. 4558, Sec. 1; Ga. L. 1989, p. 4588, Sec. 1; Ga. L. 1991, p. 3992, Sec. 1; Act No. 36, 2/17/93, Sec. 1; Act No. 39, 2/17/93, Sec. 1)
Amendment note—The 1982 Act changed the time of appointment from December to January. The 1989 Act deleted the term "freeholder" from board member qualifications. The 1991 Act rewrote subsection (b) to read as herein set out. Act No. 36, of 1993 added the 7th member, and rewrote the entire section to read as herein set forth. Act No. 39 of 1993 contained enabling language for creation of the 7th member, but is not set out herein in light of the Act No. 36.
Section 2.203 - Board powers; officers; compensation.
(a)
Said board of education shall be a body politic and shall be known as the Board of Education of the City of Marietta; shall be capable of suing and being sued as such; and shall be empowered to enact such bylaws, rules, and regulations, not inconsistent with the laws of this state or the United States, for the government of the members of the board and the superintendent, teachers, and pupils of said schools, as the board may deem proper. The board may hold any property, real or personal, that the board may acquire by purchase, donations, or otherwise. The board shall appoint the superintendent for the school system.
(b)
At its first meeting in January, as its first item of business each year, the board shall elect from its body a chairperson and a vice chairperson who shall exercise such powers and perform such duties as the board may prescribe. The board shall also elect from the citizens of said city, but not from its body, a secretary and treasurer, who shall hold their offices for one year, unless sooner removed by the board of education. The board shall pay said secretary and treasurer such salaries as the board may deem just, not exceeding $50.00 each per annum. Said treasurer shall give bond in such amount as said board shall determine sufficient, with good and sufficient security, to be approved by said board, and payable to said board for the faithful discharge of said treasurer's duties and the safekeeping and disbursement of all moneys, bonds, and matters entrusted to said treasurer's care. Said bonds shall be recorded on the minutes of said board. The board may remove the secretary or treasurer for cause and may fill any vacancy in either of said offices at any time. All actions by the board of education shall be by the affirmative vote of a majority of a quorum of the board, a quorum being a majority of the board of education.
(c)
The members of said board shall be paid $300.00 per month as compensation out of the budget of the board of education revenues. The chair shall be compensated an additional $100.00 per month out of the budget of the board of education revenues.
(Ga. L. 1890-91, Vol. II, p. 1014, Sec. III, as amended by Ga. L. 1967, p. 2590, Sec. 3 and Ga. L. 1977, p. 3697; Act No. 36, 2/17/93, Sec. 2)
Annotation—Board has power of eminent domain. Herren v. Board of Education of the City of Marietta, 219 Ga. 431, 134 S.E. 2d 6 (1963).
Section 2.204 - Disposal of property.
(a)
Subject to the provisions of subsection (b) of this section, the board of education of the City of Marietta is hereby authorized to sell any real or personal property owned by said board of education when said board determines that such property is not needed, obsolete or inconvenient. Said board shall also be authorized to trade, exchange, lease, rent and otherwise contract concerning any real or personal property owned by said board.
(b)
Before any real property is sold pursuant to the authority granted in subsection (a) of this section, the board of education of the City of Marietta shall advertise and accept bids for the purchase of such real property, and such property shall be sold to the highest responsible bidder as determined by said board of education. The state, political subdivisions and other public agencies, and agencies of the federal government shall be authorized to bid on such real property offered for sale by said board, and in the event the highest responsible bid made by a private person, firm, corporation, partnership or other organization does not exceed the bid made by the state, any political subdivision or other public agency or agency of the federal government, said property shall be sold to the state, political subdivision, other public agency or agency of the federal government, as the case may be.
(c)
Whenever any conveyance or other instrument is executed pursuant to the authority granted by this section, said conveyance or other instrument shall be executed by the party or parties designated by the board of education of the City of Marietta in a resolution duly adopted by said board authorizing the execution of such conveyance or other instrument.
(Ga. L. 1890-91, Vol. II, p. 1014, Sec. III A, as amended by Ga. L. 1952, p. 2291 and Ga. L. 1968, p. 3710)
Section 2.205 - Additional powers of board.
Said board of education shall establish and maintain in said city one (1) or more schools. Said schools shall be and [sic] capable of accommodating all the children entitled to attend the same. With the proceeds of the bonds herein provided for, said board of education shall purchase buildings or lots and erect buildings, and furnish and equip and make the same suitable for said schools. Said board may purchase any school property in said city if, in their opinion, it is for the best interest of said schools and city. Said board shall supervise, regulate and make efficient said schools; they shall establish the grades therein and prescribe the studies and textbooks therefor, but said schools shall embrace what are known as the primary, grammar and high school grades; they shall elect a superintendent and the teachers for said schools, and fix and pay their salaries; for sufficient cause, they may discharge the superintendent or teachers and expel pupils at any time; they shall provide for the necessary conveniences and appliances of said schools, and do all lawful acts necessary for the proper support and successful operation of said schools.
(Ga. L. 1890-91, Vol. II, p. 1014, Sec. IV, as amended by Ga. L. 1967, p. 2591, Sec. 4)
Section 2.206 - Types of pupils; tuition and fees.
All the children between the ages of six (6) and 18 years, whose parents, guardians or natural protectors reside within the corporate limits of said city, shall be entitled to the benefits of said schools. Said board shall also provide for the admission into said schools of persons over 18 years of age residing within the corporate limits of said city, and of persons residing out of the corporate limits of said city who may desire to attend said schools; said board providing for said last two (2) classes of persons such rates of tuition as may seem to them reasonable and just, which must be paid before they can enter said schools. Said boards may also prescribe fees to be paid by all pupils attending the high school grades of said schools, and to enforce payment thereof by such rules and resolutions as they may deem proper.
(Ga. L. 1890-91, Vol. II, p. 1014, Sec. V, as amended by Ga. L. 1890-91, Vol. II, p. 1039, Sec. I and Ga. L. 1893, p. 434, Sec. III)
Section 2.207 - School funds; report; records.
(a)
The State School Commissioner of the State of Georgia, from and after the passage of this act, shall pay over to the treasurer of said board of education the entire pro rata share of the state school funds for the children of said city who are within the school age, and to which they may be entitled under the rules of distribution. The treasurer of said board of education shall receive said funds and shall also receive from the clerk of the council of said city the taxes hereinafter levied for the support of said schools. Said schools shall be supported and maintained by the funds raised under the provisions of this and preceding section.
(b)
Said board shall make a report at the end of each scholastic year to the mayor and council of said city, showing the amount of funds received and from what sources, and how expended. Said mayor and council shall cause this report to be published in the city paper.
(c)
Said board shall cause to be kept a complete and correct record of all their proceedings, which shall be open to the public at all times.
(Ga. L. 1890-91, Vol. II, p. 1014, Sec. VI, as amended by Ga. L. 1905, p. 490)
Sections 2.208, 2.209 - Reserved.
Editor's note— At the instruction of the city, Sections 2.208 and 2.209, school tax and tax increase referendum have been deleted, and the user's attention is directed to section 2.209.1.
Section 2.209.1. - Ad valorem tax for public schools.
(a)
Effective January 1, 1994, the board of education shall have the power and be authorized to budget for and to levy an ad valorem tax annually in accordance with law for the purpose of supporting and maintaining the public schools of the City of Marietta, Georgia. The board of education is also authorized to provide for sufficient levy to pay principal and interest on school bonds for the support of the public schools, not to exceed the limit now in effect for such school bonds for the City of Marietta. The city shall serve as the collecting agent for such tax and is authorized to deduct the reasonable cost of collection of such tax. The board shall establish a millage rate for operating and maintaining the public schools and said rate shall become part of the ad valorem tax levy of the City of Marietta pursuant to the city charter of the City of Marietta.
(b)
The fiscal year for the board of education shall be the same as the fiscal year for the City of Marietta. The board of education shall also adopt a billing cycle which will allow the city to include the school taxes with the ad valorem taxes of the City of Marietta, Georgia. (Act No. 40, Sec. 1, 2/17/93)
Editor's note— Pursuant to the city's instruction, the provisions of Act No. 40, Section 1, approved Feb. 17, 1993, and designated Section 7B, have been set out as superseding former Part 2, Section 2.209.1, Ad valorem tax for public schools, Ga. L. 1969, p. 3727. Additionally, the user's attention is directed to Part 1, Sections 7.8 through 7.10 and Part 2, Section 2.101.
Section 2.210 - Employee's insurance.
The Board of Education of the City of Marietta is authorized to establish a medical and hospitalization insurance program for the protection and benefit of any or all personnel subject to the jurisdiction of the board, and to provide for the payment from the funds of the board such portion of the premiums required for such insurance for such employees or for the payment of all such premises as the board, in its judgment, shall deem proper.
(Ga. L. 1890-91, Vol. II, p. 1014, Sec. 7A, as amended by Ga. L. 1970, p. 2681)
Editor's note— Sections VIII, IX and X of the original act of 1890, as amended, are not codified here since they only grant authority for the issuance of specific school bonds or consist of general repealer language.
