ARTICLE I. - [GENERAL PROVISIONS]

Sec. 1.01. - Authority for enactment.
The Board of Commissioners of Marion County enacts this chapter [appendix] under the exercise of powers conferred upon it by the Georgia State Constitution, article IX, section II, paragraph IV, relating to planning and zoning.
Sec. 1.02. - Jurisdiction.
This chapter [appendix] shall apply only to the unincorporated areas of Marion County.
Sec. 1.03. - Application, interpretation and conflict.
In interpreting and applying the provisions of this chapter [appendix] they shall be held to be the minimum requirements for the promotion of the public safety, health, convenience, comfort, prosperity and general welfare. It is not intended by this chapter [appendix] to interfere with, or abrogate or annul any chapter, rules, regulations or permits previously adopted or issued and not in conflict with any of the provisions of this chapter [appendix], or which shall be adopted or issued pursuant to law relating to the use of buildings or premises, and likewise not in conflict with this chapter [appendix]; nor is it intended by this chapter [appendix] to interfere with, abrogate, or annual any easements, covenants or other agreements between parties; however, where this chapter [appendix] imposes a greater restriction or requires larger open spaces, or larger lot areas than are imposed or required by other chapters or agreements, the provisions of this chapter [appendix] shall control.
Sec. 1.04. - Purpose.
The purposes of this chapter [appendix] shall be to:
A.
Promote the proper location, height, bulk, number of stories and size of buildings and other structures;
B.
Assure: (1) the appropriate sizes of yards, courts and uses of other open spaces; (2) the proper density and distribution of population; and (3) the appropriate uses of buildings, structures, and land for trade, industry, residence, recreation, agriculture, forestry, conservation, sanitation, protection against floods, public activities and other purposes, so as to lessen congestion in roadways;
C.
Avoid undue concentration of population;
D.
Conservation of building and land values;
E.
Encourage the most appropriate use of land, buildings and structures;
F.
Facilitate the adequate provision of transportation, water, sanitary sewage, schools, parks and other public requirements;
G.
Promote desirable living conditions and the sustained stability of neighborhoods;
H.
Promote health and the general welfare.
I.
Prevent the overcrowding of land;
J.
Prevention of sprawl;
K.
Protection against blight and depreciation;
L.
Provide adequate light and air;
M.
Secure economy in governmental expenditures;
N.
Secure safety from fire, panic and other dangers, and for other purposes.
Sec. 1.05. - Violations and penalties.
Any person violating, neglecting or refusing to comply with any of the provisions of this chapter [appendix] shall, upon conviction, be deemed guilty of violating a county ordinance and shall be punished by imposition of the appropriate fine or by imprisonment in the discretion of the court. Each day that a violation is permitted to exist shall constitute a separate offense.
