Chapter 30 - HEALTH AND SANITATION
ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Secs. 30-1—30-30. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - ON-SITE SEWAGE MANAGEMENT SYSTEMS[1]

Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Editor's note— The adoption date of this article is not available.

Sec. 30-31. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
On-site sewage management system means a sewage management system other than a public or community sewage treatment system, whether serving single or multiple buildings, mobile homes, recreational vehicles, residences or other facilities designed or used for human occupancy or congregation. The term "on-site sewage management system" includes conventional septic tank systems, privies, experimental and alternative on-site sewage management systems, portable toilets, and other systems that may be approved by the county board of health.
(Ord. No. 87-07-07)
Sec. 30-32. - Penalties.
Any person violating any of the provisions of this article, if convicted, shall be punished as provided in section 1-17.
(Ord. No. 87-07-07)
Sec. 30-33. - On-site sewage management system required.
Where public or community sewage treatment systems are not available, the owner, lessee or agent thereof of every building, residence or property designed, used or intended to be used for human occupancy or congregation shall provide an approved on-site sewage management system sufficient for persons normally expected to use or frequent the building, residence or other property for two hours or more.
(Ord. No. 87-07-07)
Sec. 30-34. - Required standards.
New installations of on-site sewage management systems shall meet all standards and provisions as set forth by the county board of health and the state department of human resources. No person may begin the physical development of a lot or structure thereon where an on-site sewage management system will be utilized, nor install a new on-site sewage management system, without first having applied for and obtained from the board of health a construction permit for the installation. No person may cover or use an on-site sewage management system until final inspection has been made by the county board of health to determine compliance with the provisions and standards of construction, and written approval has been issued by the board of health.
(Ord. No. 87-07-07)
Sec. 30-35. - Prohibited discharge.
No person shall allow the unapproved discharge or spillage of sewage, nor shall an on-site sewage management system be used or maintained in such manner that will allow the seepage or discharge of effluent from such system to any ground surface, water well, abandoned well, watercourse, drainage ditch, open trench, canal, storm drain or storm sewer, lake, stream, river, groundwater or other body of water. When, in the opinion of the county board of health, an existing on-site sewage management system presents an eminent or probable threat to public health, use of such system shall be discontinued and corrective measures taken to preserve public health.
(Ord. No. 87-07-07)
Sec. 30-36. - Administration and enforcement.
An individual employed by or acting under the authority of the county health department, county board of health, or county code administrator, together with the county sheriff's department, shall be jointly responsible for the administration and enforcement of this article.
(Ord. No. 87-07-07)
Sec. 30-37. - Restoration of lands.
When removal of vegetative cover, excavation or fill has taken place in violation of this article, the violator shall be required to restore the affected land to its original contours and to restore vegetation, as far as practicable.
