CHAPTER 16.08 - INTERPRETATION

Sections:
16.08.010 - Minimum requirements.
The provisions contained in this chapter shall be considered as minimum requirements. When this chapter imposes greater restrictions than are imposed by other provisions of law or ordinance, this chapter shall prevail.
(Ord. No. 04-12-06-A, ยง I, 12-6-2004)
16.08.020 - Definitions.
Certain terms and words are defined for the purpose of this chapter. Words used in the present tense shall include the future. The word "shall" is mandatory, and the word "may" is permissive.
Amenity Area: The area(s) set aside for active and passive recreation for the residents of a subdivision. Recreation areas may include passive areas such as trails, picnic areas, playgrounds or landscaped parks providing no facilities for active sports; and active areas, with ball fields, soccer facilities, swimming areas, and other facilities for sports activities.
As-built Plans: Detailed construction plans showing completed improvements as constructed.
Boulevard: A street developed with two (2) one-way pavements separated by a landscaped median.
City: The City of McDonough, Georgia.
City Engineer: The authorized registered engineer retained by the City.
Cluster Residential Development Project: A residential development which provides for the grouping of attached and detached residential dwellings on lots that may be smaller than allowed in a zoning district, for the purpose of preserving common space and natural terrain features, and economy in providing public facilities and services. On certain cluster home residential developments, fire-resistant materials may be required.
Common Space: Land within or related to a development, not individually owned or dedicated for public use, that is designated and intended for the common ownership and use by the residents of a subdivision and may include complementary landscaping, structures and improvements as are necessary and appropriate for recreation or other activities.
Comprehensive Development Plan: The McDonough Comprehensive Development Plan indicates the location and extent of future land uses, development plan, public facilities, transportation, and the City's and cities long range development policies.
County: Henry County, Georgia.
Covenant: An agreement or restriction placed on lots by a developer.
Cul-de-sac: A dead-end local street opened at one end and closed at the other by a permanent, circular turnaround.
Cul-de-sac lot: Any lot which has any portion of its road frontage abutting a cul-de-sac.
Dead-end Street: A local street open at one end and closed at the other. Dead-end streets may have a cul-de-sac at the closed end, a "T" or "Y" turnaround, or dead-end for future extension to adjacent properties.
Dedication Plat: A plat required for the dedication to the City of rights-of-way for streets, public easements for sewer or water facilities, and other public improvements outside of a subdivision plat or planned development project.
Development permit: A permit issued by the community development department for construction of subdivision improvements and other development including streets and drainage construction and the installation of utilities.
Easement: A right granted by a property owner to the general public, a public utility, the City, or a private individual or corporation for the use of a portion of the owner's land for a specific purpose, or use as a means of access to other property. Easements shall be designated "public" or "private" depending upon the nature of the usage.
Engineer: A licensed professional engineer in the State of Georgia and registered through the state board of professional engineers who is competent in the field of civil design.
Flood Hazard Area: The area threatened by periodic flooding as determined by data and maps provided by the Federal Emergency Management Administration, U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development, U.S. Soil Conservation Service, U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, or hydrological studies utilizing generally accepted engineering practices. Flood hazard areas shall include all lands underneath a permanent body of water, e.g., a lake, pond, river, and stream, and all land within the limits of a flood having a 100-year return frequency or greater. Regulations for flood hazard areas are contained in the McDonough Flood Damage Prevention Ordinance, Chapter 15.40.
Grading permit: A permit issued by the community development department for the clearing and grading of streets and rights-of-way, sewer easements, stormwater facilities, and areas needed for removal and fill operations as deemed necessary by the community development director for the construction of the streets and rights-of-way. The grading permit may also require the installation of stormwater facilities.
Henry County Health Department: The department responsible for enforcement of county health regulations including the issuance of permits for on-site sewage disposal systems and wells.
Improvements: Physical changes to the land which are necessary to create useable lots including (but not limited to) grading and paving streets, sewer and water facilities, hydrants, sidewalks, monuments, changes to existing utilities, and stormwater drainage and detention systems.
Landscape Architect: A licensed, professional landscape architect in the State of Georgia who is competent in the field of civil design.
Lot: A lot of record, or any combination of lots of record, held in single ownership, or in common ownership by more than one, which meets the dimensional requirements of this Chapter and the Zoning Ordinance for the district in which a given tract of land is located.
Lot, Corner: A lot having frontage on two (2) or more public streets at their intersection.
Lot Divisions: The division of a tract or parcel of land into no more than two (2) lots.
Lot of Record: A lot which is part of a subdivision recorded in the office of the Henry County Clerk of Superior Court, or a parcel described by metes and bounds, the description of which has been so recorded.
Lot, Through: A lot, other than a corner lot, having frontage on more than one (1) street; or a corner lot having frontage on three (3) or more streets.
Marginal Access Street: A local residential street paralleling and adjacent to a major arterial which provides access to abutting properties and protection from through traffic.
McDonough Building Department: The department responsible for administration and enforcement of the building codes, City ordinances, construction codes, flood hazard prevention ordinance, stormwater management ordinance, watershed protection ordinance, issuance of development permits, issuance of grading permits, issuance of all construction related permits, soil erosion and sedimentation control regulations, and construction inspections.
McDonough City Administrator: The chief administrator for the City.
McDonough City Council: The elected governing body for the City. Referred to as "City Council" in this chapter.
McDonough Community Development Department: The department responsible for administration of the comprehensive development plan, the zoning ordinance, landscape ordinance, and long-range development planning.
McDonough Planning Commission: Appointed by the City Council to review and make recommendations on zoning, subdivision, and long-range development plans. Referred to as the "Planning Commission" in this chapter.
McDonough Public Works Department: The department responsible for maintenance and conservation of City roads, bridges, and storm water management and drainage facilities.
McDonough Water and Sewer Department: The department responsible for design and construction inspection of sewer and water facilities in the City.
Open Space: means undeveloped land that has been designated, dedicated, reserved, or restricted in perpetuity from further development, which is not a part of an individual residential lot.
Pavement Width: The cross section width of a paved road measured from edges of pavement.
Perennial Stream: Any stream which flows throughout the entire year, as shown as a solid blue line on a United States Geological Survey (USGS) 7-minute Topographic Series Maps (1:24,000).
Planned Unit Development (PUD): Development intended to encourage both residential and non-residential land uses according to a master development plan, with related covenants and restrictions. Developments within a PUD project may have flexibility in the application of development standards when approved according to a master development plan, and to promote the conservation of natural resources, more efficient use of land, and, efficiency in the extension of streets and utilities.
Public Common Space: Land dedicated or reserved for use by the general public. It includes parks, recreation facilities, school sites, community or public building sites and similar spaces for public use.
Public Utility: Firms, corporations, or local government authorities providing gas, electricity, communications service, and similar essential services.
Road, City: Any road, paved or unpaved, which is maintained by the City.
Road, County: Any road, paved or unpaved, which is maintained by Henry County.
Road, Private: A road which is not maintained by any governmental entity.
Sewer, Lateral: Sanitary sewer collection lines within a subdivision or development that transports effluent to larger trunk sewers for sewage treatment.
Sewer, Trunk: Main sanitary sewer lines which collect sewage from lateral sewer lines for transportation either directly to sewage treatment plants or to larger interceptor sewers entering a treatment plant.
Sight Distance; Intersection Sight Distance: Sight distance for intersections with minor/major arterial roads use intersection sight distance measured from a drive's-eye height of three and five-tenths (3.5) feet to an object height of four and twenty-five hundredths (4.25) feet.
Sight Distance; Intersection Sight Distance: Sight distance for intersections as measured from a driver's eye height of three and five-tenths (3.5) feet to an object height of three and five-tenths (3.5) feet. The observer's eye is to be fifteen (15) feet from the edge of pavement or fifteen (15) feet from the deceleration lane.
Site plans: Detailed construction plans prepared by a professional engineer, surveyor, or landscape architect registered in the State of Georgia, for streets, including typical cross sections and grade profiles and elevations, layout and elevations of water and sanitary sewer facilities, along with drainage and stormwater management facilities, and soil erosion control.
Soil Erosion and Sedimentation Control Plan: A plan for temporary and permanent facilities to control soil erosion and sedimentation from subdivision construction sites, as required by the McDonough Soil Erosion and Sedimentation Control Ordinance, Chapter 15.36, and the rules and regulations of the Georgia Department of Natural Resources Environmental Protection Division.
Streets: A street includes the land between the right-of-way lines, whether improved or unimproved, and may be comprised of pavement, shoulders, curb and gutter, sidewalks, drainage ditches and structures within the street right-of-way lines. Streets are classified as follows:
1.
Expressway: The expressway system includes high volume limited access thoroughfares through the county and region beyond. These include I-75, U.S. 19/41, and I-675.
2.
Major Arterial: An arterial street which is designed or intended for moderate to high levels of traffic flow within the City and County and region beyond and also includes the state and national highway system in the City and County.
3.
Minor Arterial: An arterial street similar in function to a major arterial but which is intended to provide moderate levels of traffic flow and greater access to abutting properties. Minor arterials serve as traffic feeders to major arterials and for cross-county and regional travel.
4.
Collector Street: A street which carries traffic from local streets to minor and major arterial streets, and may include the principal entrance of a development.
5.
Local Street: A street designed to provide access to adjoining properties within a subdivision or other development.
6.
Stub Street: A dead-end street at adjoining property lines intended for future extension to serve the development of adjoining areas.
Stub-out Service: Sanitary sewer connection facilities within the street right-of-way provided from lateral sewer line to the private property line for connection to building sewer lines.
Subdivision: The division of a parcel or tract of land for the purpose of creating sites for development, the rearrangement of existing lot lines, or transfer of ownership. Notwithstanding the foregoing, a division of a parcel or tract of land shall not be considered a "subdivision" if no new streets or roads are created or no new utility improvements are required or no new sanitary sewer or approval of a septic tank is required.
Subdivision Re-plat: A plat submitted for changes in the arrangement of existing lots, rights-of-way, or improvements in an existing approved and recorded subdivision.
Surveyor: A registered land surveyor in the State of Georgia registered by the State Board of Licensing.
Townhouse Residential Development Project: A residential development project (as part of a PUD) which includes attached residential dwellings sharing common walls with fire rating according to the Life Safety Code, and which are planned for individual ownership of the dwelling units and land thereunder.
Utilities: Gas, electrical, sewer, water, and communications facilities installed by a public utility company, local government authorities, or individual for the purpose of dedicating such facilities to the City.
Wetlands: Areas defined as wetlands by federal law and regulations.
Zoning Ordinance: The official zoning ordinance and zoning map as adopted by the McDonough Council.
(Ord. No. 04-12-06-A, ยง I, 12-6-2004; Ord. No. 06-05-01(A), ยง 49, 5-1-2006)
