CHAPTER 15.32 - LANDSCAPING

Sections:
15.32.010 - Definitions.
Caliper. A landscaping standard which describes the diameter of a tree trunk one foot above the rootball.
Canopy Tree. A tree which, at maturity, grows above a height of fifty (50) feet, and whose species is included on the tree list included below, or is specifically approved as such by the Community Development Director of the City.
City. The City of McDonough, Georgia.
Ground Cover. Plant material and grasses, which at maturity, attain a maximum height of less than three (3) feet and whose species is included in the list included below, or is specifically approved as such by the Community Development Director of the City.
Impervious Surface. That portion of a developed site consisting of natural or manmade materials that act to prohibit the permeation of rain and surface water. Generally this area includes any buildings, sidewalks, parking, curbing, etc.
Landscape Plan. A document submitted by a developer provided in the form required by the City prior to development that shows the plan view of the site and includes proposed improvements on the same. For the purposes of determining compliance with this Chapter, such plan must also include the location of all existing trees over ten (10) inches in Caliper (including size and species); all proposed plants and trees; amount of Impervious Surface existing and proposed; a list of proposed plant material; and the calculations showing compliance with this Chapter. For sites greater than two (2) acres, this plan shall be prepared by a registered landscape architect or engineer.
Natural Area. That portion of a property that remains undisturbed by development activity, other than underbrushing or hand clearing. Such portions may be supplemented with plant material, mulch, and grass seed or sod.
Parking Lot Island. A curbed landscaped strip of no less than ten (10) feet in width located in a parking lot. Such island must be sized to allow the plants and trees located with in it to grow to their mature size.
Shrub. A woody plant, which at maturity, attains a minimum height of three (3) feet and the species of which is included in the list included below, or is specifically approved as such by the Community Development Director of the City.
Understory Tree. A tree which, at maturity, attains a height less than fifty (50) feet and the species of which is included in the list included below, or is specifically approved as such by the Community Development Director of the City.
(Ord. No. 98-03-02D, 3-2-1998)
15.32.020 - Applicability.
This Chapter shall apply to all development activity occurring within the City, application for which is made subsequent to the effective date of this Ordinance, and all construction activity where, during the course of construction, Impervious Surface is added within all zoning districts as the same may hereafter be created, abolished, or amended. It is further the intent of this ordinance to allow flexibility and creativity in design without compromising the overall intent of enhancing the developed environment and harmonizing it with the natural environment.
(Ord. No. 98-03-02D, 3-2-1998)
15.32.030 - Plan Review.
A.
Prior to vegetation disturbance for development of new, or expansion of existing Impervious Surfaces, a Landscape Plan (seven copies) must be submitted to the Community Development Department. For sites greater than two (2) acres, the Landscape Plan must be prepared by a licensed landscape architect or engineer.
B.
The Landscape Plan shall include the following information: property lines, easements, rights-of-way, existing and proposed parking facilities, existing and proposed structures, contours at two (2) foot intervals, storm water facilities, utilities, type and size of material, plant list, landscape calculations, north arrow and graphic scale.
C.
The Community Development Department staff shall review the submitted plan for compliance with the provisions of this Chapter.
D.
No additional Landscape Plan Review Fee is authorized hereunder, as such is included in the general Development Plan Review Fee.
(Ord. No. 98-03-02D, 3-2-1998)
15.32.040 - Residential Landscape Requirements.
A.
Single family detached dwelling developments located in the R-50, R-85, R-75, R-100 and RA-200 zoning districts shall be required to plant a minimum of one (1) Canopy Tree and one (1) Understory Tree for every one hundred (100) linear feet of street right-of-way within the development. Said trees shall be planted between the curb and the sidewalk of rights-of-way. All other development shall be in accordance with section 15.32.060.
B.
All disturbed yard areas (other than Natural Areas) in residential zoning districts shall be sodded. Permanent sod grassing shall be installed in all front yards, side and rear yards. All yard landscaping shall extend to the edge of curbing of the nearest public street. All drainage easements on the property shall be graded and landscaped for positive surface drainage of the platted lot with consideration for avoidance of surface drainage problems, potential erosion and flooding of adjoining properties. The grading and landscaping of drainage easements shall be in conformance with drainage easement locations and design as indicated on the approved final plat of the subdivision.
C.
The Community Development Director or his designee shall determine that the minimum landscaping requirements of section 15.32.020 are in compliance at the final inspection of the structure. When weather does not permit landscaping to be done before a final inspection of the structure is made, the builder may request in writing and the director may grant up to a thirty (30) day extension for the completion of landscaping. Failure to complete the landscaping within the time granted shall constitute a violation of this chapter. Field conditions may require additional measures to assure positive surface drainage and/or prevent future erosion and washing of adjoining properties.
(Ord. No. 98-03-02D, 3-2-1998)
15.32.050 - Commercial Landscaping; Design Criteria.
A.
A minimum twenty (20) foot landscape buffer must be provided along areas of the site where parking is adjacent to a right-of-way. A minimum two (2) foot high berm shall also be provided in these areas. Such landscape buffer shall not apply when the developer chooses to construct a building on the property line or construct a natural stone or brick wall a minimum of four (4) feet in height and with a ten (10) feet setback from the right-of-way line.
B.
One Parking Lot Island shall be provided for every ten (10) parking spaces on site. It shall be a minimum of ten (10) feet in width and extend the length of the parking space. Upon approval of the Community Development Director, such islands may be combined to form larger islands, at the perimeter of the site, public open spaces, or some combination thereof.
C.
One Parking Lot Island, minimum ten (10) foot width and extending the length of the parking field in a configuration to be approved by the Community Development Director, shall be provided for every fifth double row of parking.
(Ord. No. 98-03-02D, 3-2-1998)
15.32.060 - Commercial Landscaping; Minimum Plant Requirements.
A.
A minimum of one (1) two (2) inch Caliper Canopy Tree and one two (2) inch Caliper Understory Tree shall be planted for every two thousand (2,000) square feet of Impervious Surface on site.
B.
One (1) Shrub minimum of a three (3) gallon container size, shall be planted for every three hundred (300) square feet of Impervious Surface on site.
C.
Ground Cover shall be provided in all pervious areas disturbed during construction. Outparcels on subsequent phases of phased developments or commercial subdivisions may be temporarily seeded, but shall be sodded within one (1) year if additional construction does not continue to proceed. Ground cover may be sodded, sprigged or plugged, except that solid sod shall be used in drainage swells or other areas subject to potential erosion. Ground covers shall be planted so as to achieve complete coverage within one (1) year from the time of planting.
D.
Plant material required by this Chapter shall be in addition to requirements for planting in required buffers, as such as may be required by the Zoning Ordinance or as a condition of zoning approval.
(Ord. No. 98-03-02D, 3-2-1998)
15.32.070 - Maintenance.
All material planted to meet the requirements of this Chapter shall be maintained by the property owner in perpetuity. Changes to the landscaping plan during and after construction shall be reported to the Community Development Director.
(Ord. No. 98-03-02D, 3-2-1998)
15.32.080 - Enforcement.
A.
All material shown on the approved Landscape Plan must be planted prior to the issuance of a certificate of occupancy. At the discretion of the Community Development Director, a bond or letter of credit in favor of the City may be submitted to the City instead of the planting. Such assurances shall be allowed as a temporary extension of the above plating deadline and must be in the value of the plant material and labor cost of the items to be completed and must provide a completion date not to exceed one hundred and twenty (120) days.
B.
The owner of each parcel subject to the requirements of this Chapter shall be responsible for the perpetual maintenance and protection of buffers and landscape plantings required. The Community Development Director may require that diseased, infested, dying, dead or damaged landscaping be replaced.
C.
Failure to maintain required landscape material shall constitute a violation of this Chapter and shall be punishable by a fine up to One Thousand ($1,000.00) Dollars. Each day such violation continues shall be deemed a separate offense.
(Ord. No. 98-03-02D, 3-2-1998)
15.32.090 - Substitutions.
Substitutions to the design criteria, minimum plant requirements and approved landscape materials or other sections of this Ordinance may be requested by the developer of the Community Development Director. The Community Development Director is hereby delegated authority to accept alternate substitutions consistent with the intent of this Ordinance.
(Ord. No. 98-03-02D, 3-2-1998)
15.32.100 - Administrative Appeals.
The denial of substitutions or the suspension, revocation, or modification of a Landscape Plan by the Community Development Director upon finding that the developer is not in compliance with this Ordinance, or is in violation of any City ordinance, shall entitle the person submitting the plan a right to appeal to the City Administrator. Any person, aggrieved by a decision or order of the City Administrator, shall have the right to appeal to the Mayor and City Council within fifteen (15) days after receipt of a decision by the City Administrator.
(Ord. No. 98-03-02D, 3-2-1998)
15.32.110 - Approved Landscape Materials.
The following materials are those that are approved for inclusion in plans required under this Chapter:
CANOPY TREES
(No 'dwarf' varieties of those listed)
American Beech
Chinese Elm (Ulmus Parvifolia)
Pin Oak (Quercus Palustris)
Red Oak (Quercus Rubra)
River Birch (Betula Nigra)
Saucer Magnolia
Sawtooth Oak (Quercus Acutissima)
Scarlet Oak (Quercus Coccinea)
Shumard Red Oak (Quercus Shumardii)
Southern Magnolia (Magnolia Grandflora)
Trident Maple (Acer Buergeranum)
Water Oak
White Oak (Quercus Alba)
Willow Oak (Quecus Phellos)
Zelkova (Zelkova Serrata)
UNDERSTORY TREES
(No 'dwarf' varieties of those listed)
Bald Cypress
Crape Mayrtle
Deodara Cedar (Cedress Deodora)
Eastern Red Bud (Cercis Canadiensis)
Ginkgo (Ginko Biloba) (Male Tree only)
Japanese Black Pine
Japanese Maple (Acer Palmatum "Crispum")
Kwansan Cherry
Kousa Dogwood (Cornus Kousa)
Laurel Oak (Quercus Laurifolaia)
Leyland Cypress
Pink Flowering Dogwood (Cornus Floridia "Rubra")
Red Maple (Acer Rubrum)
Red Flowering Dogwood (Cornius Florida "Red")
Scarlet Maple (Acer Rubrum)
Virginia Pine (Pinus Virginiana)
Wax Myrtle
Weeping Willow (Salix Babylonica)
SHRUBS
('Dwarf' varieties of the above listed Canopy and Understory Trees are allowed)
American Boxwood
Azalea (Azelia Indica)
American Holly
Bayberry (Myricia Pensylvanica)
Bar Harbor Juniper (Juniperus H. "Barharbor)
Bigleaf Hydrangum (Hydrangum Macrophylla)
Burford Holly
Camellia (Camellia Japonica)
Cherry Laurel
Common Privet (Ligustrum Vulgara)
Eastern Dogwood (Comus Florida)
Eastern Redbud (Cercis Canadiensis)
English Ivy (Hedera Helix)
Flame Azalea
Golden Raintree (Koelreuteria Paniculata)
Hibiscus (Hibiscus Rosa Sinensis)
Holly (Ilex Crenata)
Hollywood Juniper (Juniperus C. "Torulosa")
Hydrangea (Hydrangea Sp.)
Mother-in-Laws Tongue (Sansevieria T. "Laurentii")
Nellie R. Stevens Holly
Piedmont Azalea (Rhododendron Canescens)
Pepp'mint Geranium (Pelargonium Tomentosum)
Plumleaf Azalea (Rhododendron Prunifolium)
Red Columbine (Aquilegia Eximia)
Savannah Holly
True Myrtle (Myrtus C. "Compacta")
Varigated Privet (Ligustrum Variegata)
GROUND COVER
Aragula (Erucu Vesicuria)
Bermuda Grass
Birds Nest Fern (Asplenium Nidus)
Blue Carpet Juniper (Juniperus H. "Wilronii")
Centipede Grass
Common Sassafras (Sassafrass Albidum)
Dwarf Juniper (Juniperus Com. Savepiis)
English Ivy
Fescue
Sargent Juniper (Juniperus C. Sargentii)
St. Augustine Grass (Stenotaphrum Secundaroa)"
Zoysia Grass
(Ord. No. 98-03-02D, 3-2-1998)
15.32.120 - Outdoor Landscape Watering.
A.
Restriction on Outdoor Water of Landscape. Outdoor watering for purposes of planting, growing, managing, or maintaining ground cover, trees, shrubs, or other plants may occur only between the hours of 4:00 p.m. and 10:00 a.m.; provided, however, that this limitation shall not create any limitation upon the following outdoor water uses:
1.
Commercial raising, harvesting, or storing of crops; feeding, breeding, or managing livestock or poultry; the commercial production or storing of feed for use in the production of livestock, including, but not limited to, cattle, calves, swine, hogs, goats, sheep, and rabbits, or for use in the production of poultry, including, but not limited to, chickens, hens, ratites, and turkeys; producing plants, trees, fowl, or animals; or the commercial production of aquacultural, horticultural, dairy, livestock, poultry, eggs, and apiarian products or as otherwise defined in O.C.G.A. ยง 1-3-3;
2.
Capture and reuse of cooling system condensate or storm water in compliance with applicable City ordinances and state guidelines;
3.
Reuse of gray water in compliance with O.C.G.A. ยง 31-3-5.2 and applicable local board of health regulations;
4.
Use of reclaimed waste water by a designated user from a system permitted by the Environmental Protection Division of the Georgia Department of Natural Resources to provide reclaimed waste water;
5.
Watering personal food gardens;
6.
Watering new and replanted plant, seed, or turf in landscapes, golf courses, or sports turf fields during installation and for a period of 30 days immediately following the date of installation;
7.
Drip irrigation or irrigation using soaker hoses;
8.
Hand watering with a hose with automatic cutoff or handheld container;
9.
Use of water withdrawn from private water wells or surface water by an owner or operator of property if such well or surface water is on said property;
10.
Watering horticultural crops held for sale, resale, or installation;
11.
Watering athletic fields, golf courses, or public turf grass recreational areas;
12.
Installation, maintenance, or calibration of irrigation systems; or
13.
Hydroseeding.
B.
Enforcement.
1.
No person shall use or allow the use of water in violation of the restrictions on outdoor water use contained in this Chapter.
2.
The Director of the Public Works Department or his designee shall be the enforcement authority for this Chapter. The City Administrator may also authorize other departments as may be deemed necessary to support enforcement.
3.
Criminal and alternative penalties. Any violation of this section may also be enforced by a citation and/or accusation returnable to the City Municipal Court and/or by any other legal means.
(Ord. No. 10-12-06(c), ยง I, 12-6-2010)
