CHAPTER 2.03 - DEFENSE OF EMPLOYEES

2.03.010 - Purpose.
It is the policy of the City to purchase and maintain insurance policies and/or coverages that protect the City, its assets and Employees, as that term is defined herein, from common perils and claims.
Any Employee who becomes aware of a claim or potential claim against the City or against them arising out of the scope of their performance of duties on behalf of the City shall immediately relay such notice to the City Administrator or his designee, who shall thereafter convey such claim to the appropriate insurer for adjustment and defense.
In any circumstance in which it appears that no insuring contract is available for the adjustment or defense of a claim against an Employee, the City adopts the following policy as set forth in this Chapter.
(Ord. No. 10-07-19(B), § 1, 7-19-2010)
2.03.020 - Definitions.
Unless the context otherwise requires, the definitions contained in this section govern the construction of this Chapter:
"Arises after January 1, 2002" means that this Chapter is intended to apply to all claims and proceedings arising after January 1, 2002, unless prior to January 1, 2002, (1) the city attorney, his/her staff or his/her designee has entered an appearance as counsel of record for the Employee in a proceeding or (2) the Employee has requested a defense in writing and has been advised by the Council or the city attorney in writing that he/she will be provided with a defense in a particular claim and/or proceeding.
City means the City of McDonough, Georgia.
Council means the Mayor and Council of McDonough, Georgia.
Claim includes all claims presented against an Employee prior to institution of a proceeding.
Employee means the Mayor and Council, administrator, department heads, employees and other elected or appointed officers and their appointees and employees, of the City of McDonough, Georgia.
No sum is intended to exclude payment of any sum whatsoever including but not limited to compensatory damages, punitive damages, attorney's fees and costs.
Proceeding means any matter of a civil nature in or before any court or agency of this state or of any other state or of the United States.
(Ord. No. 10-07-19(B), § 1, 7-19-2010)
2.03.030 - Defense of Employees.
Whenever, for any matter not otherwise covered by the City's insurance coverage, any claim is made or proceeding is brought against an Employee, asserting against the Employee personal liability for damages or expenses arising out of the performance of his duties or in any way connected therewith, whether based on negligence, violation of contract rights, or violation of civil, constitutional, common law, or other statutory rights, whether federal, state, or local, the City shall, upon such Employee's timely written request, and as a part of such Employee's compensation and terms of employment, provide for his or her defense, unless otherwise limited by the terms of this Chapter. The City may expend funds for such purposes, including but not limited to court costs, deposition costs, witness fees and compensation, and all other like costs, expenses and fees.
(Ord. No. 10-07-19(B), § 1, 7-19-2010)
2.03.040 - Grounds for refusal of defense.
(1)
The City may refuse to provide for, or if a defense has begun, may withdraw from, the defense of a claim or proceeding brought against an Employee if it determines that:
a.
The act or omission did not arise out of and in the course of the employment of such Employee nor was the act or omission reasonably related to such employment;
b.
The Employee acted or failed to act because of intentional misconduct, actual fraud, corruption, or actual malice on his or her part;
c.
Provision of a defense against the claim or proceeding would not be in the best interests of the City;
d.
The proceeding is a criminal prosecution; provided, however, that a defense may be provided where (1) the criminal prosecution is one for an alleged violation of the Georgia Open Records Act or Georgia Open Meetings Act, and it is determined that the charged Employee has acted in good faith to comply with the subject Act and has substantially complied with all City policies relating to the subject Act, which determination shall be made by the Council or (2) the Employee is following direct instructions from a supervisor within his or her chain of command and there is no allegation of actual fraud, corruption, or actual malice on his or her part;
e.
The request was not timely made;
f.
The claim arises out of an act or omission committed or occurring at a time when the Employee was under the influence of drugs or intoxicants;
g.
The act or omission giving rise to the claim was in direct disobedience of an order or instructions of a superior or in contravention of established City policy;
h.
The Employee fails to cooperate in the defense of a claim or proceeding; or
i.
The defense of any such civil action by the City would create a conflict of interest between the City and the Employee.
(2)
The determinations required by this Chapter shall be made by the Council. The Council may refuse, at any time, prior to or after the approval or assumption of the defense, to provide for the defense of any Employee if it is determined or discovered that any of the grounds for refusal set forth in this Chapter exist.
(3)
Upon approval of the defense of a claim or proceeding against an Employee, the Council shall refer the matter to the City's attorney for disposition. In the event two or more Employees or groups of Employees are involved, and the interest of one Employee or group of Employees conflicts with the interests of another Employee or group of Employees, the Council shall specify which Employee or group of Employees shall be represented by the City's attorney and shall, for the other Employees or groups of Employees choose and employ appropriate counsel at the expense of the City.
(Ord. No. 10-07-19(B), § 1, 7-19-2010)
2.03.050 - Payment of judgments; compromise and settlement of claims.
(1)
Where the City has undertaken to defend Claims or Proceedings brought against an Employee as provided by this Chapter, the City may, in its sole discretion, by resolution duly adopted and approved, pay all or any part of final judgments awarded against the Employee by a court of competent jurisdiction or any amount payable as a monetary settlement of any such civil action, subject to the limitations and exclusions which follow.
(2)
Notwithstanding the foregoing, payment of settlements, compromises, judgments and claims shall be limited as follows for any claim or proceeding:
a.
No Sum shall be paid on behalf of any Employee who admits, in any sworn statement, or for whom it has been so determined in any administrative, judicial or other legal proceedings, to have knowingly and intentionally violated state or federal law and/or the City's policies and procedures.
b.
Whenever there is a final determination by a court of competent jurisdiction that the Employee, with respect to the act or failure to act giving rise to the subject Claim or Proceeding, acted or failed to act because of actual fraud, corruption, or actual malice, the Employee shall be required to reimburse the City any amounts paid in defense of the Claim or Proceeding, and any amounts paid as a judgment, compromise, or settlement of such Claim or Proceeding.
c.
No Sum shall be paid pursuant to this Chapter unless the claimant unconditionally releases each and every Employee and the City from any and all suits, claims, actions, causes of action, demands, damages, costs, expenses and compensation on account of or in any way arising out of or related to any such single or continuing incident or occurrence.
d.
No Sum shall be paid pursuant to this Chapter where punitive or exemplary damages have been assessed against any Employee by any court of competent jurisdiction.
e.
Any such disbursement as provided in this Chapter shall be deemed to be for public purposes and may be paid from City funds.
(Ord. No. 10-07-19(B), § 1, 7-19-2010)
2.03.060 - Construction of Chapter.
Nothing in this Chapter shall be construed to constitute any waiver by the City of the governmental immunity afforded it under the laws and constitution of the state, except as specifically set forth in this Chapter. Nothing in this Chapter shall be construed in any way to reduce or eliminate the rights of any Employee against any other party. Nothing herein contained shall be deemed to constitute the appointed officials and their appointees as Employees of the City except for purposes of this Chapter.
(Ord. No. 10-07-19(B), § 1, 7-19-2010)
2.03.070 - Rights of third parties.
Nothing herein contained shall be deemed to create any rights for or obligations to third parties, and this Chapter does not create an[y] obligations to any third party beneficiary hereunder. No person not an Employee of the City and otherwise entitled to the benefits created hereunder shall have any right to enforce the provisions of this Chapter against the City. Employees may not assign their rights hereunder, which are purely personal to the Employee.
(Ord. No. 10-07-19(B), § 1, 7-19-2010)
