TITLE 1 - GENERAL PROVISIONS
CHAPTER 1.04 - GENERAL PROVISIONS

Sections:
1.04.010 - How code designated and cited.
The ordinances embraced in the following chapters and sections shall constitute and be designated "The Code of Ordinances, City of McDonough, Georgia," and may be so cited.
(Prior Code § 1-1)
1.04.020 - Rules of construction.
In the construction of this code, and of all ordinances, the following rules shall be observed, unless such construction would be inconsistent with the manifest intent of the governing body:
City. The words "the city" or "this city" shall mean the city of McDonough, Georgia.
Council, city council, governing body. Whenever the words "council," "city council" or "governing body" are used, they shall mean the mayor and council of the city of McDonough, Georgia.
County. The words "the county" or "this county" shall mean the county of Henry, Georgia.
Gender. A word importing the masculine gender only shall extend and be applied to females and to firms, partnerships and corporations as well as to males.
Number. Words used in the singular include the plural, and the plural includes the singular number.
Oath. The word "oath" shall be construed to include an affirmation in all cases in which, by law, an affirmation may be substituted for an oath, and in such cases the words "swear" and "sworn" shall be equivalent to the words "affirm" and "affirmed."
Or, and. "Or" may be read "and," and "and" may be read "or" if the sense requires it.
Other officials or officers, etc. Whenever reference is made to officials, boards, commissions, departments, etc., by title only, i.e., "city clerk," "marshal," "chief of police," etc., they shall be deemed to refer to the officials, boards, commissions and departments of the city of McDonough, Georgia, and their authorized agents, assistants and representatives.
Person. The word "person" shall extend and be applied to firms, partnerships, associations, organizations and bodies politic and corporate, or any combination thereof, as well as to individuals.
"Signature" or "subscription" includes a mark when the person cannot write.
State. The words "the state" or "this state" shall be construed to mean the state of Georgia.
Street. The word "street" shall be construed to embrace streets, avenues, boulevards, roads, alleys, lanes, viaducts and all other public streets and ways in the city and shall embrace all parts thereof constituting the designated right-of-way, unless otherwise stated.
(Prior Code § 1-2)
1.04.030 - Catchlines of sections.
The catchlines of sections of this code printed in boldface type, italics or otherwise, are intended as mere catchwords to indicate the contents of the section, and shall not be deemed or taken to be titles of such sections, nor as any part of the section, nor, unless expressly so provided, shall they be so deemed when any of such sections, including the catchlines, are amended or re-enacted.
(Prior Code § 1-3)
1.04.040 - Effect of repeal of ordinances.
A.
The repeal of an ordinance shall not revive any ordinances in force before or at the time the ordinance repealed took effect.
B.
The repeal of an ordinance shall not affect any punishment or penalty incurred before the repeal took effect, nor any suit, prosecution or proceeding pending at the time of the repeal, for an offense committed under the ordinances repealed.
(Prior Code § 1-4)
1.04.050 - Severability of parts of code.
It is declared to be the intention of the governing body that the sections, paragraphs, sentences, clauses and phrases of this code are severable, and if any phrase, clause, sentence, paragraph, or section of this code shall be declared unconstitutional or otherwise invalid by the valid judgment or decree of a court of competent jurisdiction, such unconstitutionality or invalidity shall not affect any of the remaining phrases, clauses, sentences, paragraphs and sections of this code.
(Prior Code § 1-5)
1.04.060 - Amendment to code—Effect of new ordinances—Amendatory language.
A.
All ordinances passed subsequent to this code which amend, repeal or in any way affect this code, may be numbered in accordance with the numbering system of this code and printed for inclusion therein. When subsequent ordinances repeal any chapter, section or subsection or any portion thereof, such repealed portions may be excluded from this code by omission from reprinted pages.
B.
Amendments to any of the provisions of this code should be made by amending such provisions by specific reference to the section of this code in substantially the following language: "That section _______ of The Code of Ordinances, City of McDonough, Georgia, is hereby amended to read as follows: _______ (Set out new provisions in full) _______."
C.
When the governing body desires to enact an ordinance of a general and permanent nature on a subject not heretofore existing in the code, which the governing body desires to incorporate into the code, a section in substantially the following language may be made a part of the ordinance:
Section _____. It is the intention of the governing body, and it is hereby ordained that the provisions of this ordinance shall become and be made a part of The Code of Ordinances, City of McDonough, Georgia, and the sections of this ordinance may be renumbered to accomplish such intention.
D.
All sections, articles, chapters or provisions of this code desired to be repealed should be specifically repealed by section or chapter number, as the case may be.
(Prior Code § 1-6)
1.04.070 - Altering code.
It is unlawful for any person in the city to change or amend by additions or deletions, any part or portion of this code, or to insert or delete pages or portions thereof, or to alter or tamper with such code in any manner whatsoever which will cause the law of the city to be misrepresented thereby. Any person violating this section shall be punished as provided in Section 1.08.010.
(Prior Code § 1-7)
CHAPTER 1.08 - GENERAL PENALTY

Sections:
1.08.010. - General penalty.
Whenever in this code or in any ordinance of the city any act is prohibited or is made or declared to be unlawful or an offence, or whenever in such code or ordinance the doing of any act is required or the failure to do any act is declared to be unlawful, where no specific penalty is provided therefor, such violation of any such provision of this code or any ordinance shall be punishable by a fine not exceeding one thousand dollars ($1000.00), by sentence of imprisonment for a period not to exceed six (6) months, or to be confined at labor for a period of not more than thirty (30) days or any or all of the above sentences or such alternative sentencing as now or hereafter provide by law in the discretion of the recorder.
(Prior Code 1-8; Ord. No. 01-01-24)
Editor's note— An editorial note in the previous publication indicates that this section was amended during the 1997 codification.
