Chapter 62 - SIGNS[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Cross reference— Buildings and building regulations, ch. 14; businesses, ch. 18; streets, sidewalks and other public places, ch. 70; subdivisions, ch. 74.
State Law reference— Regulation of signs used by retail distilled spirits dealer, O.C.G.A. § 3-4-3; prohibited placement of campaign posters, signs and advertisements, O.C.G.A. § 21-1-1; unlawful placement of signs within right-of-way of public road, O.C.G.A. § 32-6-51; regulation of outdoor advertising in vicinity of interstate highways, O.C.G.A. § 32-6-70 et seq.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Secs. 62-1—62-25. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - INTERSTATE HIGHWAY SIGNS

Sec. 62-26. - General provisions.
(a)
This article shall apply to all outdoor advertising signs abutting or visible from the Interstate 20 right-of-way in the northern section of the county.
(b)
No sign shall be erected or maintained unless it is in compliance with the regulations of this article.
(c)
Signs must be constructed of durable materials, maintained in good condition, and not permitted to become dilapidated.
(d)
All signs located on sites abutting or visible from the Interstate 20 right-of-way shall conform with O.C.G.A. § 32-6-70 et seq., the state outdoor advertising code, and shall meet all federal and state requirements necessary to obtain a permit under the code. In instances where the sign controls of this article are more strict, such regulations shall apply.
(e)
Any sign which advertises an activity, business, product or service which has ceased operation or production shall be removed within six months of the discontinuance of such activity.
(Ord. of 9-10-80, § I)
Sec. 62-27. - Prohibited signs.
(a)
Signs imitating warning signals are prohibited. No sign shall display lights resembling the flashing lights customarily used in traffic signals or in police, fire, ambulance, or rescue vehicles; nor shall any signs use the words, slogans, dimensional shape and size, or colors of the governmental traffic signs.
(b)
No signs, except traffic signs and signals and informational signs erected by a public agency, are permitted within any street or highway right-of-way.
(c)
Signs painted or attached to natural features such as trees or rocks, telephone poles, utility poles, or fenceposts are prohibited.
(d)
Fluttering ribbons and banners are prohibited.
(e)
Signs within 300 feet of any officially designated historical site or monument, except signs pertaining to that particular site or monument, are prohibited.
(Ord. of 9-10-80, § II)
Sec. 62-28. - Specific types of signs permitted.
(a)
Home occupation signs. One nonilluminated professional or business nameplate not exceeding two square feet in area is permitted.
(b)
Signs of work under construction. One nonilluminated sign not exceeding 40 square feet in area displaying the name of the building, the contractors, the architects, the engineers, the owners, and the financial, selling and development agencies is permitted upon the premises of any work under construction, alteration, or removal. Such sign shall be removed from the site within 30 days after the completion of the project.
(c)
Temporary subdivision signs. Temporary signs, not exceeding 40 square feet in area, announcing a land subdivision development, are permitted on the premises of the land subdivision. Such signs shall be spaced not less than 300 feet apart. They shall be removed when 75 percent of the lots are conveyed.
(d)
Private directional signs. Signs indicating the location and direction of premises available for or in the process of development, but not erected upon such premises, and having inscribed thereon the name of the owner, developer, builder, or agent may be erected and maintained, provided:
(1)
The size of any such sign is not in excess of six square feet, and not in excess of four feet in length; and
(2)
Not more than one such sign is erected on each 500 feet of right-of-way frontage.
(e)
Roof signs. Not more than one roof sign structure may be erected on the roof of any one building. No roof sign structure shall extend more than 25 feet above the elevation of the roof.
(f)
Wall signs. Signs on the walls of a building, including signs attached flat against the wall, painted wall signs and projecting signs, shall meet the following requirements:
(1)
Signs on the front surface of a building. The total area of signs on the exterior front surface of a building shall not exceed 25 percent of the front surface of the building.
(2)
Signs on the side and rear surface of a building. The total area of signs on a side or rear surface of building shall not exceed 50 percent of the exterior side or rear surface of the building, respectively.
(3)
Projecting signs. Wall signs attached flat against a wall may extend not more than 24 inches from the wall. Signs attached at an angle to a wall may extend outward from the wall of a building not more than five feet.
(g)
Illuminated signs. Illumination devices shall be so placed and so shielded that light from the sign itself will not be directly cast into any residential district, sleeping rooms in any district or the eyes of an automobile or vehicular driver.
(h)
Outdoor advertising signs. Outdoor advertising signs shall meet the following requirements:
(1)
Uniform size. The outside measurements of all such signs shall be 12 feet in height and 50 feet in length, with or without trim.
(2)
Illumination. All illuminated signs shall use base mounted fluorescent or mercury vapor lights and shall be activated by photoelectric cells. Additional lighting including but not limited to neon, animation and running lights is prohibited.
(3)
Height above interstate grade. All signs shall be a minimum of ten feet above adjacent interstate pavement measuring from the lower portion of the sign face. Signs shall not exceed 30 feet in height. Two signs in the same location, back-to-back or V formation, shall be the same height above the interstate's surface.
(4)
Extrusions prohibited. Extrusions beyond the face of the sign, excluding aprons, are prohibited.
(5)
Number of signs per location. Only one sign shall be allowed to face the same direction per location. This allows back-to-back or V formation signs but prohibits two signs, side-by-side, facing the same direction.
(6)
Spacing. Sign locations shall be no less than 500 feet apart measuring from the two closest points.
(7)
Spacing from property or right-of-way. Sign structures shall be no less than ten feet from any property or right-of-way line.
(8)
Quadrant quota. Three outdoor advertising signs per quadrant of an interchange adjacent to the interstate highway are allowed. These signs must be within 600 feet of an ongoing commercial or industrial activity, as specified in state law and are restricted to an area 1,200 feet long beginning 500 feet from the point where the pavement widens on the main traveled way to accommodate the longest entrance or exit ramp.
(9)
Marsh and historic area locations prohibited. No sign shall be placed in or obstruct the view of a marshland area or an area of designated historic interest.
(10)
Advertisement limitations. Outdoor advertising shall be limited to the following:
a.
Travel service facilities including lodgings, gas, food, camping;
b.
Areas of scenic beauty;
c.
Public attractions including historic, natural, scientific or recreational amenities; and
d.
Any combination of the above-listed facilities.
Further, the content of all advertising shall be directional in nature.
(i)
On-premises signs. On-premises signs located within 100 feet of a regularly used part of the activity being advertised and located on the same property and for sale or for lease signs located on the property being advertised would not be prohibited.
(j)
Nonconforming signs. Any legally erected sign which would become nonconforming as a result of this article would be allowed to remain until purchased by the department of transportation or the county, provided that the sign owner meets the requirements of state laws and rules and regulations governing such signs.
(Ord. of 9-10-80, § III)
