ARTICLE V. - FINANCE[11]
Footnotes:
--- (11) ---
State Law reference— Power of expenditure, Ga. Const., art. 9, sec. 4, par. 2; discretion of governing body as to management and disposition of property, O.C.G.A. § 36-30-2; multiyear lease, purchase or lease purchase contracts, O.C.G.A. § 36-60-13; budgets and audits, O.C.G.A. § 36-81-1 et seq.; accounting for public funds, O.C.G.A. § 45-8-1 et seq.; local political subdivision purchases, O.C.G.A. § 50-5-100 et seq.

DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Secs. 2-386—2-400. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - CAPITAL IMPROVEMENTS PROGRAM

Sec. 2-401. - Process adopted for preparation and review of program.
The following process is hereby adopted for the preparation and review of a capital improvements program and capital budget for the county:
(1)
The commission shall obtain annually from all officers, departments, boards, and commissions, and other agencies requesting funds from the county for capital improvements, such information as may be necessary in order to enable the board of commissioners to prepare a capital improvements program.
(2)
The board of commissioners shall have the power to accept, with or without amendment, or reject the proposed program and the proposed means of financing. The board of commissioners shall not authorize budgets for the construction or acquisition of any building, structure, work or improvement, unless the appropriation of such project is included in its capital budget, except to meet a public emergency threatening the lives, health, or property of inhabitants, when so determined by the board of commissioners.
(3)
Only those projects which are proved to have the highest priority in meeting the essential needs of the county and have a strong indication that funding will be forthcoming in the ensuing fiscal year should be included in the capital budget portion of the capital improvements program.
(4)
The department heads may submit amendments to the capital budget at any time during the year. The amendments shall become effective when approved by the board of commissioners.
(5)
The board of commissioners may, if they deem it advisable, appoint a capital improvements program and capital advisory committee which shall have the responsibility for making recommendations to the board of commissioners on capital projects essential to the overall development of the county.
(Res. of 11-19-91, §§ 1—5)
Secs. 2-402—2-430. - Reserved.
DIVISION 3. - PURCHASING[12]

Footnotes:
--- (12) ---
State Law reference— Board of commissioners authority to control property of the county, O.C.G.A. § 36-5-22.1; county property generally, O.C.G.A. § 36-9-1 et seq.

Sec. 2-431. - Purpose and policy of division.
It is expressly declared to be the purpose and policy of this division to ensure the procurement for the county the highest quality in goods, materials, supplies, equipment, or other property at the least expense to the county, to discourage uniform bidding and endeavor to obtain as full and open competition as possible on all purchases and sales.
(Ord. of 3-7-90, § 1-103)
Sec. 2-432. - Authority of division.
(a)
Except as provided in this division, it shall be unlawful for any county officer or employee to order the purchase of any goods, materials, supplies, equipment, or other property or make any contract within the purview of this division other than as provided in this division. Any purchase order or contract made contrary to the provisions of this division shall not be approved by the county commissioners, and the county shall not be bound thereby.
(b)
It is the responsibility of each department supervisor to ensure that each of his subordinates is instructed in the use of these purchasing procedures. Any purchase not made in accordance with these procedures automatically becomes the direct, personal obligation of the individual making such purchase.
(Ord. of 3-7-90, § 1-102)
Sec. 2-433. - Purchase orders.
No officer or employee of the county shall request any merchant, dealer, or other vendor to deliver goods to the county except on an official McDuffie County purchase order.
(Ord. of 3-7-90, § 1-104; Mo. of 1-7-04(1))
Sec. 2-434. - Vendors' catalog file.
The board of commissioners shall maintain a file of all qualified vendors desiring to do business with the county. Such file shall be maintained according to materials and shall contain a description of the vendors' commodities.
(Ord. of 3-7-90, § 1-105)
Sec. 2-435. - Purchases under $1,000.00.
The board of commissioners, the county manager, and boards or commissions established under the board of commissioners is hereby authorized to purchase any goods, materials, supplies, equipment, parts, or any other property of any nature, used by the county in any of its governmental affairs, from any vendor listed in the county vendors catalog file, without bid and legal advertisement, when the cost of same does not exceed $1,000.00. (Ord. of 3-7-90, § 1-106, Mo. of 1-7-04(1); Ord. of 4-1-15(1))
Sec. 2-436. - Purchases between $1,000.00 and $5,000.00.
(a)
The board of commissioners, the county manager, and boards or commissions established under the board of commissioners after approval by the board of commissioners, is hereby authorized to purchase any goods, materials, supplies, equipment, parts, or any other property of any nature, used by the county in any of its governmental affairs, without bid and legal advertisement, by obtaining not less than three written quotations, if available, by either direct mail requests or telephone to vendors from the county vendors catalog file and a record of the quotations maintained which shall be available for public inspection, when the cost of such purchase is between $1,000.00 and $5,000.00.
(b)
If capital items are specifically included in the adopted county budget, the county manager or any board or commission established under the board of commissioners is hereby authorized to purchase any such items without bid and legal advertisement by obtaining not less than three written quotations, if available, by either direct mail or telephone requests to vendors from the county vendors catalog file and a record of the quotations maintained which shall be available for public inspection when the cost of such purchase does not exceed $5,000.00.
(Ord. of 3-7-90, § 1-107; Mo. of 1-7-04(1); Ord. of 4-1-15(1))
Sec. 2-437. - Purchases over $5,000.00.
(a)
With the exceptions provided in this division, the board of commissioners and boards and commissions established under the board of commissioners shall in all other instances before purchasing any such goods, materials, supplies, equipment, parts, or any other property of any nature, to be used by the county, or enter into any lease of equipment to be used by the county, advertise for bids two times in the county legal gazette.
(b)
The newspaper notice required in subsection (a) of this section shall include a general description of the articles to be purchased, shall state where bid blanks and specifications may be secured, and shall state the time and place for opening bids.
(c)
Notwithstanding any provision of this section, bids for new motor vehicles and new heavy equipment may be solicited without any advertising in the local county legal gazette.
(d)
Notwithstanding any provision of this section, bids on any purchase over $5,000.00 may be authorized without any requirement of advertising in the local county legal gazette, if approved by a majority vote of the board of commissioners.
(Ord. of 3-7-90, § 1-108; Ord. of 9-17-02; Ord. of 4-1-15(1))
Sec. 2-438. - Bids based on written specifications.
All quotations and bids referred to in sections 2-436 and 2-437 shall be based upon written specifications prepared by the appropriate county official, which shall be available during normal office hours at the county commission offices. All specifications shall be definite and certain and shall permit free and open competition.
(Ord. of 3-7-90, § 1-114)
Sec. 2-439. - Bid opening procedures.
(a)
Bids shall be submitted sealed to the board of commissioners or the respective board or commission established under the board of commissioners and shall be identified as bids on the envelope.
(b)
Bids shall be opened in public at the time and place stated in the public notices.
(c)
A tabulation of all bids received shall be available for public inspection in the commission's office.
(Ord. of 3-7-90, § 1-109; Ord. of 4-1-15(1))
Sec. 2-440. - Rejection of bids.
The board of commissioners or boards or commissions established under the board of commissioners shall have the authority to reject all bids or quotations, parts of all bids or quotations, or all bids or quotations for any one or more supplies or contractual services included in the proposed contract, when the public interest will be served thereby.
(Ord. of 3-7-90, § 1-110; Ord. of 4-1-15(1))
Sec. 2-441. - Bidders in default to county.
The county commission or boards or commissions established under the board of commissioners shall not accept the bid of a contractor who is in default on the payment of taxes, licenses, or other monies due the county.
(Ord. of 3-7-90, § 1-111; Ord. of 4-1-15(1))
Sec. 2-442. - Lowest responsible bidder.
(a)
Contracts shall be awarded to the lowest responsible bidder. In determining the lowest responsible bidder, in addition to price, the county commission or boards or commissions established under the board of commissioners shall consider:
(1)
The ability, capacity, and skill of the bidder to perform the contract or provide the service required.
(2)
Whether the bidder can perform the contract or provide the service promptly, or within the time specified, without delay or interference.
(3)
The character, integrity, reputation, judgment, experience, and efficiency of the bidder.
(4)
The quality of performance of previous contracts or services.
(5)
The previous and existing compliance by the bidder with laws and ordinances relating to the contract or service.
(6)
The sufficiency of the financial resources and ability of the bidder to perform the contract or provide the service.
(7)
The quality, availability, and adaptability of the supplies, or contractual services to the particular use required.
(8)
The ability of the bidder to provide future maintenance and service for the use of the subject of the contract.
(9)
The number and scope of conditions attached to the bid.
(b)
When the award is not given to the lowest bidder, a full and complete statement of the reasons for placing the order elsewhere shall be prepared by the county commission or boards or commissions established under the board of commissioners and filed with the other documents relating to the transaction.
(c)
In the implementation of these procedures, the county commission shall in no way discriminate against any person by reason of race, color, creed, nationality, or religion. Minority businesses shall be encouraged to participate in the bidding and purchasing procedures for the county to the fullest extent possible.
(Ord. of 3-7-90, § 1-112; Ord. of 4-1-15(1))
Sec. 2-443. - Bids to be filed and subject to inspection.
All bids for goods or materials provided for in this division of any kind or character purchased by the county shall be kept on file in the county commission offices. After an award has been made, the bids shall be subject to inspection at any time by any citizen of the county.
(Ord. of 3-7-90, § 1-113)
Sec. 2-444. - Used equipment.
(a)
Notwithstanding anything in this division to the contrary, the board of commissioners is authorized to purchase used equipment for the operation of its governmental affairs based upon a written appraisal obtained by the county for the subject equipment. Such written appraisal, together with the acceptance and approval, shall be entered upon the regular minutes of the board of commissioners at the time the board considers the purchase of any used equipment. Furthermore, no such purchase shall be consummated without an express agreement that the county shall be allowed to return the equipment at any time within 30 days of the consummation of the sale, cancel the sale, and receive a full refund, normal wear and tear excepted, of the purchase price.
(b)
(1)
Not withstanding the above for any used equipment less than $49,500.00 in value, the requirement of appraisal may be waived by majority vote of the board of commissioners as long as the board is provided the price of a similar new piece of equipment and provided the equipment is inspected by an appropriate county employee prior to the purchase.
(2)
Notwithstanding the above for any used equipment less than $49,500.00 in value, the requirement of the 30 day right to cancel sale and receive full refund maybe waived by the majority vote of the board of commissioners provided the equipment is inspected by an appropriate county employee prior to the purchase.
(Ord. of 11-6-91, § 1-114.1; Ord. of 2-20-03; Ord. of 8-4-04)
Sec. 2-445. - Local vendors.
In the purchase of all goods, materials, supplies, equipment, parts, or any other property of any nature, used by the county in any of its governmental affairs, all possible efforts shall be made to ensure that local vendors have ample opportunity to bid on such purchases. Nothing contained in this section, however, shall prohibit the board of commissioners or boards or commissions established under the board of commissioners from purchasing from nonresident vendors if it is in the best interest of the county, or from taking advantage of any cooperative purchasing plans available through any state governmental agency or governmental association. The board of commissioners shall in all instances exercise its most prudent judgment for the best interest of the county as a whole.
(Ord. of 3-7-90, § 1-115; Ord. of 4-1-15(1))
Sec. 2-446. - Emergency purchases.
If the board of commissioners determines at an open meeting of which minutes are recorded, that an emergency exists, and there is an immediate need for goods, materials, supplies, equipment, parts, or any other property of any nature, used by the county in any of its governmental affairs, to relieve the emergency, the board of commissioners shall be allowed to approve purchases without bids if the board has determined that an emergency exists.
(Ord. of 3-7-90, § 1-116; Ord. of 9-17-02)
Sec. 2-447. - No bids or quotations received.
If the board of commissioners or boards or commissions established under the board of commissioners receives no bids or quotations, as the case may be, the board of commissioners or respective board or commission established under the board of commissioners is hereby authorized to negotiate for the purchase of the goods, materials, supplies, equipment, parts, or any other property of any nature, needed for the operation of its governmental affairs; provided, however, that any such negotiated bid shall be read one time in a commission meeting and formally approved at a subsequent commission meeting.
(Ord. of 3-7-90, § 1-117; Ord. of 9-17-02; Ord. of 4-1-15(1))
Sec. 2-448. - Prohibition of interest by board.
(a)
Any purchase order or contract within the purview of this division in which any member of the board of commissioners, or any member of a board or commission established under the board of commissioners for which the specific purchase or contract shall be authorized, any officer or employee of the county, or any family member of either residing in the same household is financially interested, directly or indirectly, shall be void, except that before the execution of the purchase order or contract, the board of commissioners shall have the authority to waive compliance with this section when it finds such action to be in the best interest of the county.
(b)
All members of the board of commissioners, members of boards or commissions established under the board of commissioners, and every officer and employee of the county are expressly prohibited from accepting, directly or indirectly, from any person to which any purchase order or contract is or might be awarded, any rebate, gift, money, or anything of value whatsoever, except where given for the use and benefit of the county.
(Ord. of 3-7-90, § 1-118; Ord. of 4-1-15(1))
Sec. 2-449. - Performance bonds.
The county commission shall have the authority to require a performance bond before entering a contract, in such amount as it shall find reasonably necessary to protect the best interests of the county.
(Ord. of 3-7-90, § 1-119)
Secs. 2-450—2-475. - Reserved.
