ARTICLE II. - ENACTMENT, JURISDICTION, PURPOSE AND SCOPE

Section 1. - Enactment.
1.1.
In accordance with the Authority granted counties by the 1983 Georgia State Constitution, Article 9, Section 2, Paragraph 4 and Chapter 66 of Title 36 of the Official Code of Georgia, this ordinance is adopted.
Section 2. - Jurisdiction.
2.1.
These regulations shall govern the use of all land and the development thereof within the unincorporated area of McIntosh County, Georgia.
Section 3. - Purpose and Objectives.
3.1.
The purpose of this ordinance is to provide for the best and maximum use of property promoting the health, safety, morale, convenience, order, prosperity, and general welfare of the people of McIntosh County. These regulations are designed to:
A.
Lessen congestion in the streets;
B.
Secure safety from fire, panic, and other dangers;
C.
Promote health and general welfare;
D.
Provide adequate light and air;
E.
Prevent overcrowding of the land;
F.
Facilitate the adequate provision of transportation, water, sewerage, schools, parks, and other public requirements;
G.
Sustain the character of the county and its suitability for particular uses;
H.
Promote desirable living conditions and stability of neighborhoods;
I.
Protect property from blight and depreciation;
J.
Secure economy in governmental expenditures;
K.
Conserve the value of buildings;
L.
Encourage the most appropriate use of land and buildings throughout the county;
M.
Conserve natural resources, waterfront areas, public access to water, and water dependent uses;
N.
Preserve the County's historic and cultural resources for future generations.
Section 4. - Scope.
4.1.
The scope of this ordinance of McIntosh County, Georgia includes the following activities or uses:
A.
The regulation of the location, height, bulk, number of stories and size of buildings and other structures;
B.
The percentage of a lot which may be occupied; the sizes of yards and other open spaces;
C.
The density and distribution of populations; and the uses of buildings, structures and lands for trade, industry, residence, recreation, agriculture, forestry, conservation, water supply, sanitation, public safety, public activities, preservation of scenic areas, historic structures, cultural resources, protection against floods, rising waters and erosion, and other purposes;
D.
Creating districts for said purposes and establishing the boundaries thereof;
E.
Defining certain terms used herein;
F.
Providing for the method of administration, appeal and amendment and duties; and
G.
Providing penalties for violation; and for other purposes.
H.
To insure compliance with all federal and State laws pertaining to land use and development, health and environmental protection.
