Chapter 12 - BUSINESSES
ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 12-1. - Coin-operated machines and vending machines.
(a)
No person, firm or legal entity shall have upon his premises for the use of the public any coin-operated vending or amusement machine of any kind, character or description unless and until said entity shall obtain a master license as issued by the state and a permit for each such machine which shall be thereupon affixed to said machine in such manner that it is readily visible to inspection.
(b)
Any person, firm or entity who violates the provisions hereof shall be punished according to the general penalties described in section 1-9.
(Res. of 2-14-1959; Ord. of 9-14-1982(1), §§ 1—3)
State Law reference— State regulation of coin operated amusement machines, O.C.G.A. § 48-17-1 et seq.
Sec. 12-2. - Peddlers and solicitors.
(a)
For the purposes of this section, the term "peddler" includes any person, whether a resident of this county or not, traveling by foot, wagon, automotive vehicle, or any other type of conveyance from place to place, from house to house, or from street to street, carrying, conveying, or transporting goods, wares, merchandise, meats, fish, vegetables, fruits, garden produce, farm products or provisions who offers and exposes the same for sale, or who, without traveling from place to place, sells or offers the same for sale from a wagon, automotive vehicle, railroad car or other vehicle or conveyance.
(b)
For each license year, or any fractional part thereof, until changed or modified by action of the board of commissioners, there is hereby levied and imposed upon each peddler doing business within the county, without the corporate limits of the City of Darien, a tax or license of $25.00 per day. Said license shall be presented upon request and shall clearly indicate the days in which the holder is licensed to do business within the geographic boundaries of McIntosh County.
(c)
Application for said license shall be made to the clerk of the board of county commissioners. Such application shall set forth such information as may be required by the commission. The applicant shall give his complete identification, his signature, the name of his employer, the nature of the products or services in which he is interested, the names of the manufacturers or such products, or the organization which he is representing, and the proposed method of operation in the county.
(d)
The county sheriff shall be informed of these actions, and instructed to enforce the same as provided by law.
(Res. of 6-1-1937; Res. of 3-6-1956, §§ 1—3)
Secs. 12-3—12-24. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - PUBLIC AMUSEMENT AND ENTERTAINMENT BUSINESSES

Sec. 12-25. - License—Required.
Every person, firm or corporation who shall maintain, operate or establish any public dance hall, hall, boxing or wrestling arena, tourist camp, barbecue stand or place of public amusement or entertainment in the county outside of the corporate limits of the municipalities that may now or hereafter exist in the county shall make application for a license for each of such businesses as such person, firm or corporation seeks to maintain, operate or establish. Such application shall be made in writing upon a form to be provided by the clerk of the commissioners, and shall give all of the information requested by such form and shall be under the oath of the applicant or a duly authorized officer of the applicant, and the same shall be filed with the said clerk and thereafter be submitted to the commissioners for their consideration.
(Ord. of 7-6-1937, § 1)
Sec. 12-26. - Same—Issuance.
If, in the discretion of the commissioners, it is found that the establishment, maintenance or operation of such business will not be injurious to the public good they shall order that a license be issued therefor upon the payment of the license fee provided in section 12-31.
(Ord. of 7-6-1937, § 2)
Sec. 12-27. - Same—Revocation.
Such license so issued shall be held by the licensee at the pleasure of the commissioners and may be revoked by them at any time when in their opinion it is to the public interest or because of any violation by the licensee of the provisions of any ordinance of the county or of any state or federal law; and in no event shall such license extend beyond January 1 of any year.
(Ord. of 7-6-1937, § 3)
Sec. 12-28. - Same—Renewal.
Prior to the expiration of any license so granted, any person, firm or corporation that shall expect to operate any of the said businesses beyond the time of expiration of the said license, shall make application in writing as aforesaid for the issuance of a new license therefor, which application shall be submitted to the commissioners for their action as aforesaid.
(Ord. of 7-6-1937, § 4)
Sec. 12-29. - Compliance with county board of health.
In accepting such license the person, firm or corporation to which it is issued shall be held to have agreed that he will be bound and abide by all of the regulations of the county board of health pertinent to such businesses, and that such business will be conducted at all times in accordance with the laws of this state.
(Ord. of 7-6-1937, § 5)
Sec. 12-30. - Loud noises prohibited.
Any licensee who shall permit any dancing, playing of musical instruments or noise upon or about his premises between the hours of 12:00 midnight on Saturday night to 12:00 midnight on Sunday night shall immediately forfeit his license, except that on occasions in their discretion the commissioners may grant permission for musical concerts upon said premises between said times.
(Ord. of 7-6-1937, § 6)
Sec. 12-31. - Fee.
A license fee or occupational tax is hereby levied upon each such place of business for which a license may be granted, and such fee or tax shall be paid to the clerk of the commissioners. The amount of the fee shall be set by resolution of the board of commissioners from time to time, and available for public examination in the office of the county clerk.
(Ord. of 7-6-1937, § 7)
Secs. 12-32—12-49. - Reserved.
ARTICLE III. - TIMBER HARVESTING

Sec. 12-50. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Building inspector means the building inspector of McIntosh County.
Chief appraiser means the chief appraiser of the office of tax assessor of McIntosh County.
Harvester means any individual, partnership, corporation, association, limited liability company, and any other entity or organization of any character, and the agents and employees thereof carrying out harvesting activities contemplated by this article.
Harvesting means those activities contemplated by this article, including, without limitation, the cutting, loading and transporting of timber.
Road superintendent means the superintendent of roads of McIntosh County.
(Ord. of 7-10-2007(1), § 1)
Sec. 12-51. - Penalty.
(a)
Each violation of the requirements of this article shall be punishable by a fine of $1,000.00 and imprisonment in the county jail for up to six months, or both. Each day any violation under this article continues shall be considered a separate offense.
(b)
The building inspector, the board's designated agent, and the chief assessor shall have a right to issue a cease and desist order for any violation of this article.
(Ord. of 7-10-2007(1), § 8)
Sec. 12-52. - Purpose.
(a)
It is the desire of the county, to adopt a reporting requirement for the start up of timber harvest activity is to allow for compliance with the notices to appropriate public officials to allow taxation of timber harvesting at a fair market value.
(b)
This article, will allow for the monitoring of timber harvest activities so as to allow efficient collection of the timber harvest tax.
(c)
This article will also provide for the safety of the traveling public from some associated dangers inherent in timber harvesting.
(Ord. of 7-10-2007(1), intro.)
Sec. 12-53. - Bond required.
(a)
Any person or firm engaged in the cutting, removing or harvesting of standing timber in the county for delivery as pulpwood, logs, poles, posts, wood chips or other wood product to any woodyard or processing plant located inside or outside this state shall deliver to the building inspector or to the board's other designated agent (as determined by the county manager) a valid surety bond, executed by a surety corporation authorized to transact business in this state, protecting the county, against any damage caused by any harvester in the amount of $5,000.00. At the option of the harvester seeking a permit to harvest timber, such harvester may in lieu of such bond, may deliver a valid irrevocable letter of credit issued by a bank or savings and loan association, approved by the county manager, as such letter of credit is defined in O.C.G.A. § 7-1-4, in the amount of $5,000.00.
(b)
The surety bond and/or irrevocable letter of credit required under this section shall be valid only for the calendar year in which it is delivered.
(Ord. of 7-10-2007(1), § 2)
Sec. 12-54. - Notice required.
(a)
No person or firm shall begin to cut, remove or harvest standing timber in the county for delivery as pulpwood, logs, poles, posts, wood chips, or other wood product to any woodyard or processing plant located inside or outside this state without first:
(1)
Providing notice of such harvesting operations to the building inspector, or other designated agent; and
(2)
Obtaining and displaying in accordance with this article a timber harvest permit. Such permit shall be properly displayed prior to the start of any harvest activity.
(b)
Prior written notice shall be required of harvester for each separate tract to be harvested. The harvester's written notice and application for a timber harvest permit shall consist of the following:
(1)
A tax map of the area which identifies the location of the tract to be harvested and, the points of ingress and egress to such tract from each public road;
(2)
A statement as to whether the timber will be harvested pursuant to a lump sum sale, per unit sale or owner harvest for purpose of determining ad valorem taxation under O.C.G.A. § 48-5-7.5. All harvest activities, regardless of the taxing status of the underlying land, requires that a timber harvest permit be obtained and all reporting requirements met. Ad valorem taxing status will be determined by the board of tax assessors;
(3)
The name, address, and daytime telephone number of the timber seller if the harvest is pursuant to a lump sum or per unit sale or of the timber owner if the harvest is an owner harvest; and
(4)
The name, business address, business telephone number, and nighttime or emergency telephone number of the person or firm harvesting such timber.
(c)
Notice may be submitted in person, by transmission of an electronic record via facsimile or such other means as approved by the building inspector, or by mail to the building inspector, providing that such notice shall be mailed sufficiently in advance to assure receipt by the building inspector, receipt of bond, and issuance of the permit, all of which must be completed prior to the commencement of the harvesting operation.
(d)
The failure of any harvester to provide the surety bond or irrevocable letter of credit required under section 12-53, shall render the notice required in this section ineffective.
(e)
Notice shall be effective for such harvesting operation on such tract within the county upon receipt of the bond by the county commission or its designated agent and, if applicable, compliance with the requirements of section 12-53 and until such time as the harvester giving such notice has completed the harvesting operation for such tract; provided, however, that any subsequent change in the facts required to be provided for the purposes of such notice shall be reported to the building inspector or the board's designated agent within one business day after such change.
(f)
Upon receipt of the completed application for a timber harvest permit, the building inspector's office shall immediately forward a completed copy of the timber harvest permit to the county tax commissioner, chief appraiser, and the road superintendent.
(g)
At the completion of harvesting of the timber tracts identified in the timber harvest permit application, the harvester shall give written notification of said completion and the number of tons harvested by product type to the county tax commissioner's office and to the chief appraiser. The chief appraiser will then notify the building inspector that the specified timber harvest permit has reported completion of the harvest and that the permit is no longer valid.
(Ord. of 7-10-2007(1), § 3)
Sec. 12-55. - Driveways.
(a)
Any harvester engaged in the cutting, removing or harvesting of standing timber in the county for delivery as pulpwood, logs, poles, posts, wood chips, or other wood product to any woodyard or processing plant located inside or outside this state shall create and/or maintain a driveway in compliance with the state department of transportation standards.
(b)
Culverts shall be installed at temporary entrances at the expense of the harvester, to facilitate proper drainage flow. Exceptions may be granted by the road superintendent, in his sole discretion. Said driveway shall be properly maintained so as to avoid interfering with the county storm water drainage system so long as timber harvesting operations are ongoing.
(c)
Gravel shall be installed by the harvester, at harvester's sole expense, in compliance with the state department of transportation standards, for a distance of at least 50 feet and for the entire width of the access road leading to the paved public road.
(d)
Upon termination of the timber harvesting operation, the harvester shall remove the temporary driveway, including the culvert, and restore the ditch and its banks to their original condition as they existed before the harvesting operation began. The harvester shall notify the road superintendent when the timber harvesting has been terminated and restoration of the ditch and banks has been completed. The surety bond as required in section 12-53 shall not be released until the harvester has satisfactorily restored the ditch and banks to their original condition as approved by the road superintendent.
(Ord. of 7-10-2007(1), § 4)
Sec. 12-56. - Access sites.
(a)
County roads and ditches, at the access sites, shall be kept serviceable and clear of all debris and excess mud as determined by the road superintendent to ensure safe passing of emergency vehicles, school buses, mail carriers and the public at all times.
(b)
The harvester shall not load pulpwood, logs, poles, posts, wood chips, or other wood product on the shoulders of any paved right-of-way.
(Ord. of 7-10-2007(1), § 5)
Sec. 12-57. - Harvesting or loading timber.
All harvesting, loading or unloading of timber shall be conducted at a loading site off the county rights-of-way and behind the established ditch line of county roads.
(Ord. of 7-10-2007(1), § 6)
Sec. 12-58. - Warning signs.
Any firm, company or person harvesting at a location off of county roads shall post warning signs at least 500 feet on both sides of the driveway in order to adequately warn oncoming traffic of persons, vehicles, equipment or machinery entering the roadway.
(Ord. of 7-10-2007(1), § 7)
Sec. 12-59. - Enforcement.
Jurisdiction for the enforcement of this article shall be in the magistrate court of the county. This article shall be enforced by the building inspector, the board's designated agent, the chief appraiser, and any law enforcement officers of the county by citation requiring appearance in magistrate court.
(Ord. of 7-10-2007(1), § 9)
