Chapter 22 - HEALTH AND SANITATION[1]

Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Editor's note— An ordinance adopted Jan. 12, 2016, repealed the former ch. 22, §§ 22-1—22-4, and enacted a new ch. 22 as set out herein. The former ch. 22 pertained to similar subject matter and derived from §§ I—IV of an ordinance adopted Jan. 30, 1987.

Sec. 22-1. - Rules and regulations.
(a)
There are currently in existence certain rules and regulations adopted by the McIntosh County Board of Health with the purpose of preserving the public health, safety, and welfare of citizens or those individuals found within the boundaries of McIntosh County, Georgia.
(1)
It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, corporation, or other entity to operate a food or tourist establishment, body art studio, septic system, individual water supply system or public and semi-public swimming pool, spa or recreational park or approve a subdivision in McIntosh County without a valid permit or approval issued by the McIntosh Board of Health, in accordance to applicable rules and regulations.
(2)
It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a food or tourist establishment, body art studio, septic system, individual water supply system or public or semi-public swimming pool, spa or recreational park during any period of time that a permit for such operation has been suspended or revoked by the McIntosh Board of Health.
(3)
No building permit for the construction of any residence, building or other facility which is to be served by a septic tank shall be issued by or pursuant to the authority of the McIntosh Board of Commissioners unless a septic tank construction permit has been issued by the McIntosh County Board of Health.
(Ref: The Zoning Ordinance of McIntosh County Georgia, Article Nine, Section 901, B(1)(a).
(4)
Further, no business license or certificate of occupancy shall be issued for any public health regulated establishment or operation unless an approval by the McIntosh Board of Health has been issued.
(Ref: The Zoning Ordinance of McIntosh County Georgia, Article Nine, Section 901, B(1)(b).
(b)
This chapter specifically incorporates by reference the provisions of the following rules and regulations and fee schedules which are in force at the time of the adoption of the ordinance from which this chapter is derived:
(1)
Rules and regulations pertaining to food service adopted by the department of public health and the McIntosh County Board of Health and being Chapter 511-6-1 as subsequently amended and updated, and policies of the McIntosh County Board of Health pertaining to food service;
(2)
Rules and regulations pertaining to tourist accommodations adopted by the department of public health and the McIntosh County Board of Health and being Chapter 511-6-2 as subsequently amended and updated, and policies of the McIntosh County Board of Health pertaining to tourist accommodations;
(3)
Rules and regulations for on-site sewage management systems and guidance manual adopted by the department of public health and the McIntosh County Board of Health and being Chapter 511-3-1 as subsequently amended and updated, and policies (minimum lot sizing added June 13, 2006) of the McIntosh County Board of Health pertaining to on-site sewage management systems;
(4)
Rules and regulations for portable sanitation contractors adopted by the department of public health and the McIntosh County Board of Health and being Chapter 511-5-6 as subsequently amended and updated, and policies of the McIntosh County Board of Health pertaining to portable sanitation contractors;
(5)
Rules and regulations pertaining to drinking water supply adopted by the McIntosh County Board of Health (September 4, 1986) as subsequently amended and updated, and policies of the McIntosh County Board of Health pertaining to drinking water supply;
(6)
Rules and regulations pertaining to public and semi-public swimming pools, spas, and recreational water parks adopted by the McIntosh County Board of Health (May 7, 2007) and policies of the McIntosh County Board of Health pertaining to public and semi-public swimming pools, spas, and recreational water parks;
(7)
Rules and regulations pertaining to tattoo/body piercing studios and tattoo/body piercing artists adopted by the McIntosh County Board of Health (August 28, 2007) and being Rules and Regulations for Body Art Studios and Artists as subsequently amended and updated, and policies of the McIntosh County Board of Health pertaining to tattoo/body piercing studios and tattoo/body piercing artists;
(8)
McIntosh County Board of Health Rules and Regulations for the Control of Rabies (August 30, 2005) as subsequently amended and updated and policies of the McIntosh County Board of Health pertaining to rabies control; and the Georgia Rabies Control Manual;
(9)
McIntosh County Environmental Health Fee Schedule approved by the McIntosh County Board of Health and adopted by the McIntosh County Commission as subsequently amended and updated, and policies and resolutions of the McIntosh County Board of Health pertaining to fees;
(10)
Rules and regulations pertaining to "hand watering" gray water regulations adopted by the Department of Public Health (O.C.G.A. § 31-3-5.2) and the McIntosh County Board of Health (February 25, 2009) as subsequently amended and updated, and policies of the McIntosh County Board of Health pertaining to "hand watering" gray water;
(11)
Rules and regulations pertaining to Georgia Smokefree Air Act of 2005 adopted by the department of public health (Chapter 511-3-7) and the McIntosh County Board of Health being rules and regulations for Georgia Smokefree Air Act of 2005 as subsequently amended and updated and policies of the McIntosh County Board of Health (October 19, 2005) pertaining to the Georgia Smokefree Air Act of 2005.
(Ord. of 1-12-2016(1))
Sec. 22-2. - Implementation and enforcement.
The duty of implementation and enforcement of these regulations rest with the McIntosh County Board of Commissioners and by virtue of this chapter is hereby expressly delegated to the McIntosh County Board of Health who is hereby charged with promulgation of sufficient procedures for insuring compliance with these rules and regulations by the citizens of McIntosh County or those individuals found within the boundaries of McIntosh County. The McIntosh County Board of Health is directed to implement procedures which will insure that the citizens of McIntosh County or those individuals found within the boundaries of McIntosh County will receive all procedural rights to which they are entitled under the laws of the State of Georgia:
(1)
When the duly authorized agent of the McIntosh Board of Health determines that a violation of this chapter exists, he shall send by regular mail, certified mail or personally deliver a written notice of the violation to the owner of the property or his representative, the tenant or his representative and any other party who has control or ownership of the property. The notice of violation may also be personally served or served notoriously by placing on or adjacent to the front door in a conspicuous location.
(2)
The notice shall state the location of the property, the nature of the violation, a provision for remedying the violation and a timeframe for compliance. The notice shall also state that if the violation is not remedied within the timeframe, a citation for the violation may be issued to all parties controlling or owning the property.
(3)
Following the expiration of the time set forth in the notice, the duly authorized agent of the McIntosh Board of Health shall re-inspect the property to determine if the violation still exists.
(4)
If the violation has not been remedied at the time of re-inspection, a citation/summons to court may be issued by a code enforcement officer or law enforcement personnel pursuant to (O.C.G.A § 15-10-63). However, in lieu of a citation, an accusation may be drafted and personally served.
(5)
If the district environmental health director, district program director or district health director determines that an emergency exists such that there is imminent harm or peril to life or property, he may authorize the immediate issuance of a citation or accusation without the notice that is specified in subsection (1) of this section. Furthermore, lack of the notice letter specified in subsection (2) of this section shall not invalidate a citation or accusation.
(Ord. of 1-12-2016(1))
Sec. 22-3. - Violations and penalties.
Any violation of the rules and regulations hereby referenced shall be a violation of this chapter and shall be a misdemeanor offense. Any violator shall be subject to the imposition of a fine not to exceed $500.00 and/or imprisonment for a period not to exceed 60 days or both. Any failure of payment of inspection or other environmental service fees listed within the fee schedule approved by the McIntosh County Board of Health and adopted by the McIntosh County Board of Commissioners within 60 days of the first notice may result in suspension of permit.
(Ord. of 1-12-2016(1))
Sec. 22-4. - Magistrate's court jurisdiction.
The Magistrate's Court of McIntosh County shall have jurisdiction over violators of this chapter and all procedures for enforcement of such ordinance shall be as provided in O.C.G.A. § 15-10-60 et seq. Complaints of violation of any provision of this chapter shall be brought before the magistrate's court by a designated representative of the McIntosh County Board of Health and shall be prosecuted through that court. A complaint shall be brought before the magistrate's court only after all notices and rights to a hearing before a hearing officer of the board of health (or their designee) have been provided and/or all applicable McIntosh Board of Health and/or Department of Public Health compliance procedures have been exhausted.
(Ord. of 1-12-2016(1))
