ARTICLE IV. - ESTABLISHMENT OF LAND USE DISTRICTS AND INTERPRETATION OF LAND USE DISTRICT BOUNDARIES

Section 1. - Establishment of Land Use Districts.
1.1.
In order to classify, regulate, restrict and segregate the uses of land and buildings, to regulate and restrict the height and bulk of buildings and to regulate the area of yards and other open spaces about buildings, and to regulate the density of population, the following land use classifications or zones are by this Ordinance established to be known as follows:
EXPAND
A-F General Agriculture-Forestry
A-R Residential Agriculture
R-1 Single-Family [One and Two-Family] Residential
R1-CS Residential Conservation
R-2 Single-Family Residential
MHP Manufactured Home [Housing] Park
RVP Recreational Vehicle Park
C-N Neighborhood Commercial
C-G General Commercial
C-I Interchange Commercial
I-R Restricted [or Light] Industrial
I-G General Industrial
CP Conservation Preservation
BD[O] Beach and Dune Protection [Overlay}
FH Flood Hazard
MT Maritime
HH Hog Hammock
WVO Waterfront View Overlay
[R-3 R-3 Multi-Family Residential]
  Section 2. - Establishment of Zones by Map.
2.1.
The location and boundaries of the various zones are as shown and delineated on the Zoning Map of the McIntosh County, said map is made a part of this Ordinance by reference as though fully set forth herein.
Section 3. - Interpretation of Land Use District Boundaries.
3.1.
Where uncertainty exists with respect to the boundaries of any of the land use districts as shown on the official zoning map, the following shall apply:
D.[A.] Where district boundaries are indicated as approximately following street or highway center lines, or street or highway right-of-way lines, said boundaries shall be construed as following such lines.
E.[B.] Where district boundaries are indicated as approximately following lot lines, said boundaries shall be construed as following such lines.
F.[C.] Where district boundaries are indicated as being approximately parallel to the center lines or right-of-way lines of streets, or the center lines or right-of-way lines or highways, such district boundaries shall be construed as being parallel thereto at the scaled distance indicated on the Zoning Map.
G.[D.] Boundaries indicated as following railroad lines or abandoned railroad easements shall be construed to be midway between the main tracks or midway between the easement if tracks no longer exist.
H.[E.] Boundaries indicated as following salt water shorelines shall be construed to follow the low water mark of said shorelines, and in the event of change, the boundary line shall be construed as moving with the actual low water lines; boundaries indicated as approximately following the centerline of fresh water rivers, creeks, canals, lakes, inlets or other bodies of water shall be construed to follow such centerline.
I.[F.] Where physical or cultural features existing on the ground are incongruous with those shown on the Official Zoning Map, the Planning Commission shall interpret the district boundaries.
J.[G.] Where a district boundary line divides a lot which was in single ownership at the time of passage of this ordinance, the Planning Commission may permit the extension of the regulations for either portion of the lot not to exceed 75 feet beyond the district line into the remaining portion of the lot.
K.[H.] It is the policy of the Planning Commission that all Freshwater Wetlands and Saltwater Marsh areas fall within the Conservation Preservation Land Use District (CP). Where a boundary is indicated as following such Freshwater Wetlands or Saltwater Marsh area the boundary line shall be construed as following the actual limits of said fresh or salt marsh.
Section 4. - Changes in Boundaries.
4.1.
Changes in the boundaries of the zones shall be made by ordinance adopting an amended zoning map, or part of said map, or unit of a part of said map, which said amended maps, or parts or units of parts, when so adopted, shall be published in the manner prescribed by law and become a part of this Ordinance.
Section 5. - Limitation of Land Use.
5.1.
Except as provided in this Ordinance, no building shall be erected, reconstructed or structurally altered, nor shall any building or land be used for any purposes except as hereinafter specifically provided and allowed in the same zone in which such building and land is located.
Section 6. - Use and Dimensional Regulations.
6.1.
Except as herein provided, no building or land shall be used except for the purposes permitted in the district as described in this chapter. A permit for the construction, alteration, enlargement, moving demolition or use of a building or structure shall not be issued by the Building Inspector unless it complies with the provisions of this chapter and/or has been granted a variance or special exception by the Planning Commission.
