Chapter 1 - GENERAL PROVISIONS[1]

Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
State Law reference— Authority of municipality to adopt ordinances, resolutions or regulations, O.C.G.A. § 36-35-3(a); violation of county ordinances, O.C.G.A. § 15-10-60 et seq.; maximum punishment which may be imposed for violations of county ordinances, O.C.G.A. § 36-1-20(b).

Sec. 1-1. - How Code designated and cited.
The ordinances, resolutions and other enactments embraced in the following chapters and sections shall constitute and be designated as the "Code of Ordinances, Meriwether County, Georgia," and may be so cited. This Code may also be cited as the "Meriwether County Code."
(Code 1991, § 1-1)
Sec. 1-2. - Definitions and rules of construction.
In the construction of this Code and of all ordinances of the county, the following definitions and rules of construction shall be observed, unless it shall be otherwise expressly provided in any section or ordinance, or unless inconsistent with the manifest intent of the board of commissioners, or unless the context clearly requires otherwise. All general provisions, terms, phrases and expressions contained in this Code shall be liberally construed in order that the true intent and meaning of the board of commissioners may be fully carried out. In the interpretation and application of any provision of this Code, they shall be held to be the minimum requirements adopted for the promotion of the public health, safety, comfort, convenience and general welfare. Where any provision of this Code imposes greater restrictions upon the subject matter than the other provisions of this Code, the provision imposing the greater restriction or regulation shall be deemed to be controlling.
Board of commissioners, board, commissioners, commission, county commission, governing authority, governing body. Each such term means the board of commissioners of Meriwether County, Georgia.
Chairperson, other officers and officials. Whenever the term "chairperson" is used it means the chairperson of the board of commissioners of Meriwether County. Whenever titles of various officers or officials are used, they shall refer to the persons holding such positions with Meriwether County.
Code. The term "Code" means the Code of Ordinances, Meriwether County, Georgia, as designated in section 1-1.
Computation of time. Except as otherwise provided by time period computations specifically applying to other laws, when a period of time measured in days, weeks, months, years, or other measurements of time except hours is prescribed for the exercise of any privilege or the discharge of any duty, the first day shall not be counted but the last day shall be counted; and, if the last day falls on Saturday or Sunday, the party having such privilege or duty shall have through the following Monday to exercise the privilege or to discharge the duty. When the last day prescribed for such action falls on a public and legal holiday as set forth in O.C.G.A. § 1-4-1, the party having the privilege or duty shall have through the next business day to exercise the privilege or to discharge the duty. When the period of time prescribed is less than seven days, intermediate Saturdays, Sundays, and legal holidays shall be excluded in the computation.
Consolidated fee schedule. The term "consolidated fee schedule" means the consolidated fee schedule addressed and defined in section 2-1.
County. The term "the county" or "this county" means Meriwether County, Georgia.
Day. The term "day" means a calendar day of 24 hours.
Delegation of authority. Whenever a provision appears requiring the head of a department of the county to do some act or make certain inspections it is to be construed to authorize the head of the department to designate, delegate and authorize subordinates to perform the required act or make the required inspection unless the terms of the provision or section designate otherwise.
Gender. A word importing the masculine gender only shall extend and be applied to females and to firms, partnerships and corporations as well as to males or any other legal entity when applicable under federal or state law.
Joint authority. All words giving a joint authority to three or more persons or officers shall be construed as giving such authority to a majority of such persons or officers.
Keeper and proprietor. The terms "keeper" and "proprietor" mean and include persons, firms, associations, corporations, receivers, trustees, personal representatives, clubs and partnerships, whether acting by themselves or through a servant, agent or employee.
Land and real estate. The terms "land" and "real estate" include rights and easements of an incorporeal nature.
May. The term "may" is to be construed as being permissive.
Month. The term "month" means a calendar month.
Must. The term "must" is to be construed as being mandatory.
Nontechnical and technical words. Words and phrases shall be construed according to the common and approved usage of the language; but technical words and phrases and such others as may have acquired a peculiar and appropriate meaning in law shall be construed and understood according to such meaning.
Number. A word importing the singular number only may extend and be applied to several persons and things as well as to one person and thing.
O.C.G.A. The abbreviation "O.C.G.A." means the Official Code of Georgia Annotated.
Oath. The term "oath" shall be construed to include an affirmation in all cases in which, by law, an affirmation may be substituted for an oath, and in such cases the terms "swear" and "sworn" shall be equivalent to the terms "affirm" and "affirmed."
Or, and. "Or" may be read "and," and "and" may be read "or," if the sense requires it.
Owner. The term "owner," applied to a building or land, includes any part owner, joint owner, tenant in common or tenant in partnership, of the whole or of a part of such building or land.
Person. The term "person" shall extend and be applied to associations, clubs, societies, firms, partnerships and bodies politic and corporate as well as to individuals.
Personal property. The term "personal property" includes every species of property except real property, as described in this section.
Preceding, following. The terms "preceding" and "following" mean next before and next after, respectively.
Premises. Whenever the term "premises" is used, it means place or places.
Property. The term "property" includes real and personal property.
Public place. The term "public place" means any park, cemetery, school yard or open space adjacent thereto, or any area available and/or accessible to the public, regardless of whether privately- or publicly-owned.
Real property. The term "real property" includes lands, tenements and hereditaments.
Residence. The term "residence" shall be construed to mean the place adopted by a person as his place of habitation, and to which, whenever he is absent, he has the intention of returning. When a person eats at one place and sleeps at another, the place where such person sleeps shall be deemed his residence.
Seal. The term "seal" means the county seal.
Shall. The term "shall" is to be considered as mandatory.
Sheriff. The term "sheriff" means the sheriff of Meriwether County, Georgia.
Sidewalk. The term "sidewalk" means any portion of a street between the curbline and the adjacent property line, intended for the use of pedestrians, excluding parkways.
Signature or subscription. The term "signature" or "subscription" of a person includes a mark when the person cannot write.
State. The term "state" or "the state" means the State of Georgia.
Street. The term "street" shall be construed to embrace streets, avenues, boulevards, roads, alleys, lanes, viaducts and all other public highways in the county.
Tenant, occupant. The terms "tenant" and "occupant," applied to a building or land, include any person holding a written or oral lease or who occupies the whole or a part of such building or land, either alone or with others.
Tense. Words used in the past or present tense include the future as well as the past and present.
Time. Words used in the past or present tense include the future as well as the past and present.
Week. The term "week" shall be construed to mean a calendar week, of seven days.
Will. The term "will" is to be construed as being mandatory.
Written or in writing. The term "written" or "in writing" shall be construed to include any representation of words, letters or figures, whether by printing or otherwise.
Year. The term "year" means a calendar year.
(Code 1991, § 1-2)
Sec. 1-3. - Catchlines of sections; history notes and references.
The catchlines of sections in this Code printed in boldface type, italics, or otherwise, are intended as mere catchwords to indicate the contents of the section, and shall not be deemed or taken to be titles of such sections, nor as any part of the section, nor, unless expressly so provided, shall they be so deemed when any of such sections, including the catchlines, are amended or reenacted. The history notes appearing in parentheses after each section and the references and editor's notes scattered throughout the Code are for the benefit of the user of the Code and shall have no legal effect.
(Code 1991, § 1-3)
Sec. 1-4. - Amendments to Code; effect of new ordinances; amendatory language.
(a)
All ordinances passed subsequent to this Code which amend, repeal or in any way affect this Code may be numbered in accordance with the numbering system of this Code and printed for inclusion herein. In the case of repealed chapters, sections and subsections or any part thereof, by subsequent ordinances, such repealed portions may be excluded from the Code by omission from reprinted pages affected thereby. The subsequent ordinances as numbered and printed or omitted, in the case of repeal, shall be prima facie evidence of such subsequent ordinances until such time that this Code and subsequent ordinances numbered or omitted are readopted as a new Code by the board of commissioners.
(b)
The style of all ordinances shall be: "Be it ordained by the board of commissioners of Meriwether County, as follows:"
(c)
Amendments to any of the provisions of this Code may be made by amending such provisions by specific reference to the section number of this Code in the following language: "That section _____ of the Code of Ordinances, Meriwether County, Georgia, is hereby amended to read as follows:…." The new provisions shall then be set out in full as desired.
(d)
In the event a new section not heretofore existing in the Code is to be added, the following language may be used: "That the Code of Ordinances, Meriwether County, Georgia, is hereby amended by adding a section (or article or chapter) to be numbered _____, which said section reads as follows:…." The new section may then be set out in full as desired.
(e)
All sections, articles, chapters or provisions desired to be repealed should be specifically repealed by section, article or chapter number, as the case may be.
(Code 1991, § 1-4)
Sec. 1-5. - Provisions considered as continuations of existing ordinances.
The provisions appearing in this Code, so far as they are the same as ordinances adopted prior to this Code and included in such Code, shall be considered as continuations thereof and not as new enactments.
(Code 1991, § 1-5)
Sec. 1-6. - Ordinances not affected by Code.
Nothing in this Code or the ordinance adopting this Code shall be construed to repeal or otherwise affect the validity of any of the following:
(1)
Any offense or act committed or done or any penalty or forfeiture incurred or any contract or right established or accruing before the effective date of this Code;
(2)
Any ordinance or resolution promising or guaranteeing the payment of money for the county or authorizing the issuance of any bonds of the county or any evidence of the county's indebtedness;
(3)
Any contract or obligation assumed by the county;
(4)
Any ordinance fixing the salary of any county officer or employee;
(5)
Any right or franchise granted by the county;
(6)
Any ordinance dedicating, naming, establishing, locating, relocating, opening, widening, paving, etc., any street or public way in the county;
(7)
Any appropriation ordinance;
(8)
Any ordinance which, by its own terms, is effective for a stated or limited term;
(9)
Any ordinance providing for local improvements and assessing taxes therefor;
(10)
Any zoning ordinance;
(11)
Any ordinance dedicating or accepting any subdivision plat;
(12)
Any ordinance describing or altering the boundaries of the county;
(13)
The administrative ordinances or resolutions of the county not in conflict or inconsistent with the provisions of this Code;
(14)
Any ordinance levying or imposing taxes not included herein;
(15)
Any ordinance establishing or prescribing street grades in the county;
(16)
Any ordinance or resolution adopting or amending the county's personnel policy manual; nor shall such ordinance be construed to revive any ordinance or part thereof that has been repealed by a subsequent ordinance which is repealed by this chapter; and all such ordinances are hereby recognized as continuing in full force and effect to the same extent as if set out at length herein.
(Code 1991, § 1-6)
Sec. 1-7. - Severability of parts of Code.
It is hereby declared to be the intention of the board of commissioners that the sections, paragraphs, sentences, clauses and phrases of this Code are severable, and if any phrase, clause, sentence, paragraph or section of this Code shall be declared unconstitutional by the valid judgment or decree of any court of competent jurisdiction, such unconstitutionality shall not affect any of the remaining phrases, clauses, sentences, paragraphs and sections of this Code, since the same would have been enacted by the board of commissioners without the incorporation in this Code of any such unconstitutional phrase, clause, sentence, paragraph or section.
(Code 1991, § 1-7)
Sec. 1-8. - Effect of repeal of ordinances.
(a)
The repeal of an ordinance shall not revive any ordinances in force before or at the time the ordinance repealed took effect.
(b)
The repeal of an ordinance shall not affect any punishment or penalty incurred before the repeal took effect, nor any suit, prosecution or proceeding pending at the time of the repeal, for an offense committed or cause of action arising under the ordinance repealed.
(Code 1991, § 1-8)
Sec. 1-9. - Supplementation of Code.
(a)
By contract or by county personnel, supplements to this Code shall be prepared on an annual basis. A supplement to the Code shall include all substantive, permanent and general parts of ordinances passed by the board of commissioners during the period covered by the supplement and all changes made thereby in the Code. The pages of a supplement shall be so numbered that they will fit properly into the Code and will, where necessary, replace pages which have become obsolete or partially obsolete, and the new pages shall be so prepared that, when they have been inserted, the Code will be current through the date of the adoption of the latest ordinance included in the supplement.
(b)
In preparing a supplement to this Code, all portions of the Code which have been repealed shall be excluded from the Code by the omission thereof from reprinted pages.
(c)
When preparing a supplement to this Code, the codifier (meaning the person, agency or organization authorized to prepare the supplement) may make formal, nonsubstantive changes in ordinances and parts of ordinances included in the supplement, insofar as it is necessary to do so to embody them into a unified Code. For example, the codifier may:
(1)
Organize the ordinance material into appropriate subdivisions;
(2)
Provide appropriate catchlines, headings and titles for sections and other subdivisions of the Code printed in the supplement, and make changes in such catchlines, headings and titles;
(3)
Assign appropriate numbers to sections and other subdivisions to be inserted in the Code and, where necessary to accommodate new material, change existing section or other subdivision numbers;
(4)
Change the words "this ordinance" or words of the same meaning to "this chapter," "this article," "this division," etc., as the case may be, or to "sections _____ to _____" (inserting section numbers to indicate the sections of the Code which embody the substantive sections of the ordinance incorporated into the Code); and
(5)
Make other nonsubstantive changes necessary to preserve the original meanings of ordinance sections inserted into the Code; but in no case shall the codifier make any change in the meaning or effect of ordinance material included in the supplement or already embodied in the Code.
(Code 1991, § 1-9)
Sec. 1-10. - Altering Code.
It shall be unlawful for any person in the county to change or amend by additions or deletions, any part or portion of this Code, or to insert or delete pages, or portions thereof, or to alter or tamper with such Code in any manner whatsoever except by ordinance or resolution or other official act of the mayor and council, which will cause the law of the county to be misrepresented thereby. Any person violating this section shall be punished as provided in section 1-11.
(Code 1991, § 1-10)
Sec. 1-11. - Penalties; continuing violations.
(a)
Whenever in this Code, or in any other ordinance of the county, any act is prohibited or is made or declared to be unlawful or an offense, or the doing of any act is required or the failure to do any act is declared to be unlawful, where no specific penalty is provided therefor, the violation of such provision shall be punishable by the imposition of a fine not to exceed $1,000.00, or by imprisonment in the county jail for a period of time not to exceed 60 days, or by both such fine and imprisonment, or up to the limits of any authorized penalty provided by general law.
(b)
Each day any violation of this Code or other ordinance shall continue shall constitute a separate offense.
(c)
The imposition of a fine, imprisonment or any other penalty authorized by law does not prevent the revocation or suspension of a license, permit or franchise.
(d)
Violations of this Code that are continuous with respect to time are a nuisance and may be abated by injunctive or other equitable relief. The imposition of a fine, imprisonment or other penalty authorized by law does not prevent equitable relief.
(Code 1991, § 1-11; Ord. No. 01-03, § 1, 4-10-2001; Ord. No. 2012-04, 4-24-2012)
