Chapter 13.28 - DROUGHT CONTINGENCY PLAN
Sections:

13.28.010 - Definitions.
When used in this chapter:
"Address" means the "house number" (a numeric or alphanumeric designation) that, together with the street name, describes a physical location of a specific property. "Even-numbered address" means a house number ending with the number) 0, 2, 4, 6, 8, or no house number. "Odd-numbered address" means a house number ending with the number 1, 3, 5, 7 or 9.
"Affected citizens" means any citizen living within the corporate city limits of the city of Metter whether they are connected to the city's water system or have their own well and/or both, and any citizen that is connected to the city of Metter's water system who lives outside of the corporate city limits of Metter.
(Ord. dated 10-14-04 ยง 1)
13.28.020 - Minimum measures for nondrought periods.
The city has established minimum measures to promote reductions in the daily water demands of our water customers as follows:
A.
No outdoor water use from ten a.m. to twelve midnight;
B.
Outdoor water use may occur on scheduled days within the hours of twelve midnight to ten a.m.:
1.
Scheduled days for odd-numbered addresses are Tuesdays, Thursdays and Sundays,
2.
Scheduled days for even-numbered addresses are Mondays, Wednesdays and Saturdays,
3.
No watering on Fridays,
4.
Use of hydrants for any purpose other than firefighting, public health, safety or flushing is prohibited.
5.
Washing hard surfaces, such as streets, gutters, sidewalks and driveways except when necessary for public health and safety.
(Ord. dated 10-14-04 ยง 2)
13.28.030 - Critical emergency for declared drought levels.
The city has established the following uniform requirements for the critical emergency situation of the city's water supply, the health and safety of the city water users, and the state-declared drought response levels three and four:
A.
No outside water of any kind, including street flushing, public fountains, park irrigation, watering lawns, gardens, shrubbery, etc.;
B.
No commercial and/or private water uses such as swimming pools, and motor vehicles washing of any kind including car washers;
C.
No commercial and home laundry use except during the hours of seven p.m. to seven a.m.;
D.
No watering of golf courses.
(Ord. dated 10-14-04 ยง 3)
13.28.040 - Enforcement.
The enforcement actions shall be taken on those users not complying with this water conservation chapter in the following manner:
A.
Inspection by duly authorized employees of the water department bearing proper credentials and identification shall be permitted to enter all properties for the purpose of inspection, observation, measurement and testing in accordance with the provisions of this chapter.
B.
Any person found to be violating the provisions of this chapter shall be served written notice stating the nature of the violations and shall be issued a warning ticket for this violation.
C.
On second violation, water service will be terminated and a reconnect fee of fifty dollars ($50.00) will be charged.
D.
All such subsequent violations shall be charged a reconnect fee of five hundred dollars ($500.00) for each violation.
(Ord. dated 10-14-04 ยง 4)
