CHARTER FOR THE CITY OF METTER, GEORGIA[1]
modified
TABLE OF CONTENTS
EXPAND
ARTICLE I. INCORPORATION AND POWERS
1.10. Name ..... C-4
1.11. Corporate boundaries ..... C-4
1.12. Powers and construction ..... C-4
1.13. Exercise of powers ..... C-8
ARTICLE II. GOVERNMENT STRUCTURE
2.10. City council creation; number; election ..... C-9
2.10A. Wards ..... C-9
2.11. City council ..... C-9
2.12. Vacancy; filling of vacancies; suspensions ..... C-9
2.13. Compensation and expenses ..... C-10
2.14. Conflict of interest ..... C-10
2.15. Inquiries and investigations ..... C-10
2.16. General power and authority of the city council ..... C-10
2.17. Eminent domain ..... C-10
2.18. Organizational meetings ..... C-10
2.19. Regular and special meetings ..... C-11
2.20. Rules of procedure ..... C-11
2.21. Quorum; voting ..... C-11
2.22. Ordinance form; procedures ..... C-11
2.23. Action requiring an ordinance ..... C-12
2.24. Emergencies ..... C-12
2.25. Codes of technical regulations ..... C-12
2.26. Signing; authenticating; recording; codification; printing ..... C-12
2.27. Election of mayor; forfeiture; compensation ..... C-13
2.28. Chief executive officer ..... C-13
2.29. Powers and duties of mayor ..... C-13
2.30. Submission of ordinances to the mayor; veto power ..... C-14
2.31. Mayor pro tempore; selection; duties ..... C-14
2.32. Form of government ..... C-14
ARTICLE III. ADMINISTRATIVE AFFAIRS
3.10. Administrative and service departments ..... C-14
3.11. Boards, commissions and authorities ..... C-15
ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICERS
3.12. City attorney ..... C-15
3.12A. Reserved ..... C-16
3.13. City manager ..... C-16
3.14. City clerk ..... C-16
3.15. City treasurer ..... C-16
3.16. City accountant ..... C-17
3.17. Chief of police ..... C-17
PERSONNEL ADMINISTRATION
3.18. Position classification and pay plans ..... C-17
3.19. Personnel policies ..... C-17
ARTICLE IV. JUDICIAL BRANCH
4.10. Creation; name ..... C-18
4.11. Chief judge; associate judge ..... C-18
4.12. Convening ..... C-18
4.13. Jurisdiction; powers ..... C-18
4.14. Rules for court ..... C-19
ARTICLE V. ELECTIONS AND REMOVAL
5.10. Applicability of general law ..... C-19
5.11. Nonpartisan elections ..... C-20
5.12. Election by majority ..... C-20
5.13. Special elections; vacancies ..... C-20
5.14. Other provisions ..... C-20
5.15. Removal of officers ..... C-20
ARTICLE VI. FINANCE
6.10. Property tax ..... C-21
6.11. Millage rate; due dates; payment methods ..... C-21
6.12. Occupation and business taxes ..... C-21
6.13. Licenses; permits; fees ..... C-21
6.14. Franchises ..... C-22
6.15. Service charges ..... C-22
6.16. Special assessments ..... C-22
6.17. Other taxes ..... C-22
6.18. Collection of delinquent taxes and fees ..... C-22
6.19. General obligation bonds ..... C-23
6.20. Revenue bonds ..... C-23
6.21. Short-term loans ..... C-23
6.22. Fiscal year ..... C-23
6.23. Preparation of budgets ..... C-23
6.24. Submission of operating budget to city council ..... C-23
6.25. Action by city council on budget ..... C-23
6.26. Tax levies ..... C-24
6.27. Changes in appropriations ..... C-24
6.28. Capital improvements budgets ..... C-24
6.29. Independent audit ..... C-25
6.30. Contracting procedures ..... C-25
6.31. Centralized purchasing ..... C-25
6.32. Sale of city property ..... C-25
ARTICLE VII. GENERAL PROVISIONS
7.10. Bonds for officials ..... C-26
7.11. Prior ordinances ..... C-26
7.12. Pending matters ..... C-26
7.13. Definitions and construction ..... C-26
7.14. Submission to United States Attorney General ..... C-26
7.15. Severability ..... C-27
7.16. Specific repealer ..... C-27
7.17. Effective date ..... C-27
7.18. General repealer ..... C-27
  Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
* Editor's Note: The city's Charter is derived from Act Number 376 of Georgia Laws of 1997, which was approved April 21, 1997. The act is set out herein as enacted by the General Assembly of Georgia and as amended by subsequent acts. The amendments are indicated by notes following affected sections, where applicable. The title and the enacting clauses of the Charter are omitted.

ARTICLE I - INCORPORATION AND POWERS

SECTION 1.10. - Name.
This city and the inhabitants thereof are constituted and declared a body politic and corporate under the name and style Metter, Georgia, and by that name shall have perpetual succession.
SECTION 1.11. - Corporate boundaries.
(a)
The boundaries of this city shall be those existing on the effective date of the adoption of this charter with such alterations as may be made from time to time in the manner provided by law. The boundaries of this city at all times shall be shown on a map, a written description, or any combination thereof, to be retained permanently in the office of the city clerk and to be designated, as the case may be: "Official Map (or Description) of the corporate limits of the City of Metter, Georgia." Photographic, typed, or other copies of such map or description certified by the city clerk shall be admitted as evidence in all courts and shall have the same force and effect as with the original map or description.
(b)
The mayor, city administrator, and city clerk may provide for the redrawing of any such map by ordinance to reflect lawful changes in the corporate boundaries. A redrawn map shall supersede for all purposes the entire map or maps which it is designated to replace.
SECTION 1.12. - Powers and construction.
(a)
This city shall have all powers possible for a city to have under the present or future Constitution and laws of this state as fully and completely as though they were specifically enumerated in this charter. This city shall have all the powers of self-government not otherwise prohibited by this charter or by general law.
(b)
The powers of this city shall be construed liberally in favor of the city. The specific mention or failure to mention particular powers shall not be construed as limiting in any way the powers of this city.
(c)
The powers of the government of the City of Metter to be exercised by the mayor and city council shall include, but not be limited to, the following:
(1)
Air and water pollution. To regulate the emission of smoke or other exhaust which pollutes the air and to prevent the pollution of natural streams which flow within the corporate limits of the city;
(2)
Animal regulations. To regulate and license or to prohibit the keeping or running at large of animals and fowl and to provide for the impoundment of same if in violation of any ordinance or lawful order; to provide for the disposition by sale, gift or humane destruction of animals and fowl when not redeemed as provided by ordinance; and to provide punishment for violation of ordinances enacted under this charter;
(3)
Appropriations and expenditures. To make appropriations for the support of the government of the city; to authorize the expenditure of money for any purposes authorized by this charter and for any purpose for which a municipality is authorized by the laws of the State of Georgia; and to provide for the payment of expenses of the city;
(4)
Building regulation. To regulate and to license the erection, construction, and demolition of buildings and all other structures; to adopt building, housing, plumbing, electrical, gas, and heating and air-conditioning codes; and to regulate all housing and building trades;
(5)
Business regulation and taxation. To levy and to provide for collection of license fees and taxes on privileges, occupations, trades, and professions; to license and regulate the same; to provide for the manner and method of payment of such licenses and taxes; and to revoke or suspend such licenses after due process for failure to pay any city taxes, fees, or violations of city ordinances;
(6)
Condemnation. To condemn property, inside or outside the corporate limits of the city, for present or future use and for any corporate purpose deemed necessary by the governing authority, utilizing procedures enumerated in Title 22 of the O.C.G.A. or such other applicable laws as are now or may hereafter be enacted;
(7)
Contracts. To enter into contracts and agreements with other governmental entities and with private persons, firms, and corporations;
(8)
Emergencies. To establish procedures for determining and proclaiming that an emergency situation exists within or outside the city and to make and carry out all reasonable provisions deemed necessary to deal with or meet such an emergency for the protection, safety, health, or well-being of the citizens of the city;
(9)
Fire regulations. To fix and establish fire limits and from time to time to extend, enlarge, or restrict the same; to prescribe fire safety regulations not inconsistent with general law, relating to both fire prevention and detection and to fire fighting; and to prescribe penalties and punishment for violations thereof;
(10)
Garbage fees. To levy, fix, assess, and collect a garbage, refuse, and trash collection and disposal and other sanitary service charge, tax, or fee for such services as may be necessary in the operation of the city from all individuals, firms, and corporations residing in or doing business in the city benefiting from such services; to enforce the payment of such charges, taxes, or fees; and to provide for the manner and method of collecting such service charges;
(11)
General health, safety, and welfare. To define, regulate, and prohibit any act, practice, conduct, or use of property which is detrimental to health, sanitation, cleanliness, welfare, and safety of the inhabitants of the city and to provide for the enforcement of such standards;
(12)
Gifts. To accept or refuse gifts, donations, bequests, or grants from any source for any purpose related to powers and duties of the city and the general welfare of its citizens, on such terms and conditions as the donor or grantor may impose;
(13)
Health and sanitation. To prescribe standards of health and sanitation and to provide for the enforcement of such standards;
(14)
Jail sentences. To provide that persons given jail sentences in the city's court may work out such sentences in any public works or on the streets, roads, drains, and squares in the city; to provide for commitment of such persons to any jail; or to provide for commitment of such persons to any county work camp or county jail by agreement with the appropriate county officials;
(15)
Motor vehicles. To regulate the operation of motor vehicles and exercise control over all traffic, including parking upon or across the streets, roads, alleys, and walkways of the city;
(16)
Municipal agencies and delegation of power. To create, alter, or abolish departments, boards, offices, commissions, and agencies of the city and to confer upon such agencies the necessary and appropriate authority for carrying out all the powers conferred upon or delegated to the same;
(17)
Municipal debts. To appropriate and borrow money for the payment of debts of the city and to issue bonds for the purpose of raising revenue to carry out any project, program, or venture authorized by this charter or the laws of the State of Georgia;
(18)
Municipal property ownership. To acquire, dispose of, and hold in trust or otherwise any real, personal, or mixed property, in fee simple or lesser interest, inside or outside the property limits of the city;
(19)
Municipal property protection. To provide for the preservation and protection of property and equipment of the city and the administration and use of same by the public; and to prescribe penalties and punishment for violations thereof;
(20)
Municipal utilities. To acquire, lease, construct, operate, maintain, sell, and dispose of public utilities, including but not limited to a system of waterworks, sewers and drains, sewage disposal, gas works, electric light plants, transportation facilities, public airports, and any other public utility; and to fix the taxes, charges, rates, fares, fees, assessments, regulations, and penalties and to provide for the withdrawal of service for refusal or failure to pay the same; and to authorize the extension of water, sewerage, and electrical distribution systems, and all necessary appurtenances by which such utilities are distributed, inside and outside the corporate limits of the city and to provide utility services to persons, firms, and corporations inside and outside the corporate limits of the city as provided by ordinance;
(21)
Nuisance. To define a nuisance and provide for its abatement whether on public or private property;
(22)
Ordinances, rules, and regulations. To make, establish, and adopt such bylaws, ordinances, policies, and rules and regulations as shall appear necessary for the security, welfare, convenience, and interest of the city and the inhabitants thereof and for preserving the health, peace, order, and good government of the city;
(23)
Penalties. To provide penalties for violation of any ordinances adopted pursuant to the authority of this charter and the laws of the State of Georgia;
(24)
Planning and zoning. To provide comprehensive city planning for development by zoning; and to provide subdivision regulation and the like as the city council deems necessary and reasonable to ensure a safe, healthy, and aesthetically pleasing community;
(25)
Police and fire protection. To exercise the power of arrest through duly appointed police officers and to establish, operate, or contract for a police and a fire-fighting agency;
(26)
Public hazards; removal. To provide for the destruction and removal of any building or other structure which is or may become dangerous or detrimental to the public;
(27)
Public improvements. To provide for the acquisition, construction, building, operation, and maintenance of public ways, parks and playgrounds, recreational facilities, cemeteries, markets and market houses, public buildings, libraries, public housing, airports, hospitals, terminals, docks, parking facilities, or charitable, cultural, educational, recreational, conservation, sport, curative, corrective, detentional, penal, and medical institutions, agencies, and facilities; and to provide any other public improvements, inside or outside the corporate limits of the city; to regulate the use of public improvements; and, for such purposes, property may be acquired by condemnation under Title 22 of the O.C.G.A. or such other applicable laws as are now or may hereafter be enacted;
(28)
Public peace. To provide for the prevention and punishment of drunkenness, riots, and public disturbances;
(29)
Public transportation. To organize and operate such public transportation systems as are deemed beneficial;
(30)
Public utilities and services. To grant franchises or make contracts for public utilities and public services; and to prescribe the rates, fares, regulations, and standards and conditions of service applicable to the service to be provided by the franchise grantee or contractor, insofar as not in conflict with valid regulations of the Georgia Public Service Commission;
(31)
Regulation of roadside areas. To prohibit or regulate and control the erection, removal, and maintenance of signs, billboards, trees, shrubs, fences, buildings, and any and all other structures or obstructions upon or adjacent to the rights of way of streets and roads or within view thereof, within or abutting the corporate limits of the city; and to prescribe penalties and punishment for violation of such ordinances;
(32)
Retirement. To provide and maintain a retirement plan for officers and employees of the city;
(33)
Roadways. To lay out, open, extend, widen, narrow, establish, or change the grade of, abandon or close, construct, pave, curb, gutter, adorn with shade trees, or otherwise improve, maintain, repair, clean, prevent erosion of, and light the roads, alleys, and walkways within the corporate limits of the city; and to negotiate and execute leases over, through, under, or across any city property or the right of way of any street, road, alley, and walkway or portion thereof within the corporate limits of the city for bridges, passageways, or any other purpose or use between buildings on opposite sides of the street and for other bridges, overpasses, and underpasses for private use at such location and to charge a rental therefor in such manner as may be provided by ordinance; end to authorize and control the construction of bridges, overpasses, and underpasses within the corporate limits of the city; and to grant franchises and rights of way throughout the streets and roads and over the bridges and viaducts for the use of public utilities and for private use; and to require real estate owners to repair and maintain in a safe condition the sidewalks adjoining their lots or lands and to impose penalties for failure to do so;
(34)
Sewer fees. To levy a fee, charge, or sewer tax as necessary to assure the acquiring, constructing, equipping, operating, maintaining, and extending of a sewage disposal plant and sewerage systems and to levy on those to whom sewers and sewerage systems are made available a sewer service fee, charge, or sewer tax for the availability or use of the sewers; to provide for manner and method of collecting such service charges and for enforcing payment of the same; and to charge, impose, and collect a sewer connection fee or fees to those connected with the system;
(35)
Solid waste disposal. To provide for the collection and disposal of garbage, rubbish, and refuse and to regulate the collection and disposal of garbage, rubbish, and refuse by others; and to provide for the separate collection of glass, tin, aluminum, cardboard, paper, and other recyclable materials and to provide for the sale of such items;
(36)
Special areas of public regulation. To regulate or prohibit junk dealers, pawn shops, the manufacture, sale, or transportation of intoxicating liquors, and the use and sale of firearms; to regulate the transportation, storage, and use of combustible, explosive, and inflammable materials, the use of lighting and heating equipment, and any other business or situation which may be dangerous to persons or property; to regulate and control the conduct of peddlers and itinerant traders, theatrical performances, exhibitions, and shows of any kind, by taxation or otherwise; and to license, tax, regulate, or prohibit to the extent permitted by state law professional fortunetelling, palmistry, adult bookstores, and massage parlors;
(37)
Special assessments. To levy and provide for the collection of special assessments to cover the costs of any public improvements;
(38)
Taxes: ad valorem. To levy and provide for assessment, valuation, revaluation, and collection of taxes on all property subject to taxation;
(39)
Taxes: other. To levy and collect such other taxes as may be allowed now or in the future by law;
(40)
Taxicabs. To regulate and license vehicles operated for hire in the city; to limit the number of such vehicles; to require the operators thereof to be licensed; to require public liability insurance on such vehicles in the amounts to be prescribed by ordinance; and to regulate the parking of such vehicles;
(41)
Urban redevelopment. To organize and operate an urban redevelopment program; and
(42)
Other powers. To exercise and enjoy all other powers, functions, rights, privileges, and immunities necessary or desirable to promote or protect the safety, health, peace, security, good order, comfort, convenience, or general welfare of the city and its inhabitants; to exercise all implied powers necessary to carry into execution all powers granted in this charter as fully and completely as if such powers were fully stated in this charter; and to exercise all powers now or in the future authorized to be exercised by other municipal governments under other laws of the State of Georgia; and no listing of particular powers in this charter shall be held to be exclusive of others, nor restrictive of general words and phrases granting powers, but shall be held to be in addition to such powers unless expressly prohibited to municipalities under the Constitution or applicable laws of the State of Georgia.
SECTION 1.13. - Exercise of powers.
All powers, functions, rights, privileges, and immunities of the city, its officers, agencies, or employees shall be carried into execution as provided by this charter. If this charter makes no provision, such shall be carried into execution as provided by ordinance or as provided by pertinent laws of the State of Georgia.
ARTICLE II - GOVERNMENT STRUCTURE

SECTION 2.10. - City council creation; number; election.
The legislative authority of the government of this city, except as otherwise specifically provided in this charter, shall be vested in a city council to be composed of a mayor and five councilmembers. The mayor and councilmembers shall be elected in the manner provided by this charter.
SECTION 2.10A. - Wards.
The City of Metter shall be divided into two districts as set forth in the description of districts attached hereto and made a part hereof and further identified as "metterpropl-Tiger2010-map."
(Amendment dated 6-28-11)
SECTION 2.11. - City council.
Pursuant to Code Sections 21-3-51 and 21-3-63 of the O.C.G.A., the mayor and members of the city council shall be elected for terms of four years and until their respective successors are elected and qualified. The mayor shall be elected by the voters of the city at large. Five councilmembers shall be elected as follows:
(1)
Seats 1, 2, and 3 shall be elected at large from District 1; and
(2)
Seats 4 and 5 shall be elected at large from District 2.
The mayor shall be elected to a four-year term at the 2001 general municipal election and every four years thereafter. Seats 1, 3, and 5 shall be elected to a four-year term at the general municipal election in 1999 and every four years thereafter. Seats 2 and 4 shall be elected to a four-year term at the general municipal election in 2001 and every four years thereafter. Terms shall begin on the first day of January following the election. The mayor and councilmembers whose terms begin on the effective date of this charter shall continue to hold office until the terms for which they were elected expire, but the city council may change the nomenclature of the description of such office to conform to the terms used in this charter. No person shall be eligible to hold the office of mayor or councilmember unless he or she is 21 years of age, a qualified elector of the City of Metter, and a resident of the City of Metter for a period of one year immediately preceding the election.
SECTION 2.12. - Vacancy, filling of vacancies; suspensions.
(a)
Vacancies—The office of mayor or councilmember shall become vacant upon the incumbent's death, resignation, forfeiture of office, or removal from office in any manner authorized by this charter or the general laws of the State of Georgia. A vacancy in the office of mayor or councilmember shall be filled for the remainder of the unexpired term, if any, as provided for in this charter.
(b)
Suspension—Upon the suspension from office of the mayor or councilmember in any manner authorized by the general laws of the State of Georgia, the city council or those remaining shall appoint a successor for the duration of the suspension. If the suspension becomes permanent, then the office shall become vacant and shall be filled for the remainder of the unexpired term, if any, as provided for in this charter.
SECTION 2.13. - Compensation and expenses.
The mayor and councilmembers shall receive compensation and expenses for their services as provided by ordinance.
SECTION 2.14. - Conflict of interest.
The city council shall enact by ordinance a conflict of interest code applicable to elected and appointed city officers and officials.
SECTION 2.15. - Inquiries and investigations.
The city council may make inquiries and investigations into the affairs of the city and conduct of any department, office, or agency thereof and for this purpose may subpoena witnesses, administer oaths, take testimony, and require the production of evidence. Any person who fails or refuses to obey a lawful order issued in the exercise of these powers by the city council shall be punished as provided by ordinance.
SECTION 2.16. - General power and authority of the city council.
Except as otherwise provided by this charter, the city council shall be vested with all the powers of government of this city as provided by Article I of this charter.
SECTION 2.17. - Eminent domain.
The city council is empowered to acquire, construct, operate, and maintain public ways, parks, public grounds, cemeteries, markets, market houses, public buildings, libraries, sewers, drains, sewage treatment, waterworks, electrical systems, gas systems, airports, hospitals, and charitable, educational, recreational, sport, curative, corrective, detentional, penal, and medical institutions, agencies, and facilities and any other public improvements inside or outside the city and to regulate the use thereof and, for such purposes, property may be condemned under procedures established under general law applicable now or as provided in the future.
SECTION 2.18. - Organizational meetings.
The city council shall hold an organizational meeting on or before the second Monday in January. The meeting shall be called to order by the city clerk and the oath of office shall be administered to the newly elected members as follows:
"I do solemnly (swear) (affirm) that I will faithfully perform the duties of (mayor) (councilmember) of this city and that I will support and defend the charter thereof as well as the Constitution and laws of the State of Georgia and the United States of America."
SECTION 2.19. - Regular and special meetings.
(a)
The city council shall hold regular meetings at such times and places as prescribed by ordinance.
(b)
Special meetings of the city council may be held on call of the mayor or three members of the city council. Notice of such special meeting shall be served on all other members personally, or by telephone personally, at least 24 hours in advance of the meeting.
(c)
All meetings of the city council shall be public to the extent required by law and notice to the public of special meetings shall be made fully as is reasonably possible 24 hours prior to such meetings.
SECTION 2.20. - Rules of procedure.
The city council shall adopt its rules of procedure and order of business consistent with the provisions of this charter and shall provide for keeping minutes of its proceedings, which shall be a public record.
SECTION 2.21. - Quorum; voting.
(a)
Three councilmembers shall constitute a quorum and shall be authorized to transact business of the city council. Voting on the adoption of ordinances shall be by voice vote or show of hands and the vote shall be recorded in the minutes, but any member of the city council shall have the right to request a roll-call vote and such vote shall be recorded in the minutes. Except as otherwise provided in this charter, the affirmative vote of three councilmembers shall be required for the adoption of any ordinance, resolution, or motion. In case of a tie, the mayor may vote.
(b)
In the event vacancies in office result in less than a quorum of councilmembers holding office, then the remaining councilmembers in office shall constitute a quorum and shall be authorized to transact business of the city council. A vote of a majority of the remaining councilmembers shall be required for the adoption of any ordinance, resolution, or motion.
SECTION 2.22. - Ordinance form; procedures.
(a)
Every proposed ordinance should be introduced in writing and in the form required for final adoption. No ordinance shall contain a subject which is not expressed in its title. The enacting clause shall be "The Council of the City of Metter, Georgia, hereby ordains …" and every ordinance shall so begin.
(b)
An ordinance may be introduced by any councilmember and be read at a regular or special meeting of the city council. Ordinances shall be considered and adopted or rejected by the city council in accordance with the rules which it shall establish; provided, however, an ordinance shall not be adopted the same day it is introduced, except for emergency ordinances provided for in Section 2.24 of this charter. Upon introduction of any ordinance, the clerk shall as soon as possible distribute a copy to the mayor and each councilmember and shall file a reasonable number of copies in the office of the clerk and at such other public places as the city council may designate.
SECTION 2.23. - Action requiring an ordinance.
Acts of the city council which have the force and effect of law shall be enacted by ordinance.
SECTION 2.24. - Emergencies.
To meet a public emergency affecting life, health, property, or public peace, the city council may convene on call of the mayor or three councilmembers and promptly adopt an emergency ordinance, but such ordinance may not levy taxes; grant, renew, or extend a franchise; regulate the rate charged by any public utility for its services; or authorize the borrowing of money except for loans to be repaid within 30 days. An emergency ordinance shall be introduced in the form prescribed for ordinances generally, except that it shall be plainly designated as an emergency ordinance and shall contain, after the enacting clause, a declaration stating that an emergency exists and describing the emergency in clear and specific terms. An emergency ordinance may be adopted, with or without amendment, or rejected at the meeting at which it is introduced, but the affirmative vote of at least three councilmembers shall be required for adoption. It shall become effective upon adoption or at such later time as it may specify. Every emergency ordinance shall automatically stand repealed 90 days following the date upon which it was adopted, but this shall not prevent reenactment of the ordinance in the manner specified in this section if the emergency still exists. An emergency ordinance may also be repealed by adoption of a repealing ordinance in the same manner specified in this section for adoption of emergency ordinances.
SECTION 2.25. - Codes of technical regulations.
(a)
The city council may adopt any standard code of technical regulations by reference thereto in an adopting ordinance. The procedure and requirements governing such adopting ordinance shall be as prescribed for ordinances generally except that: (1) the requirements of subsection (b) of Section 2.22 of this charter for distribution and filing of copies of the ordinance shall be construed to include copies of any code of technical regulations, as well as the adopting ordinance; and (2) a copy of each adopted code of technical regulations, as well as the adopting ordinance, shall be authenticated and recorded by the city clerk pursuant to Section 2.26 of this charter.
(b)
Copies of any adopted code of technical regulations shall be made available by the clerk for distribution or for purchase at a reasonable price.
SECTION 2.26. - Signing; authenticating; recording; codification; printing.
(a)
The clerk shall authenticate by the clerk's signature and record in full in a properly indexed book kept for that purpose all ordinances adopted by the city council.
(b)
The city council shall provide for the preparation of a general codification of all the ordinances of the city having the force and effect of law. The general codification shall be adopted by the city council by ordinance and shall be published promptly, together with all amendments thereto and such codes of technical regulations and other rules and regulations as the city council may specify. This compilation shall be known and cited officially as "The Code of the City of Metter, Georgia." Copies of the code shall be furnished to all officers, departments, and agencies of the city and made available for purchase by the public at a reasonable price as fixed by the city council.
(c)
The city council shall cause each ordinance and each amendment to this charter to be printed promptly following its adoption, and the printed ordinances and charter amendments shall be made available for purchase by the public at reasonable prices to be fixed by the city council. Following publication of the first code under this charter and at all times thereafter, the ordinances and charter amendments shall be printed in substantially the same style as the code currently in effect and shall be suitable in form for incorporation therein. The city council shall make such further arrangements as deemed desirable with reproduction and distribution of any current changes in or additions to codes of technical regulations and other rules and regulations included in the code.
SECTION 2.27. - Election of mayor; forfeiture; compensation.
The mayor shall be elected and serve for a term of four years and until the mayor's successor is elected and qualified. No person is eligible to hold the office of mayor unless such person is 21 years old, is a qualified elector of the City of Metter, and shall have resided in the City of Metter for a period of one year immediately preceding such person's election. The mayor shall continue to reside in this city during the period of the mayor's service. The mayor shall forfeit that office on the same grounds and under the same procedure as for councilmembers. The compensation of the mayor shall be established in the same manner as for councilmembers, as set by ordinance.
SECTION 2.28. - Chief executive officer.
The mayor shall be the chief executive of this city. The mayor shall possess all of the executive powers granted to the city under the Constitution and laws of the State of Georgia and all the executive powers contained in this charter. (Act 638 (H.B. 1828) (part), approved 5-17-2004)
SECTION 2.29. - Powers and duties of mayor.
The mayor shall be the chief executive officer of the city and shall serve as the city's spokesperson and representative, the presiding officer of the city council, and the organization's chief policy advocate. The mayor shall sign all deeds and contracts, except deeds made for property sold under execution at public sale, which shall be signed by the marshal or chief of police, and be clothed with veto power as hereinafter set out. The mayor shall keep the council advised from time to time of the general condition of the city and shall recommend such measures as the mayor may deem necessary or expedient for the welfare of the city. The mayor shall preside over the meetings of the city council and may call the council together at any time when deemed necessary by the mayor and shall also devote all the time necessary to the discharge of the duties of mayor of the city. (Act 638 (H.B. 1828) (part), approved 5-17-2004)
SECTION 2.30. - Submission of ordinances to the mayor; veto power.
Every ordinance and resolution passed by the city council shall be subject to veto by the mayor in the following manner: the mayor shall within ten days write out the mayor's objections to such ordinance or resolution, and the city council shall, at the next regular meeting at which a quorum shall be present, order said objections entered on the minutes and take a vote on the question as to whether said ordinance, resolution, or other action shall become adopted over said veto. Should as many as three councilmembers vote in the affirmative, said resolution or ordinance shall stand affirmed and become effective without the approval of the mayor; otherwise it shall not become effective. The ayes and nays shall in all cases be entered on the minutes.
SECTION 2.31. - Mayor pro tempore; selection; duties.
At the first regular meeting in January of each year, the city council shall elect a councilmember to serve as mayor pro tempore by a majority vote. Upon the mayor's disability or absence, the mayor pro tempore shall preside at all meetings of the city council and shall assume the duties and powers of the mayor. In the event of the mayor's disability or absence, the mayor pro tempore shall be compensated at the same rate as the mayor. The city council by a majority vote shall elect a new presiding officer from among its members for any period in which the mayor pro tempore is disabled, absent, or acting as mayor. Any such absence or disability shall be declared by majority vote of all councilmembers.
SECTION 2.32. - Form of government.
The city of Metter shall operate under the council-manager form of government, the details of which shall be set forth by ordinance. (Act 638 (H.B. 1828) (part), approved 5-17-2004)
ARTICLE III - ADMINISTRATIVE AFFAIRS

SECTION 3.10. - Administrative and service departments.
(a)
Except as otherwise provided in this charter, the city council, by ordinance, shall prescribe the functions or duties and establish, abolish, or alter all nonelective offices, positions of employment, departments, and agencies of the city as necessary for the proper administration of the affairs and government of this city.
(b)
Except as otherwise provided by this charter or by law, the supervisors of departments and other appointed officers of the city shall be appointed solely on the basis of their respective administrative and professional qualifications.
(c)
All appointed officers, directors, and supervisors of departments shall receive such compensation as prescribed by ordinance.
(d)
There may be a director of each department or agency who shall be its principal officer. Each director shall, subject to the direction and supervision of the city manager, be responsible for the administration and direction of the affairs and operations of that director's department. In the case where a director is not appointed, the supervisors will be responsible for that department.
(e)
The city manager, city clerk, chief of police, fire chief, supervisors, directors, and all other employees other than volunteers will be appointed in accordance with the city's personnel policies as adopted by ordinance, except where the city council may have approved alternative employment terms by resolution. Appeals and grievance procedures will be followed as set forth in said ordinance or resolution. (Act 638 (H.B. 1828) (part), approved 5-17-2004)
SECTION 3.11. - Boards, commissions, and authorities.
(a)
The city council shall create by ordinance such boards, commissions, and authorities to fulfill any investigative, quasi-judicial, or quasi-legislative function the city council deems necessary and shall by ordinance establish the composition, period of existence, duties, and powers thereof.
(b)
All members of boards, commissions, and authorities of the city shall be appointed by the city council for such terms of office and in such manner as shall be provided by ordinance, except where other appointing authority, terms of office, or manner of appointment is prescribed by this charter or by law.
(c)
The city council by ordinance may provide for the compensation and reimbursement for actual and necessary expenses of the members of any board, commission, or authority.
(d)
Any vacancy on a board, commission, or authority of the city shall be filled for the unexpired term in the manner prescribed in this charter for original appointment, except as otherwise provided by this charter or by law.
(e)
No member of a board, commission, or authority shall assume office until that person has executed and filed with the clerk of the city an oath obligating that person to perform faithfully and impartially the duties of that person's office, such oath to be prescribed by ordinance and administered by the mayor.
(f)
Any member of a board, commission, or authority may be removed from office for cause by a vote of three members of the city council.
(g)
Except as otherwise provided by this charter or by law, each board, commission, or authority of the city shall elect one of its members as chairperson and one member as vice chairperson and may elect as its secretary one of its own members or may appoint as secretary an employee of the city. Each board, commission, or authority of the city government may establish such bylaws, rules, and regulations, not inconsistent with this charter, ordinances of the city, or law, as it deems appropriate and necessary for the fulfillment of its duties or the conduct of its affairs. Copies of such bylaws, rules, and regulations shall be filed with the clerk of the city.
ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICERS
SECTION 3.12. - City attorney.
The city council shall appoint a city attorney, together with such assistant city attorneys as may be authorized, and shall provide for the payment of such attorney or attorneys for services rendered to the city. The city attorney shall be responsible for representing and defending the city in all litigation in which the city is a party; may associate other counsel with the approval of the mayor and council; may be the prosecuting officer in the municipal court; shall attend the meetings of the city council as directed; shall advise the city council and other officers and employees of the city concerning legal aspects of the city's affairs; and shall perform such other duties as may be required of the city attorney by virtue of such person's position as city attorney. (Act 638 (H.B. 1828) (part), approved 5-17-2004)
SECTION 3.12A. - Reserved. (Act 638 (H.B. 1828) (part), approved 5-17-2004)
SECTION 3.13. - City manager.
The city council shall appoint a city manager in accordance with the terms and provisions of a council-manager ordinance and other provisions of this charter. The city manager shall be the chief administrative officer of the city and shall be responsible for implementing the directives of the mayor and council, for providing overall guidance of all departments, coordinating special projects as needed, and performing such other duties as may be stipulated by the council. The city manager shall be bonded in an appropriate amount to be fixed by the mayor and council for the faithful performance of the duties of city manager and shall take an oath before the mayor and council that such city manager will, to the best of his or her abilities, faithfully perform the duties of the office of city manager without favor or partiality. (Act 638 (H.B. 1828) (part), approved 5-17-2004)
SECTION 3.14. - City clerk.
The city council shall appoint a city clerk in accordance with the city's personnel policy who shall not be a councilmember. The city clerk shall be custodian of the official city seal, maintain city council's records required by this charter, and perform such other duties as may be required by the city council and will be subject to the city's personnel policy. The city clerk shall be bonded in an appropriate amount to be fixed by the mayor and council for the faithful performance of the duties of city clerk. The city clerk shall take and subscribe an oath before the mayor and council that the city clerk will to the best of his or her ability faithfully perform the duties of the office of city clerk without favor or partiality.
SECTION 3.15. - City treasurer.
The city council may appoint a city treasurer to collect all taxes, licenses, fees, and other moneys belonging to the city subject to the provisions of this charter and the ordinances of the city and to enforce all laws of Georgia relating to the collection of delinquent taxes and sale or foreclosure for nonpayment of taxes by the city. The city treasurer shall also be responsible for the general duties of a treasurer and fiscal officer. This position shall normally be filled by the city clerk, but, at the election of the mayor and council, may be filled by the city manager or other appointed designee. (Act 638 (H.B. 1828) (part), approved 5-17-2004)
SECTION 3.16. - City accountant.
The city council may appoint a city accountant to perform the duties of an accountant.
SECTION 3.17. - Chief of police.
The city manager shall appoint a chief of police, who shall not be a councilmember, in accordance with the city's personnel policy and Section 3.10 of this charter. The chief of police is responsible for being the chief law enforcement officer of the City of Metter. It shall be the duty of the chief of police to prosecute all offenders against the laws of the state committed within the corporate limits of the City of Metter. In case any crime is committed in the presence of the chief of police or comes to his or her knowledge, it shall be his or her duty to prosecute the same. It shall be the duty of the chief of police to levy and collect all executions for taxes, fines, licenses, permits, or other money due the city; to advertise and conduct all sales of property under execution or other process, execute deeds, or other conveyances used in such cases; and perform such other service as the city manager shall require and as outlined in the city's personnel policy. Before entering upon the duties of the office, the chief of police shall take and subscribe an oath before the mayor and council that such chief of police will to the best of his or her ability faithfully perform the duties of the office of chief of police without favor or partiality. The chief of police will be bonded at an appropriate amount as fixed by the city manager. (Act 638 (H.B. 1828) (part), approved 5-17-2004)
PERSONNEL ADMINISTRATION
SECTION 3.18. - Position classification and pay plans.
The city manager shall be responsible for the preparation of a position classification and pay plan which shall be submitted to the city council for approval. Such plan may apply to all employees of the city and any of its agencies, departments, boards, commissions, or authorities. When a pay plan has been adopted, the city council shall not increase or decrease the salary range applicable to any position except by amendment of such pay plan. (Act 638 (H.B. 1828) (part), approved 5-17-2004)
SECTION 3.19. - Personnel policies.
The city council shall adopt rules and regulations consistent with this charter concerning:
(1)
The method of employee selection and probationary periods of employment;
(2)
The administration of the position classification and pay plan, methods of promotion and application of service ratings thereto, and transfer of employees within the classification plan;
(3)
Hours of work, vacation, sick leave and other leaves of absence, overtime pay, and the order and manner in which layoffs shall be effected;
(4)
Such dismissal hearings as due process may require; and
(5)
Such other personnel notices as may be necessary to provide for adequate and systematic handling of personnel affairs.
ARTICLE IV - JUDICIAL BRANCH

SECTION 4.10. - Creation; name.
There shall be a court to be known as the Municipal Court of the City of Metter.
SECTION 4.11. - Chief judge; associate judge.
(a)
The municipal court shall be presided over by a chief judge and such part-time, full-time, or stand-by judges as shall be provided by ordinance.
(b)
No person shall be qualified or eligible to serve as a judge on the municipal court unless that person shall have attained the age of 21 years and shall be a member of the State Bar of Georgia. All judges shall be appointed by the city council.
(c)
Compensation of the judges shall be fixed by ordinance.
(d)
Judges may be removed for cause by a vote of three members of the city council.
(e)
Before assuming office, each judge shall take an oath, given by the mayor, that such judge will honestly and faithfully discharge the duties of the judge's office to the best of the judge's ability and without fear, favor, or partiality. The oath shall be entered in the minutes of the city council journal required in Section 2.20 of this charter.
SECTION 4.12. - Convening.
The municipal court shall be convened at regular intervals as provided by ordinance.
SECTION 4.13. - Jurisdiction; powers.
(a)
The municipal court shall try and punish violations of this charter, all city ordinances, and such other violations as provided by law.
(b)
The municipal court shall have authority to punish those in its presence for contempt, provided that such punishment shall not exceed $200.00 or ten days in jail.
(c)
The municipal court may fix punishment for offenses within its jurisdiction not exceeding a fine of not more than $1,000.00 or imprisonment for not more than six months or both such fine and imprisonment or may fix punishment by fine, imprisonment, or alternative sentencing, as now or hereafter provided by law.
(d)
The mayor and city council shall have authority to establish a schedule of fees to defray the cost of operations and shall be entitled to reimbursement of the cost of meals, transportation, and caretaking of prisoners bound over to superior courts for violations of state law.
(e)
The municipal court shall have authority to establish bail and recognizances to ensure the presence of those charged with violations before such court and shall have discretionary authority to accept cash or personal or real property as surety for the appearance of persons charged with violations. Whenever any person shall give bail for that person's appearance and shall fail to appear at the time fixed for trial, that person's bond shall be forfeited by the judge presiding at such time and an execution issued thereon by serving the defendant and the defendant's sureties with a rule nisi at least two days before a hearing on the rule nisi. In the event that cash or property is accepted in lieu of bond for security for the appearance of a defendant at trial, and if such defendant fails to appear at the time and place fixed for trial, the cash so deposited shall be on order of the judge declared forfeited to the city or the property so deposited shall have a lien against it for the value forfeited, which lien shall be enforceable in the same manner and to the same extent as a lien for city property taxes.
(f)
The municipal court shall have the same authority as superior courts to compel the production of evidence in the possession of any party; to enforce obedience to its orders, judgments, and sentences; and to administer such oaths as are necessary.
(g)
The municipal court may compel the presence of all parties necessary to a proper disposal of each case by the issuance of summonses, subpoenas, and warrants which may be served and executed by any officer as authorized by this charter or by law.
(h)
Each judge of the municipal court shall be authorized to issue warrants for the arrest of persons charged with offenses against any ordinance of the city, and each judge of the municipal court shall have the same authority as a magistrate of the state to issue warrants for offenses against state laws committed within the city.
(i)
The municipal court is specifically vested with all the jurisdiction and powers throughout the geographic area of this city granted by law to mayor's, recorder's, and police courts and particularly by such laws as authorize the abatement of nuisances and prosecution of traffic violations.
SECTION 4.14. - Rules for court.
With the approval of the city council, the judge shall have full power and authority to make reasonable rules and regulations necessary and proper to secure the efficient and successful administration of the municipal court; provided, however, that the city council may adopt in part or in toto the rules and regulations applicable to superior courts. The rules and regulations made or adopted shall be filled with the city clerk, shall be available for public inspection, and, upon request, a copy shall be furnished to all defendants in municipal court proceedings at least 48 hours prior to such proceedings.
ARTICLE V - ELECTIONS AND REMOVAL

SECTION 5.10. - Applicability of general law.
All primaries and elections shall be held and conducted in accordance with Chapter 3 of Title 21 of the O.C.G.A., the "Georgia Municipal Election Code," as now or hereafter amended.
SECTION 5.11. - Nonpartisan elections.
Political parties shall not conduct primaries for city offices and all names of candidates for city offices shall be listed without party designations.
SECTION 5.12. - Election by majority.
The person receiving a majority of the votes cast for any city office shall be elected. In the event that no candidate receives a majority of the votes, a run-off election shall be conducted in accordance with Chapter 3 of Title 21 of the O.C.G.A., the "Georgia Municipal Election Code."
SECTION 5.13. - Special elections; vacancies.
In the event that the office of mayor or councilmember shall become vacant for any cause whatsoever, the mayor or those remaining shall order a special election to fill the balance of the unexpired term of such official; provided, however, if such vacancy occurs within six months of the expiration of the term of that office, the city council or those members remaining shall appoint a successor for the remainder of the term. In all other respects, the special election shall be held and conducted in accordance with Chapter 3 of Title 21 of the O.C.G.A., the "Georgia Municipal Election Code," as now or hereafter amended.
SECTION 5.14. - Other provisions.
Except as otherwise provided by this charter, the city council shall, by ordinance, prescribe such rules and regulations as it deems appropriate to fulfill any options and duties under Chapter 3 of Title 21 of the O.C.G.A., the "Georgia Municipal Election Code."
SECTION 5.15. - Removal of officers.
(a)
The mayor, councilmembers, or other appointed officers provided for in this charter shall be removed from office for any one or more of the following causes:
(1)
Incompetence, misfeasance, or malfeasance in office;
(2)
Conviction of a crime involving moral turpitude;
(3)
Failure at any time to possess any qualifications of office as provided by this charter or by law;
(4)
Knowingly violating any express prohibition of this charter;
(5)
Abandonment of office or neglect to perform the duties thereof; or
(6)
Failure for any other cause to perform the duties of office as required by this charter or by state law.
(b)
Removal of an officer pursuant to subsection (a) of this section shall be accomplished by the vote of three councilmembers after an investigative hearing. In the event an elected officer is sought to be removed by the action of the city council, such officer shall be entitled to a written notice specifying the ground or grounds for removal and to a public hearing which shall be held not less than ten days after the service of such written notice. Any elected officer sought to be removed from office as provided in this section shall have the right of appeal from the decision.
ARTICLE VI - FINANCE

SECTION 6.10. - Property tax.
The city council may assess, levy, and collect an ad valorem tax on all real and personal property within the corporate limits of the city that is subject to such taxation by the state and county. This tax is for the purpose of raising revenues to defray the costs of operating the city government, of providing governmental services, for the repayment of principal and interest on general obligations, and for any other public purpose as determined by the city council in its discretion.
SECTION 6.11. - Millage rate; due dates; payment methods.
The city council by ordinance shall establish a millage rate for the city property tax, a due date, and the time period within which these taxes must be paid. The city council by ordinance may provide for the payment of these taxes by installments or in one lump sum, as well as authorize voluntary payment of taxes prior to the time when due.
SECTION 6.12. - Occupation and business taxes.
The city council by ordinance shall have the power to levy such occupation or business taxes as are not denied by law. Such taxes may be levied on both individuals and corporations who transact business in this city or who practice or offer to practice any profession or calling in this city to the extent such persons have a constitutionally sufficient nexus to this city to be so taxed. The city council may classify businesses, occupations, professions, or callings for the purpose of such taxation in any way which may be lawful and may compel the payment of such taxes as provided in Section 6.18 of this charter.
SECTION 6.13. - Licenses; permits; fees.
The city council by ordinance shall have the power to require any individuals or corporations who transact business in this city or who practice or offer to practice any profession or calling in this city to obtain a license or permit for such activity from the city and pay a reasonable fee for such license or permit where such activities are not now regulated by general law in such a way as to preclude city regulations. Such fees may reflect the total cost to the city for regulating the activity and, if unpaid, shall be collected as provided in Section 6.18 of this charter. The city council by ordinance may establish reasonable requirements for obtaining or keeping such licenses as the public health, safety, and welfare necessitate.
SECTION 6.14. - Franchises.
The city council shall have the power to grant franchises for the use of this city's streets and alleys for the purposes of railroads, street railways, telephone companies, electric companies, cable television, gas companies, transportation companies, and other similar organizations. The city council shall determine the duration, terms, whether the same shall be exclusive or nonexclusive, and the consideration for such franchises; provided, however, no franchise shall be granted for a period in excess of 35 years and no franchise shall be granted unless the city receives just and adequate compensation therefor. The city council may provide for the registration of all franchises with the city clerk in a registration book kept by the city clerk. The city council may provide by ordinance for the registration within a reasonable time of all franchises previously granted.
SECTION 6.15. - Service charges.
The city council by ordinance shall have the power to assess and collect fees, charges, and tolls for sewers, sanitary and health services, or any other services provided or made available within and outside the corporate limits of the city for the total cost to the city of providing or making available such services. If unpaid, such charges shall be collected as provided in Section 6.18 of this charter.
SECTION 6.16. - Special assessments.
The city council by ordinance shall have the power to assess and collect the cost of constructing, reconstructing, widening, or improving any public way, street, sidewalk, curbing, gutters, sewers, or other utility mains and appurtenances from the abutting property owners under such terms and conditions as are reasonable. If unpaid, such charges shall be collected as provided in Section 6.18 of this charter.
SECTION 6.17. - Other taxes.
This city shall be empowered to levy any other tax allowed now or hereafter by law, and the specific mention of any right, power, or authority in this article shall not be construed as limiting in any way the general powers of this city to govern its local affairs.
SECTION 6.18. - Collection of delinquent taxes and fees.
The city council by ordinance may provide generally for the collection of delinquent taxes, fees, or other revenue due the city under Sections 6.10 through 6.17 of this charter by whatever reasonable means as are not precluded by law. This shall include providing for the dates when the taxes or fees are due; late penalties or interest; issuance and execution of fi. fas.; creation and priority of liens; making delinquent taxes and fees personal debts of the persons required to pay the taxes or fees imposed; revoking city licenses for failure to pay any city taxes or fees; and providing for the assignment or transfer of tax executions.
SECTION 6.19. - General obligation bonds.
The city council shall have the power to issue bonds for the purpose of raising revenue to carry out any project, program, or venture authorized under this charter or the laws of the state. Such bonding authority shall be exercised in accordance with the laws governing bond issuance by municipalities in effect at the time such issue is undertaken.
SECTION 6.20. - Revenue bonds.
Revenue bonds may be issued by the city council as state law now or hereafter provides. Such bonds are to be paid out of any revenue produced by the project, program, or venture for which they were issued.
SECTION 6.21. - Short-term loans.
The city may obtain short-term loans and must repay such loans not later than December 31 of each year, unless otherwise provided by law.
SECTION 6.22. - Fiscal year.
The city council shall set the fiscal year by ordinance. This fiscal year shall constitute the budget year and the year for financial accounting and reporting of each and every office, department, agency, and activity of the city government.
SECTION 6.23. - Preparation of budgets.
The city council shall provide an ordinance on the procedures and requirements for the preparation and execution of an annual operating budget, a capital improvement program, and a capital budget, including requirements as to the scope, content, and form of such budgets and programs.
SECTION 6.24. - Submission of operating budget to city council.
On or before a date fixed by the city council but not later than 30 days prior to the beginning of each fiscal year, the mayor, administrator, or other person so designated shall submit to the city council a proposed operating budget for the ensuing fiscal year. The budget shall be accompanied by a message from the city manager containing a statement of the general fiscal policies of the city, the important features of the budget, explanations of major changes recommended for the next fiscal year, a general summary of the budget, and such other comments and information as the city manager may deem pertinent. The operating budget and the capital improvements budget provided for in this charter, the budget message, and all supporting documents shall be filed in the office of the city clerk and shall be open to public inspection. (Act 638 (H.B. 1828) (part), approved 5-17-2004)
SECTION 6.25. - Action by city council on budget.
modified
(a)
The city council may amend the operating budget proposed by the mayor, except that the budget as finally amended and adopted must provide for all expenditures required by state law or by other provisions of this charter and for all debt service requirements for the ensuing fiscal year. The total appropriations from any fund shall not exceed the estimated fund balance, reserves, and revenues.
(b)
The city council shall by resolution adopt the final operating budget for the ensuing fiscal year not later than the fifteenth day of the last month of the current fiscal year. If the city council fails to adopt the budget by this date, the amounts appropriated for operation for the current fiscal year shall be deemed adopted for the ensuing fiscal year on a month-to-month basis, with items prorated accordingly, until such time as the city council adopts a budget for the ensuing fiscal year. Adoption of the budget shall take the form of an appropriations resolution setting out the estimated revenues in detail by sources and making appropriations according to fund and by organizational unit, purpose, or activity as set in the budget preparation ordinance adopted pursuant to Section 6.23 of this charter.
(c)
The amount set out in the adopted operating budget for each organizational unit shall constitute the annual appropriation for such, and no expenditure shall be made or encumbrance created in excess of the otherwise unencumbered balance of the appropriations or allotments thereof to which it is chargeable.
(Ord. No. 2021-02 , § 1, 8-16-2021)
SECTION 6.26. - Tax levies.
Following adoption of the operating budget, the city council shall levy by ordinance such taxes as are necessary. The taxes and tax rates set by such ordinance shall be such that reasonable estimates of revenues from such levy shall at least be sufficient, together with other anticipated revenues, fund balances, and applicable reserves, to equal the total amount appropriated for each of the several funds set forth in the annual operating budget for defraying the expenses of the general government of this city.
SECTION 6.27. - Changes in appropriations.
The city council by ordinance may make changes in the appropriations contained in the current operating budget at any regular meeting or special or emergency meeting called for such purposes, but any additional appropriations may be made only from an existing unexpended surplus.
SECTION 6.28. - Capital improvements budget.
(a)
On or before the date fixed by the city council, but no later than 30 days prior to the beginning of each fiscal year, the mayor, city manager, or other person so designated shall submit to the city council a proposed capital improvements budget with such person's recommendations as to the means of financing the improvements proposed for the ensuing fiscal year. The city council shall have the power to accept, with or without amendments, or reject the proposed program and proposed means of financing. The city council shall not authorize an expenditure for the construction of any building, structure, work, or improvement unless the appropriations for such project are included in the capital improvements budget, except to meet a public emergency as provided in Section 2.24 of this charter.
(b)
The city council shall adopt by ordinance the final capital improvements budget for the ensuing fiscal year not later than the fifteenth day of September of each year. No appropriation provided for in a prior capital improvements budget shall lapse until the purpose for which the appropriation was made shall have been accomplished or abandoned; provided, however, the mayor or city manager may submit amendments to the capital improvements budget at any time during the fiscal year, accompanied by such mayor's or city manager's recommendations. Any such amendments to the capital improvements budget shall become effective only upon adoption by ordinance. (Act 638 (H.B. 1828) (part), approved 5-17-2004)
SECTION 6.29. - Independent audit.
There shall be an annual independent audit of all city accounts, funds, and financial transactions by a certified public accountant selected by the city council. The audit shall be conducted according to generally accepted accounting principles. Any audit of any funds by the state or federal government may be accepted as satisfying the requirements of this charter. Copies of all audit reports shall be available at printing costs to the public. The city may require independent auditors to bid every three years.
SECTION 6.30. - Contracting procedures.
No contract with the city shall be binding on the city unless it is:
(1)
In writing; and
(2)
Made or authorized by the city council and such approval is entered in the city council journal of proceedings pursuant to Section 2.20 of this charter.
SECTION 6.31. - Centralized purchasing.
The city council may by ordinance prescribe procedures for a system of centralized purchasing for the city.
SECTION 6.32. - Sale of city property.
(a)
The city council may sell and convey any real or personal property owned or held by the city for governmental or other purposes as now or hereafter provided by law.
(b)
The city council may quitclaim any rights it may have in property not needed for public purposes upon report by the mayor and adoption of a resolution, both finding that the property is not needed for public or other purposes and that the interest of the city has no readily ascertainable monetary value.
(c)
Whenever in opening, extending, or widening any street, avenue, alley, or public place of the city a small parcel or tract of land is cut off or separated by such work from a larger tract or boundary of land owned by the city, the city council may authorize the mayor to execute and deliver in the name of the city a deed conveying said cut-off or separated parcel or tract of land to an abutting or adjoining property owner or owners in exchange for rights of way of said street, avenue, alley, or public place when such exchange is deemed to be in the best interest of the city. All deeds and conveyances heretofore and hereafter so executed and delivered shall convey all title and interest the city has in such property, notwithstanding the fact that no public sale after advertisement was or is hereafter made.
ARTICLE VII - GENERAL PROVISIONS

SECTION 7.10. - Bonds for officials.
The officers and employees of this city, both elected and appointed, shall execute such surety or fidelity bonds in such amounts and upon such terms and conditions as the city council may from time to time require by ordinance or as may be provided by law.
SECTION 7.11. - Prior ordinances.
All ordinances, resolutions, rules, and regulations now in force in the city not inconsistent with this charter are declared valid and of full effect and force until amended or repealed by the city council.
SECTION 7.12. - Pending matters.
Except as specifically provided otherwise by this charter, all rights, claims, actions, orders, contracts, and legal or administrative proceedings shall continue and any such ongoing work or cases shall be completed by such city agencies, personnel, or offices as may be provided by the city council.
SECTION 7.13. - Definitions and construction.
(a)
Section captions in this charter are informative only and shall not be considered as a part thereof.
(b)
The word "shall" is mandatory and the word "may" is permissive.
(c)
The singular shall include the plural, the masculine shall include the feminine, and vice versa.
SECTION 7.14. - Submission to United States Attorney General.
It shall be the duty of the governing authority of the City of Metter to require the attorney therefor to submit this Act, pursuant to Section 5 of the federal Voting Rights Act of 1965, as amended, to the United States Attorney General for approval.
SECTION 7.15. - Severability.
If any article, section, subsection, paragraph, sentence, or part thereof of this charter shall be held to be invalid or unconstitutional, such invalidity or unconstitutionality shall not affect or impair other parts of this charter unless it clearly appears that such other parts are wholly and necessarily dependent upon the part held to be invalid or unconstitutional, it being the legislative intent in enacting this charter that each article, section, subsection, paragraph, sentence, or part thereof be enacted separately and independently of each other.
SECTION 7.16. - Specific repealer.
An Act to provide a new charter for the City of Metter, approved August 16, 1920 (Ga. L. 1920, p. 1278), as amended, is repealed in its entirety and all amendatory Acts thereto are likewise repealed in their entirety.
SECTION 7.17. - Effective date.
This Act shall become effective on January 1, 1998.
SECTION 7.18. - General repealer.
All laws and parts of laws in conflict with this Act are repealed.
