Chapter 13.04 - WATER AND SEWER LINES AND EXTENSIONS
Sections:

13.04.010 - Placement of water and sewer lines.
Water and sewer lines shall be placed within public easements established for such purpose or within the right-of-way line of streets which have been dedicated to the city.
(Ord. 97-7 § 12-1(1))
13.04.020 - Subdivision developments—Responsibility for cost of improvements.
The subdivider and/or property owners are responsible for the costs of water and sewer pipe, fittings, fire hydrants, lift stations and other materials as needed for the development of a subdivision. The city Subdivision Ordinance will apply for these type developments.
(Ord. 97-7 § 12-1(2))
13.04.030 - Water and sewer lines—Construction specifications.
All pipe, lines, fittings, fire hydrants and connections used in water and sewer lines shall be of size, dimension and specifications as determined by the city water and sewer supervisor or consulting engineers.
(Ord. 97-7 § 12-1(3))
13.04.035 - Cross-connections and backflow-prevention.
A.
The director of the department of public works or his designee is authorized to discontinue water service to prevent contamination/pollution of the public water supply/system due to possible cross-connections or when necessary to protect the water supply/system or individual properties from emergency cross-connections or backflow situations.
B.
The department of public works and/or building inspections department are further authorized to install, or require to be installed, suitable backflow-prevention device(s) at the customer's/owner's service connection(s) or other areas as needed to prevent contamination or risk thereof for the public water system.
C.
The department of public works and building inspections department shall reserve the right to periodically inspect and test any backflow-prevention device(s). Installation, testing and repairs shall be in accordance with the department of public works backflow-prevention by containment policy and procedures. Inoperative or faulty device(s) shall be promptly repaired/replaced by the customer/owner or water service shall be terminated.
(Ord. 00-01)
13.04.040 - Water and sewer extensions—Feasibility.
Where engineering studies determine that water and sewer extensions are impractical either because of excessive costs to the city or unusual conditions, even though other criteria of this chapter can be met, the city shall not extend water and sewer lines until such time as it is more feasible to extend lines.
(Ord. 97-7 § 12-1(4))
13.04.050 - Water and sewer extensions—Financing.
Whenever water and sewer extensions involve financial participation by the city, the city shall participate in financing the improvements if funds are budgeted for the fiscal year in which the improvements are to be made. All money budgeted for one fiscal year shall not be used on one project.
(Ord. 97-7 § 12-1(5))
13.04.055 - Petition for non-existing water and sewer line services.
A.
A property owner and/or developer who plans or wishes to construct a residential dwelling and/or development on a developable lot which has public frontage but lacks public water and sewer service shall petition the City of Metter with a formal, written letter addressed to the city manager.
B.
The city manager and staff shall review the petition and determine whether said petition shall be approved or denied based upon numerous factors, including but not limited to the following: (1) the priority of the water and/or sewer line extension, (2) the total cost of the project, and (3) the cost-benefit analysis of implementing the new extension. If the city manager approves the extension, he will authorize the engineering and design of the water and/or sewer line and the formal submittal of plans to the Environmental Protection Division (EPD) for review, approval, and permitting, if necessary. If the city manager denies the proposed extension, the property owner and/or developer can request the city manager to forward this request to the mayor and city council for reconsideration.
(Ord. of 12-12-05, § 1)
13.04.060 - Correction of subsurface conditions.
Should the city encounter subsurface or latent conditions during the installation of pipe by a subdivider, the city shall give immediate notice to the subdivider and/or property owners of such conditions. Subdivider and/or property owners shall make suitable arrangements as determined by the city water and sewer supervisor, for corrections of subsurface conditions.
(Ord. 97-7 § 12-1(6))
13.04.070 - Engineering and surveying fees—Responsibility for costs.
Whenever water and sewer extensions are to be installed in areas of unusual topographic features and water bodies, where it is beyond the capabilities of city personnel to install lines properly without the aid of a survey and where subdivider and/or property owners are to pay for extensions then such parties shall also bear the cost of surveying and engineering fees. Where the city is directly involved in paying for lines, then the city shall absorb engineering and surveying fees.
(Ord. 97-7 § 12-1(7))
13.04.080 - Improvements property of city when.
When water and sewer pipe, materials, fittings, fire hydrants, etc., are purchased by the subdivider and/or property owners and installed in street right-of-way or easements, including when outside of city limits, such pipe automatically becomes city property and the city is responsible for maintenance.
(Ord. 97-7 § 12-1(8))
