ARTICLE V. - ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Sec. 38-248. - Building and zoning inspector; duties.
The provisions of this chapter shall be administered by a building and zoning inspector. The city will be served by those established offices at the county level. The duties of the building and zoning inspector shall be:
(1)
To receive and check all applications for zoning permits and certificates of occupancy.
(2)
To issue zoning permits and certificates of occupancy only for construction and uses which are in accordance with the regulations of this chapter and subsequent amendments; or through city council or court approval.
(3)
To record and file all application for zoning permits and certificates of occupancy together with accompanying plans and documents and keep them for public record.
(4)
To immediately prepare and publish a complete list of all nonconforming uses and occupations existing at the time of adoption of this chapter or any amendment thereto. Such list shall contain the names and addresses of the owner, or owners of such nonconforming uses and of any occupant other than the owner, the legal description or descriptions of the land, to the degree reasonably attainable, and the nature and extent of land use. Notification of this list shall be given by at least one publication in a newspaper of general circulation within the jurisdiction of this chapter indicating where and when such list may be examined. Property owners and occupants shall be given one month to inspect the list and suggest necessary changes. They shall be given opportunity to appeal to the city council for such changes in the list, as they request, but which are not made by the building and zoning inspector. After any necessary changes have been made by the building and zoning inspector, copies of the list shall be delivered to the city council for approval and recording.
(5)
The building and zoning inspector shall issue certificates of occupancy for legal nonconforming uses. He shall examine them periodically to determine that they do not expand beyond the limitation prescribed in this chapter.
(6)
Upon specific request of the city council to furnish such facts, records and similar information, which will assist such body in reaching its decision.
(7)
To be responsible for keeping this chapter, and to include any amendments thereto. To approve plats which qualify as exceptions to the definitions of a subdivision contained in the subdivision regulations.
(8)
If the building and zoning inspector shall find that any provisions of this chapter are being violated, such inspector shall notify in writing the person responsible for such violation, indicating the nature of the violation and ordering the action necessary to correct it. Such inspector shall order discontinuance of illegal uses of land, buildings, or structures; removal of illegal buildings or structures or of additions, alterations of structural changes thereto; order discontinuance of illegal work being done; or such other action as shall be necessary to enforce this chapter or prevent violation of its provisions.
(Ord. of 8-11-1997, art. VI, § 1)
Sec. 38-249. - Enforcement.
This chapter shall be enforced by the building and zoning inspector. No permit or certificate of occupancy provided for in this chapter shall be granted by such inspector for any purpose except in compliance with the provisions of this chapter, or with a decision of the city council or the courts.
(Ord. of 8-11-1997, art. VI, § 2)
Sec. 38-250. - Complaints regarding violations.
Whenever a violation of this chapter occurs, or is alleged to have occurred, any person may file a written complaint, stating fully the causes and basis thereof, which shall be filed with the building and zoning inspector. Such inspector shall acknowledge such complaint, immediately investigate, and take action thereon as provided in this chapter.
(Ord. of 8-11-1997, art. VI, § 3)
Sec. 38-251. - Schedule of fees.
Fees to be paid in connection with applications and permits under this chapter shall be established from time to time by the city council.
(Ord. of 8-11-1997, art. VI, § 4)
Sec. 38-252. - Remedies.
In case any building or structure is erected, constructed, altered, repaired, converted, or maintained, or any building, structure or land is used in violation of this chapter, or of any ordinance or other regulation made under authority conferred hereby, the mayor and city council, the building and zoning inspector or other proper official, in addition to other remedies, may institute any appropriate action or proceedings to prevent such unlawful erection, construction, reconstruction, alteration, repair, conversion, maintenance or use to restrain, correct, or abate such violation, to prevent the occupancy of the building, structure or land, or to prevent any illegal act, business, or use in or about such premises.
(Ord. of 8-11-1997, art. VI, § 5)
Sec. 38-253. - Administrative review.
The city council shall have the following powers:
(1)
To hear and decide appeals where an error is alleged in any order, requirement, decision, or determination made by the building and zoning inspector in the enforcement of any section or article adopted pursuant to this chapter.
(2)
To hear and decide any zoning amendments to either the text of the ordinance or the map.
(3)
To hear and decide any conditional uses to the terms of this chapter upon which such the city council is required to pass.
(4)
To hear and decide any variances from the terms of the ordinance as will not be contrary to the public interest where, owing to special conditions a literal enforcement of the provisions of this chapter will, in an individual case, result in unnecessary hardship, so that the spirit of this chapter shall be observed, public safety and welfare secured, and substantial justice done. Such variance may be granted in such individual case of unnecessary hardship upon a finding by the city council that:
a.
There are extraordinary and exceptional conditions pertaining to the particular piece of property in question because of its size, shape, or topography;
b.
The application of the ordinance to this particular piece of property would create an unnecessary hardship;
c.
Such conditions are peculiar to the particular piece of property involved; and
d.
Relief, if granted, would not cause substantial detriment to the public good or impair the purposes and intent of this chapter; provided, however, that no variance maybe granted for a use of land or building or structure that is prohibited by this chapter. In exercising the above powers, the city council may, in conformity with the provisions of this chapter, reverse or affirm, wholly or partly, or may modify the order, requirements, decision, or determination, and to that end shall have all the powers of the officer from whom the appeal is taken and may issue or direct the issuance of a permit.
(5)
To provide interpretation of the official zoning map. In case of any question as to the location of any boundary line between zoning districts or as to the zoning of a particular parcel of land, a request for interpretation of the official zoning map may be made to the city council and a determination shall be made by the city council.
(Ord. of 8-11-1997, art. VII)
Secs. 38-254—38-284. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - PERMITS, CERTIFICATES, AND VARIANCES

Sec. 38-285. - Building permits.
(a)
A building permit shall be required prior to the erection, construction, moving or alteration of any building, structure or portion thereof.
(b)
Applications for building permits shall be made in writing to the building and zoning inspector, and shall contain all information necessary to ascertain whether the proposed erection, construction, alteration or use complies with the provisions of this chapter including the following: Plan in duplicate drawn to scale indicating:
(1)
Actual dimensions and shape of the lot to be built upon.
(2)
Exact size and location on the lot of all buildings and other structures, if any, and the location and dimensions of proposed buildings and other structures or alterations.
(3)
Existing and proposed uses, showing the number of occupants the building is designed to accommodate.
(Ord. of 8-11-1997, art. VIII, § 1)
Sec. 38-286. - Certificate of occupancy.
(a)
A certificate of occupancy shall be required prior to the occupation for use or change of use of land, building or structure.
(b)
Application for certificate of occupancy shall be made in writing to the building and zoning inspector.
(c)
When uses of premises involves a new building or structure, or alterations to an existing building or structure, such application shall be made at the same time application for a building permit is made.
(d)
When no construction or alteration is involved, application to occupy and use land may be made at any time. Such application shall contain all information necessary for the building and zoning inspector to determine whether the proposed occupation and use of land conforms to the provisions of this chapter.
(e)
An application for a certificate of occupancy shall be granted or refused within 15 days after the building and zoning inspector has been officially notified of:
(1)
Completion of construction; or
(2)
Application to occupy and use land where no construction is involved.
(Ord. of 8-11-1997, art. VIII, § 2)
Sec. 38-287. - Conditional uses.
Initial application for a conditional use shall be made to the building and zoning inspector who shall determine whether the use is allowed as a conditional use in the particular zone. If such use is allowed, the building and zoning inspector shall submit the application to the planning commission for its recommendations. Upon review by the planning commission, recommended decisions shall be presented to the city council, including any additional restraints, restrictions, qualifications, or limiting factors that are felt to be desirable. The city council shall review all recommendations and approve or disapprove the conditional use.
(1)
Considerations for determining additional requirements for conditional use.
a.
Approval of a conditional use shall not adversely affect the economic values or the physical appearance of the neighborhood of areas surrounding the site or lot in question.
b.
The physical and environmental effects of allowing the conditional use shall be considered.
c.
Buffer zones, where necessary to shield any adverse factors, shall be considered.
d.
Additional space for parking, landscaping, building, loading zones, and setback shall be considered if necessary to protect adjacent structures or lots from any adverse impact.
(2)
Action of city council. The city council may add, delete, modify or change any recommendation made by the planning commission.
(Ord. of 8-11-1997, art. VIII, § 3)
Sec. 38-288. - Variances.
On an appeal from an order, requirement, decision or determination of the building and zoning inspector, or any other administrative officer or agency, the city council may grant a variance in the application of the provisions of the zoning chapter, only if all of the following findings are made:
(1)
That there are unique physical circumstances or conditions, including irregularity, narrowness, or shallowness of lot size or shape or exceptional topographical or other physical conditions peculiar to the particular property, and that an unnecessary hardship exists which is due to such conditions, and not to circumstances or conditions generally created by the provisions of the zoning chapter in the neighborhood or district in which the property is located.
(2)
That because of such physical circumstances or conditions, there is no possibility that the property can be developed in strict conformity with the provisions of the zoning chapter, and that the authorization of a variance is therefore necessary to enable the reasonable use of the property.
(Ord. of 8-11-1997, art. VIII, § 4)
Secs. 38-289—38-309. - Reserved.
DIVISION 3. - AMENDMENTS

Sec. 38-310. - General.
Whenever the public necessity, convenience, general welfare or good zoning practice require, the city council by ordinance, may, after receipt of recommendation thereon from the planning commission, and subject to the procedures provided by law, amend, supplement, or change the regulations, district boundaries or classifications of property, now or hereafter established by this chapter or amendments thereof.
(Ord. of 8-11-1997, art. IX, § 1)
Sec. 38-311. - Applications for change.
Applications for any change in the text or classifications of property shown on the official zoning map, shall be submitted to the building and zoning inspector upon such forms and accompanied by such data and information as may be prescribed for that purpose by such inspector, so as to ensure the fullest practicable presentation of facts for the record. Each application for a change of district boundaries or classification of property shall be verified by at least one of the owners or lessees of property or such person's representative, attesting to the truth and correctness of all facts and information presented with the application. It shall contain a map of the area proposed to be rezoned, and the area within 200 feet giving the names and addresses of property owners and all district boundary lines, and streets and alleys located therein. The inspector shall check the application to determine whether it conforms with the requirements listed above. Amendments to this zoning chapter may also be initiated by the county joint planning commission and after a public hearing, may be recommended to the city council.
(Ord. of 8-11-1997, art. IX, § 2)
Sec. 38-312. - Reconsideration of zoning decision.
All adverse determination of rezoning requests made by the city council may not be again submitted for rezoning for a period of one year from the date of the adverse determination by the city council.
(Ord. of 8-11-1997, art. IX, § 3)
Secs. 38-313—38-342. - Reserved.
DIVISION 4. - PUBLIC HEARINGS

Sec. 38-343. - Actions that require a public hearing.
All conditional use permits, variances, and amendments to this zoning chapter or zoning map shall require a public hearing before the planning commission and before the city council. Additional public hearings may be held if deemed appropriate by the city council.
(Ord. of 8-11-1997, art. X, § 1)
Sec. 38-344. - Public notice of hearings.
Notice of the public hearings before both the planning commission and the Midway city council shall be given at least 15, but not more than 45 days in advance by publication in a newspaper of general circulation in the county by the planning commission and shall state the time, place and purpose of the hearing. If the purpose of the hearing is to consider rezoning property (amend zoning map), the notice shall include the location of the property, county tax map number and parcel number, its present zoning classification and proposed zoning classification and owner or representative who is making the request.
(Ord. of 8-11-1997, art. X, § 2)
Sec. 38-345. - Posting sign on property.
A sign shall be placed on the property (in a conspicuous location) by the commission, not less than 15 days prior to the hearing, containing information that rezoning is being considered, the date, time, and place of the hearing, present zoning classification and proposed zoning classification.
(Ord. of 8-11-1997, art. X, § 3)
Sec. 38-346. - Notice to other property owners.
The commission shall give notice of the time, place, and purpose of public hearings to be held by it on proposed amendments or supplements, by mailing a post card or letter notice to the owners of all properties lying within 200 feet of any part of the property proposed to be changed. The failure to notify any specific property owner as provided in this section, shall not invalidate any recommendations adopted hereunder, provided that other adjacent property owners are notified; it being the intention of the section to provide, so far as may be possible, due notice to the persons substantially interested in the proposed change, that an application is pending before the commission and city council, proposing to make a change in the zoning map or the regulations set forth in this chapter.
(Ord. of 8-11-1997, art. X, § 4)
Sec. 38-347. - Conduct of hearing.
Pursuant to the requirements of O.C.G.A. § 36-66-5(a), the following procedures are adopted and shall be followed with respect to all public hearings required or permitted under this chapter:
(1)
The hearing shall be conducted by the chairperson of the county joint planning commission or in the chairperson's absence by the vice chairman. During the hearing before the city council, the hearing shall be conducted by the mayor or designee.
(2)
A secretary shall tape record the proceedings of the public hearing. The record with all evidence submitted at the hearing shall be recorded as such and become a permanent part of the file with respect to the particular proposed action. Any party desiring a verbatim transcript of the hearing may bring a stenographer or tape recorder.
(3)
The chairperson or mayor shall open the hearing by stating the specific action being considered and indicate, if applicable, on the county tax map the specific area involved.
(4)
The chairperson or mayor shall determine if the applicant or the applicant's authorized representative is present. If the applicant or authorized representative is not present, the matter will be tabled until the next meeting.
(5)
The chairperson or mayor shall determine the number and names of persons attending who desire to testify or present evidence at the hearing.
(6)
The chairperson or mayor shall permit the applicant to present the proposal first.
(7)
The chairperson or mayor shall then permit each person attending who has indicated a desire to do so, to present such person's evidence, or speak. When there are a large number of individuals, time limits may be invoked which shall apply equally to all individuals.
(8)
All speakers shall address the chair or mayor and may not ask questions of each other. Members of the commission or council may ask questions of any speaker.
(9)
When all have been heard the chairperson or mayor shall declare the receiving of testimony to be closed.
(10)
After the receipt of all testimony and the consideration of all facts developed, the planning commission and city council shall take into account the following factors which are adopted as the standards of the city council for exercise of the zoning power as required by O.C.G.A. § 36-66-5(b):
a.
Will the zoning proposal adversely affect the existing use value or usability of adjacent or nearby property?
b.
Will the proposed zoning amendment permit a use that is suitable in view of the use and development of adjacent and nearby property?
c.
Does the property proposed to be rezoned have a reasonable economic use as currently zoned?
d.
Will the proposed zoning change result in a use which will or could cause an excessive or burdensome use of existing streets, transportation facilities, utilities, or schools?
e.
Will the proposed zoning change be in conformity with the policy and intent of the city's land use plan as expressed in the official zoning map and the official zoning chapter?
f.
Are there other existing or changing conditions affecting the use and development of the property proposed to be rezoned which give supporting grounds for either approval or disapproval.
g.
Is this request a logical extension of a zoning boundary which would improve the pattern of uses in the general area and conform to the comprehensive plan?
h.
Is this spot zoning and generally unrelated to either existing zoning or the pattern of development of the area, and contrary to the intent of the comprehensive plan?
i.
Would granting this request extend to the applicant development rights denied to others similarly situated in the same area?
j.
Does this request have the potential of achieving short-term development goals to the disadvantage of long-term development goals?
k.
Could this request have a "domino effect," in that it becomes the opening wedge for further rapid growth, urbanization, or other land-use change beyond what is indicated in the existing land use plan?
l.
Could a change in classification adversely affect market values or tax rates of nearby properties?
(Ord. of 8-11-1997, art. X, § 4)
Sec. 38-348. - Action by planning commission and city council.
When all considerations of the matter have been completed the chairperson or mayor shall entertain a motion from any member of the planning commission or city council as to what recommendation shall be made to the city council or what action shall be taken. If no motion is made, the chairperson or mayor shall ask for a vote of those who recommend approval and then those who recommend disapproval. The planning commission may recommend approval, disapproval or no decision. The city council may take action in the form of approval, disapproval or may table the matter to collect further information.
(Ord. of 8-11-1997, art. X, § 5)
Sec. 38-349. - Time limit for action.
The planning commission or city council must take action on a proposal within 60 days from the date presented to either.
(Ord. of 8-11-1997, art. X, § 6)
Secs. 38-350—38-371. - Reserved.
DIVISION 5. - APPEALS

Sec. 38-372. - Organization and procedure.
(a)
Authority. All appeals shall be decided by the city council, the same being the mayor and the city council of the city.
(b)
Procedure. Appeals may be made by any person, aggrieved or affected by the decision of the planning commission or by the decision of the building and zoning inspector or any other officer charged with enforcement of the provisions of the zoning chapter where an error is alleged in such order, requirement, decision or determination. Such appeal must be made within 20 days after the decision, by filing with the building and zoning inspector, a written notice of appeal specifying the grounds therefor. The building and zoning inspector shall arrange for the public notices in accordance with section 38-373(1) and shall bring the appeal before the city council at its next meeting following such notices.
(c)
Stay of proceedings. An appeal shall stay all proceedings in furtherance of the action appealed from, unless the building and zoning inspector shall certify to the city council after the notice of appeal has been filed with it, that by reason of facts stated in the certificate, a stay would, in such inspector's opinion, cause imminent peril to life or property, in which case proceedings shall not be stayed otherwise than by a restraining order which may be granted by the city council or by a court of competent jurisdiction, upon petition of the aggrieved or affected party, after notice to the officer from whom the appeal is taken, and upon due cause shown for such restraining order.
(d)
Filing. The city council may require the applicant to furnish such information as it deems necessary, when filing an application or appeal, and may require specific forms to be used.
(Ord. of 8-11-1997, art. XI, § 1)
Sec. 38-373. - Hearings.
Upon filing of an appeal, the city council shall fix a time and place for a public hearing of the appeal, and give notice as follows:
(1)
Public notice. Notice given not more than 30 days and not less than 15 days in advance of the public. Such notice shall be published once each week for two successive weeks in a newspaper of general circulation in the county. Such notice shall state the time and place of the hearing and the particular nature of the appeal to be considered by the city council.
(2)
Decisions of the city council. The city council shall decide appeals within 60 days after the public hearing thereon. Notice of decision shall be given to all affected parties and to any party so requesting. The city council's decision shall be binding on the building and zoning inspector, and such inspector shall incorporate the terms and conditions of the same in any permit issued, if appropriate.
(Ord. of 8-11-1997, art. XI, § 2)
Sec. 38-374. - Court review.
Any party aggrieved by the decision of the mayor and city council with respect to any appeal may take an appeal to the Superior Court of Liberty County, Georgia. An appeal to the superior court shall be a de novo appeal pursuant to state law. Any such appeal must be made within 30 days of the decision by the city council; otherwise, the decision of the city council shall be final. Request for jury trial must be made within 30 days of the filing of the appeal to the superior court.
(Ord. of 8-11-1997, art. XI, § 3)
