ARTICLE 5. - FINANCIAL AND FISCAL
CHAPTER 1. - TAXATION AND OTHER REVENUE

Section 5-101. - Property tax.
The mayor and council, by ordinance, may assess, levy, and collect an ad valorem tax on all real and personal property within the corporate limits of the city that is subject to taxation by the state and county. This tax is for the purpose of raising revenues to defray the costs of operating the city government; providing governmental services; for the repayment of the principal and interests on general obligations; and for any other lawful public purpose as determined by the mayor and council in its discretion.
Section 5-102. - Millage rate; due dates; payment methods.
(a)
The mayor and council, by ordinance, shall establish a millage rate for the city property tax, which shall not exceed 20 mills on the assessed value of the property except for such millage as may be necessary to pay lawful bonded indebtedness of the city; a due date; and in what length of time these taxes must be paid.
(b)
The mayor and council, by ordinance, may provide for the payment of these taxes by installments or in one (1) lump sum, as well as authorize the voluntary payment of taxes prior to the time when due and provide for interest on late installments.
Section 5-103. - Occupation and business taxes.
The mayor and council, by ordinance, shall have the power to levy any occupation or business taxes as are not denied by general state law. These taxes may be levied on both individuals, partnerships and corporations who transact business in the city or who practice or offer to practice any profession or calling therein to the extent the persons have a constitutionally sufficient nexus to the city to be so taxed. These taxes may be levied and imposed on a fixed rate, gross receipts basis, any other basis not constitutionally disapproved, or any combination thereof. The mayor and council may classify businesses, occupations, professions or callings for the purpose of these taxes in any manner as is reasonable and payment of these taxes may be compelled as provided in Section 5-108 of this chapter.
Section 5-104. - Licenses; permits; fees.
The mayor and council, by ordinance, shall have the power to require any individuals or corporations who transact business in the city or who practice or offer to practice any profession or calling therein to obtain a license or permit for these activities from the city and to pay a reasonable fee for the license or permit where the activities are not now regulated by general state law in such a way as to preclude city regulation. These fees may reflect the total cost to the city of regulating the activity and if unpaid shall be collected as provided in Section 5-108. The mayor and council, by ordinance, may establish reasonable requirements for obtaining or keeping licenses as the public health, safety, and welfare necessitates; including, but not limited to, denial or revocation for any violation of federal or state law or city ordinances involving the operation of the licensed business.
Section 5-105. - Service charges.
The mayor and council, by ordinance, shall have the power to assess and collect fees, charges and tolls for water, sewer, sanitary and health services, or any other services rendered within or without the corporate limits of the city. If unpaid, these charges or fees shall be collected as provided in Section 5-108.
Section 5-106. - Special assessment.
The mayor and council, by ordinance, shall have the power to assess and collect the cost of constructing, reconstructing, widening or improving any public way, street, sidewalk, curbing, gutters, sewers, drainage structures or other utility mains and appurtenances from the abutting property owners under any terms and conditions as are reasonable. Further, impact fees for the development of residential subdivisions and industrial parks may also be assessed upon developers and owners. If unpaid, these charges shall be collected as provided in Section 5-108.
Section 5-107. - Interpretation; other taxes.
This city shall be empowered to levy any other tax as may be authorized now or hereafter by state law and the specific mention of any right, power or authority in this chapter shall not be construed as limiting in any way the general powers of this city to govern its local affairs.
Section 5-108. - Collection of delinquent taxes and fees.
The mayor and council, by ordinance, may provide generally for the collection of delinquent taxes, fees or other revenue due the city under this charter or general state law by whatever reasonable means as are not precluded by general state law. This shall include providing for the dates when the taxes, fees or other revenues are due; late penalties or interest; issuance and execution of fi. fa's.; creation and priority of liens; making delinquent taxes, fees and other revenues, personal debts of the persons required to pay the taxes, fees or other revenues imposed; revoking city licenses for failure to pay any city taxes, fees or other assignment or transfer of executions and collection of transferred executions; providing for the billing and collecting of principal, interest, and costs of delinquent executions as an addition to and a part of the annual ad valorem tax bill.
CHAPTER 2. - BORROWING AND INDEBTEDNESS

Section 5-201. - General obligation bonds.
The mayor and council shall have the power to issue bonds for the purpose of raising revenue to carry out any project, program or venture authorized under this charter or the general laws of the state. This bonding authority shall be exercised in accordance with the laws governing bond issuances by municipalities in effect at the time the issue is undertaken.
Section 5-202. - Determination of millage necessary to retire proposed bonded indebtedness.
At a regular meeting of the mayor and council held at least fifteen (15) and not more than forty-five (45) days prior to any election within the city in which there shall be submitted to the electors of the city the question of whether the city shall incur additional bonded indebtedness, the mayor and council shall determine what millage is necessary to retire the bonded indebtedness proposed to be incurred by the city. Such action of the mayor and council shall be recorded upon the minutes of the meeting.
Section 5-203. - Revenue bonds.
Revenue bonds may be issued by the mayor and council as state law now or hereafter provides. These bonds are to be paid out of any revenues produced by the project, program or venture for which they were issued.
Section 5-204. - Refunding revenue bonds.
(a)
The City of Millen acting through its governing body may exercise all powers granted to municipalities under the Revenue Bond Law (Ga. Laws 1937, p. 761), as amended, and is hereby further authorized to refund any outstanding revenue bonds by the issuance of revenue refunding bonds in an amount not greater than the aggregate of principal and interest to the date of redemption and redemption premiums on the revenue bonds to be refunded. Said revenue refunding bonds may be issued at any time not more than fifteen (15) years prior to the date that the refunded bonds are to be retired, either at maturity or pursuant to a call for redemption or both. Pending the retirement of the revenue bonds being refunded, the city shall deposit a sufficient portion of the proceeds of such revenue bonds, together with any other legally available funds, in escrow to pay principal, interest and redemption premiums on the revenue bonds to be refunded, and some or all money so deposited may be invested in direct obligations of the United States of America or any of its agencies or in obligations guaranteed as to principal and interest by the United States of America. In determining the sufficiency of such deposit, the city may include interest to be received on such investments.
(b)
The city shall, upon depositing in escrow the proceeds of any revenue refunding bonds hereunder, enter into an agreement with the bank holding such deposit and said agreement shall require said bank, among other things, to hold investments and liquidate the same without further instructions from the city when necessary to pay principal, interest and redemption premiums on the revenue bonds refunded and may require such bank to publish on behalf of the city, one (1) or more notices of redemption of the revenue bonds to be refunded.
(c)
The validity of revenue refunding bonds issued hereunder may be determined by proceedings in the Superior Court of Jenkins County, Georgia, or as may otherwise be provided by state statute for industrial development bonds. Such proceedings shall be brought and conducted, and may be intervened in and may be appealed from in the same manner, and shall have the same effect, as is provided in the Revenue Bond Law (Ga. Laws 1937, p. 761), as amended. If the aforementioned agreement governing the deposit of revenue refunding bond proceeds is attached as an exhibit to the resolution authorizing said revenue refunding bonds, the court upon validation shall determine the validity of said agreement as well as the validity of said revenue refunding bonds.
(d)
Such revenue refunding bonds shall constitute investment securities under the Uniform Commercial Code but no financing statement nor continuation statement need to be filed to protect or perfect the interest of the holders of said revenue refunding bonds in the revenues pledged to their payment. Such revenue refunding bonds may be secured by pledge of all or any portion of the revenues to be derived from the operation of one or more revenue-producing facilities of the city after payment of the reasonable and necessary expenses of the operation and maintenance, and such revenues need not be limited to revenues pledged to the revenue bonds refunded. Revenue refunding bonds shall not be payable from or charged upon any funds other than the revenues pledged to the payment thereof, nor shall the city be subject to any pecuniary liability thereon. No holder or holders of any such revenue refunding bonds shall ever have the right to compel any exercise of the taxing power of the city to pay any such revenue refunding bonds or the interest thereof, nor to enforce payment thereof against any property of the city; nor shall any bonds constitute a lien upon any property of the city. Each bond issued under this section shall contain a recital setting forth the substance of the preceding two (2) sentences.
(e)
Revenue refunding bonds issued hereunder or the resolution provided for their issuance may contain such provisions for the security of said revenue refunding bonds as the governing body may determine, including such covenants and rights to a receiver upon default as are provided for the Revenue Bond Law (Ga. Laws 1937, p. 761), and may be issued in one (1) or more series, may be sold in such manner, may bear such date or dates, may mature at such time or times, not exceeding forty (40) years from their respective date; may bear interest at such rate or rates, not exceeding nine (9) percent per annum, payable at such time or times; may be payable in such medium of payment at such place or places; may be in such denomination or denominations; may be in such form either coupon or registered; may carry such registration, conversion, and exchangeability privileges may be subject to such terms of redemption with or without premium; may be declared or become due before the maturity date thereof; may be executed in such manner; and may contain such terms, covenants, assignments and conditions as the resolution or resolutions authorizing the issuance of such bonds may provide. All bonds issued under this section bearing the signature of officers in office on the date of the signing thereof shall be valid and binding notwithstanding that before the delivery thereof, and payment therefor, such officers whose signatures appear thereon shall have ceased to be officers of the municipality issuing the same. Pending the preparation of the definitive bonds, interim receipts, in such form and with such provision as the governing body may determine, may be issued to the purchaser or purchasers of bonds to be issued under this section. Said bonds shall be and are hereby declared to be nontaxable for any and all purposes.
(f)
This section shall be deemed cumulative and not in lieu of all other laws granting bond authority to the city and shall provide an additional, but nonexclusive means of refunding revenue bonds of the city, regardless of the law under which the revenue bonds shall have been issued.
Section 5-205. - Short term notes.
The city may issue short term notes as now or hereafter provided by general state law.
CHAPTER 3. - FISCAL CONTROL

Section 5-301. - Fiscal year; municipal budget.
(a)
The mayor and council shall establish a fiscal year for the city and all its agencies by ordinance unless otherwise provided by state of federal law.
(b)
The city manager shall submit to the council at least six (6) weeks prior to the start of the municipal fiscal year a budget report, accompanied by a draft of the recommended municipal appropriations ordinance, in a form and manner as may be prescribed by ordinance, which shall provide for the appropriation of the funds necessary to operate all the various departments, to meet capital improvement requirements, and to meet the current expenses of the city for the next fiscal year.
(c)
The mayor and council shall annually appropriate by ordinance, the funds necessary to operate all the various agencies and departments, funds necessary [for] capital improvements, and to meet the current expenses of the city for the next fiscal year.
Section 5-302. - Municipal appropriations ordinance.
(a)
Each municipal appropriations ordinance, now in force or hereafter adopted, with all amendments as are adopted from time to time, shall continue in force and effect for the next fiscal year after adoption and it shall then expire except for any mandatory appropriations required to meet contractual obligations or the continued appropriations and authorization of state or federal grants.
(b)
The mayor and council shall not appropriate funds for any given fiscal year, which, in aggregate, exceed a sum equal to the amount of unappropriated surplus expected to have accrued in the city treasury at the beginning of the fiscal year, together with an amount not greater than the total municipal receipts from existing revenue sources anticipated to be collected in the fiscal year, less refunds as estimated in the budget report and amendments thereto.
(c)
All appropriated funds, except for the mandatory appropriations required by law and those required to meet contractual obligations, or the continued appropriation and authorization of state or federal grants, remaining unexpended and not contractually obligated at the expiration of the municipal appropriations ordinance, shall lapse.
(d)
All state or federal funds received by the city are hereby continually appropriated in the exact amounts and for the purposes authorized and directed by the state or federal government in making the grant.
Section 5-303. - Supplementary appropriations.
(a)
In addition to the appropriations made by the municipal appropriations ordinance and amendments thereto, the mayor and council may make additional appropriations in the same manner as herein provided. No supplementary appropriation shall be made unless there is an unappropriated surplus in the city treasury or the revenue necessary to pay the appropriation has been collected in the general fund of the city treasury as provided by law.
(b)
In no event shall a supplementary appropriations ordinance continue in force and effect beyond the expiration of the municipal appropriations ordinance in the effect when the supplementary appropriations ordinance was adopted and approved.
Section 5-304. - Appropriation for specific sums.
(a)
The appropriation for each department, office, bureau, board, commission, function or line item for which appropriation is made shall be for a specific amount of money and no appropriation shall allocate to any object the proceeds of any particular tax or a part or percentage thereof. All appropriations by function or line item shall be lump sum by function or line item.
(b)
Any appropriation made in conflict with the foregoing provisions shall be void.
CHAPTER 4. - PURCHASING, CONTRACTING AND DISPOSITION OF PROPERTY

Section 5-401. - Contracting procedures.
(a)
Contracts for the purchase or sale of realty, personalty, or services shall be negotiated, authorized and executed by the city manager pursuant to authority granted by the mayor and council by resolution or ordinance, or by the state or federal governments by statute, as appropriate.
(b)
The original of all contracts shall be maintained on file in the office of the city manager.
(c)
No contract shall bind the city other than as provided in this charter.
Section 5-402. - Purchasing procedures.
The mayor and council shall prescribe by ordinance the procedures for all purchases of real and personal property by the city. Prior to the making of purchases and contracts, the availability of adequate funds shall be certified as provided by ordinance.
Section 5-403. - Sale or disposal of property.
The mayor and council shall prescribe by ordinance the procedures for all sales and other disposition of real and personal property by the city.
