ARTICLE 7. - MISCELLANEOUS

Section 7-101. - Ordinances and regulations.
Existing ordinances, resolutions, rules and regulations of the city and its agencies now lawfully in effect not inconsistent with the provisions of this charter shall remain effective until they have been repealed, modified or amended.
Section 7-102. - Contracts and obligations; proceedings.
(a)
All contracts, orders, leases, bonds and other obligations or instruments entered into by the city or for its benefit prior to the effective date of this charter shall continue in effect according to the terms thereof, as obligations and rights of the city.
(b)
No action or proceeding of any nature whether civil or criminal, judicial or administrative, or otherwise, pending at the effective date of this charter by or against the city or its departments and agencies shall be abated or otherwise affected by the adoption of this charter.
(c)
The existing agency and departmental organization of the city shall continue in effect upon the effective date of this charter until such organization is changed or reorganized as provided by ordinance of the mayor and council and administrative regulations consistent therewith.
Section 7-103. - Governing body defined.
For the purpose of all laws requiring action of the governing body of the City of Millen, such action shall be accomplished by ordinance or resolution unless specifically provided otherwise by the particular law involved.
Section 7-104. - Construction.
(a)
Section captions in this charter are informative only and are not to be considered as a part thereof.
(b)
The word "shall" is mandatory and the word "may" is permissive.
(c)
The singular shall include the plural, the masculine shall include the feminine, and vice versa.
Section 7-105. - General repealer.
All laws and clauses of laws in conflict with this act are hereby repealed.
Section 7-107. - Specific repealer.
All laws or portions of laws creating, re-enacting or amending any and all charters of the City of Millen are hereby repealed including, but not limited to, Ga. L. 1939, p. 1163; 1949, p. 1198; 1967, p. 2572; 1976, p. 3275.
