ARTICLE VIII. - CITY OWNED PROPERTY

Sec. 66. - Conveyance of city commons.
Said mayor and aldermen shall have power and authority to sell, rent, lease or otherwise convey the commons of said city in such parts and on such terms as they may deem proper.
(1900 Ga. Laws, page 345, § 61; renumb. § 60 by 1901 Ga. Laws, page 549, § 2; renumb. § 59 by 1902 Ga. Laws, page 510, § 1)
Sec. 67. - Conveyance of streets, sidewalks; passes state's title; ratification of prior sales.
It shall be lawful for the mayor and aldermen of the City of Milledgeville to sell and convey any portion of the streets, lanes, alleys and sidewalks of said city whenever in the discretion of said mayor and aldermen such sale and conveyance shall be to the best interests of said city and its inhabitants. All conveyances made under the authority of this act pass to the purchaser thereof the estate in said street, lane, alley or sidewalk as said conveyance undertakes to convey, and shall pass the state's title therein to the purchaser. All conveyances heretofore made by the mayor and aldermen of said city to any of the streets, lanes, alleys or sidewalks of said city are hereby ratified and confirmed, so far as the same undertakes [sic] to pass the state's title thereto.
(1909 Ga. Laws, page 1181, §§ 1—3)
Sec. 68. - Streets, squares, parks, etc.; eminent domain.
The mayor and aldermen of said city shall have the right to lay out, alter, extend and improve the public streets, squares and parks, and to improve the public property of said city. And for said purposes they are authorized to condemn private property in the method provided by the laws of this state regulating the condemnation of private property for public purposes.
(1900 Ga. Laws, page 345, § 56; renumb. § 55 by 1901 Ga. Laws, page 549, § 2; renumb. § 54 by 1902 Ga. Laws, page 510, § 1)
State Law reference— Eminent domain, O.C.G.A. tit. 22.
Sec. 69. - Street improvements.
(a)
Improvements authorized. The mayor and aldermen of the City of Milledgeville, are hereby authorized and empowered to improve the streets, sidewalks, squares and alleys of said city by paving, repaving, macadamizing, grading, curbing, guttering and draining the same, including the installation of manholes, catch-basins, and necessary drainage pipes, re-setting of curbing and to assess the cost thereof upon the abutting property owners and the owners of railroads whose tracks occupy said streets, sidewalks, squares and alleys in the following manner.
(b)
Ordinance. Upon the written petition signed by a majority of the landowners of land abutting on any street, square, sidewalk or alley or of the owners of land abutting on any section of any street, square, sidewalk or alley in said city, requesting that said street, square, sidewalk or alley or section thereof be improved under the provisions of this act, it shall be the duty of the mayor and aldermen of said city, within a reasonable time thereafter, to pass an ordinance providing for the improvement desired, and shall prescribe the character and manner of improvement, the type of paving (two (2) or more types may be prescribed in the alternative), the approximate length and width of the improvement to be made, the approximate dimension of curbing, the number and location of manholes, catch-basins, pipes and sewers required and in general what sewer, gas, water, or utility connections shall be required. Provided, that a substantial compliance with this section and section five [subsection (d)] shall be sufficient, and that the mayor and aldermen of said city shall be authorized to vary from the specification of such details in the construction of the said improvements when in their judgment it shall be necessary or of advantage to the work in hand to do so; and provided further that the terms "paving" and "repaving" as used in this act shall be construed to mean any form of street, sidewalk, walk or alley improvement[,] whether of brick, stone, concrete, gravel, asphalt or other known and approved materials or combinations thereof.
(c)
Publication of notice; protest by abutting owners. The resolution [sic] provided for in section three of this act [subsection (b)] shall be passed under the rules providing for the passage of ordinances in said city, and when a copy of said resolution or ordinance [sic] shall have been posted at some conspicuous place frequented by the public in the city hall for seven (7) days, the resolution or ordinance shall become final and binding, unless, prior to the expiration of the seven-day notice by posting in the city hall a majority of the owners of land abutting on the street, sidewalk, square, alley or section thereof to be improved, filed with the clerk and treasurer of said city, their written protest against said improvement, stating their objection thereto. If such protest should be filed it shall be the duty of the clerk and treasurer to transmit the same to the mayor and aldermen of said city at their first regular meeting after receipt thereof.
(d)
Ordinance without petition. The mayor and aldermen of said city be and they are hereby authorized and empowered, without a petition therefor, as provided in section three of this act [subsection (b)], when in their judgment it is necessary to improve any street, square, or alley, or section thereof, including or extending the sidewalk, by paving, repaving, macadamizing, or otherwise improving, as authorized by this act, to pass a similar resolution or ordinance [sic] as that provided for in section three of this act [subsection (b)].
(e)
Publication of notice; protest. The resolution [or ordinance] provided for in section five of this act [subsection (d)] shall be passed under the rules providing for the passage or ordinances in said city, and when a copy of said resolution or ordinance shall have been posted at some conspicuous place frequented by the public in the city shall for seven (7) days the resolution or ordinance shall become final and binding, unless, prior to the expiration of the seven (7) days notice by posting in the city hall, a majority of the owners of land abutting on the street, sidewalk, square, alley or section thereto to be improved, file with the clerk and treasurer of said city, their written protest against said improvement, stating their objection thereto. If such protest should be filed it shall be the duty of the clerk and treasurer to transmit the same to the mayor and aldermen of said city at their first regular meeting after receipt thereof.
(f)
More than one improvement. One (1) or more streets, squares, alleys, or sections thereof to be improved may be embraced in a single resolution or ordinance, provided that each street, square, alley or section be treated as a separate unit in said resolution and the protest against the improvement shall be made to each separate unit and must be made by a majority of the owners of land abutting the unit proposed to be improved.
(g)
Hearing on objections. Whenever objection has been filed to the resolution or ordinance passed under section three [subsection (b)] or section five [subsection (d)] of this act the mayor and aldermen of said city at the next regular meeting of said mayor and aldermen shall hear the objections and inquire into the grounds of the objections and determine the same. The hearing of said objection may be continued from time to time in the discretion of the said mayor and aldermen. Should the mayor and aldermen sustain the objection filed[,] action under the resolution or ordinance shall terminate. If on the hearing of the objection the objections are overruled or disallowed the mayor and aldermen of the city shall proceed under the resolution to make the improvement provided for by the same. On the overruling of the objection the resolution shall become final and binding.
(h)
Bids. Whenever a resolution passed under section three or section five of this act [subsection (b) or (d)] shall have become final and binding it shall be the duty of the mayor and aldermen of said city within a reasonable time thereafter to proceed in accordance with the said resolution and provide for the preparation of the plans and specifications of the improvements to be made, and shall prescribe the time and manner of advertising for bids and the letting of contracts for said improvements and for the furnishing of materials therefor; and shall provide for a bond with security by the contractor, payable to mayor and aldermen of the City of Milledgeville, for a sum not less than the contract price of the improvement to be made, conditioned for the faithful and skillful performance of the contract. The mayor and aldermen may provide for a bond in an amount equal to twenty-five (25) per cent of the contract price for the maintenance in good condition of such improvement for a period of five (5) years from the completion of the work; and may provide for the employment of an engineer to supervise and inspect the construction of the improvement, and prescribe the amount of money to be paid for such services and such amount shall be added to the assessment along with other cost of the improvement. Provided that no such contract shall be entered into until after notice has been published in a newspaper having general circulation in the City of Milledgeville, once a week for two (2) weeks, in which notice a general description of the improvement to be made shall be given, the time and place that bids shall be received, the form of bids and a statement of where the plans and specifications may be inspected shall be contained in said notice. After the publication of the above mentioned notice all the property owners to be assessed for the cost of the improvement and all other persons interested who do not within fifteen (15) days thereafter commence proceedings to prevent said improvement and assessment being made and enforced shall be conclusively presumed to have accepted the terms of the resolution or ordinance under which said improvements are to be made.
(i)
Contract. After the mayor and aldermen shall have advertised for bids and have received the same it shall be their duty to enter into [a] contract with the successful bidder for the furnishing of material and the construction of the improvement, provided the mayor and aldermen shall have the right to reject any and all bids and to re-advertise and let the contracts under said re-advertisement, if in their judgment none of the bids received on the first advertisement are fair or are from responsible parties. Should a successful bidder fail or refuse to execute a contract conforming to his bid the mayor and aldermen may re-advertise for a new bid. It shall be stipulated in the contract that the payment is to be made solely and only from the assessments against the abutting land owners and owners of railroads whose tracks occupy the section to be improved as hereinafter provided and in the manner hereinafter prescribed.
(j)
Plat. As soon as practical after the contract provided for in section ten [subsection (i)] has been entered into, the mayor and aldermen of said city shall cause to be made an accurate measurement and plan of the work to be done showing the number of feet and fractions thereof of frontage thereon of each and every abutting property and the location of all railroad tracks in streets or alleys to be paved and shall file the plat, with the measurements plainly marked thereon, showing the location and measurements of each abutting property and of each and every street crossing[,] which plat shall be filed in the office of the clerk and treasurer of said city and be subject to inspection of all persons interested. The owner of any abutting land or of any railroad track lying within the improvement may[,] within five (5) days from the filing of the plat, make written objection thereto, and, after the expiration of five (5) days, if objections have been filed questioning the accuracy thereof, the mayor and aldermen shall set a time for hearing such objections and post written notice of the time and place of the hearing in the city hall for at least two (2) days, and, after full hearing shall correct the plat or approve it as they may find the facts to be, if no objections are filed as provided in this [sub]section the plat shall be final and binding on all persons.
(k)
Objections to plat, assessment. After the plat and measurements as provided in section eleven [subsection (j)] shall have been approved or after five (5) days from the filing thereof, if no objections are made the mayor and aldermen shall pass a resolution assessing the cost of the paving (if any) of that portion of the street between the rails of any railroad track lying in the streets and for one (1) foot on each side of every line of track occupying said street and the balance of the cost they shall assess on the abutting land owners, one-half thereof to be assessed against the abutting owners and the abutting land on each side of the street, square, alley or section thereof to be improved; the amount of the assessment against the several owners and the parcels of land to be in the same proportion that the front footage of the owner's property bears to the entire front footage of the property abutting on the street, square, alley or section thereof to be improved. Said assessment shall include all expenses incurred in complying with the provisions of this act incident to said improvement, including engineering. The said assessment shall be made against the several tracts or parcels of abutting land and the owners thereof in the proportion provided in this [sub]section, and shall be payable in ten (10) substantially equal annual installments and shall bear interest at the rate of six (6) per cent per annum. The resolution shall designate the exact frontage, in feet and fraction thereof of each and every abutting owner, the width of each railroad track occupying the street, the width of every crossing of streets or alleys, and shall designate the percentage of the cost of the improvement to be assessed against each and every abutting property owner and every abutting piece of property and every owner of railroad tracks separately in accordance with this act; said assessment shall not include the cost of water, gas or sewer connection where such connections are required of any owner of abutting property. The mayor and aldermen of the City of Milledgeville shall be treated as the owner of all street crossings for the full width of the street in each direction except that part of the crossing occupied by railroad tracks and for a distance of one (1) foot on each side of said railroad track, and the proportionate cost of paving the crossing of any street or alley shall be borne by the city and not assessed against the owners of property abutting the street or alley improved. The city may provide for the payment for the paving of street crossings or for any other paving or improvement for which the city is liable under this act, in the manner now authorized by law for street improvement, and may make special provisions in the contract, when the contract is let for street improvement in compliance with this act for the paving and payment for such paving or improvement. Provided further that where any property abutting on any street, square or alley to be improved under authority of this act is owned by the United States of America or the State of Georgia or other owner exempt from the operation of this act, such property shall be excluded from the computation in arriving at the pro rata assessment against the abutting land and land owners on the streets to be improved, and existing laws shall apply to the improvement of such area, unless such exempt owner, by properly authorized officers or agents consents to bear its proportionate quota of the paving cost. Where the state is the owner of any such property the governor is authorized to sign any petition on behalf of the state for improvement herein provided for; where the County of Baldwin is the owner of any such property the chairman of the board of commissioners of roads and revenues [3] or other officer in charge of county matters, in case of a change in the present form of county administration, shall be authorized to sign any such petition on behalf of the county, and where the City of Milledgeville is the owner of such property, the mayor shall be so authorized.
(l)
Assessment is lien. That the special assessment and each installment thereof and the interest thereon are hereby declared to be a lien against the lots and tracts of lands so assessed from the date of the ordinance levying the same, of equal dignity and priority with taxes, and prior and superior to all other liens, and such liens shall continue until such assessment and interest thereon shall be fully paid, but unmatured installments shall not be deemed to be within the terms of any general covenant of warranty; provided that each and every separate lot or tract shall bear alone its proportionate percentage of the assessment, and no lien shall attach to any lot or parcel for the assessment against any other abutting owner. The special assessment and each installment thereof and the interest thereon are hereby declared to be a lien against that portion of the railroad lying within the improvement so assessed from the date of the ordinance levying the same, of equal dignity and priority with taxes, and prior and superior to all other liens, and such liens shall continue until such assessment and interest thereon shall be fully paid, but unmatured installments shall not be deemed to be within the terms of any general covenant or warranty.
(m)
Maturing of assessments. The mayor and aldermen shall in the resolution provided for in section twelve [subsection (k)] or other subsequent resolutions, provided for the time of the maturing of said assessments in accordance with the terms of this act, and shall provide for the percentage of the annual payments of substantially ten (10) per cent per year, but they shall have authority to make the first or last payment more or less than ten (10) per cent so that the other payments may be made in round amounts.
(n)
Payment of assessment. The persons against whom assessments are made as provided in section twelve [subsection (k)] shall have a right to pay the assessment or any portion thereof without interest at any time within thirty (30) days after the passage of the resolution making the assessments, and after the expiration of thirty (30) days and until the bonds issued against said assessments, hereinafter provided for[,] shall have been sold[,] the person liable for said assessment may pay the same or any part thereof with accrued interest.
(o)
Bond issue. As soon as practicable after the expiration of thirty (30) days from the passage of the resolution provided for in section twelve [subsection (k)], the mayor and aldermen shall, by resolution, provide for the issuance of bonds in the aggregate amount of the assessments remaining unpaid, bearing date thirty (30) days after the date of the resolution making the assessment, and of convenient denominations to be determined by the mayor and aldermen, bearing interest at the rate of six (6) per cent payable annually, said bonds to be payable in ten (10) installments so arranged that the maturities and amounts thereof will correspond with the maturities and amounts of the assessments, provided that in order to adjust the aggregate amount of bonds issued against any assessments, credit or credits may be entered on one (1) or more bonds, to make the amount of the bonds correspond with the amount of the assessment in any given case. The bonds shall be signed in the name of the City of Milledgeville, by the mayor, and the seal of the city attached, and shall be payable to the bearer, and shall be payable solely from the assessments levied upon the lots, railroads and tracts of land of the several land owners abutting the street, square, or alley or section thereof for the improvement of which said assessment was made. Said bonds shall be known as "Milledgeville Street Improvement Bonds," and shall be payable by the person against whom the assessment is made (except where the property shall have been sold and the purchaser has assumed the assessment is payable by the person owning the land as the several installments fall due), and shall contain descriptive words identifying the property by which they are secured, with the name of the owner of the property at the time the assessment is made. Said bonds shall not be or become a liability of the mayor and aldermen of the City of Milledgeville, but shall be payable solely from the assessment against which they are issued, under authority of this act. Said bonds shall be registered by the clerk and treasurer of the City of Milledgeville in a book to be kept for that purpose, and certificate of registration endorsed by the clerk on each of said bonds.
(p)
Sale of bonds. Said bonds shall be sold on [the] best terms possible, and may be sold and delivered to the contractor in payment of the amount due him on his contract, and it may so stipulate in entering into the contract.
(q)
Collection of amounts due, past due. The assessments provided for and levied under the provisions of this act shall be payable by the person liable therefor under the provisions of this act, together with the interest thereon, to the clerk and treasurer of the City of Milledgeville, who shall give proper receipts for all such payments. It shall be the duty of the clerk to keep an accurate, separate account of all such collections in a permanent book showing the separate amount, the date, and by whom and on what account paid, the funds to be deposited and used solely for the payment of said assessments and bonds and the expenses incurred by the City of Milledgeville in complying with the provisions of this act incident to said improvement. Provided, that after the bonds shall have been sold, the amount due thereon shall be payable to the holder or to the clerk and treasurer of the City of Milledgeville as the holder may direct, and provided further that no bond, after its maturity and after the amount thereof shall have been paid to the city clerk and treasurer as herein provided, shall bear further interest. It shall be the duty of the clerk and treasurer to give notice in the newspaper in which sheriff's advertisements are published, in the two (2) issues next preceding the date of each series of bonds, notifying all persons concerned of the date of the maturity and specify the particular improvements for which the assessment was made. Failure to comply with this provision shall not affect the validity of the said bonds or the assessments. It shall be the duty of the clerk and treasurer of the City of Milledgeville, promptly after the maturity of any bond or installment of interest remaining unpaid, to issue an execution directed as other city executions are directed, against the person liable for the same under the provisions of this act, on the date of execution, for the amount of the past due installment or interest, or both, as the case may be, and shall make record thereof on the docket hereinafter provided for, and shall turn the same over to the city marshal, whose duty it is to make levy and sale as under other execution issued by the city clerk; and it shall be the duty of the marshal to levy the same upon the property therein described and proceed to advertise and sell the same in the same manner and under the same rules and regulations as sales of real property are made under other executions in the City of Milledgeville, and the proceeds shall be applied first to payment of costs and expenses of the advertisement and sale; second to the payment of the execution, and third the payment of the balance as the law directs. Such sale shall vest obsolute title in the purchaser subject to the remaining unpaid installments of principal and interest, and also subject to the right of redemption as provided in sections 880, 1169, 1170, 1171, and 1172 of the Code of Georgia of 1910. The defendant in said execution shall have the right to file an affidavit of illegality denying that the whole or any part of the amount for which said execution issued is due, and stating what amount he admits to be due, which amount so admitted to be due shall be paid before the affidavit shall be received, and the affidavit received for the balance. All such affidavits shall set out distinctly the reasons why affiant claims the amount is not due, and when received by the levying officer it shall be his duty to return the same to the superior court of Baldwin County, Georgia, there to be tried and determined as other cases of illegality are tried and determined, subject to all the pains and penalties provided for in cases of illegality for delay under the Code of Georgia.
Editor's note— The comparative tables in O.C.G.A. vol. 41 do not refer to the statutory sections cited in the above subsections and in subsection (u).
State Law reference— Redemption of property sold for taxes, O.C.G.A. § 48-4-40 et seq.
(r)
Execution docket. It shall be the duty of the mayor and aldermen of the City of Milledgeville to provide the city clerk with a permanent execution docket in which all executions issued under authority of this act shall be recorded, properly indexed in the name of the defendant and showing the date and amount of the execution, with brief description of the lot or tract of land against which it is issued, with marginal or other space sufficient to enter a cancellation or other explanatory matter. When said execution shall have been fully paid the clerk shall endorse the fact on the face of the record and mark it "cancelled," and such cancellation shall be full and complete extinguishment of the lien of the execution and shall impart notice thereof.
(s)
Lien follows title. In the conveyance or transfer of any property against which an assessment has been made under authority of this act, the purchaser of said property may assume payment of the balance due on such assessment, and in this case, where the deed of conveyance so stipulates and is duly recorded or written notice filed with the city clerk, the lien shall be released as against the person selling and attach to the purchaser.
(t)
Certificate of payment. Upon payment in full of any assessment made against any property under authority of this act, or of the bonds issued against said assessment, and the production of said bonds to the city clerk marked "paid," it shall be the duty of said clerk to issue certificate of payment, in which the property, with the name of the owner at the time of the assessment, shall be identified, signed by the clerk with the city corporate seal attached. When such a certificate is presented to the clerk of the superior court of Baldwin County the same shall be filed, indexed and recorded as deeds are filed, indexed and recorded, and shall constitute a full extinguishment of the lien against said property, and shall impart notice thereof.
(u)
Right of redemption. In [the] event any property against which an assessment has been made under authority of this act, is sold under and by virtue of any execution while any portion of said assessment remains unpaid, title shall pass to the purchaser, subject to the right of redemption as provided in sections 880, 1169, 1170, 1171 and 1172 of the Code of Georgia, and subject further to the lien for the portion of said assessment remaining unpaid, provided that the purchaser, where the property is not redeemed as provided by law, may assume and pay the assessment or the bonds issued against the same; and in this case the absolute title shall vest in such purchaser.
State Law reference— Redemption of property sold for taxes, O.C.G.A. § 48-4-40 et seq.
(v)
Division of city into sections. It shall be the duty of the mayor and aldermen, upon the passage of this act, to have the streets, squares, and alleys of the City of Milledgeville divided and arranged in sections, grouping such portions thereof together as to make convenient and suitable units for improvement under the provisions of this act, the object being to avoid piecemeal paving of disconnected or unrelated portions of the streets, sidewalks, squares or alleys, and to insure an intelligent and uniform system of public improvement. A plat showing the divisions into sections shall be made and kept on file at the city hall in custody of the clerk at all times and subject to inspection of all persons interested; the several sections shall be numbered or otherwise designated, and the mayor and aldermen shall have authority to revise the plat from time to time as they may think best, provided that no revision shall be made pending any improvement project under the provisions of this act. The "sections" provided for in this section are the sections referred to in section three [subsection (b)] and elsewhere in this act.
(w)
Repaving; reimproving. No street, sidewalk, square or alley, or section thereof, shall be repaved or reimproved under the provisions of this act except in cases where the paving or improvement previously made is worn out to such an extent that in the reasonable judgment of the mayor and aldermen it is necessary to repave or otherwise reimprove said street, square or alley or section thereof for the good of the public.
(x)
Sidewalks. In all cases where the proposed improvement is to include the sidewalks, all bids for the sidewalk improvement shall be separate from bids for the street improvement, and [the] contract thereof for [sic] shall be separate from the contract for the street improvement, except it shall be permissible for the street pavement and the sidewalk pavement to be provided for in one (1) and the same contract, providing the price of each is kept separate and distinct; and in all such cases the cost of the sidewalk shall be assessed against the several abutting landowners in the proportion that each owner's front footage bears to the whole front footage of sidewalks constructed.
(y)
Counting time for notice. Where a certain number of days are prescribed in this act for publishing or posting any notice or for doing of other things, Sundays and legal holidays shall not be counted.
(z)
Act cumulative. This act is cumulative, and shall not be construed as repealing or modifying the existing laws of force in the City of Milledgeville with reference to paving or otherwise improving the streets, sidewalks, alleys or squares in said city.
(aa)
Authority of mayor and aldermen. The mayor and aldermen shall be and are hereby authorized and empowered to pass any and all resolutions and ordinances and to do all things not inconsistent with this act, or with the existing laws, as may be in their judgment appropriate to the carrying out of the provisions of this act.
(bb)
Recording is prima facie proper procedure. All resolutions, ordinances or orders passed by the mayor and aldermen in connection with each and every paving or improvement project under the provisions of this act, after the same shall have been finally passed, and all such notices posted or published after the publication or posting shall have continued for the prescribed length of time, shall be placed upon the minutes of the City of Milledgeville by the city clerk, and when so recorded, a copy thereof certified by the clerk, under the corporate seal of the city, as a true transcript of the record, shall be prima facie evidence of the proper passage of the resolution, ordinances, or order, and of the proper posting and publication of such notices.
(cc)
Assessment of intersections. The mayor and aldermen of the City of Milledgeville be and they are hereby authorized, if in their discretion they determine it to be to the best interest of the city, to assess the cost of the paving or improvement of the intersections of streets, lanes, and alleys in the said city against the abutting lands of the unit improved or paved, and may include the cost of improving or paving of any or all street and alley intersections in any improvement unit in the total cost of said improvement project, and assess same against the abutting owners and abutting land on each side of said street or alley or section to be improved or paved in the same manner provided in this act, and the cost of the improving and paving said intersections may be included in the bonds issued under this act, and the assessments for the improving and paving said intersections shall constitute a lien against the lots and tracts of land so assessed, as provided in section 13 of this act [subsection (l)].
(1925 Ga. Laws, page 1199, §§ 2—28, 30; 1926 Ga. Laws, Ex. Sess., page 138, § 1)
Editor's note— Subsections (a)—(bb) above are derived from §§ 2—28 and 30, respectively, of the act of 1925. Section 1, containing legislative provisions amending the 1900 Code, has been omitted, as has § 29, the savings clause. Subsection (cc) is derived from the act of 1926.
State Law reference— Street improvements, O.C.G.A. § 36-39-1 et seq.
Footnotes:
--- (3) ---
State Law reference— Official names of county governing authorities, O.C.G.A. § 36-5-20.
