Chapter 74 - SOLID WASTE[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Charter reference— Power of city to remove garbage, trash, filth, nuisances, § 7; collection of debts due city, § 56; powers and duties of planning commission, § 79.
Cross reference— Buildings and building regulations, ch. 18; environment, ch. 42; health and sanitation, ch. 54; utilities, ch. 90.
State Constitution reference— Municipal solid waste collection and disposal, Ga. Const. art. IX, § II, ¶ III.
State Law reference— Dumping garbage in caves or sinkholes, O.C.G.A. § 12-4-145; waste management, O.C.G.A. § 12-8-1 et seq.; litter, O.C.G.A. § 16-7-40 et seq.; securing loads on vehicles, O.C.G.A. § 32-6-21.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 74-1. - Pemises to be cleared of unhealthful or unsightly matter.
It shall be unlawful for any owner, occupant or tenant of any property or premises, whether vacant or occupied, or for any person, either as owner or in control of any vacant lot, to permit to remain thereon any weeds or grasses exceeding ten inches in height, filth, trash, noxious growth, filthy or standing water or other unhealthful or unsightly matter.
(Code 1986, § 9-1)
Sec. 74-2. - Remedies for failure to keep premises clean.
(a)
If any owner, tenant or other person in possession or control of any premises within the city limits shall fail or refuse to remove therefrom the matter described in section 74-1, within five days after having been notified so to do by the city, the owner, tenant or other person in possession or control of such premises, whether vacant or otherwise, shall, upon conviction of violation of the provisions of such section, be subject to fine and imprisonment, all or both in the discretion of the court, as set out in section 1-8.
(b)
In case of failure or refusal of any person to comply with the provisions of section 74-1, and as cumulative of the remedy provided by prosecution of such offenders, the city, through its proper authority, shall have the right to enter upon and remove from any such lands or premises, all weeds growing or standing thereon and all other growth of like character, thereby placing such premises in sanitary and sightly condition, and to charge the cost of removal to the owner or owners of any such premises or vacant lots, and the clerk and treasurer shall have full, ample and complete authority to issue therefor execution in the name of the city, which execution shall issue and be levied as executions for taxes in the city are issued and levied. Such execution shall issue and constitute a lien upon the property so cleaned and against the owner or owners thereof, provided a detailed, itemized statement of the cost of such work shall be attached to and form a part of such execution, and provided further that no execution shall issue against any land owner unless he shall have been served in person with written notice at least five days before such work is commenced by the city, and provided further that if such land owner is a nonresident, the written notice must have been mailed to him, or to his last known address, at least ten days prior to beginning the work by the city.
(c)
The owner against whom execution may have issued, as provided in this article, shall have the right to contest the execution, or the amount thereof, in the same manner as provided by the laws of the state governing illegalities and claims where executions are levied.
(Code 1986, § 9-2)
State Law reference— Tax executions, O.C.G.A. § 48-3-1 et seq.
Secs. 74-3—74-40. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - COLLECTION AND DISPOSAL

Sec. 74-41. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning.
Class I. Single-family dwelling, i.e., a building or part thereof used exclusively as living quarters for any number of individuals living together as a single housekeeping unit; and small businesses which produce not more than one cubic yard of garbage weekly.
Class II. Small businesses which produce more than one cubic yard and not more than four cubic yards of garbage weekly.
Class III. Medium-sized businesses which produce more than four and not more than ten cubic yards of garbage weekly.
Class IV. Large businesses which produce more than ten and not more than 20 cubic yards of garbage weekly.
Class V. Very large businesses which produce more than 20 and not more than 80 cubic yards of garbage weekly.
Garbage means the ordinary accumulation of refuse incident to the operation of a household or place of business, and shall not be construed to include brick, stone, lumber, wood, boxes or building debris.
(Code 1986, § 9-16)
Cross reference— Definitions generally, § 1-2.
Sec. 74-42. - Accumulation of garbage declared nuisance.
Any person allowing garbage to accumulate by failing to comply with the payment of the fees and charges fixed and assessed under this article shall be liable to the full provisions of the law applicable to nuisance and upon the property owned by such person being declared a nuisance by reason of any unauthorized accumulation of garbage on any premises shall be subject to being tried for a nuisance as a violation of the terms of this article and upon conviction thereof in the municipal court of city shall be punished as provided in section 1-6.
(Code 1986, § 9-17)
Sec. 74-43. - Charges for garbage disposal.
There are hereby adopted the following schedules of reasonable rates, tolls, fees and charges to be made against owners, occupants, tenants and lessees of buildings and premises for the service by the sanitation department of collection, removal and disposal of garbage within the city. The following rates and charges to be made and the amount collected for each monthly period, or portion thereof, shall be determined as follows:
(1)
a.
Residential buildings and premises. The collection and removal of garbage from houses, buildings and premises used for residential purposes shall be made not less than once a week. The fair and reasonable rate for this residential service shall be $14.50 per container per month, or any portion thereof, for each single-family dwelling.
b.
Apartment buildings and other multi-family premises. The collection and removal of garbage from apartment complexes, townhomes, duplexes or any buildings and premises used for multifamily residential purposes shall be made not less than once a week. The fair and reasonable rate for this residential service shall be $14.50 per dwelling unit.
(2)
Business and commercial buildings and premises. The collection and removal of garbage from business and commercial buildings and premises shall be as often as needed, commensurate with the needs presented by the volume of garbage produced by such business and commercial buildings and premises. The fair and reasonable rates for this business and commercial service per month, or any portion thereof, shall be according to the following schedule:
FRONT LOAD DUMPSTER RATES
EXPAND
Container
Size Number of Weekly Pickups
1 2 3 4 5 6
8 Cubic Yard $115.02 $230.06 $345.08 $460.11 $575.14 $690.15
6 Cubic Yard 86.28 172.56 258.83 345.10 431.38 517.66
4 Cubic Yard 57.51 115.03 172.54 230.06 287.56 345.08
2 Cubic Yard 42.26 78.49 114.71 150.94 187.16 223.39
  Recycling: 8 Cubic Yard Dumpster once a week $68.25
COMMERCIAL CARTS-ONCE A WEEK PICKUP
EXPAND
Number of Carts Code Cost
1 (minimum) GC1 $ 19.95
2 GC2 33.60
3 GC3 47.25
4 GC4 60.90
5 GC5 74.55
6 GC6 88.20
7 GC7 101.85
8 GC8 115.50
  DOWNTOWN SHARED CONTAINERS
EXPAND
Code Cost
Level 1 (Minimum) GS1 $ 24.15
Level 2 GS2 60.35
Level 3 GS3 102.65
Level 4 GS4 229.95
Additional Pickups Per Haul 434.70 shared
Per Trip Charges (Blocked driveway) 60.35 shared
  Compactors, roll off containers and cardboard shall be billed by the commercial contractor directly to the businesses.
(3)
Bulk item pick-up. The collection and removal from curbside of bulk items including but not limited to refrigerators, washers, dryers, dish washers, ovens, hot water heaters, carpet and furniture shall be made in accordance with prescribed policies established by the handling department and as manpower and equipment allow. The fair and reasonable rate for this service is $10.00 per item.
(Code 1986, § 9-18; Ord. No. O-01-18, 12-28-2001; Ord. No. O-0312-034, 12-16-2003; Ord. No. O-0312-035, 12-16-2003; Ord. No. O-0506-014, 6-14-2005; Ord. No. O-0707-008, 7-10-2007; Ord. No. O-0807-014, 7-22-2008)
Sec. 74-44. - Billing—In connection with water bill.
(a)
To avoid duplication in billing and as a convenience to the public, all persons engaged in furnishing or delivering water, either by conveyance or transporting the water by containers or through the medium of pipes and connecting service, wherein a charge is made for such service, shall be required to include the fees for the service provided in this article on the monthly water bills. Such persons, engaged in furnishing or delivering water, either by conveying or transporting the water by containers or through the medium of pipes and connecting service, shall, as a convenience to the public, receive and issue receipts for the charges made in accordance with the provisions of this article, and shall promptly remit the charge to the city monthly as the charge assesses.
(b)
Should any owners, occupants, tenants and lessees of residential buildings and premises or business and commercial buildings and premises fail or refuse to pay the charges fixed against such owners, occupants, tenants and lessees as provided for in this article when due, the council may discontinue garbage collection services to the residential buildings and premises or business and commercial buildings and premises of such owners, occupants, tenants and lessees against such sanitary service charge or fee and charge for the collection, removal and disposal of garbage services until such fees have been paid in full. All such delinquent charges shall be collected as other claims of the city through the city marshal or such other official as may be designated by the council.
(c)
If the tenant of any office building, apartment building or house trailer has no water meter and the sums due under this article are not paid when due, the landlord or lessor shall be responsible for such charges and shall be billed for the charges, which sum shall be collected by the city marshal as other claims due the city are collected.
(Code 1986, § 9-19)
Sec. 74-45. - Same—Absence of water service.
Any owners, occupants, tenants and lessees of residential buildings and premises or business and commercial buildings and premises who do not receive monthly water bills shall be billed for the charges fixed and assessed by this article and upon failure to pay the charge when due, the council shall discontinue collection, removal and disposal of garbage services until such fees have been paid in full. All such delinquent charges shall be collected as other claims of the city through the city marshal or other such official as may be designated by the council.
(Code 1986, § 9-20)
Sec. 74-46. - Wheeled garbage containers.
(a)
The owner, occupant, tenant or lessee occupying any building, house or structure within the city occupied as a residence or business using a wheeled garbage container shall have such container at the curb no later than 8:00 a.m. on the day designated by the city's sanitation superintendent with the exception of persons disabled because of age or physical condition living on premises where there is no resident or occupant physically capable of placing the container at the location established by the sanitation superintendent.
(b)
The owner, occupant, tenant or lessee occupying any building, house or structure within the city occupied as a residence or business using a wheeled garbage container shall return such container to the side or rear of the building no later than 7:00 p.m. on the regular garbage pickup day. Failure to comply with this provision shall result in the issuance of a citation by authorized city personnel. The first citation shall result in a written warning. Persons receiving second and subsequent citations shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor.
(c)
Wheeled garbage containers furnished by the city shall not be removed from the premises to which they are delivered, and it shall be the duty of the occupant of the premises, in the event the dwelling is to be vacated by the occupant, to notify the sanitation department at least three days prior to the vacancy.
(d)
In the event the wheeled garbage container furnished by the city is damaged, stolen or destroyed through the negligence of the person to whom the container was assigned, that person shall reimburse the city for the cost of a replacement container.
(e)
The wheeled garbage container furnished by the city shall be subject to inspection by the city's sanitary inspector.
(f)
The wheeled garbage containers furnished by the city are city property and it shall be unlawful for any person to destroy or deface such containers. Any person found guilty of violating this provision shall be subject to punishment within the discretion of the municipal court judge within the limits of section 1-8.
(g)
All garbage intended to be disposed of in a wheeled garbage container shall be placed in a plastic bag prior to being deposited in the wheeled garbage container. The plastic bag used for this purpose shall have a thickness of at least .95 mils to provide sufficient strength so as to avoid rupture or spillage of its contents while being disposed of by the city's sanitation department. The plastic bag used for disposal purposes in accordance with this paragraph shall be securely tied or fastened in a manner that will avoid spillage of its contents while being disposed of by the city's sanitation department. It shall be unlawful for any person to dispose of garbage in a wheeled garbage container without first placing the garbage in a plastic bag in accordance with this paragraph. Any person found guilty of violating this paragraph shall be subject to punishment in accordance with section 1-8 of this Code.
(Code 1986, § 9-22)
Sec. 74-47. - Determination of classifications; appeals.
The superintendent of the sanitation department shall determine and assign the proper classification, in writing, for each building or premises receiving sanitary collection, removal and disposal of garbage within the city in accordance with the schedule of charges in section 74-43. Any owner, occupant, tenant or lessee disagreeing with the designated charge assessed against or by the superintendent of the sanitation department shall file his objection, in writing, with the council. The matter shall be heard at the next regular council meeting after the date of the appeal. The determination as to classification thus made by the council shall be final.
(Code 1986, § 9-22)
Sec. 74-48. - Exclusive right of collection; ownership of materials collected or dumped.
The council shall have the exclusive right of the collection, removal and disposal of garbage, and no private individual, business, agent or other operation shall be permitted to haul garbage produced by owners, occupants, tenants and lessees of residential buildings and premises or business and commercial buildings and premises without first having obtained permission from the council therefor. Any person desiring such permission shall file such application, giving the details of operation and any charges to be made, all as may be required by the council. Once a permit is issued by the council for such operations, the permit shall be issued in the name of the applicant and such permit shall not be transferable. The council shall have full authority to make any other reasonable regulations relating to the hauling of garbage over city streets and thoroughfares by outside collectors. Ownership of all garbage collected, or deposited on the city dump, shall be vested in the city.
(Code 1986, § 9-23)
Sec. 74-49. - Building debris.
Any building debris such as plaster, roofing, concrete, brickbats and other such rubbish resulting from repairs, remodeling or construction of any building or private property will not be removed by the city. The owner of the premises or the contractor, professional landscaper, builder or the person doing the repairs, remodeling or construction shall haul away and dispose of all such debris, including stumps, trees and limbs, at his expense.
(Code 1986, § 9-25)
Cross reference— Buildings and building regulations, ch. 18.
Sec. 74-50. - Tree service permit; disposal of cuttings; penalty for violation.
(a)
All holders of a tree service license or any person engaging in the cutting of trees for hire or compensation shall first be required to obtain a permit from the building official giving the location and date of the cutting proposed to be done.
(b)
This section shall apply to all debris which exceeds the definition of refuse acceptable for collection by the city.
(c)
It shall be unlawful for any person to trim or remove trees within the city unless the byproduct from those services is immediately removed from the premises and placed or deposited by the person trimming or removing such trees in a disposal site.
(d)
Violation of this section shall be punished by a fine of not more than $1,000.00.
(Code 1986, § 9-26)
Sec. 74-51. - Refuse acceptable for collection.
The following refuse shall be acceptable for collection by the city:
(1)
Garbage. Putrescible animal and vegetable wastes resulting from the handling, preparation, cooking and/or consumption of foods;
(2)
Ashes. The residue from the burning of wood, coal, coke or other combustible materials;
(3)
Rubbish. Nonputrescible solid wastes, excluding ashes, consisting of paper, cardboard, tin cans, yard clippings, wood, glass, bedding, crockery, metal and similar materials;
(4)
Dead animals. Small dead animals not exceeding 25 pounds each in weight, which die in the normal course of community activity; and
(5)
Cardboard boxes. All cardboard boxes must be flattened and bundled before these items will be acceptable for collection. Under no circumstances shall cardboard boxes be placed in the city containers until the cardboard boxes have been flattened as outlined in this section.
(Code 1986, § 9-27)
Sec. 74-52. - Refuse not acceptable for collection.
The following refuse shall not be acceptable for collection by the city:
(1)
Dangerous materials. Dangerous materials or substances, such as poisons, acids, caustics, infected materials and explosives;
(2)
Construction residues. Unusual quantities of materials resulting from the repair, excavation or construction of buildings or structures, such as earth, plaster, mortar and roofing material;
(3)
Unprepared materials. Materials which have not been prepared for collection in accordance with these regulations;
(4)
Industrial waste. The solid wastes resulting from industrial processes;
(5)
Water-filled containers. Containers that have not been covered and have water in them as a result.
(Code 1986, § 9-28)
Sec. 74-53. - Collection of leaves, grass clippings and similiar materials; purchase of additional mobile toters.
(a)
Residential refuse such as leaves, grass clippings, straw, small yard and garden clippings and other similar materials may be placed in mobile toters, bags, cardboard boxes, or metal or plastic containers and placed at the curb to be collected on the regular scheduled collection day of residential garbage; provided, however, that the city shall not be responsible for any permanent container placed on the curb. The container, when emptied by the city, shall be placed on the curb beside the mobile toter.
(b)
Any customer of city garbage services may purchase from the city additional mobile toters for trash or rubbish collection.
(c)
All residential refuse such as leaves, grass clippings, straw, small yard and garden clippings and other similar materials which are not placed in mobile toters, bags, cardboard boxes, or metal or plastic containers shall be picked up on an unscheduled basis when city equipment and manpower are available.
(Code 1986, § 9-29)
Sec. 74-54. - Disposal of waste tires.
(a)
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this section, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
(1)
Waste tire generator. Any dealer in automobile, motorcycle, heavy equipment or truck tires; filling station; garage or other business that sells new or used tires and which retains the customer's used tire after replacement.
(2)
Waste tire. Any automobile, motorcycle, heavy equipment or truck tire retained by a waste tire generator after having replaced a customer's tire with a new or used tire.
(3)
Permitted disposal facility. Any facility which is permitted by the state department of natural resources, environmental protection division, for the treatment, utilization, processing or disposition of solid waste.
(4)
Recapping facility. Any facility which remanufactures waste tires for reuse.
(5)
Waste tire hauler. Any person, who transports waste tires for hire.
(b)
All waste tire generators and waste tire haulers shall dispose of all waste tires at a permitted disposal facility or recapping facility. All waste tire generators shall remove, or cause to be removed, all waste tires from their business premises at least once each month.
(c)
Each waste tire generator and waste tire hauler shall be required to keep adequate records to document their compliance with subsection (b) of this section, including the name of the company or person removing the tires, the date removed, the number of tires removed and the final disposal site of such tires. The business premises of each waste tire generator and the records required by this section shall be subject to inspection by the city marshal at any time such business is open to the public.
(d)
It shall be unlawful for any person to violate any of the requirements of this section. Every person convicted in municipal court of a violation of this section shall be subject to a minimum fine of $300.00.
(Code 1986, § 9-29)
Sec. 74-55. - Collection and disposal of building debris and industrial waste.
(a)
The owner of any commercial or industrial establishment, or a developer, contractor or builder doing construction or demolition. whose activities in the city generate building debris or other construction and demolition waste or refuse, or industrial waste or refuse, excluded from collection under the provisions of section 74-52 hereof, shall be responsible for the collection and disposal of all such waste or refuse in accordance with this section.
(b)
Collection and disposal of all such waste or refuse requiring or utilizing roll-off container collection service shall be required through an agreement or contract with the solid waste collection contractor designated by the city to provide such services pursuant to a contractual agreement with the city. Any solid waste collection contractor not having a contractual agreement with the city shall not be authorized to provide such waste collection services within the geographic limits of the city, nor shall the generators of such waste be authorized to utilize a solid waste collection contractor not authorized by this section to provide those services. Any agreement or contract entered into pursuant to this sub-section by the solid waste collection contractor designated by the city to provide such services shall be limited in duration not to extend beyond the termination date of the contractual agreement between the city and the solid waste collection contractor designated by the city to provide such services.
(c)
Any violation of the requirements of this section is hereby declared to be unlawful. Violations hereof shall be subject to enforcement by the city in accordance with the enforcement and penalty provisions of this Code.
(d)
The rates charged to customers by the city's designated solid waste collection contractor for the roll-off waste collection and disposal services described in this section shall be in accordance with the rate schedule set forth below.
EXPAND
MSW/CD WASTE INERT WASTE
20/30/40 yd. O.T.:
Haul Rate $95.00 per haul $95.00 per haul
Disposal Rate $36.00 per ton $19.50 per ton
Rental $45.00 per cont. per month
Delivery Rate $50.00 per cont. $ 50.00 per cont.
COMPACTORS:
Haul Rate $105.00 per haul
Disposal Rate $36.00 per ton
Rental From $___ to $___ per month depending on type and options
  (Ord. No. O-0808-017, 8-12-2008)
Secs. 74-56—74-90. - Reserved.
ARTICLE III. - LITTER[2]

Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
State Law reference— Litter, O.C.G.A. § 16-7-40 et seq.

Sec. 74-91. - Definitions.
For the purposes of this article the following terms, phrases, words and their derivations shall have the meaning given in this section.
Garbage is putrescible animal and vegetable wastes resulting from the handling, preparation, cooking and consumption of food.
Litter is garbage, refuse and rubbish, stones, bricks and other debris; and all other waste material which, if thrown or deposited as prohibited in this article, tends to create a danger to public health, safety and welfare.
Public receptacle is a receptacle or container placed by the city for public use in depositing litter. A receptacle commonly known as a "Dempster Dumpster" and placed by the city is declared to be a public receptacle.
Refuse is all putrescible and nonputrescible solid wastes, except body wastes, including garbage, rubbish, ashes, street cleanings, dead animals and solid market and industrial wastes.
Rubbish is nonputrescible solid waste consisting of both combustible and noncombustible wastes, such as paper, wrappings, cigarettes, cardboard, cans, wood, glass, bedding, crockery and similar materials.
(Code 1986, § 9-42)
Cross reference— Definitions generally, § 1-2.
Sec. 74-92. - Littering—On public property.
No person shall throw or deposit litter in or upon any street, sidewalk, public park or other public place within the city except in public receptacles or in official city landfills or other disposal facilities; provided, however, lawn and yard clippings and leaves may be piled between the street right-of-way line and the actual street paving or sidewalk line if the clippings are so placed as to prevent scattering and so as not to impede traffic or create a safety hazard.
(Code 1986, § 9-43)
Sec. 74-93. - Same—On private property.
No person shall throw or deposit litter on any private property within the city, whether owned by such person or not, except that the owner or person in control of private property may maintain a metal flyproof private receptacle for collection in such a manner that litter will be prevented from being carried or deposited by the elements upon any street, sidewalk or other public place or upon any private property. When a public receptacle is available on private property, litter shall be deposited therein.
(Code 1986, § 9-44)
Sec. 74-94. - Use of public receptacles.
Persons placing litter in public receptacles shall do so in such a manner as to prevent it from being carried or deposited by the elements upon any street, sidewalk or other public place or upon private property. Wooden and cardboard boxes and containers shall be disassembled or collapsed prior to placing litter in a public receptacle, and all litter placed therein shall be reasonably compressed by the person placing litter in the receptacle. The person opening the receptacle top or door shall securely close the top or door prior to leaving the receptacle after a deposit has been made therein.
(Code 1986, § 9-45)
