ARTICLE III. - OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES

Sec. 20. - Reserved.
Editor's note— 2003 Ga. Laws, page 3661, § 1, repealed the former section 20 in its entirety, which pertained to officers authorized; salaries; terms of office; dismissal; oath, and derived from 1900 Ga. Laws, page 345, § 22; 1902 Ga. Laws, page 510, § 1, and 1916 Ga. Laws, page 819, § 1.
Sec. 21. - Reserved.
Editor's note— 2003 Ga. Laws, page 3661, § 1, repealed the former section 21 in its entirety, which pertained to the clerk and treasurer, and derived from 1900 Ga. Laws, page 345, § 23, and 1916 Ga. Laws, page 819, § 1.
Sec. 21.1. - Powers of city council; 'city council' defined.
Except as otherwise provided by law or this Act, the city council shall be vested with all the powers of government of this city. The 'city council' or 'council' shall be defined in this Act as the six elected members of the board of aldermen.
(2003 Ga. Laws, page 3661, § 1)
Sec. 21.2. - Powers of mayor.
The mayor shall:
(1)
Preside at all meetings of the city council;
(2)
Be the head of the city for purpose of service of process and for ceremonial purposes;
(3)
Have power to administer oaths and to take affidavits;
(4)
Sign as a matter of course on behalf of the city all written and approved contracts, ordinances, and other instruments executed by the city which by law are required to be in writing;
(5)
Nominate members of citizen advisory boards, committees, authorities, and commissions with the advice and consent of the city council;
(6)
Vote on matters before the city council only in the event of a tie; and
(7)
Appoint city council committees and all ad hoc committees.
(2003 Ga. Laws, page 3661, § 1; 2006 Ga. Laws, page 4197, § 2)
Sec. 21.3. - Mayor pro tem.
The mayor pro tem shall be elected from among the councilmembers by a majority vote. The councilmember shall serve a one-year term and may succeed himself or herself.
(2003 Ga. Laws, page 3661, § 1)
Sec. 21.4. - Absence or disability.
During the absence of physical or mental disability of the mayor for any cause, the mayor pro tem, or in the mayor pro tem's absence or disability for any reason any one of the city councilmembers chosen by a majority vote of the city council, shall be clothed with all the rights and privileges of the mayor and shall perform the duties of the office of the mayor so long as such absence or disability shall continue. Any such absence or disability shall be declared by majority vote of all city councilmembers. The mayor pro tem or selected city councilmember shall sign all contracts and ordinances in which the mayor has a disqualifying financial interest.
(2003 Ga. Laws, page 3661, § 1)
Sec. 21.5. - City manager—Appointment.
The city council shall appoint a city manager by a majority vote of all councilmembers for an indefinite term and shall fix the manager's compensation. The manager shall be appointed solely on the basis of executive and administrative qualifications.
(2003 Ga. Laws, page 3661, § 1)
Sec. 21.6. - Same—Removal.
(a)
The city council may remove the manager from office in accordance with the following procedures:
(1)
The city council shall adopt by affirmative vote of a majority of all its members a preliminary resolution which must state the reasons for removal and may suspend the manager from duty for a period not to exceed 45 days. A copy of the resolution shall be delivered promptly to the manager;
(2)
Within five days after a copy of the resolution is delivered to the manager, the manager may file with the city council a written request for a public hearing. This hearing shall be held within 30 days after the request is filed. The manager may file with the council a written reply not later than five days before the hearing; and
(3)
If the manager has not requested a public hearing within the time specified in paragraph (2) of this subsection, the city council may adopt a final resolution for removal, which may be made effective immediately, by an affirmative vote of a majority of all its members. If the manager has requested a public hearing, the city council may adopt a final resolution for removal, which may be made effective immediately, by an affirmative vote of a majority of all its members at any time after the public hearing.
(b)
The manager shall continue to receive a salary until the effective date of a final resolution of removal.
(2003 Ga. Laws, page 3661, § 1)
Sec. 21.7. - Same—Absence, disability, suspension, vacancy.
In the event of the suspension of the city manager by the city council or the scheduled or anticipated absence or disability of the city manager for a period of ten or more consecutive days, the city council shall designate by a majority vote of all councilmembers a person or persons to perform the functions and duties of the city manager during his or her suspension or absence or disability. Vacancies in the office of city manager shall be filled by the city council as early as practicable and, until such a vacancy is filled, the city council shall have full powers to make a temporary appointment of a qualified person to perform the functions and duties of the manager's office.
(2003 Ga. Laws, page 3661, § 1; 2006 Ga. Laws, page 4197, § 3)
Sec. 21.8. - Same—Powers.
As the chief executive and administrative officer, the manager shall:
(1)
Appoint and, when the manager deems it necessary for the good of the city, suspend or remove all city employees and administrative officers the manager appoints, except as otherwise provided by law or personnel ordinances adopted pursuant to this charter. The manager may authorize any administrative officer who is subject to the manager's direction and supervision to exercise these powers with respect to subordinates in that officer's department, office, or agency;
(2)
Direct and supervise the administration of all departments, offices, and agencies of the city, except as otherwise provided by this charter or by law;
(3)
Attend all city council meetings except for closed meetings held for the purposes of deliberating on the appointment, discipline, or removal of the city manager and have the right to take part in discussion but not vote;
(4)
See that all laws, provisions of this charter, and acts of the city council subject to enforcement by the manager or by officers subject to the manager's direction and supervision are faithfully executed;
(5)
Prepare and submit the annual operating budget and capital budget to the city council;
(6)
Submit to the city council and make available to the public a complete report on the finances and administrative activities of the city as of the end of each fiscal year;
(7)
Make such other reports as the city council may require concerning the operations of city departments, offices, and agencies subject to the manager's direction and supervision;
(8)
Prepare and organize the city council agenda for all meetings and work sessions;
(9)
Keep the city council fully advised as to the financial condition and future needs of the city, and make such recommendations to the city council concerning the affairs of the city; and
(10)
Perform other such duties as are specified in this charter or as may be required by the city council.
(2003 Ga. Laws, page 3661, § 1; 2006 Ga. Laws, page 4197, § 4)
Sec. 21.9. - Officers and employees under direction and supervision of city manager.
Except for the purpose of inquiries or investigations authorized by a majority vote of councilmembers, neither the mayor nor the city council or its members shall direct or give orders to city officers or employees who are subject to the direction and supervision of the city manager.
(2003 Ga. Laws, page 3661, § 1; 2006 Ga. Laws, page 4197, § 5)
Sec. 21.10. - Fiscal year.
The city council shall set the fiscal year of the city by ordinance. The fiscal year shall constitute the budget year and the year for financial accounting and reporting of each and every office, department, agency, and activity of the city government.
(2003 Ga. Laws, page 3661, § 1)
Sec. 21.11. - Bids.
It shall be the duty of the city manager or the city manager's designee to obtain competitive bids for the purchase of any real or personal property with a fair market value exceeding an amount as the city council may from time to time establish by ordinance, except when such property is acquired through state contract, or, unless such ordinance provides otherwise, in cases in which an emergency exists or other circumstances require that an immediate purchase be made and such facts are so stated in a resolution adopted by the city council authorizing such purchase.
(2003 Ga. Laws, page 3661, § 1; 2006 Ga. Laws, page 4197, § 6)
Sec. 21.12. - City council to prescribe functions or duties; appointive officers and directors.
(a)
The city council shall appoint by majority vote of councilmembers the following city officers and officials:
(1)
City auditor;
(2)
Municipal court judge;
(3)
Municipal court solicitor; and
(4)
Municipal court public defender.
(b)
All city officers and officials appointed pursuant to this section and Section 23.1 shall serve at the pleasure of the city council and are subject to immediate removal or suspension at any time by a majority vote of the councilmembers.
(c)
All other personnel, officers, or agents of the city shall be appointed by the city manager, except as otherwise provided by law or personnel ordinances adopted pursuant to this charter.
(d)
The city council by ordinance may adopt such personnel policies, procedures, classifications, and compensation plans as it deems necessary for the proper administration of the affairs and government of this city.
(2003 Ga. Laws, page 3661, § 1; 2006 Ga. Laws, page 4197, § 7)
Editor's note— 2003 Ga. Laws, page 3661, § 1, enacted provisions intended for use as section 22. Inasmuch as there are already provisions so designated, and at the discretion of the editor, said provisions have been redesignated as section 21.12.
Sec. 21.13. - City clerk.
The city manager shall appoint a city clerk who shall not be a councilmember. The offices of the city clerk and treasurer may be held by the same person. It shall be the duty of the clerk or others authorized by the city manager to receive payments, taxes, license fees, occupation taxes, regulatory fees, and other fines and assessments due the city. The city clerk shall attend all council meetings; be custodian of the official city seal and city records; maintain city council records required by this charter; and perform such other duties as may be required. It shall be the duty of the treasurer to maintain fund accounts and to provide reports to the city manager on the state of the city treasury.
(2003 Ga. Laws, page 3661, § 1)
Editor's note— 2003 Ga. Laws, page 3661, § 1, enacted provisions intended for use as section 23. Inasmuch as there are already provisions so designated, and at the discretion of the editor, said provisions have been redesignated as section 21.13.
Sec. 22. - Board of health.
The mayor and aldermen of the City of Milledgeville shall have full power and authority at the first or subsequent meeting after each election of mayor and aldermen to appoint five (5) competent and proper persons, resident in said city, who shall constitute the board of health, three (3) of whom shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business. It shall be the duty of said board of health to meet as often as they may deem necessary, to visit all parts of the city and to report to the mayor and aldermen all nuisances which are likely to endanger the health of the city or any neighborhood. Said mayor and aldermen shall have power, upon the report of said board of health, to cause such nuisance to be abated, and its recommendation to be carried out in a summary manner at the expense of the party whose act or negligence caused such nuisance, or of the owners of the property upon which the same may be located, as the mayor and aldermen may elect.
(1900 Ga. Laws, page 345, § 57; renumb. § 56 by 1901 Ga. Laws, page 549, § 2; renumb. § 55 by 1902 Ga. Laws, page 510, § 1)
State Law reference— Abatement of nuisances in cities, O.C.G.A. § 41-2-5.
Sec. 23. - Fire department.
The mayor and aldermen shall have power and authority to create and establish a fire department in said city, provide for the pay and equipment thereof, purchase any necessary apparatus therefor and make all needful regulations for its proper maintenance.
(1900 Ga. Laws, page 345, § 59; renumb. § 58 by 1901 Ga. Law, page 549, § 2; renumb. § 57 by 1902 Ga. Laws, page 510, § 1)
Sec. 23.1. - City attorney.
The city council shall appoint by a majority vote of the councilmembers a city attorney and shall provide for the payment of such attorney or attorneys for services rendered to the city. The city attorney shall be responsible for providing for the representation and defense of the city in all litigation in which the city is a party; may be the prosecuting officer in the municipal court; shall attend the meetings of the council as directed; and shall advise the city council and city manager, in writing, when so requested, concerning legal aspects of the city's affairs. The city attorney shall prepare all contracts, bonds, and other writings and endorse an approval of the form and correctness thereof at the request of the city manager or city council. The city attorney shall perform such other duties as may be required by virtue of the person's position as city attorney.
(2003 Ga. Laws, page 3661, § 1)
Sec. 24. - Salaries of officers and employees.
The mayor and aldermen of said city shall have authority to fix the salaries and wages paid to all city officers and employees.
(1924 Ga. Laws, page 666, § 1)
Charter cross references—Salaries of mayor, other officers, § 19; officers authorized, salaries, terms of offices, dismissal, oath, § 20.
State Law reference— Compensation of officers and employees, O.C.G.A. § 36-35-4.
