ARTICLE VII. - LICENSING

Sec. 60. - Licensing, regulation, control of businesses.
The mayor and aldermen of the City of Milledgeville shall have full power and authority to license, regulate and control by ordinance all taverns, hotels, boarding houses, cafes, restaurants, saloons for the sale of creams, ices, etc., livery stables, feed stables, sale stables and lots, hacks, drays and other vehicles, auctioneers, vendue-masters, itinerant traders, theaters and theatrical performances, dummy or street railroads, oil mills, ice works, laundry and waterworks, shows, circuses and exhibition[s] of all kinds; itinerant lightning-rod dealers, emigrant agents, book agents, peddlers of clocks, stoves, machines or any kind of articles of merchandise whatsoever, itinerant vendors of any and all kinds of goods, wares, merchandise or other things; billiard, pool and bagatelle tables kept for public play, every keeper of a shooting gallery, tenpin alley, upon the keeper of any table device, stand or place for the performance of any game or play, whether played with sticks, balls, rings or other contrivances, upon flying horses or other like contrivances, bicycles, velocipedes or skating-rinks; insurance agents, life, fire, accident or other insurance companies, loan agents and agents for and all kinds of business; bank and bankers, brokers and commission merchants of all kinds and dealers in futures; keepers of slaughterhouses, beef markets, green grocers, dealers in fresh oysters, vegetables, fruits, breads and other articles of food; contractors and builders and all mechanics or artisans; barbershops, junk shops, pawnbrokers, and upon all and every other establishment, business calling or avocation not heretofore mentioned, and which, under the laws and constitution of the State of Georgia, are subject to license.
(1900 Ga. Laws, page 345, § 29)
State Law reference— Disabled veterans and blind persons exempt from license, O.C.G.A. § 43-12-1 et seq.; exemption for certain agricultural products and livestock, O.C.G.A. § 48-5-356.
Sec. 61. - Fiscal year for licenses.
The mayor and aldermen of said city shall have power and authority to make and establish by ordinance a fiscal year in their discretion, from which and to which all licenses shall date. Should any person apply for license for any business in said city, for which a license is required at any time after the fiscal year has begun, the mayor and aldermen shall have authority to require from such person the same amount as required for license for a full year, and, in no case, shall the mayor and aldermen be compelled to prorate the amount of any license for a term less than a full year; provided, nevertheless, that no change in the fiscal year shall operate to the injury of any person who has paid the amount of license required of him.
(1900 Ga. Laws, page 345, § 33)
Sec. 62. - License prerequisite for beginning, continuing business.
The mayor and aldermen of said city may demand payment of the license authorized by this act and the laws of Georgia in the amount fixed by ordinance, as a condition precedent to beginning or continuing any business in said city for which a license is required. Should any person engage or continue in business not having paid the license so demanded of him, he shall be liable to prosecution in the municipal court, and, on conviction, may be fined or imprisoned in the discretion of the court. The provisions of this act shall apply to all persons, whether natural or artificial.
(1900 Ga. Laws, page 345, § 32)
Sec. 63. - Gross sales tax in lieu of business license.
The mayor and aldermen of the City of Milledgeville shall have power and authority to levy and collect [a] tax upon the gross sales of every merchant or other vendor of goods, wares, and merchandise in said city. Said tax not to [shall not] exceed one-half of one (1) per cent and to [shall] be in lieu of a business license.
(1900 Ga. Laws, page 345, § 26)
Sec. 64. - Licensing sale of alcoholic beverages.
The mayor and aldermen of said city shall have the sole and exclusive right to grant license[s] for the sale of whiskey, beer, wine, cider, alcoholic tonics, all alcoholic, intoxicating or malt liquors of every kind whatsoever within the limits of said city, and to fix the rate of license for sale of said liquors by wholesale or retail, in a sum not less than five hundred dollars ($500.00) nor more than one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) per annum; provided, that no license for the sale of any of said liquors shall be construed to authorize the sale for any time beyond the expiration of the fiscal year in which it is issued, and said mayor and aldermen shall have power to demand and collect the full amount of the annual license without regard to the time when the dealer began business.
(1900 Ga. Laws, page 345, § 30)
State Law reference— Local alcoholic beverage licenses, O.C.G.A. §§ 3-4-50, 3-5-42 et seq., 3-6-40.
Sec. 65. - Liquor license prerequisite to doing business; regulation.
Payment of the license demanded of dealers in [the] aforesaid liquors shall be a condition precedent to beginning said business, and any person selling, by himself of his agent, any of said liquors before having paid the license as fixed by the mayor and aldermen and demanded by their authority, shall be liable to prosecution in the municipal court, and, upon conviction, subject to be punished as may be provided by ordinance.
Said mayor and aldermen may regulate the sale of liquors; confine the sale to certain limits; prescribe the qualifications of the dealer; fix the hours in which they may not be sold and make such other regulations of the business as they may deem proper. Should any dealer in [the] aforesaid liquors violate any of the laws or ordinances which are now in force or may hereafter be made in pursuance of this act, the person so offending shall be liable to prosecution in the municipal court, and, upon conviction, may be punished by fine or imprisonment, and the mayor and aldermen may, in their discretion, in addition to said fine or imprisonment, declare the license of said offender forfeited and void.
(1900 Ga. Laws, page 345, § 31)
State Law reference— Sales of alcoholic beverages on Sunday, O.C.G.A. § 3-3-7.
