Chapter 14 - ANIMALS[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Charter reference— Collection of debts due city, § 56; licensing, § 60 et seq.; animals and fowl, § 74 et seq.
Cross reference— Environment, ch. 42; health and sanitation, ch. 54.
State Law reference— Animals, O.C.G.A. tit. 4; cruelty to animals, O.C.G.A. § 16-12-4; transportation of animals, meat or meat food products, O.C.G.A. § 26-2-110; game and fish, O.C.G.A. tit. 27; civil liability for damage by animal, O.C.G.A. § 51-2-6 et seq.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 14-1. - Keeping of livestock.
No person shall keep, stable or maintain within the city limits any cattle, horses, mules, goats, sheep, swine, turkeys or chickens or other livestock.
(Code 1986, § 4-1)
Sec. 14-2. - Animals running at large.
It shall be unlawful for any owner or keeper of any domestic animal to knowingly permit such animal to run at large upon the streets, alleys, sidewalks and parks of the city or upon any property of another within the corporate limits of the city.
(Code 1986, § 4-2)
Sec. 14-3. - City declared bird sanctuary.
The city is hereby declared a bird sanctuary. It shall be unlawful for any person to trap without a federal permit, hunt, shoot or attempt to shoot or disturb in any manner any bird or wildfowl or to rob bird nests or wildfowl nests within the city. However, if starlings or similar birds are found to be congregating in such numbers in a particular location that they constitute a nuisance or a menace to health or property, and if no satisfactory alternative is found to abate such nuisance or menace, then these birds may be destroyed under the supervision of the chief of police.
(Code 1986, § 4-3)
Secs. 14-4—14-40. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - DOGS[2]

Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
State Law reference— Dogs, O.C.G.A. § 4-8-1 et seq.; destroying or injuring police dog, O.C.G.A. § 16-11-107; state assistance for control or elimination of wild and abandoned dogs, O.C.G.A. § 27-1-7; hunting with dogs, O.C.G.A. § 27-3-16; killing of dogs running deer, O.C.G.A. § 27-3-49; guide dogs for the handicapped, O.C.G.A. § 30-4-1 et seq.; control of rabies, O.C.G.A. § 31-19-1 et seq.

Sec. 14-41. - Enforcement.
The provisions of this article shall be enforced by the law enforcement officer, agent or employee of the city designated as the animal control officer. Upon information known to or a sworn complaint lodged with such officer, that any owner or possessor of a dog is in violation of this article, summons may be issued by such animal control officer requiring the owner or possessor of such dog to appear before the municipal court of the city on a day and time certain, to stand trial for violation of this article. If such violation of this article has not been witnessed by a law enforcement officer, agent or employee of the city, a subpoena shall be issued to the person making the complaint, to be and appear on the day and time set to testify on behalf of the city.
(Code 1986, § 4-16)
Sec. 14-42. - Penalty.
Any person violating this article may be punished by a fine not to exceed $25.00 for the first offense, $50.00 for the second offense and $100.00 for the third offense. After the third offense, any person violating this article may be punished as provided in section 1-8, and the municipal court judge may order the dog destroyed, provided the owner is served with notice and a hearing is held.
(Code 1986, § 4-17)
Sec. 14-43. - Collar; inoculation tag; identification.
It shall be unlawful for any owner of a dog to allow such dog in any area in the city without a collar which shall have attached a valid vaccination tag as required by the laws of the state, and an identification showing the name and address of the owner of such dog. It shall be the duty of each dog owner to provide a collar with identification as provided in this section and an inoculation tag for each dog, except when such dog is under immediate control of the owner.
(Code 1986, § 4-20)
State Law reference— Municipal control of rabies, O.C.G.A. § 31-19-3; inoculation of canines, O.C.G.A. § 31-19-5.
Sec. 14-44. - Procedure when dog seized or impounded.
(a)
Any dog seized or impounded under any provision of this article shall be detained at the city animal control center. The animal control officer shall notify the owner of such dog, if known or can be reasonably ascertained, that such dog has been impounded. The owner of any dog impounded, other than the dog being held after the third offense, may, within three days after notification, reclaim such dog upon the payment of $1.00 per day for each day of impoundment, and the cost of a rabies inoculation and tag, if such is needed. Also, the dog owner shall pay a $10.00 pickup fee before the dog is released.
(b)
In the event such dog is not claimed in the time provided in this section, the city may offer for adoption by any person any dog unredeemed or unclaimed by the owner upon payment of the costs as provided in this section, including the cost of rabies inoculation, if applicable.
(c)
If the dog is not claimed by the owner within the time prescribed in this chapter, then the city shall be authorized to dispose of such dog in as humane and painless a manner as possible. Such dogs, if not claimed or adopted within the time provided, may be donated to any public or private institution for disposition.
(Code 1986, § 4-18)
Sec. 14-45. - Running at large.
It shall be unlawful for the owner of any dog, or for any person having a dog in his control and possession, to permit such dog to be out of control and unattended off the premises of the owner in the city, upon the property of another person without permission of the owner or person in possession thereof or upon the streets, alleys, sidewalks, public places or other property of the city. A dog shall be determined to be under control if he is controlled by a leash or is within a vehicle being driven or parked on the streets or is within the property limits of the owner. It shall be the responsibility of the owner to have dog on a leash or chain, or within a fence or other enclosure.
(Code 1986, § 4-19)
Sec. 14-46. - Impoundment of dogs found running at large.
Any and all dogs found running at large in violation of this article shall be immediately impounded by the city or its duly authorized officers or agents. If the owner or person in possession of a dog is not known and such dog is upon the streets, alleys, sidewalks, public places or premises of another, any law enforcement officer or agent or employee duly authorized by the city shall be authorized to take possession of such dog and impound it, as provided by law or ordinance for the detention, control and disposition of dogs impounded.
(Code 1986, § 4-21)
Charter reference— Municipal pound, § 76.
State Law reference— Dogs, O.C.G.A. § 4-8-1 et seq.
Sec. 14-47. - Vicious dogs.
(a)
It shall be unlawful for any person to cause, permit, accompany or be responsible for the presence of any vicious dog on the streets of the city or in any other public places therein, at any time, unless and in addition to the other requirements of this article such dog shall be securely muzzled to effectively prevent it from biting any person or other animal.
(b)
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this section, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Vicious dog means any dog:
(1)
With a propensity, tendency or disposition to attack, to cause injury to or to otherwise endanger the safety of humans or domestic animals; or
(2)
That attacks a human being or a domestic animal one or more times without provocation.
(Code 1986, § 4-22)
Sec. 14-48. - Barking, noisy dogs.
No person shall keep or harbor a dog which, by loud and frequent barking, howling, yelping, growling or any other noise, causes serious disturbance to any of the people of the city. Such dog shall be impounded upon written complaint of four or more citizens living within 500 feet of any property upon which such dog is confined, pending a determination by the municipal court judge of whether or not such dog is creating a serious disturbance.
(Code 1986, § 4-23)
Sec. 14-49. - Confinement of dogs suspected of being rabid, when person has been bitten.
Notwithstanding any other provision of this article, whenever the county health office, the county rabies control officer or an officer or agent of the city shall receive information that any person has been bitten by a dog reasonably suspected of being rabid, the county health office, the rabies control officer or officer or agent of the city shall have the dog confined for eight days or as required by the county board of health. It shall be the duty of the owner, custodian, or person having possession and knowledge of any dog which has bitten any person or animal or of any dog which exhibits any signs of rabies to notify the county board of health and to confine such dog in accordance with rules and regulations of the county board of health. All persons shall comply with the orders of officials of the county health department in the handling and treatment of such dogs. Any expense incurred in the handling of any dog under this section shall be borne by the owner of such dog.
(Code 1986, § 4-24)
State Law reference— Animals suspected of being rabid, O.C.G.A. § 31-19-4.
Sec. 14-50. - Injured dogs.
The animal control officer shall have the authority to humanely dispose of dogs which are injured and lying in the streets or public ways of the city whenever it shall appear that such an animal is injured and is suffering great pain and does not bear a tag identifying the owner and no determination as to the owner of such dog can be made with a reasonable inquiry or investigation.
(Code 1986, § 4-25)
Sec. 14-51. - Records.
The animal control officer shall keep accurate written records showing the final disposition of all dogs impounded by him, which record shall be open and available for public inspection.
(Code 1986, § 4-26)
State Law reference— Inspection of public records, O.C.G.A. § 50-18-70 et seq.
