ARTICLE II. - OCCUPATIONAL AND PROFESSIONS TAX[1]

Sec. 22-21. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Location and office mean and include any structure or vehicle where a business, profession, or occupation is conducted, but shall not include a temporary or construction work site which serves a single customer or project or a vehicle used for sales or delivery by a business or practitioner of a profession or occupation which has a location or office. The renter's or lessee's location that is the site of personal property that is rented or leased from another does not constitute a location or office for the personal property's owner, lessor, or the agent of the owner or lessor. The site of real property which is rented or leased to another does not constitute a location or office for the real property's owner, lessor, or the agent of the owner or lessor unless the real property's owner, lessor, or the agent of the owner or lessor, in addition to showing the property to prospective lessees or tenants and performing maintenance or repair of the property, otherwise conducts the business of renting or leasing the real property at such site or otherwise conducts any other business, profession, or occupation at such site.
Occupation tax means a tax levied for revenue purposes on persons, partnerships, corporations or other entities for engaging in an occupation, profession or business in the city.
Occupation tax certificate means a document issued by the city acknowledging payment of the occupation tax.
Practitioners of professions and occupations means those individuals listed in O.C.G.A. § 48-13-9(c)(1)—(c)(18), but does not include a practitioner who is an employee of a business if such business pays an occupation tax.
Regulatory fee means payments, whether designated as license fees, permit fees, or by another name, which are required by a local government as an exercise of its police power and as a part of or as an aid to regulation of an occupation, profession, or business. The amount of a regulatory fee shall approximate the reasonable cost of the actual regulatory activity performed by the local government. A regulatory fee may not include an administrative fee or registration fee. Regulatory fees do not include development impact fees as defined by O.C.G.A. § 36-71-2(8), or other costs or conditions of zoning or land development.
(Ord. of 12-20-1994(2), § 1(18-1))
State Law reference— Similar provisions, O.C.G.A. § 48-13-5.
Sec. 22-22. - Occupation tax levied; limitations.
(a)
Except as to those businesses and practitioners of professions and occupations excluded by O.C.G.A. § 48-13-16(a) and except as to those persons excluded by O.C.G.A. § 43-12-1, an occupation tax of $50.00 for each location is hereby levied upon all businesses and practitioners of professions and occupations that have one or more locations or offices within the corporate limits.
(b)
There is hereby levied an occupation tax of $50.00 on those businesses and practitioners of professions and occupations with no location or office in the state, if the business or practitioner:
(1)
Has one or more employees or agents who exert substantial efforts within the corporate limits for the purpose of soliciting business or serving customers or clients; or
(2)
Owns personal or real property that generates income and that is located in the corporate limits.
(c)
The city shall not require the payment of more than one occupation tax for each location of a business or practitioner.
(d)
A business or practitioner, which is subject to an occupation tax by another local government and claiming an exemption from or limitation to the occupation tax imposed by this article, shall submit documentation as to current payment of the occupation tax to the other local government and the basis of such tax.
(1)
If a business or practitioner with no location or office in the state provides to the city proof of payment of a local business or occupation tax in another state which purports to tax the business's or practitioner's sales or services in this state, then the business or practitioner shall be exempt from this occupation tax.
(2)
A business or practitioner with no location or office in the state shall only be required to pay occupation tax to the local government in the state where the largest dollar volume of business is done or service is performed by such business or practitioner. This limitation shall only apply when the business or practitioner has provided to the city satisfactory proof of as to the applicability of this subsection.
(e)
If a business or practitioner commences business in the city on or after July 1 in any year, the occupation tax for the remaining portion of the year shall be 50 percent of the tax imposed for the entire year. The administrative fee shall not be reduced.
(f)
If a business or practitioner does not know how many employees that are the basis of this occupation tax will be employed by the business or practitioner during the current calendar year, then the business or practitioner shall file a return estimating the number of employees that are the basis of this occupation tax. If such estimate is not accurate, then no later than December 31, the business or practitioner shall file an amended return indicating the actual number of employees during the previous calendar year. Any overpayment of the occupation tax may be credited to the business or practitioner's account for future tax liability, offset against other amounts due and owing to the city for any reason or paid to the business or practitioner at the discretion of the clerk of the city.
(g)
Real estate brokers shall be subject to an occupation tax pursuant to this article only if they maintain a principal or branch office in the city.
(Ord. of 12-20-1994(2), § 1(18-4))
State Law reference— Levy of occupational license authorized, O.C.G.A. §§ 48-13-6, 48-13-7, 48-13-10.
Sec. 22-23. - Occupation tax certificate.
Every business, practitioner and location subject to payment of the occupation tax levied by this article shall display a current occupation tax certificate in a conspicuous place at the location for which such certificate was issued. If the taxpayer does not have a permanent location within the city, the occupation tax certificate shall be shown to any police officer upon request.
(Ord. of 12-20-1994(2), § 1(18-5))
Sec. 22-24. - Exemptions.
(a)
No occupation tax shall be levied on the following:
(1)
Any practitioner whose office is maintained by and who is employed in practice exclusively by the United States, the state, a municipality or county of the state, or instrumentality of the United States, the state, or a municipality or county of the state;
(2)
Those businesses regulated by the state public service commission;
(3)
Those electrical service businesses organized under O.C.G.A. title 46, ch. 3 (O.C.G.A. § 46-3-1 et seq.);
(4)
Any farm operation for the production from or on the land of agricultural products, but not including any agribusiness;
(5)
Nonprofit, agricultural product cooperative marketing associations pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 2-10-105;
(6)
Motor common carriers pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 46-7-15;
(7)
Persons purchasing guano, meats, meal, flour, bran, cottonseed, or cottonseed meal or hulls in carload lots for distribution among the purchasers for use and not sale pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 48-5-355;
(8)
Pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 48-5-356, for persons selling or introducing into the city agricultural products or livestock, including animal products, raised in this state when the sale and introduction are made by the producer of the product and the sale is made within 90 days of the introduction of the product into the city;
(9)
Depository institutions pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 48-6-93;
(10)
Any business where the levy of such occupation tax is prohibited by the laws of the state or the United States; or
(11)
Any charitable, nonprofit organization, as such as defined under section 501 of the Internal Revenue Code (and such other relevant provisions). The city is providing this exemption to further the goals of promoting functions served by such organizations for the good of the city and its citizens.
(b)
The exemptions and limitations contained in this article shall not be construed to repeal or otherwise affect, in any way, any franchise fees, business taxes or other fees or taxes otherwise allowed by law.
(Ord. of 12-20-1994(2), § 1(18-7))
State Law reference— Exemptions, O.C.G.A. § 48-13-16.
Sec. 22-25. - Evidence of state registration when required.
Each person who is licensed under O.C.G.A. title 43 (O.C.G.A. § 43-1-1 et seq.), by the examining boards of the secretary of state's office shall provide evidence of proper and current state licensure before any city occupation tax certificate or regulatory fee certificate may be issued.
(Ord. of 12-20-1994(2), § 1(18-8))
Sec. 22-26. - Evidence of qualification required if applicable.
(a)
Any business required to obtain health permits, bonds, certificates of qualification, certificates of competency or any other regulatory matter shall first, before the issuance of an occupation tax certificate or a regulatory fee certificate, show evidence of such qualification.
(b)
Any business required to submit an annual application for continuance of the business shall do so before the registration is issued.
(Ord. of 12-20-1994(2), § 1(18-9))
Sec. 22-27. - Confidentiality.
Information provided by a business or practitioner to the city for the purpose of determining the applicability and amount of the occupation tax or levying or collecting the occupation tax is confidential and exempt from disclosure under O.C.G.A. title 50, ch. 18, art. 4 (O.C.G.A. § 50-18-70 et seq.). Such information may be provided to the governing authority of another local government for occupation tax purposes or pursuant to court order or for the purpose of collecting the occupation tax or prosecution for failure or refusal to pay the occupation tax.
(Ord. of 12-20-1994(2), § 1(18-11))
Sec. 22-28. - Date due; penalty.
(a)
Any occupation tax or regulatory fee due pursuant to this article shall be due and payable annually on or before February 1. In the event that any person commences business or initially engages in a regulated activity in the city after January 1 in any year, the tax and/or fee shall be due and payable 30 days following the commencement of the business.
(b)
Any individual, business or practitioner subject to any occupation tax or regulatory fee imposed by this article, which is unpaid for 90 days after the date on which the payment was due, shall be subject to a penalty of ten percent of the tax or fee due.
(Ord. of 12-20-1994(2), § 1(18-12))
State Law reference— Occupational license due day, O.C.G.A. § 48-13-16.
Sec. 22-29. - Enforcement; violations.
(a)
It is the duty of the clerk of the city and the police department to administer and enforce the provisions of this article, to perform all functions necessary to administer and enforce this article and to summon violators of this article to appear before the municipal court. The clerk of the city may issue executions against individuals, businesses and practitioners for taxes and fees which are due and owing.
(b)
The clerk of the city shall issue executions against individuals, businesses and practitioners for taxes and fees which are due and owing. Such executions shall bear interest at the rate authorized by O.C.G.A. § 48-2-40 or, if such statute should be repealed, one percent per month. The lien shall cover the property of the individual, business or practitioner liable for payment of the delinquent occupation tax or regulatory fee and become fixed as of the date and time the occupation tax or regulatory fee became delinquent. The execution shall be levied by the clerk of the city upon property of the delinquent tax or fee payer located in the city and sufficient property shall be advertised and sold to pay the amount of the execution, including penalty, interest and costs. All other proceedings in relation thereto shall be as provided by this Code, the Charter of the city and the laws of the state. The defendants at execution shall have the rights of defense, by affidavit of illegality of the tax or otherwise as provided by the Charter of the city and the laws of the state in regard to tax executions.
(c)
When a nulla bona entry has been entered upon an execution, the person against whom the entry is made shall not be allowed or entitled to have or collect any fees or charged whatever for services rendered after the entry of the nulla bona. If, at any time after the nulla bona entry has been made, the person against whom the execution issues pays the tax in full, together with all interest and costs accrued on the tax, the person may collect any fees and charges due to such person as if such person had never defaulted in the payment of the tax.
(d)
Individuals, businesses and practitioners who fail or refuse to pay any occupation tax or regulatory fee charged pursuant to this article shall be subject to an additional fine of $100.00.
(e)
Individuals, businesses and practitioners who fail or refuse to make a timely or truthful tax return or make available truthful and accurate information the city requests or requires for determining applicability or amount of occupation tax or regulatory fee, or for levying or collecting such occupation tax or regulatory fee shall be subject to a fine in the amount of $10.00 per 30-day period, or part thereof, during which the business or practitioner failed to file a return or during which the business or practitioner permitted an untruthful return to be on file with the city.
(f)
All persons subject to the occupation tax or regulatory fee imposed by this article shall be required to file for and pay such tax or fee. For failure to do so, any officers or agents soliciting for or obtaining such person, the business shall be subject to the same penalty as other persons, businesses or practitioners who fail to obtain, make a return for or pay the applicable occupation tax or regulatory fee.
(Ord. of 12-20-1994(2), § 1(18-13))
Secs. 22-30—22-46. - Reserved.
