ARTICLE IV. - OPEN CONTAINER AREAS IN SPECIAL DISTRICTS

Sec. 4-106. - General provisions.
The provisions of this article are intended to set forth exceptions and provisions applicable only to licensees whose establishments are located within the areas identified in the Crabapple District, Deerfield District, and Birmingham Crossroads District (as hereinafter defined) holding licenses to sell alcoholic beverages for consumption on-premises. Except as specifically set forth in this article, all such licenses remain subject to all other provisions of this chapter.
( Ord. No. 20-12-462 , § 1(Exh. A), 12-21-2020)
Sec. 4-107. - Definition of special districts.
For the purposes of this article only, the city's special districts are designated as follows: the Crabapple District, Deerfield District, and Birmingham Crossroads Districts (as shown in the attached maps) and are defined as follows: The area of the city identified as C1, MIX, T4, T4 Open, T4 Restricted, T5, T6, and adjacent CS transect zones in the applicable Form Based Code, excluding, in the Crabapple District, those parcels fronting Green Road and Arnold Mill Road.
In the case of a licensed establishment whose main entrance is inside a special district, the entire licensed establishment shall be considered part of the special district, regardless of whether any portion of the licensed establishment is in a zoning district not included in the special district.
( Ord. No. 20-12-462 , § 1(Exh. A), 12-21-2020)
Sec. 4-108. - Open container areas allowing outside consumption of alcoholic beverages.
Notwithstanding any other provisions in this chapter, the following activities are specifically allowed within open container areas in the city's "special districts."
(a)
One drink on-street limit. Any establishment licensed to sell alcoholic beverages by the drink for consumption on-premises whose entrance is located in a special district is authorized to dispense an alcoholic beverage in a paper or plastic cup, or other container other than a can, bottle, or glass, for removal from the premises; provided, however, that no establishment shall dispense to any person more than one such alcoholic beverage at a time for removal from the premises, and no person shall remove at one time more than one such alcoholic beverage from the licensed premises.
(b)
Size limited to a maximum of 16 ounces. No container in which an alcoholic beverage is dispensed and removed from the licensed premises shall exceed 16 fluid ounces in size. No person shall hold in possession on the streets and sidewalks, in parks and squares, or in other public places within the defined area any open alcoholic beverage container which exceeds 16 fluid ounces in size.
(c)
Drinking from can, bottle, or glass prohibited. It shall be prohibited for any person to drink or attempt to drink any alcoholic beverage from a can, bottle, or glass, or to possess in an open can, bottle, or glass any alcoholic beverage on the streets, sidewalks, rights-of-way, and parking lots, whether public or private.
(d)
Purchase from licensed premises within defined districts. Alcoholic beverages consumed pursuant to this provision must be purchased from a licensed premises within the defined districts. A licensed premises will be deemed to be within the defined district if the entrance to the licensed premises is located within the district.
( Ord. No. 20-12-462 , § 1(Exh. A), 12-21-2020)
Sec. 4-109. - No abrogation of other laws.
The provisions of this article shall not be deemed to abrogate or otherwise impact any state law or local ordinance pertaining to public drunkenness, disorderly conduct, driving with an open container or under the influence of alcohol, or similar laws.
( Ord. No. 20-12-462 , § 1(Exh. A), 12-21-2020)
Secs. 4-110—4-115. - Reserved.
