ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 10-1. - Definitions.
Unless otherwise expressly stated, the following terms shall, for the purposes of this code, have the meanings shown in this article:
Approved means approved by the building official.
Basement means that portion of a building which is partly or completely below grade.
Bathroom means a room containing plumbing fixtures, including a bathtub or shower.
Bedroom means any room or space used or intended to be used for sleeping purposes.
Building official means the official who is charged with the administration and enforcement of this code or any duly authorized representative.
Condemn means to adjudge unfit for occupancy.
Dwelling unit means a single unit providing complete, independent living facilities for one or more persons, including permanent provisions for living, sleeping, eating, cooking and sanitation.
Easement means that portion of land or property reserved for present or future use by a person or agency other than the legal fee owner of the property. The easement shall be permitted to be for use under, on or above a lot.
Exterior property means the open space on the premises and on adjoining property under the control of owners or operators of such premises.
Extermination means the control and elimination of insects, rats or other pests by eliminating their harborage places by:
(1)
Removing or making inaccessible materials that serves as their food;
(2)
Poison spraying, fumigating, and trapping; or
(3)
Any other approved pest elimination methods.
Garbage means the animal or vegetable waste resulting from the handling, preparation, cooking and consumption of food.
Guard means a building component or a system of building components located at or near the open sides of elevated walking surfaces that minimizes the possibility of a fall from the walking surface to a lower level.
Habitable space means space in a structure for living, sleeping, eating or cooking. Bathrooms, toilet rooms, closets, halls, storage or utility spaces, and similar areas are not considered habitable spaces.
Housekeeping unit means a room or group of rooms forming a single habitable space equipped and intended to be used for living, sleeping, cooking and eating which does not contain, within such a unit, a toilet, lavatory and bathtub or shower.
Imminent danger means a condition which could cause serious or life-threatening injury or death at any time.
Infestation means the presence, within or contiguous to, a structure or premises of insects, rats, vermin or other pests.
Inoperable motor vehicle means a vehicle which cannot be driven upon the public streets for reason including, but not limited to, being:
(1)
Unlicensed;
(2)
Wrecked;
(3)
Abandoned;
(4)
In a state of disrepair; or
(5)
Incapable of being moved under its own power.
Labeled means devices, equipment, appliances, or materials to which has been affixed a label, seal, symbol or other identifying mark of a nationally recognized testing laboratory, inspection agency or other organization concerned with product evaluation that maintains periodic inspection of the production of the labeled items listed in this definition and by whose label the manufacturer attests to compliance with applicable nationally recognized standards.
Let for occupancy or let means to permit, provide or offer possession or occupancy of a dwelling, dwelling unit, rooming unit, building, premises or structure by a person who is or is not the legal owner of record thereof, pursuant to:
(1)
A written or unwritten lease;
(2)
An agreement or license; or
(3)
A recorded or unrecorded agreement of contract for the sale of land.
Occupancy means the purpose for which a building or portion thereof is utilized or occupied.
Occupant means any individual living or sleeping in a building, or having possession of a space within a building.
Openable area means that part of a window, skylight or door which is available for unobstructed ventilation and which opens directly to the outdoors.
Operator means any person who has charge, care or control of a structure or premises which is let or offered for occupancy.
Owner.
(1)
The term "owner" means any person, agent, operator, firm or corporation:
a.
Having a legal or equitable interest in the property;
b.
Recorded in the official records of the state, county or municipality as holding title to the property; or
c.
Otherwise having control of the property.
(2)
The term "owner" includes the guardian of the estate of any such person, and the executor or administrator of the estate of such person if ordered to take possession of real property by a court.
Parts. Whenever the term "dwelling unit," "dwelling," "premises," "building," "roominghouse," "rooming unit," "housekeeping unit" or "story" is stated in this code, it shall be construed as though it was followed by the words "or any part thereof."
Premises means a lot, plot or parcel of land, easement or public way, including any structures thereon.
Public way means any street, alley or similar parcel of land essentially unobstructed from the ground to the sky, which is deeded, dedicated or otherwise permanently appropriated to the public for public use.
Rooming unit means any room or group of rooms forming a single habitable unit occupied or intended to be occupied for sleeping or living, but not for cooking purposes.
Roominghouse means a building arranged or occupied for lodging, with or without meals, for compensation and not occupied as a one- or two-family dwelling.
Rubbish means combustible and noncombustible waste materials, except garbage. The term "rubbish" includes the residue from the burning of wood, coal, coke and other combustible materials, paper, rags, cartons, boxes, wood, excelsior, rubber, leather, tree branches, yard trimmings, tin cans, metals, mineral matter, glass, crockery and dust and other similar materials.
Strict liability offense means an offense in which the prosecution in a legal proceeding is not required to prove criminal intent as a part of its case. It is enough to prove that the defendant either did an act which was prohibited, or failed to do an act which the defendant was legally required to do.
Structure means that which is built or constructed or a portion thereof.
Tenant means a person, corporation, partnership or group, whether or not the legal owner of record, occupying a building or portion thereof as a unit.
Terms defined in other codes. Where terms are not defined in this code and are defined in the International Building Code, International Fire Code, International Zoning Code, International Plumbing Code, International Mechanical Code, International Existing Building Code or the NEC Electrical Code, such terms shall have the meanings ascribed to them as in those codes.
Terms not defined. Where terms are not defined through the methods authorized by this section, such terms shall have ordinarily accepted meanings such as the context implies.
Toilet room means a room containing a water closet or urinal but not a bathtub or shower.
Ventilation means the natural or mechanical process of supplying conditioned or unconditioned air to, or removing such air from, any space.
Workmanlike means executed in a skilled manner (e.g., generally plumb, level, square, in line, undamaged and without marring adjacent work).
Yard means an open space on the same lot with a structure.
(Ord. No. 06-12-76, § 1(ch. 2), 12-21-2006)
Sec. 10-2. - Penalty.
Any person who shall violate a provision of this code, or fail to comply therewith, or with any of the requirements thereof, shall be subject to a fine or imprisonment, upon conviction in the city municipal court, and each and every day that the premises shall remain in a condition in violation of the terms of this article shall constitute a separate offense. This section shall be in addition to the provisions of the abatement of said nuisance and the charge of the cost of the same against the owner of the premises by the city. A fine imposed under this code shall be no less then $25.00 and shall not exceed $1,000.00 per offense. A sentence of imprisonment under this article shall not exceed 60 days per offense. At the discretion of the municipal court judge, any sentence may be probated, altered or amended. Any property owner, occupant or party of interest who violates any other property maintenance code within a 24-month period shall immediately be issued a citation and subject to a fine of not less than $500.00.
(Ord. No. 06-12-76, § 1(106.4), 12-21-2006)
Secs. 10-3—10-21. - Reserved.
