DIVISION 8. - R-4 SINGLE-FAMILY DWELLING DISTRICT

Sec. 64-552. - Scope and intent.
The regulations set forth in this division are the R-4 district regulations. Article IX should be consulted to determine uses and minimum standards for uses allowed by administrative permit or use permit. The R-4 district is intended to provide land areas devoted to low density residential uses. The district also provides for closely related uses.
Sec. 64-553. - Use regulations.
Within the R-4 district, land and structures shall be used in accordance with standards herein. Any use not specifically designated as a permitted use in this section or as a use allowed by administrative permit or use permit shall be prohibited.
(1)
Permitted uses. Structures and land may be used for only the following purposes:
a.
Single-family dwelling.
b.
Agriculture, general and specialized farming, initiated prior to March 7, 1990, including horticulture, plant nursery, dairy farming, truck gardening and poultry raising; provided, however, that agricultural buildings must be at least 200 feet from all side and rear property lines, and that no products shall be offered for sale on land so utilized.
c.
Two-family dwelling which complies with minimum lot area, yard and floor area requirements of the R-6, two-family dwelling district, and where 40 percent or more of the dwellings fronting on the same side of a street between two intersecting streets is occupied by either two-family or multifamily dwellings initiated prior to March 7, 1990,
(2)
Accessory uses. A structure or land may be used for uses customarily incidental to any permitted use and a dwelling may be used for a home occupation.
Sec. 64-554. - Development standards.
(a)
Height regulations. No building shall exceed 40 feet in height.
(b)
Minimum front yard shall be 35 feet.
(c)
Minimum side yard shall be as follows:
(1)
Adjacent to interior line: seven feet.
(2)
Adjacent to street: 20 feet.
(d)
Minimum rear yard shall be 25 feet.
(e)
Minimum lot area shall be 9,000 square feet.
(f)
Minimum lot width shall be 70 feet.
(g)
Minimum lot frontage shall be 35 feet adjoining a street.
(h)
Minimum heated floor area shall be as follows:
(1)
For less than two-story dwelling: 1,000 square feet on ground level;
(2)
For two-story dwelling: 1,100 square feet; or
(3)
For more than two-story dwelling: 1,100 square feet with 800 square feet on ground floor.
(i)
Minimum accessory structure requirements. Accessory structures may be located in the rear or side yards only but shall not be located within a minimum yard.
(j)
Conservation subdivision. The development standards of a conservation subdivision shall be in accordance with chapter 50, article V (subdivision regulations). Chapter 50, article V, conservation subdivision, is currently reserved.
Sec. 64-555. - Other regulations.
The following headings contain provisions applicable to the R-4 district:
(1)
Development regulations: article XVII of this zoning ordinance.
(2)
Exceptions: article II, division 3 of this zoning ordinance.
(3)
Floodplain management: article IV of this zoning ordinance.
(4)
Off-street parking and loading: article VIII of this zoning ordinance.
(5)
Outside storage: article II, division 2 of this zoning ordinance.
(6)
Landscape area and buffer regulations: article III of this zoning ordinance.
(7)
River protection: Metropolitan River Protection Act, O.C.G.A. § 12-5-440 et seq.
(8)
Signs: article XVI of this zoning ordinance.
Secs. 64-556—64-574. - Reserved.
