Chapter 74 - PLANNING[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Cross reference— Administration, ch. 2; buildings and building regulations, ch. 18; environment, ch. 42; historic preservation, ch. 54; streets, sidewalks and other public places, ch. 86; utilities, ch. 98.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Secs. 74-1—74-30. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - PLANNING COMMISSION[2]

Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
Cross reference— Administration, ch. 2.
State Law reference— Authority to adopt plans, Ga. Const. 1983, art. IX, § II, ¶ IV.

Sec. 74-31. - Creation; purpose.
In order to guide and accomplish a coordinated and harmonious development of the city which will, in accordance with existing and future needs, best promote the public health, safety, morals, order, convenience, prosperity, and the general welfare, as well as efficiency and economy in the process of development, the Monroe Planning Commission, hereinafter referred to as the planning commission, is hereby created and established.
(Code 1988, § 8-1-1)
Sec. 74-32. - Membership.
The planning commission shall consist of five members, who shall be residents of the city, appointed by the mayor and city council. The terms of the members shall be for five years, which shall be staggered. Any vacancy in membership shall be filled for the unexpired term by the council who shall also have the authority to remove any member for cause, on written charges, after a public hearing. All members shall serve with compensation as set by council.
(Code 1988, § 8-1-2)
Sec. 74-33. - Organization; rules.
The planning commission shall elect its chairperson from among its members. The term of the chairperson shall be one year, and he shall be eligible for reelection for consecutive terms. The planning commission shall make its own rules of procedure and determine its time of meeting. Meetings of the planning commission shall be open to the public, and all records of the planning commission shall be a public record. The planning commission shall have the right to hold executive sessions as permitted by state law.
(Code 1988, § 8-1-3(a))
State Law reference— Georgia Sunshine Law, O.C.G.A. title 50, ch. 14; meetings of local governmental bodies, O.C.G.A. § 36-80-1.
Sec. 74-34. - Staff, finances.
The mayor and city council may appoint such employees and staff as it may deem necessary for the work of the planning commission. The expenditures of the planning commission, exclusive of donations, shall be within the amounts appropriated for the purpose by the council.
(Code 1988, § 8-1-3(b))
Sec. 74-35. - Powers and duties.
(a)
The planning commission shall act in an advisory capacity to the city council, and in that capacity shall prepare and recommend for adoption to the council:
(1)
A master plan or parts thereof for the development of the city;
(2)
A zoning ordinance or resolution and map for the city;
(3)
Regulations for the subdivision of land within the city and administer the regulations that may be adopted; and
(4)
A plat or plats of an official map showing the exact location of the boundary lines of existing, proposed, extended, widened or narrowed streets, public open spaces or public building sites, together with regulations within such lines, within the city or a specified portion thereof.
(b)
It shall be the duty of the planning commission to make such careful and comprehensive surveys and studies of existing conditions and probable future developments as necessary to perform the functions set out in subsection (a) of this section.
(Code 1988, § 8-1-4)
