Chapter 94 - TRAFFIC AND VEHICLES[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Cross reference— Cemetery traffic, § 26-3; court, ch. 34; law enforcement, ch. 58; offenses and miscellaneous provisions, ch. 62; criminal trespass by motor vehicle, § 62-6; traffic and parking for yard sales, § 78-97; streets, sidewalks and other public places, ch. 86; parades and demonstrations, § 86-76 et seq.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 94-1. - Adoption of uniform rules of the road.
(a)
Pursuant to O.C.G.A. §§ 40-6-372—40-6-376, O.C.G.A. §§ 40-6-1—40-6-396 of that chapter known as the uniform rules of the road and the definitions contained in O.C.G.A. § 40-1-1 are hereby adopted as and for the traffic regulations of the city with like effect as if recited in this chapter.
(b)
Unless another penalty is expressly provided by law, every person convicted of a violation of any provision of this section shall be punished by a fine of not more than $1,000.00 or by imprisonment for not more than 12 months or by both such fine and imprisonment. To the extent allowed by state law, the court is further authorized to probate, suspend or defer any sentence imposed pursuant to this section.
(Code 1988, § 10-1-1; Ord. No. 2005-08, 8-2-2005)
State Law reference— Adoption of uniform rules of the road by local authorities, O.C.G.A. § 40-6-372.
Sec. 94-2. - Temporary traffic regulations.
In cases where traffic upon the streets of the city may become congested upon occasions of parades, at theaters and other public assemblages where large numbers of vehicles are assembled, the police chief may make temporary rules directing and regulating the traffic in these congested districts, and any person, after being warned of the temporary traffic regulations, who shall violate them shall be liable therefor as for other violations of this Code.
(Code 1988, § 10-1-2)
Sec. 94-3. - Traffic control devices; schedule.
(a)
The police chief or his designee, upon approval by ordinance of the city council, is authorized to designate and maintain with appropriate traffic control signs, markings and devices after engineering and traffic investigations:
(1)
Speed zones;
(2)
Truck routes and streets to be designated specifically to prohibit various classes of trucks;
(3)
One-way streets and other directional control devices;
(4)
Freight loading zones and regulations;
(5)
Parking and no parking zones and regulations thereon;
(6)
Stop, yield and other right-of-way signs; and
(7)
Stop signals and other traffic signals.
(b)
The police chief or his designee is authorized to issue written orders designating by appropriate traffic control signs, markings and devices after engineering and traffic investigations:
(1)
Pedestrian crosswalks;
(2)
Other safety zones for pedestrians;
(3)
Traffic lanes; and
(4)
Any other sign, marking or zone necessary for orderly and safe conditions on the streets of the city.
(c)
The police chief shall maintain or cause to be recorded a current schedule of all traffic rules, regulations and orders under this section, which record shall be available for inspection by the public. For items listed in subsection (a) of this section, this schedule, and any amendments thereto, shall become effective only upon approval thereof by ordinance of the city council and this schedule is hereby incorporated herein and copies thereof shall be available for public inspection in the office of the city clerk.
(d)
All traffic control signs, signals, devices and markings shall conform to specifications in the Manual on Uniform Traffic-Control Devices adopted by the state transportation board. All signs and signals required hereunder for a particular location throughout the city. All traffic control devices so erected and not inconsistent with the provisions of state law or this Code shall be official traffic control devices of the city.
(e)
Any violation of any traffic zone, marking, sign or other traffic control device established hereunder shall be a violation of this Code.
(Code 1988, § 10-1-4)
Sec. 94-4. - Obstruction of view and use by trees and shrubs; notice.
(a)
No person owning, occupying or in anywise controlling property in this city shall erect any fence, wall or other structure or permit any tree, bush or shrub on the property to project over any street or sidewalk of this city so as to obstruct or interfere with the view and use of persons walking or riding in a vehicle on the street or sidewalk or of other persons or vehicles approaching from cross or intersecting streets.
(b)
It shall be unlawful for any person, whether the owner, tenant, agent or person controlling property in the city to fail to remove any tree, bush or other obstruction from the streets or sidewalks of this city after ten days' notice by the city to do so.
(Code 1988, § 10-1-5)
Sec. 94-5. - Unauthorized sign, signal, or other devices.
(a)
It shall be unlawful for any person to erect, place, or maintain within the right-of-way of any public road in the city, any sign, signal, or other device except as required or authorized by O.C.G.A. § 32-6-50 or any other law.
(b)
It shall be unlawful for any person to erect, place, or maintain in a place or position visible from any public road any unauthorized sign, signal, device, or other structure which:
(1)
Imitates, resembles, or purports to be an official traffic-control device;
(2)
Hides from view or interferes with the effectiveness of any official traffic-control device;
(3)
Obstructs a clear view from any public road to any other portion of such public road, to intersecting or adjoining public roads, or to property abutting such public road in such a manner as to constitute a hazard to traffic on such roads; or
(4)
Because of its nature, construction, or operation, constitutes a dangerous distraction to or interferes with the vision of drivers of motor vehicles.
(c)
Any sign, signal, device, or other structure erected, placed, or maintained on the right-of-way of any public road in violation of subsection (a) or (b) of this section is declared to be a public nuisance, and the city may remove or direct the removal of the same. Where any sign, signal, device, or other structure is erected, placed or maintained in violation of subsection (b) of this section, but not on the right-of-way of any public road, the city may order the removal of such structure by written notice to the owner of the structure or the owner of the land on which the structure is located. If such structure is not removed within 30 days after the giving of such order of removal, city officials are authorized to remove or cause to be removed such structure and to submit a statement of expenses incurred in the removal to the owner of the structure or to the owner of the land on which the structure is located. If payment or arrangement to make payment is not made within 60 days after the receipt of such statement, the city council shall certify the amount thereof for collection to the city attorney.
(Code 1988, § 10-1-6)
State Law reference— Similar state law, O.C.G.A. § 32-6-51.
Sec. 94-6. - Free flow of traffic; obstruction prohibited.
All persons are prohibited from engaging in driving procedures which obstruct the free flow of traffic in, around, over and through the streets, alleyways and other public ways of the city. Any person is prohibited from stopping his vehicle (except at a stop signal or stop sign, or to honor another driver's right-of-way, or in an emergency situation) in a manner as to obstruct the free and orderly flow of traffic by the maneuver, or to engage in unduly slow driving procedures so as to obstruct the free flow of traffic or to needlessly "circle the block" or dawdle or make unnecessarily rapid accelerations and decelerations or to in any other manner constitute a traffic nuisance or hazard.
(Code 1988, § 10-2-1)
Sec. 94-7. - Speed limits generally.
It shall be unlawful for any person to drive a motor vehicle upon any public street or highway within the corporate limits of the city at a speed in excess of 30 miles per hour except as to those areas where speed zones have been defined by signs being erected by the city indicating the speed for the particular zone, which signs shall govern the speed limit in such zone. The speed limit on all streets leading to the schools shall be 25 miles per hour.
(Code 1988, § 10-2-2)
Sec. 94-8. - Limited load streets.
It shall be unlawful to operate any vehicle on any street where the weight of vehicles permitted on such street is limited by ordinance and signs indicating such limitations are posted. It shall be unlawful to operate a vehicle in excess of such weight on such street, except for the purpose of making a delivery or picking up a load, in which case such vehicle may be driven on such street for not more than the minimum distance necessary for the purpose.
(Code 1988, § 10-2-4)
Secs. 94-9—94-40. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - PARKING REGULATIONS

Sec. 94-41. - Vehicles to be parked within marked spaces.
Whenever a space is marked off on any highway or street for the parking of an individual vehicle, every vehicle there parked shall be parked within the lines bounding that space.
(Code 1988, § 10-3-1)
Sec. 94-42. - Manner of parking when no specific provisions.
On all streets or alleys in the city for which no special parking provisions have been made, it shall be lawful to park vehicles on either side of the street or alley with the right side of the vehicle within 12 inches to the curb or roadway edge and with the vehicle parallel to such curb or edge, provided that a minimum of ten feet of unobstructed passageway shall remain for the passage of other vehicles.
(Code 1988, § 10-3-2)
Sec. 94-43. - Double parking prohibited.
It shall be unlawful for any person to double park any motor-propelled vehicle or animal-drawn vehicle.
(Code 1988, § 10-3-3)
Sec. 94-44. - Parking prohibited at all times in certain locations.
It is unlawful for the owner or operator of any motor vehicle or other vehicle to park the vehicle in any of the places on the streets and alleys of the city specifically designated by posted signs indicating the prohibited parking.
(Code 1988, § 10-3-4)
Sec. 94-45. - Parking prohibited in certain locations, certain days and hours.
It is unlawful for the owner or operator of any motor vehicle or other vehicle to park the vehicle in any of the places on the days and between the hours indicated and specified by posted signs indicating the prohibited parking.
(Code 1988, § 10-3-5)
Sec. 94-46. - Parking time limited in certain locations, certain days and hours.
It is unlawful for the owner or operator of any motor vehicle, or other vehicle to park the vehicle or allow the vehicle to remain parked in any of the places on the streets and alleys of the city, in excess of the time indicated and specified by posted signs limiting parking time in certain locations on certain days and hours.
(Code 1988, § 10-3-6)
Sec. 94-47. - Congested area.
(a)
In any areas designated by the council as congested areas pursuant to subsection 94-3(a)(5) and section 94-46, no vehicle may remain parked in such zone for more than two hours.
(b)
The two-hour limitation shall be in effect Monday through Saturday from 8:00 a.m. until 5:00 p.m.
(Code 1988, § 10-3-7; Ord. No. 2007-07, art. I, 8-14-2007)
Sec. 94-48. - Special purpose parking zones established, parking otherwise prohibited.
It is unlawful for the owner or operator of any motor vehicle, or other vehicle to park the vehicle or allow the vehicle to remain parked in any locations on the streets and alleys of the city established and designated as special purpose parking zones indicated and specified by posted signs approved by the mayor and city council, except in accordance with such posted regulations.
(Code 1988, § 10-3-8)
Sec. 94-49. - Special regulation of downtown area.
(a)
It shall be unlawful for any person to leave standing or parked any motor-propelled vehicle, including buses and trucks of over one-half ton capacity, on the streets of the city within the following limits: From the intersection of Broad Street and Washington Street on the south, to the intersection of Broad Street and Highland Avenue, on the north.
(b)
It shall be unlawful for any person to unload any vehicle on the streets of the city within the above described limits from other than a marked parking space between the hours of 9:00 a.m. and 12:00 midnight.
(c)
It shall be unlawful to park any truck on Broad Street in the city, for the purpose of loading or unloading same, for a period of time longer than 30 minutes.
(d)
It shall be unlawful to make U-turns on Broad Street from Washington Street to Highland Avenue.
(Code 1988, § 10-3-9)
Sec. 94-50. - Suspension of no parking rules in residential areas for unusual circumstances.
In any residential area where absolutely no parking is permitted due to traffic hazards, if the property owner desires that the no parking be suspended for a reasonable time because of unusual circumstances, such as a wedding or a funeral, then the property owner shall file in writing with the clerk or chief of police a written application for an exception to the no parking rule specifying the date, time and place. The city clerk or chief of police may in his discretion grant a temporary suspension of the no parking rule. Such exception shall be requested at least 48 hours in advance of the special activity, except for funerals for which approval of exceptions shall be requested two hours prior to the event.
(Code 1988, § 10-3-10)
Sec. 94-51. - Duty of police officers; penalty for violation.
It shall be the duty of the police department to properly patrol the parking zones to determine violations of this article. It shall be the duty of the police officers to take the state vehicle tag number of vehicles and persons who park more than two hours in a congested area. It shall be the duty of police officers to make complaint of violators thereof in the municipal court.
(Code 1988, § 10-3-11)
Sec. 94-52. - Loading/unloading zone on Court Street.
(a)
The south side of Court Street between its intersection with Broad Street and its intersection with Lumpkin Street shall be designated as a loading/unloading zone. It shall be unlawful within this specified loading/unloading zone to allow a motorized vehicle to be parked, stopped or left standing for more than 15 consecutive minutes. Any motorized vehicle located within this designated loading/unloading zone in excess of the specified time as herein established in addition to being cited for violation of this section may be towed from the loading/unloading zone to an impound lot by the chief of police or his designee.
(b)
A fee as set forth in the schedule of fees and charges on file in the office of the city clerk shall be paid to the city prior to release of the towed vehicle to the owner or operator.
(c)
The police chief is hereby authorized to designate Court Street with appropriate traffic control signs to effect this section.
(Code 1988, § 10-3-12)
Secs. 94-53—94-85. - Reserved.
ARTICLE III. - RAILROADS

Sec. 94-86. - Speed limited.
It shall be unlawful for any railroad engineer, railroad conductor, railroad fireman, or other employee of a railroad to run any railroad train in the city at a speed greater than 25 miles per hour.
(Code 1988, § 10-4-1)
Sec. 94-87. - Obstructing streets, maximum period.
No freight, passenger or any other railroad train shall be allowed to stand on or obstruct any public crossing within the city longer than five minutes at any time.
(Code 1988, § 10-4-2)
Sec. 94-88. - Crossing intersections; flagman to precede; cars to be coupled.
It shall be unlawful for any railroad, railroad engineer, railroad conductor, railroad fireman or other employee of a railroad to make up a train or to switch or move any cars of a railroad train across the public streets known as Davis or Depot Street crossing at the depot in the city unless such train shall be preceded by a flagman while approaching or being moved across the public streets, or shall have a flagman so stationed at such public street crossings so as to give timely warning of the approach of trains which are to be moved across such streets. In making up trains, moving and switching trains and cars across any public street in the city, such trains and cars are required to be at all times coupled together and under the direct and immediate control of the person or employee operating the engine moving the train or cars and to which the cars shall at all such times and places be coupled.
(Code 1988, § 10-4-3)
Sec. 94-89. - Warning signals regulated.
It shall be unlawful, within the city, for any railroad company, by its engineer, or other employee in charge of its locomotives, to blow the whistle of the same on approaching crossings or public roads within the city, but in lieu thereof such engineer or employee shall signal the approach of the locomotive or train to such crossings and public roads by tolling the bell of the locomotive.
(Code 1988, § 10-4-4)
State Law reference— Bells permitted in lieu of whistle inside cities, O.C.G.A. § 46-8-191.
Secs. 94-111—94-117. - Reserved.
ARTICLE IV. - PERSONAL TRANSPORTATION VEHICLES[2]

Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
Editor's note— Ord. No. 2017-02 , art. I(exh. A), adopted Aug. 8, 2017, added Art. IV, §§ 94-90—94-96 to the Code; however, said provisions have been designated as Art. IV, §§ 94-111—94-117 at the editor's discrection, for purposes of maintaining Code format.

Sec. 94-111. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Personal transportation vehicle means any motor vehicle: (i) With a minimum of four wheels; (ii) Capable of maximum level ground speed of less than 20 miles per hour; (iii) With a maximum gross vehicle unladen or empty weight of 1,375 pounds; and (iv) Capable of transporting not more than eight persons; and shall be consistent with the definition as set forth in O.C.G.A. § 40-1-1(43.1). This includes golf carts and similar types of self-propelled vehicles.
( Ord. No. 2017-02 , art. I(exh. A), 8-8-2017)
Sec. 94-112. - License and registration required.
Personal transportation vehicles may be operated within the city only after the owner has completed the registration process pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 40-6-331(b), and only if a person who possesses a valid Georgia driver's license is operating the personal transportation vehicle. Registration fees are charged by the city to cover the costs of implementing and maintaining this article. It shall be the duty of every owner of a personal transportation vehicle that is operated on public roads, recreational paths, rights-of-way or other public property in the jurisdiction of the city to register the personal transportation vehicle with the city within ten days of the date of purchase/acquisition. There shall be a registration fee and a user fee as set out below.
( Ord. No. 2017-02 , art. I(exh. A), 8-8-2017)
Sec. 94-113. - Registration application and fee.
(a)
Registration with the city shall include a record of the model, make and vehicle identification number or serial number on such personal transportation vehicle, the name and address of the owner, a contact phone number, and any other such information as the city shall require, all of which shall be maintained at city hall. A person desiring to register a personal transportation vehicle shall bring documentation setting forth a description of such vehicle to the Code Department and complete an application of registration of such personal transportation vehicle.
(b)
Upon registration, the clerk shall issue a numerical decal to be applied to a conspicuous place on such vehicle so as to be plainly visible. This decal issued shall be nontransferable from the vehicle for which it is issued.
(c)
There shall be a $15.00 registration and licensing fee due annually on January 1 of each year.
( Ord. No. 2017-02 , art. I(exh. A), 8-8-2017)
Sec. 94-114. - Emblem required.
(a)
Before any personal transportation vehicle may be operated within the city, the vehicle must have affixed thereto an emblem as required by O.C.G.A. § 40-8-4. Failure to have a current registration decal affixed to a personal transportation vehicle shall be a violation of this section and subject the owner of such personal transportation vehicle to the penalties set forth in Sec. 94-96.
(b)
The decal issued by the city shall be nontransferable from the personal transportation vehicle for which it was issued.
( Ord. No. 2017-02 , art. I(exh. A), 8-8-2017)
Sec. 94-115. - General regulations.
(a)
Personal transportation vehicles may only be operated on public roads, recreational paths, rights-of-way or other public property which are part of the city's street system which have a speed limit of 35 miles per hour or less.
(b)
Personal transportation vehicles shall not be operated on streets and highways that are a part of the state highway system of Georgia unless crossing such a street or highway is necessary to remain on a public road, recreational path, right-of-way, or other public property which is a part of the city's street system that personal transportation vehicles are permitted to operate on.
(c)
All personal transportation vehicles shall be equipped with: functional headlights and taillights; a flashing or rotating yellow or amber light mounted on the top of the personal transportation vehicle; a braking system sufficient for the weight and passenger capacity of the personal transportation vehicle, including a parking brake; a reverse warning device functional at all times when the directional control is in the reverse position; a main power switch which renders the personal transportation vehicle inoperable when the switch is in the "off" position or the key is removed, with said key only being removable when the switch is in the off position; reflex reflectors; horn; rear view mirror; safety warning labels; hip restraints or hand holds or a combination of both.
(d)
All occupants of a personal transportation vehicles must wear seatbelts at all times, if available.
(e)
Personal transportation vehicles shall not be operated on the sidewalks.
(f)
Restrictions placed upon licensed motorists shall apply in the same manner as if operating a motor vehicle.
(g)
The maximum occupancy of a personal transportation vehicle traveling on public roads, recreational paths, rights-of-way or other public property shall be one person per designated seat.
(h)
All operators of personal transportation vehicles shall abide by all traffic regulations applicable to vehicular traffic when using the designated public roads, recreational paths, rights-of-way or other public property of the city.
(i)
The city council may, at its discretion, and by resolution, waive registration requirements for special events of a limited duration.
(j)
A city employee on city business, in a city vehicle, and in the exercise of his/her duties, may operate gasoline, diesel fuel or battery-operated powered vehicles or personal transportation vehicles upon the city's streets, parks, parking lots, and other public properties within the city limits.
(k)
All personal transportation vehicles noncompliant with the requirements herein shall not be allowed to be operated on any city street.
(l)
Any owner registering a personal transportation vehicle with the city and any operator of same agrees to abide by all the requirements of state law and this Code.
( Ord. No. 2017-02 , art. I(exh. A), 8-8-2017)
Sec. 94-116. - Liability.
The owner or operator of a personal transportation vehicle is liable for his or her own actions. Any person who operates or owns a personal transportation vehicle is responsible for procuring and maintaining liability insurance in the amount of $25,000.00 per person for bodily injury, $50,000.00 per accident for bodily injury to one or more people, and $25,000.00 per accident for property damage.
( Ord. No. 2017-02 , art. I(exh. A), 8-8-2017)
Sec. 94-117. - Violation—Penalty.
It shall be unlawful for a personal transportation vehicle to be operated on the streets of the city except as expressly authorized in this section, and every person convicted of a violation shall be punished as provided in section 1-11 of this Code.
( Ord. No. 2017-02 , art. I(exh. A), 8-8-2017)
Secs. 94-118—94-140. - Reserved.
