Chapter 66 - PARKS AND RECREATION[1]

Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Cross reference— Environment, ch. 42; streets, sidewalks and other public places, ch. 86.

Sec. 66-1. - Recreation department.
There is hereby created a recreation department of the city, which shall be responsible for the management and operation of all municipal parks, recreation areas, and recreation programs.
(Code 1988, § 7-1-1)
Cross reference— Departmental organization, § 2-4.
Sec. 66-2. - Recreation director.
The recreation department shall be headed by a recreation director who shall have such powers and duties as may be delegated by the mayor and city council. There shall be such other positions and employees in such department as may be established from time to time by the council. In the absence or disability of the director, one or more acting directors may be appointed, who shall perform all duties of the director during the period of their appointment.
(Code 1988, § 7-1-2)
Sec. 66-3. - Rules and regulations authorized.
The recreation director shall recommend rules and regulations applicable to areas and programs under his jurisdiction, which shall become enforceable upon adoption by the mayor and city council.
(Code 1988, § 7-1-3)
Sec. 66-4. - Violation of rules and regulations.
Anyone who shall be found guilty of violating any rule or regulation of the recreation department shall be punished as provided in section 1-11.
(Code 1988, § 7-1-4)
Sec. 66-5. - Trespassing.
It shall be unlawful for anyone without authorization in writing from the recreation director to enter upon or within certain recreation areas which are fenced and/or designated by signs, restricting the use thereof to certain circumstances or times, unless such circumstances are met or entry shall occur during such designated times. Violation of this provision shall, upon conviction, subject the offender to punishment as provided in section 1-11.
(Code 1988, § 7-1-5)
Sec. 66-6. - Group use.
(a)
Groups wishing to use city recreational facilities shall be required to reserve the facility with the recreation director no more than three months nor less than 48 hours prior to such use. The city reserves the right to cancel any reservation on one weeks' notice. An hourly rental fee as established from time to time by the mayor and city council shall be paid at the time such reservation is made. Such fee is nonrefundable. In addition to the rental fee, a refundable deposit shall be made at the time of the reservation in such amount as established from time to time by the council. The deposit shall be used to ensure clean up of the facility and held against damage to city property.
(b)
Each group making use of a city recreational facility shall be responsible for cleaning the facility after that use. The city shall deduct expenses for necessary clean up by city employees and for any damage to city property from the deposit prior to refund.
(c)
Any adult basketball, softball, football, soccer or tennis team shall pay a user-fee to help cover the cost of lights, field marking material and other expenses in such amounts as fixed from time to time by the mayor and city council. Payment shall be made before the start of the season involved.
(d)
The provisions of this section shall apply to all city recreational facilities, including, but not limited to, any gymnasium, gym, office, meeting room, city auditorium, park pavilion, or other recreational facility.
(Code 1988, § 7-1-6)
Sec. 66-7. - Income generating use of facilities.
Any individual or group reserving and/or using a city recreational facility for personal income shall be required to pay a fee as set forth in the schedule of fees and charges on file in the office of the city clerk.
(Code 1988, § 7-1-7)
Sec. 66-8. - Alcoholic beverages.
No alcoholic beverages are allowed on any city recreation and parks property.
(Code 1988, § 7-1-8)
Cross reference— Alcoholic beverages, ch. 6.
