Chapter 54 - HISTORIC PRESERVATION[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Cross reference— Buildings and building regulations, ch. 18; environment, ch. 42; planning, ch. 74; streets, sidewalks and other public places, ch. 86.
State Law reference— Georgia Historic Preservation Act, O.C.G.A. § 44-10-20 et seq.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 54-1. - Purpose.
In support and furtherance of its findings and determination that the historical, cultural and aesthetic heritage of the city is among its most valued and important assets and that the preservation of this heritage is essential to the promotion of the health, prosperity and general welfare of the people; in order to stimulate revitalization of the business districts and historic neighborhoods and to protect and enhance local historical and aesthetic attractions to tourists and thereby promote and stimulate business; and in order to enhance the opportunities for federal tax relief of property owners if available, allowing tax investments credits or rehabilitation of certified historic structures; the city council hereby declares it to be the purpose and intent of this chapter to establish a uniform procedure for use in providing for the protection, enhancement, perpetuation, and use of places, districts, sites, buildings, structures, and works of art having a special historical, cultural, or aesthetic interest or value, in accordance with the provisions of this chapter.
(Code 1988, § 8-4-1)
Sec. 54-2. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Certificate of appropriateness means a document evidencing approval by the historic preservation commission of an application to make a material change in the appearance of a designated historic property or of a property located within a designated historic district.
Exterior architectural features means the architectural style, general design, and general arrangement of the exterior of a building or other structure, including but not limited to, the kind or texture of the building material and the type and style of all windows, doors, signs and other appurtenant architectural fixtures, features, details, or elements relative to the foregoing.
Exterior environmental features means all those aspects of the landscape or the development of the site which affect the historical character of the property.
Historic district means a geographically definable area which contains structures, sites, works of art or a combination thereof which exhibit a special historical, architectural, or environmental character as designated by the mayor and city council.
Historic property means an individual structure, site, or work of art which exhibits a special historical, architectural, or environmental character as designated by the mayor and city council.
Material change in appearance means a change that will affect either the exterior architectural or environmental features of an historic property or any structure, site or work of art within an historic district, and may include any one or more of the following:
(1)
A reconstruction or alteration of the size, shape, or facade of an historic property, including any of its architectural elements or details;
(2)
Demolition of an historic structure;
(3)
Commencement of excavation for construction purposes;
(4)
A change in the location of advertising visible from the public right-of-way;
(5)
The erection, alteration, restoration or removal of any building or other structure within an historic property or district, including walls, fences, steps and pavements, or other appurtenant features.
(Code 1988, § 8-4-2)
Cross reference— Definitions generally, § 1-2.
Sec. 54-3. - Penalties.
Violations of any provisions of this chapter shall be punished in the same manner as provided in section 1-11.
(Code 1988, § 8-4-3)
Secs. 54-4—54-35. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - HISTORIC PRESERVATION COMMISSION[2]

Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
Cross reference— Administration, ch. 2.

Sec. 54-36. - Creation.
The title of the commission shall be the City of Monroe Historic Preservation Commission. Commission members shall be appointed by the mayor and city council and will have only advisory authority in recommending landmark and historic district designation.
(Code 1988, § 8-4-11)
Sec. 54-37. - Position within the city government.
The city historic preservation commission shall be considered a part of the planning functions of the city.
(Code 1988, § 8-4-12)
Sec. 54-38. - Membership.
The historic preservation commission shall consist of five members appointed by the mayor and ratified by the city council who have demonstrated special interests, experience or education in history, architecture or the preservation of historic resources. Members shall serve three-year terms. At the expiration of their term, members shall continue to serve until their successor is duly appointed. All members shall reside within the city. In order to achieve staggered terms, initial appointments as needed shall be: one member for one year; one member for two years; one member for three years; one member for four years; and one member for five years. Members do not receive a salary. One additional member may be appointed from the city council to serve as an ex-officio nonvoting member. This councilmember may be appointed annually by the mayor.
(Code 1988, § 8-4-13; Ord. No. 2019-01 , art. I, 2-12-2019)
Sec. 54-39. - Powers.
The historic preservation commission shall be authorized to:
(1)
Prepare an inventory of all property within its historic preservation jurisdiction having the potential for designation as historic property;
(2)
Recommend to the city council specific places, districts, sites, buildings, structures, or works of art to be designated by ordinance as historic properties or historic districts;
(3)
Review applications for certificates of appropriateness, and grant or deny same in accordance with the provisions of this chapter;
(4)
Recommend to the city council that the designation of any place, district, site, building, structure, or work of art as an historic property or as an historic district be revoked or removed;
(5)
Restore or preserve any historic properties acquired by the city;
(6)
Promote the acquisition by the city of facade easements and conservation easements in accordance with the provisions of state law;
(7)
Conduct an educational program on historic properties located within its historic preservation jurisdiction;
(8)
Make such investigations and studies of matters relating to historic preservation as the city council or the commission itself may, from time to time, deem necessary or appropriate for the purposes of preserving historic resources;
(9)
Seek out state and federal funds for historic preservation, and make recommendations to the city concerning the most appropriate uses of any funds acquired;
(10)
Submit to the historic preservation section of the department of natural resources a list of historic properties or historic districts designated;
(11)
Perform historic preservation activities as the official agency of city historic preservation program;
(12)
Employ persons, if necessary, to carry out the responsibilities of the commission;
(13)
Receive donations, grants, funds, gifts or historic property, and to acquire and sell historic properties. The commission shall not obligate the city without prior consent;
(14)
Review and make comments to the state historic preservation office concerning the nomination of properties within its jurisdiction to the National Register of Historic Places.
(Code 1988, § 8-4-14)
Sec. 54-40. - Rules of procedure.
The historic preservation commission shall adopt rules for the transaction of its business and consideration of applications, shall provide for the time and place of regular meetings, and for the calling of special meetings. The commission shall have the flexibility to adopt rules of procedure without amendment to this chapter. A quorum shall consist of a majority of the members. The latest edition of Roberts' Rules of Order shall determine the order of business at all meetings.
(Code 1988, § 8-4-15)
Sec. 54-41. - Funding from various sources.
The historic preservation commission shall have the authority to accept donations and shall ensure that these funds do not displace appropriated governmental funds.
(Code 1988, § 8-4-16)
Sec. 54-42. - Records of meetings.
A public record shall be kept of the historic preservation commission's resolutions, proceedings and actions.
(Code 1988, § 8-4-17)
Secs. 54-43—54-75. - Reserved.
ARTICLE III. - DESIGNATION OF HISTORIC DISTRICTS AND LANDMARKS

Sec. 54-76. - Preliminary research.
(a)
The historic preservation commission shall have the authority to compile and collect information and conduct surveys of historic resources within the city.
(b)
The historic preservation commission shall present to the city council nominations for historic districts and local landmarks.
(c)
The historic preservation commission shall prepare formal reports nominating historic districts or local landmarks. These reports shall be used to educate the community and to provide a permanent record of the designation. The report will follow guidelines for nominating structures to the National Register of Historic Places (National Preservation Act of 1966), and shall consist of two parts: a physical description; and a description of historic significance. This report will be submitted to the historic preservation section of the department of natural resources.
(Code 1988, § 8-4-31)
Sec. 54-77. - Designation of district.
(a)
Criteria for selection. An historic district is a geographically definable area, which contains structures, sites, works of art, or a combination thereof, which:
(1)
Have special character or special historic/aesthetic value or interest;
(2)
Represent one or more periods or styles of architecture typical of one or more areas in the history of the municipality, county, state or region;
(3)
Cause such area, by reason of such factors, to constitute a visibly perceptible section of the municipality or county.
(b)
Boundaries. Boundaries of an historic district shall be specified on tax maps; these boundaries will be included in the separate ordinances designating local districts. Boundaries specified in legal notices shall coincide with the boundaries finally designated. Districts shall be shown on the official zoning map.
(c)
Evaluation of properties. Individual properties within historic districts shall be classified as:
(1)
Historic (more than 50 years old);
(2)
Nonhistoric (less than 50 years old, yet possessing architectural character);
(3)
Intrusions (structures less than 50 years old which do not contribute to the historical character of the district).
(d)
Affirmation of existing zoning. This chapter is not a use ordinance, and local zoning laws, where they exist, remain in effect until modified.
(Code 1988, § 8-4-32)
Sec. 54-78. - Designation of landmark.
(a)
Criteria for selection. An historic landmark is a structure, site, work of art, including the adjacent area necessary for the proper appreciation or use thereof, deemed worthy of preservation by reason of value to the city, state, or local region, for one or more of the following reasons:
(1)
It is an outstanding example of a structure representative of its era;
(2)
It is one of the few remaining examples of past architectural style;
(3)
It is a place or structure associated with an event or person of historic or cultural significance to the city, state, or the region.
(b)
Boundary description. Boundaries shall be clearly defined for individual properties on tax maps and located on the official zoning map.
(Code 1988, § 8-4-33)
Sec. 54-79. - Application for designation.
(a)
Historic district. An historical society, neighborhood association, or group of property owners may apply for designation as an historic district.
(b)
Landmark. An historical society or property owner may apply for designation as a landmark.
(Code 1988, § 8-4-34(a))
Sec. 54-80. - Required public hearings.
The historic preservation commission and the mayor and city council shall hold a public hearing on the proposed ordinance for designation of an historic district or a landmark. Notice of the hearing shall be published in at least three consecutive issues in the legal organ of the city, and written notice of the hearing shall be mailed by the commission to all owners and occupants of such properties. All such notices shall be published or mailed not less than ten nor more than 20 days prior to date set for the public hearings. A letter sent via the United States Mail to the last-known owner of the property shall constitute legal notification under this chapter.
(Code 1988, § 8-4-34(b))
Sec. 54-81. - Content of designation.
Any ordinance designating any property or district as historic shall describe each property to be designated, set forth the name of the owner of the designated property or properties, and require that a certificate of appropriateness be obtained from the historic preservation commission prior to any material change in appearance of the designated property.
(Code 1988, § 8-4-34(c))
Sec. 54-82. - Indication on zoning map public record.
Any ordinance designating any property or district as historic shall require that the designated property or district be shown on the official zoning map of the city and kept as a public record to provide notice of such designation.
(Code 1988, § 8-4-34(d))
Sec. 54-83. - Submission of report to state.
Prior to designating any property or district as historic, the commission must submit a report on the historic, cultural, architectural, or aesthetic significance of each place, district, site, building/structure, or work of art, to the historic preservation section of the department of natural resources. Thirty days will be allowed to prepare written comments.
(Code 1988, § 8-4-34(e))
Sec. 54-84. - Action upon designation.
A decision to accept or deny the ordinance for designation shall be made within 15 days following the public hearing and shall be in the form of a resolution to the city council.
(Code 1988, § 8-4-34(f))
Sec. 54-85. - Notification of adoption of ordinance for designation.
Within 30 days immediately following the adoption of the ordinance for designation of an historic district or landmark, the owners and occupants of each designated historic property, and the owners and occupants of each structure, site, or work of art located within a designated historic district shall be given written notification of such designation by the city council. Such notice shall apprise the owners and occupants of the necessity of obtaining a certificate of appropriateness prior to undertaking any material change in appearance of the historic property designated or within the historic district designated.
(Code 1988, § 8-4-34(g))
Sec. 54-86. - Notification of other agencies regarding designation.
The historic preservation commission shall notify all necessary agencies within the city of the ordinance for designation, including the local historical organization.
(Code 1988, § 8-4-34(h))
Sec. 54-87. - Moratorium on applications.
If an ordinance for designation is being considered, the historic preservation commission shall have the power to freeze the status of the property involved in the designation process under this chapter.
(Code 1988, § 8-4-34(i))
Sec. 54-88. - Authority to amend or rescind designation.
The historic preservation commission has the authority to amend and/or rescind any designation if necessary.
(Code 1988, § 8-4-34(j))
Secs. 54-89—54-120. - Reserved.
ARTICLE IV. - CERTIFICATES OF APPROPRIATENESS

Sec. 54-121. - When required.
After the designation by ordinance of an historic property or of an historic district, no material change in the appearance of such historic property, or of a structure, site, or work of art within such historic district, shall be made or permitted to be made by the owner or occupant thereof, unless or until application for a certificate of appropriateness has been submitted to and approved by the historic preservation commission.
(Code 1988, § 8-4-41)
Sec. 54-122. - Approval of new construction within designated districts.
The historic preservation commission shall issue certificates of appropriateness to new structures constructed within designated historic districts. These structures shall conform in design, scale, building materials, setback, and landscaping to the character of the district specified in the commission's design guidelines.
(Code 1988, § 8-4-42)
Sec. 54-123. - Guidelines and criteria.
When considering applications for certificates of appropriateness to existing buildings, the secretary of the interior's Standards of Rehabilitation shall be used as a guideline along with any other criteria adopted by the historic preservation commission.
(Code 1988, § 8-4-43)
Sec. 54-124. - Submission of plans.
An application for a certificate of appropriateness under this article shall be accompanied by such drawings, photographs, or plans as may be required by the historic preservation commission.
(Code 1988, § 8-4-44)
Sec. 54-125. - Acceptable reactions to application.
(a)
The historic preservation commission shall approve the application and issue a certificate of appropriateness if it finds that the proposed material changes in the appearance would not have a substantial adverse effect on the aesthetic, historic, or architectural significance and value of the historic property or the historic district. In making this determination, the commission shall consider, in addition to any other pertinent factors, the historical and architectural style, general design arrangement, texture, and material of the architectural features involved, and the relationship thereof to the exterior architectural style, and pertinent features of the other structures in the immediate neighborhood.
(b)
The historic preservation commission shall deny a certificate of appropriateness if it finds that the proposed material changes in appearance would have substantial adverse effects on the aesthetic, historic, or architectural significance and value of the historic property or the historic district.
(Code 1988, § 8-4-45)
Sec. 54-126. - Public hearings on applications; notices and right to be heard.
At least seven days prior to review of a certificate of appropriateness, the historic preservation commission shall take such action as may reasonably be required to inform the owners of any property likely to be affected by reason of the application, and shall give the applicant and such owners an opportunity to be heard. In cases where the commission deems it necessary, it may hold a public hearing concerning the application.
(Code 1988, § 8-4-46)
Sec. 54-127. - Interior alterations.
In its review of applications for certificates of appropriateness, the historic preservation commission shall not consider interior arrangement or use having no effect on exterior architectural features.
(Code 1988, § 8-4-47)
Sec. 54-128. - Technical advice.
When dealing with difficult technical questions, the historic preservation commission shall have the power to seek expert advice.
(Code 1988, § 8-4-48)
Sec. 54-129. - Deadline for approval or rejection of application.
(a)
The historic preservation commission shall approve or reject an application for a certificate of appropriateness within not more than 45 days after the filing thereof by the owner or occupant of an historic property, or of a structure, site, or work of art located within an historic district. Evidence of approval shall be by a certificate of appropriateness issued by the commission.
(b)
Failure of the historic preservation commission to act within such 45 days shall constitute approval, and no other evidence of approval shall be needed.
(Code 1988, § 8-4-49)
Sec. 54-130. - Necessary actions to be taken by commission upon rejection of application.
(a)
If the historic preservation commission rejects an application for a certificate under this article, it shall state its reasons for doing so, and shall transmit a record of such actions and reasons, in writing, to the applicant. The commission may suggest alternative courses of action it thinks proper if it disapproves of the application submitted. The applicant, if he so desires, may make modifications to the plans and may resubmit the application at any time after doing so.
(b)
In cases where the application covers a material change in the appearance of a structure which would require the issuance of a building permit, the rejection of the application for a certificate of appropriateness by the historic preservation commission shall be binding upon the code enforcement officer or other administrative officer charged with issuing building permits and, in such case, no building permit shall be issued.
(Code 1988, § 8-4-50)
Sec. 54-131. - Undue hardship.
Where, by reason of unusual circumstances, the strict application of any provision of this chapter would result in the exceptional practical difficulty or undue hardship upon any owner of a specific property, the historic preservation commission, in passing upon applications, shall have the power to vary or modify strict adherence to such provisions, or to interpret the meaning of such provisions, so as to relieve such difficulty or hardship; provided such variances, modifications, or interpretations shall remain in harmony with the general purpose and intent of such provisions, so that the architectural or historical integrity, or character of the property, shall be conserved and substantial justice done. In granting variances, the commission may impose such reasonable and additional stipulations and conditions as will, in its judgment, best fulfill the purpose of this chapter. An undue hardship shall be a situation not of the person's own making, which is a problem unique to a specific property, or in order to comply with this chapter, the person will conflict with another ordinance of the city.
(Code 1988, § 8-4-51)
Sec. 54-132. - Requirement of conformance.
Work not in accordance with an issued certificate of appropriateness shall be halted before it is completed.
(Code 1988, § 8-4-52)
Sec. 54-133. - Expiration; renewal.
A certificate of appropriateness shall become void unless construction is commenced within six months of date of issuance. Certificates of appropriateness shall be issued for a period of 18 months and are renewable.
(Code 1988, § 8-4-53)
Sec. 54-134. - Recording of applications.
The historic preservation commission shall keep a public record of all applications for certificates of appropriateness, and all the commission's proceedings in connection with such application.
(Code 1988, § 8-4-54)
Sec. 54-135. - Acquisition of property.
The historic preservation commission may, where such action is authorized by the mayor and city council, and is reasonably necessary or appropriate for the preservation of a unique historic property, enter into negotiations with the owner for the acquisition by gift, purchase, exchange, or otherwise, of the property or any interest therein.
(Code 1988, § 8-4-55)
Sec. 54-136. - Appeals.
Any person adversely affected by any determination made by the historic preservation commission relative to the issuance or denial of a certificate of appropriateness may appeal such determination to the city council. The appeal must be applied for within 15 days after notification is sent. The city may approve, modify, or reject the determination made by the commission, if the mayor and city council finds that the commission abused its discretion in reaching its decision. Appeals from decisions of the city made pursuant to the Historic Preservation Act may be taken to the superior court of the county, in the manner provided by law, for appeals from conviction for municipal or county ordinance violations.
(Code 1988, § 8-4-56)
Secs. 54-137—54-170. - Reserved.
ARTICLE V. - DEMOLITION OR RELOCATION APPLICATIONS

Sec. 54-171. - Authority to comment on permit applications.
The commission shall have the authority to approve or deny a certificate of appropriateness for a permit to demolish or relocate a structure, building, object or work of art from, to, or within a historic property or the historic district.
(Code 1988, § 8-4-71; Ord. No. 2012-05, art. I, 5-8-2012)
Sec. 54-172. - Actions acceptable in reaction to application for certificate of appropriateness for demolition or relocation.
The commission shall have the authority to approve, approve with conditions, table, or deny a certificate of appropriateness for a demolition or relocation within its jurisdiction.
(Code 1988, § 8-4-72; Ord. No. 2012-05, art. I, 5-8-2012)
Sec. 54-173. - Consideration of plans.
(a)
A public hearing shall be scheduled for each application for demolition or relocation. A sign shall be posted in clear view on the property not less than seven days nor more than ten days prior to the public hearing. In addition, a notice shall be published in a newspaper of general circulation not less than 15 nor more than 45 days prior to the public hearing.
(b)
The historic preservation commission shall not grant a certificate of appropriateness for demolition or relocation without reviewing at the same time the plans for the historic property.
(Code 1988, § 8-4-73; Ord. No. 2012-05, art. I, 5-8-2012)
Sec. 54-174. - Relocation and demolition considerations.
(a)
A decision by the historic preservation commission approving or denying a certificate of appropriateness for the relocation of a building, structure, or object shall be guided by:
(1)
The historic character and aesthetic interest the building, structure, or object contributes to its present setting or historic district;
(2)
Whether there are definite plans for the area to be vacated and what the effect of those plans on the character of the surrounding area or historic district will be;
(3)
Whether the building, structure, or object can be moved without significant damage to its physical integrity; and
(4)
Whether the proposed relocation area is compatible with the historical and architectural character of the building, structure, site or object.
(b)
A decision by the historic preservation commission approving or denying a certificate of appropriateness for the demolition of buildings, structures, sites, or objects shall be guided by:
(1)
The historic, scenic or architectural significance of the building, structure, site, or object;
(2)
The importance of the building, structure, site, or object to the ambiance of the historic district;
(3)
The difficulty or impossibility of reproducing such a building, structure, site, or object because of its design, texture, material, detail, or unique location;
(4)
Whether the building, structure, site, or object is one of the last remaining examples of its kind in the historic district;
(5)
Whether there are definite plans for use of the property if the proposed demolition is carried out, and what the effect of those plans on the character of the surrounding area would be;
(6)
Whether reasonable measures can be taken to save the building, structure, site, or object from collapse; and
(7)
Whether the building, structure, site, or object is capable of earning reasonable economic return on its value, as appraised by a qualified real estate appraiser.
(Code 1988, § 8-4-74; Ord. No. 2012-05, art. I, 5-8-2012)
Secs. 54-175—54-205. - Reserved.
ARTICLE VI. - MAINTENANCE OF HISTORIC PROPERTY

Sec. 54-206. - Ordinary repair.
Ordinary maintenance or repair of any exterior architectural feature in or on an historic property, that does not involve a material change in design, material, or outer appearance thereof, is excluded from review.
(Code 1988, § 8-4-81)
Sec. 54-207. - Conformity to existing building codes.
Nothing in this chapter shall be construed as to exempt property owners from complying with existing city building codes, nor to prevent any property owner from making any use of his property not prohibited by other statutes, ordinances, or regulations.
(Code 1988, § 8-4-82)
