Chapter 3 - ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Editor's note— An ordinance of November 6, 2007, amended chapter 3 in its entirety to read as herein set out. Formerly, chapter 3 pertained to similar subject matter, and derived from a resolution of August 15, 1978, §§ 1.1, 2.1—2.10, 3.1—3.6, 4.1—4.15, 5.1—5.5, 6, 7.1—7.5; a resolution of May 5, 1992; an ordinance of August 20, 1993; an ordinance of January 17, 1995, §§ 1—17; an ordinance of February 18, 1997, § 1; an ordinance of May 18, 1997; an ordinance of November 4, 1997; an ordinance of March 7, 2000, §§ I—XXII; an ordinance of January 16, 2001; an amendment of August 7, 2001; and an amendment of December 18, 2001.
Cross reference— Business regulations, Ch. 6; signs, Ch. 9; taxation and revenue, Ch. 12; zoning, App. B.
State Law reference— Use of proceeds of alcoholic beverage tax for prevention, education and treatment, Ga. Const., art. 3, sec. 9, par. 6; Georgia Alcoholic Beverage Code, O.C.G.A. § 3-1-1 et seq.; furnishing to, purchase of or possession by persons under twenty-one years of age, use of false identification, O.C.G.A. § 3-3-23; public drunkenness, O.C.G.A. § 16-11-41; furnishing alcoholic beverages to persons under twenty-one years of age, jurisdiction of municipal courts, O.C.G.A. § 36-32-10; treatment of alcoholics and intoxicated persons, O.C.G.A. § 37-8-1 et seq.; driving under the influence of alcohol or drugs, O.C.G.A. § 40-6-391.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 3-1. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Alcoholic beverages means distilled spirits, wine and/or malt beverages.
Authorized catered function means an event at a location not otherwise licensed for consumption of alcoholic beverages by the drink at which alcoholic beverages are furnished, for consideration, and sold, dispensed or provided free of charge to persons present at the event, by the drink, pursuant to a permit obtained under this chapter.
Distilled spirits means the product of the distillation of any liquid, whether rectified or diluted, whatever may be the origin thereof, and shall include synthetic ethyl alcohol, brandy, rum, whiskey, gin, cordials, or other spirituous liquors by whatever name called, to include fortified wines as defined by the Federal Alcohol Administration.
Employee means any person who performs any service for a licensee at the business location of the licensee whether for compensation or otherwise when the services performed directly relate to the sale of wine, malt beverages or distilled spirits.
Farm winery tasting room shall have the same meaning as defined in O.C.G.A. § 3-6-21.1.
Golf course is defined as being a par sixty (60) or greater course and being a recognized member of the Georgia State Golf Association and United States Golf Association and may be issued an on premises consumption license without meeting the requirement that fifty (50) percent of its gross annual sales be derived from the sale of prepared meals.
Governing authority means the board of commissioners of Monroe County.
License means the official authorization of the governing authority to sale by package or by drink distilled spirits, wine or malt beverages.
Licensed alcoholic beverage caterer means any person licensed for the sale of alcoholic beverages by the state and who possesses a license by a local government in the sate authorizing such person to sell or dispense alcoholic beverages by the drink off the licensed premises and in connection with an authorized catered function.
Licensee means any person, firm or corporation duly authorized by the governing authority to sell by package or by drink distilled spirits, wine or malt beverages.
Licensing officer means the officer of zoning and licensing or any other person designated by the county board of commissioners.
Malt beverage means any alcoholic beverage obtained by the fermentation of any infusion or decoction of barley, malt, hops, or any other similar product, or any combination of such products in water, containing not more than six (6) percent alcohol by volume and including ale, porter, brown, stout, lager beer, small beer and strong beer. The term does not include sake, known as Japanese rice wine.
Minor means any person under the age of twenty-one (21) years as provided by state law.
Package store license means a license issued to a retail dealer for the sale of malt beverages and/or wine in sealed containers for consumption off the premises, generally known as the sale of malt beverages or wine "to go." At this time, the sale of distilled spirits "to go" is prohibited in the county.
Premises means the definite location, whether a room, shop or building, wherein a license has been granted to sale by package or by drink malt beverages, wine or distilled spirits.
Private club means any nonprofit association organized under the laws of the state which:
(1)
Has been in existence at least one (1) year prior to filing of its application for a license hereunder;
(2)
Has at least seventy-five (75) regular dues paying members;
(3)
Owns, hires or leases a building or space within a building for the reasonable use of its members, which building or space has suitable kitchen and dining room space and equipment, and is staffed with a sufficient number of employees for cooking, preparing, and serving meals for its members and guests; and
(4)
Has no member officer, agent or employee directly or indirectly receiving, in the form of salary or other compensation, any profits from the sale of alcoholic beverages beyond the amount of such salary as may be fixed by the members of the private club at any annual meeting or by its governing board out of the general revenue of the club.
Pouring license means a license issued by the governing authority to authorize the sale of distilled spirits, wine or malt beverages by the drink for consumption on the premises.
Restaurant means any public place kept, used, maintained, advertised and held out to the public as a place where meals are actually and regularly served, without sleeping accommodation, such place being provided with adequate and sanitary kitchen and dining room equipment and having employed therein a sufficient number and kind of employees to prepare cook and serve suitable food for its guests. A restaurant shall derive at least fifty (50) percent of its total annual gross food and beverages sales from the sale of prepared meals or food.
Retail dealer means any person selling malt beverages and/or wine directly to the consumers.
Specified anatomical areas shall mean any of the following:
(1)
Less than completely and opaquely covered human genitals or pubic region; cleft of the buttocks, or any portion of the female breast encompassed within an area falling below the horizontal line one would have to draw to intercept a point above the top of the areola, or any portion of the areola, or any simulation other of. This definition shall include the entire lower portion of the human female breast, but shall not include any portion of the cleavage of the human female breast exhibited by a dress, blouse, shirt, leotard, bathing suit, or other wearing apparel, provided the areola is not so exposed, or
(2)
Human male genitalia in a discernibly turgid sate, even if completely and opaquely covered.
Specified sexual activities shall mean and include any of the following:
(1)
The fondling or other erotic touching of human genitals, pubic region, buttocks, anus or female breasts;
(2)
Sex acts, normal or perverted, actual or simulated, including intercourse, oral copulation or sodomy;
(3)
Masturbation, actual or simulated;
(4)
The displaying of the male or female pubic hair, anus, vulva or genitals; or
(5)
Excretory functions as part of or in connection with any of the activities set forth in subsections (1) through (4) above.
Wholesale dealer means any person selling distilled spirits, wine or malt beverages to retailers and not to consumers.
Wine means any alcoholic beverage containing not more than twenty-one (21) percent alcohol by volume made from fruits, berries or grapes, either by natural fermentation or by natural fermentation with brandy added. The term includes, but is not limited to, all sparkling beverages, vermouths, special natural wines, rectified wines and like products. The term does not include cooking wine mixed with salt or other ingredients so as to render it unfit for human consumption as a beverage. A liquid shall first be deemed to be a wine at that point in the manufacturing process when it conforms to this definition of "wine."
(Ord. of 11-6-07, § 1-1; Ord. of 11-5-2019 , § 1)
Secs. 3-2—3-25. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - COMPLIANCE REQUIRED

Sec. 3-26. - License required.
No distilled spirits, wine or malt beverages shall be sold inside the county, outside the limits of the incorporated municipalities, except under a license granted by the board of commissioners of the county.
(Ord. of 11-6-07, § 2-1)
Sec. 3-27. - Compliance with article.
No application for a license required by this article shall be approved until all applicable provisions of this article shall have been fully and completely complied with.
(Ord. of 11-6-07, § 2-2)
Sec. 3-28. - Knowledge of chapter.
All holders of a license for the sale of distilled spirits, wine or malt beverages shall keep a copy of this chapter in his premises and shall be familiar with the terms of this chapter and shall instruct any person working there with respect to the terms herein, to be familiar with the terms of this chapter. It shall be unlawful to sell distilled spirits, wine or malt beverages without compliance to this chapter.
(Ord. of 11-6-07, § 2-3)
Sec. 3-29. - Compliance with state and federal laws.
No licensee under this chapter shall engage in the sale of distilled spirits, wine or malt beverages in violation of any state or federal laws. No license for the sale of distilled spirits, wine or malt beverages shall be granted for any premise if such location is prohibited by O.C.G.A § 3-3-21, or any subsequent amendment thereof.
(Ord. of 11-6-07, § 2-4)
Secs. 3-30—3-50. - Reserved.
ARTICLE III. - APPLICATION

Sec. 3-51. - Classification.
There are seven (7) classifications of licenses available for the retail sale of distilled spirits, wine and malt beverages on the premises:
Malt beverage package;
Malt beverage pouring;
Wine package;
Wine pouring;
Farm winery tasting room;
Distilled spirits (restaurant);
Distilled spirits (private club);
Distilled spirits (golf course).
Off premise sales of malt beverages and/or wine are permitted for a holder of a malt beverage and/or wine package and pouring license with an alcoholic beverage caterers event permit.
The sale of distilled spirits in any establishment other than a restaurant or a private club as defined within is expressly prohibited.
The holding of one license does not entitle the holder to any other type of license, each will be individually decided upon by the board of commissioners.
(Ord. of 11-6-07, § 3-1; Ord. of 11-5-2019 , § 2)
Sec. 3-52. - Filing of application.
All applications for licenses for the sale of distilled spirits, wine or malt beverages shall be filed in person by the applicant in the office of zoning and licensing and shall consist of a completed form or forms furnished for application purposes by the board of commissioners and fully in compliance with the criteria hereinafter set out. All applications shall be fully executed by the applicant. If the applicant is a firm or partnership, each member or partner shall execute it. If the applicant is a corporation, it shall be executed by at least two (2) officers. Each question on the form(s) shall be answered accurately and under oath. The willful making of any false statement as to a material matter on any application for a license to sell distilled spirits, wine and malt beverages shall constitute grounds for denying such license or for revocation of any license issued.
(Ord. of 11-6-07, § 3-2)
Sec. 3-53. - Advertised notice of application.
All persons shall advertise their intention to make application to the board of commissioners for issuance of any license under this chapter, and shall be responsible for paying the cost of the advertisement. Such advertisement shall contain a statement of intention to apply for a license and the type of license applied for, shall show the location of the proposed business and the name of the applicant. Such advertisement shall follow generally the format furnished by the board of commissioners with the application. Such advertisement shall be published twice, in different editions in the official newspaper of the county in which legal advertisements are published. The applicant shall obtain an affidavit of publication and attach such affidavit to the application.
(Ord. of 11-6-07, § 3-3)
Sec. 3-54. - Specification of license applied for.
An applicant may apply for more than one (1) license on the same application for the same location, nevertheless, each individual license shall be approved or denied separately by the board of commissioners.
(Ord. of 11-6-07, § 3-4)
Sec. 3-55. - Fingerprints.
Each applicant shall furnish a complete set of fingerprints which shall be forwarded to the county sheriff's department who shall search the files of the Georgia Bureau of Investigation (GBI) for a period of ten (10) years immediately preceding the date of application for any instance of criminal activity, and the fingerprints shall also be submitted to the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) under rules established by the United States Department of Justice for processing and identification of records. The records from the GBI and the FBI will be forwarded by the sheriff's department to the office of zoning and licensing to become part of the application.
(Ord. of 11-6-07, § 3-5)
Sec. 3-56. - Other information needed.
The applicant is also required to provide his name, complete address and phone number, address for the past five (5) years, employers for the past five (5) years, complete record of any and all convictions and guilty pleads and pleads of nolo contendere for the violation of any law of any city, county, state, or federal government. Also required is a listing of any other license held in any other jurisdiction for distilled spirits, wine or malt beverages and any revocation of such license. A detailed drawing is required of the building which will house the business, including the outside area with all businesses within three hundred (300) feet of the building identified, dining area, restrooms, kitchen and the area reserved to store any alcoholic beverages.
(Ord. of 11-6-07, § 3-6)
Sec. 3-57. - Posting of notice.
Once an application for the sale of distilled spirits, wine or malt beverages is made, the applicant has three (3) days to post a sign at least twenty-four (24) inches by thirty-six (36) inches with letters at least four (4) inches in height on the front door of the premises proposed for the location of the business to be licensed and upon a prominent place on the lot where the business for which the license is proposed is located, to be no more than ten (10) feet from the public street on which said business faces, which sign shall state:
"Application Pending for this Location for License to Sale Distilled Spirits, Wine and/or Malt Beverages" which ever is applicable.
This sign shall remain in place until the application is acted upon by the board of commissioners.
(Ord. of 11-6-07, § 3-7)
Sec. 3-58. - Application fee.
There shall be a non-refundable application fee attached to the application, the amount of which is decided upon by the board of commissioners and posted in the office of zoning and licensing.
(Ord. of 11-6-07, § 3-8)
Sec. 3-59. - Authorized catered functions.
Any retailer who holds a malt beverage and or wine package and pouring license can also make application to sell the same off the licensed premises at an authorized catered function. Fifteen (15) days notice must be given to the office of zoning and licensing and approval granted before off premise sales are allowed. A separate permit must be issued for each event, the fee of which is decided upon by the county board of commissioners and posted in the office of zoning and licensing. All state location restrictions will still apply.
(Ord. of 11-6-07, § 3-9)
Secs. 3-60—3-80. - Reserved.
ARTICLE IV. - LICENSE

Sec. 3-81. - Application review by the board of commissioners.
Once the application is complete, the office of zoning and licensing will submit the application to the board of commissioners for approval or denial at the next regularly scheduled commissioners meeting.
(Ord. of 11-6-07, § 4-1)
Sec. 3-82. - License fee.
A license fee for distilled spirits, wine and malt beverages will be decided upon by the county board of commissioners and will be posted in the office of zoning and licensing.
(Ord. of 11-6-07, § 4-2)
Sec. 3-83. - Transferability.
No license issued under this article shall be assignable or transferable. In the event a licensed business is moved, sold or closed or no longer directly operated by the licensee, the licensee shall immediately surrender his license to the office of zoning and licensing. All licenses shall be issued to specific persons and for a specific location. Change of business interest from one (1) party at interest named in the original application to another party at interest named in the original application shall not be deemed a transfer of a license. In such instance, however, the licensee shall notify the office of zoning and licensing in writing of such change, and fully disclose the facts in connection therewith, within ten (10) days from the date of such change.
(Ord. of 11-6-07, § 4-3)
Sec. 3-84. - Licenses to be displayed.
Licenses granted for the sale of distilled spirits, wine and/or malt beverages must be displayed at all times on the premises for which the same was issued.
(Ord. of 11-6-07, § 4-4)
Sec. 3-85. - Term.
All licenses issued under this article shall be issued on a calendar year basis and shall expire, regardless of the date is issuance, on the last day of December of each year.
(Ord. of 11-6-07, § 4-5)
Sec. 3-86. - Bonds.
All licensees are required to provide a personal performance bond in an amount voted on by the board of commissioners and posted in the office of zoning and licensing.
(Ord. of 11-6-07, § 4-6)
Sec. 3-87. - Renewals.
All licenses must be renewed by the last day of December but no earlier than the first day of November of every year. Renewal applications will be made available. Re-advertising is not required, however, fingerprints must be resubmitted to the county sheriff's department every five (5) years. For restaurants with distilled spirits licenses, a letter from a certified account stating that at least fifty (50) percent of sales are from food is required.
(Ord. of 11-6-07, § 4-7)
Secs. 3-88—3-100. - Reserved.
ARTICLE V. - GROUNDS FOR DENIAL

Sec. 3-101. - Age and residency requirements.
No license shall be granted to any person as defined herein unless such person is of legal age and is a citizen of the United States of America.
(Ord. of 11-6-07, § 5-1)
Sec. 3-102. - False statements on application.
The making of any statement on the application that is found to be false is grounds for denial of the application.
(Ord. of 11-6-07, § 5-2)
Sec. 3-103. - Character.
In no event shall any license be granted to any person where any of the individuals, or officers, as the case may be, have, within ten (10) years immediately prior to the filing of the application, entered a plea of guilty or a plea of nolo contendere, or shall have suffered any conviction of any kind involving particularly, but not limited to, alcoholic beverages, of the state or of any locality or of the United States, if such plea or conviction tends to indicate that the applicant will not maintain the operation for which he is seeking a license in conformity with local, state or federal laws. In no event will a license be granted if the applicant at any time has had a license for distilled spirits, wine and/or malt beverage revoked at any location, whether in this county or otherwise if it indicates the applicant will not maintain the operation for which he is seeking a license in conformity with local, state or federal laws. A license application may be denied to any applicant where it appears that the applicant would not have adequate financial participation in the proposed business to direct and manage its affairs, or where it appears that the applicant is intended to be a mere surrogate for a person or persons who would not otherwise qualify for a license for any reason whatsoever. The governing authority, in their discretion, may consider any extenuating circumstances which may reflect favorably or unfavorably on the applicant, application or proposed location of the business. If in their judgment circumstances are such that the granting of the license would not be in the best interest of the general public, such circumstance may be grounds for denying the application.
(Ord. of 11-6-07, § 5-3)
Sec. 3-104. - Zoning requirements.
No license shall be granted to an establishment that does not meet all zoning regulations.
(Ord. of 11-6-07, § 5-4)
Sec. 3-105. - Payment of taxes.
No application for a license required by this chapter shall be approved unless the applicant thereof shall have fully paid all ad valorem taxes due to the county.
(Ord. of 11-6-07, § 5-5)
Sec. 3-106. - Location.
No application for any license to sell distilled spirits, wine and/or malt beverages shall be approved where the proposed location of the business is within three hundred (300) feet of a church, school, daycare, college campus, funeral home or cemetery. The distance herein prescribed shall be measured in the following manner:
(1)
From the front door of the structure from which distilled spirits, wine and/or malt beverages is offered for sale;
(2)
In a straight line to the nearest public sidewalk, walkway, street, road or highway;
(3)
Along such public sidewalk, walkway, street, road or highway by the nearest route;
(4)
To the front door of the building, or to the nearest portion of the grounds, whichever is applicable under the appropriate state statute.
(Ord. of 11-6-07, § 5-6)
Sec. 3-107. - Hearing.
Any person aggrieved by any act or omission of the board of commissioners with respect to its proceedings as to issuance of a license under this chapter shall have the right to move for a hearing and reconsideration of the matter. Such motion for a hearing shall be filed within five (5) days after the action complained of, shall be in writing, and shall outline the manner in which such protestant believes that the board has erred. If the motion relates to a matter as to which evidence has already been heard, no additional evidence or argument shall be permitted on the motion for a hearing except after a grant thereof by the board of good cause shown. The board shall afford a hearing within twenty (20) days after the filing of the motion, with at least three (3) days written notice having been served upon the protestant, which notice shall state the protestant has the right to appear in person at a date and time specified in said notice, and that the protestant shall be allowed to be represented by counsel, and may introduce oral and documentary evidence under oath, and may examine and cross examine witnesses.
(Ord. of 11-6-07, § 5-7)
Secs. 3-108—3-130. - Reserved.
ARTICLE VI. - RESTRICTIONS

Sec. 3-131. - Zoning restrictions.
Package sales of malt beverages and/or wine is a permitted use in a commercial district and a conditional use in an agricultural district.
Pouring sales of malt beverages and/or wine is a permitted use in a commercial district and a conditional use in an agricultural district.
Package sales of distilled spirits are not allowed in any zoning district in the county.
Pouring sales of distilled spirits in a restaurant is a permitted use only in a commercial district.
Pouring sales of distilled spirits in a private club is a permitted use in a commercial district and an agricultural district.
For the purpose of this section, the downtown business districts of Juliette, Georgia and High Falls, Georgia are designated a special entertainment districts pursuant to O.G.G.A. § 3-6-21.2, solely for the purpose of allowing Sunday sales in a farm winery tasting room and for no other purpose.
• The downtown business district of Juliette, Georgia beginning at the intersection of Juliette Road and McCrackin Street and ends at the intersection of McCrackin Street and Wolf's Creek, and includes that portion of McCrackin Street between two (2) such points and all commercial property which fronts on that portion of McCrakin Street.
• The downtown business district of High Falls, Georgia, to which this section applies begins at the intersection of Martha's Lane and High Falls Road and ends at the intersection of Boxankle Road and High Falls Road and includes that portion of High Falls Road between two (2) such points and all commercial property which fronts on that portion of High Falls Road.
(Ord. of 11-6-07, § 6-1)
Sec. 3-132. - Hours of operation for a package license.
No licensee under this chapter shall engage in the sale of malt beverages or wine between the hours of 2:00 a.m. Sunday morning and 8:00 a.m. on the following Monday morning, nor between the hours of 2:00 a.m. and 8:00 a.m. any other day of the week. Any business may be open; provided that no malt beverages and/or wine shall be sold or permitted in the possession of anyone on the premises at any time when such beverages may not be legally sold, and each business shall post a sign indicating that no malt beverages and/or wine may be sold on Sunday.
(Ord. of 11-6-07, § 6-2)
Sec. 3-133. - Hours of operation for a pouring license.
Licensees may engage in sales for distilled spirits, wine and/or malt beverages by the drink at the following times:
• Between the hours of 11:00 a.m. to 2:00 a.m. Monday through Saturday. This includes from midnight Saturday to 2:00 a.m. Sunday.
• Between the hours of 12:30 p.m. on Sunday to 2:00 a.m. on Monday.
(Ord. of 11-6-07, § 6-3)
Sec. 3-134. - Sale to minors.
No licensee under this chapter shall furnish or cause to be furnished or permit any person in his employ to furnish any distilled spirit, wine and/or malt beverage to any minor. The licensee shall be held responsible for any such sale made by his employees or others in the licensed business premises. The prohibition of this section includes the sale, gift or any other furnishing of distilled spirits, wine and/or malt beverages to minors.
(Ord. of 11-6-07, § 6-4)
Sec. 3-135. - Posting of notice to minors.
The holder of any license for the sale of distilled spirits, wine and/or malt beverages by package or by the drink shall post in a conspicuous place in his place of business a notice with letters not less than four (4) inches in height which shall be clearly visible to all customers entering the establishment as follows: "Sales of any alcoholic beverages to Minors is Strictly Prohibited."
(Ord. of 11-6-07, § 6-5)
Sec. 3-136. - Furnishing to certain other persons prohibited.
No licensee under this article shall sell or permit to be sold or otherwise furnish any distilled spirits, wine and/or malt beverages to any person who is physically or mentally handicapped due to the consumption of any alcoholic beverage or drugs or has any other type of mental handicap.
(Ord. of 11-6-07, § 6-6)
Sec. 3-137. - Sales on election days.
The sale of distilled spirits, wine and/or malt beverages on election days is specifically permitted. However, no licensee or any person in his employ shall sell or offer to sell any distilled spirits, wine or malt beverages within two hundred fifty (250) feet of any polling place or the outer edge of any building within which such polling place is established on primary or election days.
(Ord. of 11-6-07, § 6-7)
Sec. 3-138. - Separation of stock.
All licensees for the sale of distilled spirits, wine and/or malt beverages shall separate the stock of such from other nonalcoholic merchandise by a partition at least five (5) feet in height, by storing the distilled spirits, wine and/or malt beverages in coolers which can be locked, or by storing same in a separate room so that such stock may be closed off and locked at all times when the sale is prohibited, and the same shall be closed off and locked at such times.
(Ord. of 11-6-07, § 6-8)
Sec. 3-139. - Consumption on premises.
No retail dealer for the sale of wine and/or malt beverages shall allow wine or malt beverages to be consumed on its premises unless such dealer has both a package license and a pouring license.
(Ord. of 11-6-07, § 6-9)
Sec. 3-140. - Employment of minors.
It shall be unlawful for any person to allow or require a minor to dispense, serve, sell or take orders for distilled spirits, wine and/or malt beverages; provided, however, that the provisions of this section shall not prohibit minors who are employed in supermarkets, convenience stores, or drugstores from selling or handling wine and/or malt beverages which are sold for consumption off the premises, so long as such minor is under the supervision of at least one (1) adult, whether such adult be the licensee or another employee.
(Ord. of 11-6-07, § 6-10)
Sec. 3-141. - Requirements regarding premises.
All businesses holding a license to sell distilled spirits, wine and/or malt beverages must comply with the building ordinances of the county, the state, and the federal government. Each building in which distilled spirits, wine and/or malt beverages will be sold shall contain sufficient lighting so that the building itself and the premises on all sides of the building are readily visible at all times. All premises for which a license shall be issued shall afford therein adequate sanitary toilet facilities and shall be adequately illuminated so that all hallways, passageways and open areas may be clearly seen.
(Ord. of 11-6-07, § 6-11)
Sec. 3-142. - State law location restrictions.
No license for the sale of distilled spirits, wine and/or malt beverages shall be granted for any premises located at any place, even if in accordance with county zoning regulations, if the sale of alcoholic beverages at such location is prohibited by O.C.G.A. § 3-3-21, or any subsequent amendment thereof.
(Ord. of 11-6-07, § 6-12)
Sec. 3-143. - Areas within premises where distilled spirits shall be sold or consumed.
Licensees shall only be permitted to sell distilled spirits by the drink within the dining area of the licensed premises. The board of commissioners reserves the rights to restrict the areas where distilled spirits shall be sold and consumed so as to limit the likelihood that persons who are not customers of the licensee will be exposed to the sale and consumption of distilled spirits.
(Ord. of 11-6-07, § 6-13)
Sec. 3-144. - Adult entertainment establishments.
The board of commissioners of the county based upon the experiences of other counties in the state, takes note of the notorious and self-evident conditions and secondary effects attendant to the commercial exploitation of human sexuality, particularly the problems of crime, blight, and deterioration which are brought about by alcohol and live nudity. It is the finding of the board that prohibiting public nudity (either partial or total) under circumstances related to the sale and consumption of alcoholic beverages is in the best interest of the public welfare by furthering legitimate governmental interest, such as reducing criminal activity, protecting against property devaluation and deterioration, and eliminating undesirable community conditions normally associated with establishments which serve alcohol and allow and/or encourage nudity, and that such prohibition will not infringe upon the protected constitutional rights of freedom of speech.
(Ord. of 11-6-07, § 6-14)
Secs. 3-145—3-165. - Reserved.
ARTICLE VII. - REVOCATION OR SUSPENSION

Sec. 3-166. - Grounds for revocation or suspension.
The following shall be considered just cause for suspension or revocation of any license issued under this chapter:
(1)
The performance of any act prohibited by this chapter or the failure to perform any act required by this chapter, as well as the violation of any state, local or federal law, particularly, but not limited to, those involving alcoholic beverages, if such violation tends to indicate that the licensee will not maintain the operation of the business licensed in conformity with state, local or federal laws. If such act, omission or violation is done by any agent, employee, or officer of the licensee, the lack of knowledge on the part of the licensee or the lack of authorization for such act or omission or violation shall be no defense.
(2)
The entry of a plea of guilty or nolo contendere, or the conviction of any licensee, partner, or any officer of a licensee corporation with respect to a charge or violation of any of the laws of the state or United States or any locality, particularly but not limited to those involving alcoholic beverages, if such violation tends to indicate that the licensee will not maintain the operation of the business licensed in conformity with state, local or federal laws.
(3)
The occurrence on three (3) or more occasions within any 12-month period on the licensed premises of fights, disorderly conduct, drunkenness, breach of the peace and other similar conduct, whether the same be committed by the licensee or by customers or by others.
(4)
The employment or use of any person live, in any capacity, in the sale or service of alcoholic beverages or food while such person is unclothed or in such attire, costume or clothing, as to expose any portion or his or her specified anatomical areas.
(5)
Live entertainment where any person appears unclothed or in such attire, costume or clothing as to expose any portion of his or her specified anatomical areas or where such person performs acts or specified sexual activities or acts which simulate specified sexual activity, as defined herein.
(6)
The holding, promotion, sponsoring or allowance of any contest, promotion, special night, event or any other activity where live patrons of the licensed establishment are encouraged or allowed to engage in any or the conduct proscribed above.
(Ord. of 11-6-07, § 7-1)
Sec. 3-167. - Actions to be taken.
Any license issued pursuant to this chapter may be suspended for a definite length of time, revoked and/or any part of the entire personal performance bond posted by the licensee forfeited as provided herein.
(Ord. of 11-6-07, § 7-2)
Sec. 3-168. - Suspension or revocation of license.
In the event the licensee violates any regulation or restriction as defined in this chapter or any laws of the state or has committed a crime of moral turpitude as defined by state law, then the license of the licensee shall be subject to immediate suspension pending a hearing. The board of commissioners of the county hereby empowers the chairman of the board of commissioners to issue orders of immediate suspension of any license issued under this chapter provided that said chairman receives clear and convincing evidence indicating either a violation of the prohibitions of this chapter or of state law relating to alcoholic beverages or any general law, the violation of which is a crime of moral turpitude as defined by state law. In such cases, the chairman shall immediately enter upon the premises of the licensee, post a notice in a place where it can be seen by the general public and notify the licensee or its agent on the premises that the license is suspended pending a hearing. A notice of the immediate suspension shall also be delivered to the licensee at the address given when applying for the license. The immediate suspension order and notice shall contain the following information:
(1)
A brief description of the reason for the issuance of the order for immediate suspension of the license;
(2)
The date, time and place of the hearing before the board of commissioners; and
(3)
Notice to the licensee and the general public that the licensee's permission to engage in the sale of distilled spirits, wine and/or malt beverages has been suspended pending the outcome of the hearing and any continuation of the business pursuant to the suspended license is a further violation of this chapter and state law.
Within seven (7) days after the issuance of such order, unless the seventh day falls on a Sunday or a holiday, the board of commissioners shall convene for a hearing on the issue of continued suspension or permanent revocation of the license. If the seventh day falls upon a Sunday or a holiday, the time shall be extended until the next day that is neither a Sunday nor a holiday. At the hearing, the licensee shall have the right to appear in person and by attorney and both the board of commissioners and the licensee shall have the right to present evidence under oath, introduce documentary evidence, cross examine witnesses, and generally present evidence of violations of this division or the absence thereof, such hearing to be open to the public.
Any suspension or revocation of any license granted hereunder shall be grounds for forfeiture of all or any portion of the bond of the licensee, and such forfeiture may be ordered as a portion of nay such hearing conducted hereunder.
(Ord. of 11-6-07, § 7-3)
Sec. 3-169. - Rehearing.
Any person aggrieved by any act or omission of the board of commissioners with respect to its proceedings involving revocation or suspension or forfeiture of any part of a bond under this article shall have the right to move for a rehearing. Such motion for rehearing shall be filed within five (5) days after the act or omission complained of, shall be in writing, and shall outline the manner in which such protestant believes that the board has erred. If the motion relates to a matter as to which evidence has already been heard, no additional evidence or argument shall be permitted on the motion for rehearing except after a grant thereof by the board. If the matter of which complaint is made is not the subject of a prior hearing at which the protestant was permitted to be present and heard, the board shall afford a hearing within ten (10) days after the filing of the motion, of which three (3) days written notice shall be given to the protestant, at which rehearing the protestant shall be allowed to appear, be represented by counsel, introduce oral and documentary evidence and examine and cross examine witnesses.
(Ord. of 11-6-07, § 7-4)
Sec. 3-170. - Time limitations on new licenses.
When a license issued under this chapter has been suspended or revoked under the provisions of this article, no application for a new license for the same location will be received for a period of twelve (12) months thereafter; and no application for a new license from the licensee involved shall be received for a period of twenty-four (24) months.
(Ord. of 11-6-07, § 7-5)
Secs. 3-171—3-190. - Reserved.
ARTICLE VIII. - DISTILLED SPIRITS, WINE AND MALT BEVERAGE TAXES

Sec. 3-191. - Taxes on distilled spirits.
There is hereby levied an excise tax computed at the rate of twenty-two cents ($0.22) per liter which shall be paid to the board of commissioners of the county on all distilled spirits sold, displayed or stored in the county and outside of the corporate limits of any municipality within the county. Said tax shall be paid to the board of commissioners of the county by the wholesale distributor on all distilled spirits sold to the licensees for the sale of distilled spirits by the drink for consumption only on the premises, as follows: Each wholesale distributor selling, distributing or in any way delivering distilled spirits to any such licensee shall collect the excise tax at the time of delivery and shall remit the same together with a summary of all deliveries to each licensee on or before the tenth day of the month following. The twenty-two cents ($0.22) per liter shall be pro-rated down on fifths and half gallons so that each bottle or each individual sized container shall be taxed on the basis of twenty-two cents ($0.22) per liter. It shall be unlawful and a violation of this division for any such licensee to possess, own, hold, store, display, or sell any distilled spirits on which such tax has not been paid.
(Ord. of 11-6-07, § 8-1)
Sec. 3-192. - Taxes on wine.
There is hereby levied an excise tax computed at the rate of eighty cents ($0.80) per gallon which shall be paid to the board of commissioners of the county on all wine sold, displayed or stored in the county and outside of the corporate limits of any municipality within the county. Said tax shall be paid to the board of commissioners of the county by the wholesale distributor on all wine sold to the licensees for the sale of wine, as follows: Each wholesale distributor selling, distributing or in any way delivering wine to any such licensee shall collect the tax at the time of delivery and shall remit the same together with a summary of all deliveries to each licensee on or before the tenth day of the month following. The eighty cents ($0.80) per gallon shall be pro-rated so that each bottle or each individual sized container shall be taxed on the basis of eighty cents ($0.80) per gallon. It shall be unlawful and a violation of this division for any such licensee to possess, own, hold, store, display, or sell any wine on which such tax has not been paid.
(Ord. of 11-6-07, § 8-2)
Sec. 3-193. - Taxes on malt beverages.
There is hereby levied an excise tax computed at the rate of five cents ($0.05) per twelve (12) ounces which shall be paid to the board of commissioners of the county on all malt beverages sold, displayed or stored in the county and outside of the corporate limits of any municipality within the county. Said tax shall be paid to the board of commissioners of the county by the wholesale distributor on all malt beverages sold to the licensees for the sale of malt beverages, as follows: Each wholesale distributor selling, distributing or in any way delivering malt beverages to any such licensee shall collect the tax at the time of delivery and shall remit the same together with a summary of all deliveries to each licensee on or before the tenth day of the month following. The five cents ($0.05) per twelve (12) ounces shall be pro-rated so that each bottle or each individual sized container shall be based on five cents ($0.05) per twelve (12) ounces. It shall be unlawful and a violation of this division for any such licensee to possess, own, hold, store, display, or sell any malt beverages on which such tax has not been paid.
Where malt beverages, commonly known as tap or draft beer, are sold in or from a barrel or bulk container, a tax of six dollars ($6.00) of each container sold containing not more than fifteen and one-half (15½) gallons and a proportionate tax at the same rate on all fractional parts of fifteen and one-half (15½) gallons.
(Ord. of 11-6-07, § 8-3)
Sec. 3-194. - Excise tax for private clubs.
An excise tax of three (3) percent is hereby imposed pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 3-7-61.
(Ord. of 11-6-07, § 8-4)
Sec. 3-195. - Failure to make timely reports and/or false or fraudulent reports.
The failure of any wholesale dealer in distilled spirits, wine and/or malt beverages to make a timely report or remittance as provided in this article shall render a wholesaler dealer liable for a penalty equal to ten (10) percent of the total amount due during the first 30-day period following the date such report and remittance were due and further penalty of twenty-five (25) percent of the amount of such remittance for each successive 30-day period or any portion thereof during which such report and remittance are not filed. The filing of a false or fraudulent report shall render the wholesale dealer making such report liable for a penalty equal to fifty (50) percent of the amount of the remittance which would be required under an accurate and truthful report.
(Ord. of 11-6-07, § 8-5)
