ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 98-1. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Consumer means any person, establishment, unit or space served on or through any water meter other than the customer in whose name the meter is listed or from whom payment may be required.
Customer means the owner of the property served by a utility service connection, or the tenant, lessee, renter, establishment or occupant of such property, or the person in or against whose name such connection for such property is listed on the books and records of the city, and who is responsible to the city for payment of bills incurred for such utility service furnished to such property and for use by such property of the public sewer system of the city, either or both.
Minimum monthly bill means the fixed minimum monthly payment required for a utility meter or connection calculated under the provisions of this chapter.
Structure includes the supplying of electricity or any other utility service prior to the issuance of a certificate of occupancy.
Supply utility service means to supply any form of utility service, including electricity, in any manner to any structure within the city.
Temporary includes the supplying of electricity or any other utility service to any structure prior to the issuance of a certificate of occupancy.
User means a customer of any utility service furnished by the city whose property also discharges sewage, wastes or water into the public sanitary sewer system of the city in any quantity.
Utility means water, sewer, gas, cable television and/or any other utility service furnished by the city to consumers thereof.
(Ord. No. 2005-11, art. I, 12-6-2005)
Cross reference— Definitions generally, § 1-2.
Sec. 98-2. - Scope of chapter.
All pertinent provisions of this chapter are hereby made a part of the terms and conditions whereby the city shall furnish any utility service to any person, or whereby the city shall make any utility connections or perform any work of any kind in connection with the furnishing of any utility service pursuant to the rules and regulations of the City of Monroe.
(Ord. No. 2005-11, art. I, 12-6-2005)
Sec. 98-3. - Service to comply with technical provisions.
Any utility service furnished under the provisions of this chapter shall be in accordance with and in compliance with all applicable technical provisions of this Code, state law and city ordinances, rules and regulations.
Sec. 98-4. - Rules, regulations.
The City of Monroe shall have the authority to establish by rule or regulation such standards and specifications as may be deemed necessary for the installation, construction and maintenance of any utility service system owned and operated by the city within or without the city and under the management of the city. Such rules, regulations, standards and specifications shall be filed in the office of the city clerk. Violation of such rules, regulations, standards and specifications shall be deemed a violation of this chapter.
(Ord. No. 2005-11, art. I, 12-6-2005)
Sec. 98-5. - Service outside city.
In order to protect the utility service supply, the city will not make any taps or connections outside the city limits until the premises involved have been inspected and approved by the city.
Sec. 98-6. - Right of entry.
Any authorized inspector of the City of Monroe, the code enforcement office or fire department of the city shall have free access at any reasonable time to all premises supplied with any utility service by the city for the purpose of examination in order to protect the utility services from abusive use.
(Ord. No. 2005-11, art. I, 12-6-2005)
Sec. 98-7. - Termination or refusal of service.
The city shall have the right to disconnect or refuse to connect or reconnect any utility service for the following reasons:
(1)
Failure to meet the applicable provisions of law;
(2)
Violation of the rules and regulations pertaining to utility service;
(3)
Nonpayment of bills;
(4)
Willful or negligent waste of any utility service due to improper or imperfect pipes, fixtures, appliances or otherwise;
(5)
Molesting any meter, seal or other equipment controlling or regulating the supply of utility service;
(6)
Theft or diversion and/or use of any utility service without payment therefor;
(7)
Vacancy of premises.
(Code 1988, § 6-2-5)
Sec. 98-8. - Liability of city for damage.
The city shall not be liable for any damage to any customer of any utility service furnished by the city due to backflow of the sewerage system, failure of supply, interruption of service or any other cause outside the direct control of the city.
Sec. 98-9. - Application for service.
Any person desiring any utility service furnished by the city shall make application for such service. Such application shall contain the applicant's name, address and the uses for which such utility service is desired.
(Ord. No. 2005-11, art. I, 12-6-2005)
Sec. 98-10. - Service not available to debtors.
The city may decline or fail or cease to furnish utility service to any person who may be in debt to the city for any reason, except ad valorem taxes and special assessments.
Sec. 98-11. - Permit.
Approval of the application for any utility service by the utility department shall be deemed permission for such service.
(Ord. No. 2005-11, art. I, 12-6-2005)
Sec. 98-12. - Use assumed.
All premises connected to any utility service of the city shall be assumed to be using such utility service and the owner or occupant shall be charged therefor so long as such premises remain connected with the utility service.
Sec. 98-13. - Use contrary to permit.
Any person having a permit from the city for the use of any utility service offered by the city who shall use such utility service for any purpose other than mentioned in such permit or who shall make any unauthorized changes in such service shall be deemed in violation of this chapter.
(Code 1988, § 6-2-3)
Sec. 98-14. - Damage of equipment, trespassing.
It shall be unlawful for any person, not having authority to do so, to open any hydrant or tamper with any utility service furnished by the city to consumers, or to in any other way molest, damage or trespass upon any equipment or premises belonging to the city connected with any utility service.
(Code 1988, §§ 6-2-2, 11-1-4)
Sec. 98-15. - Unlawful supplying of service.
(a)
It shall be unlawful for any person to supply any utility service, including electricity, to any structure on a temporary basis without proof being shown that a building permit has been issued by the city to the owner, builder or other person in control of such structure for such structure.
(b)
It shall be unlawful for any person to supply any utility service, including electricity, to any structure on a permanent basis without proof being shown that a certificate of occupancy has been issued by the city to the owner, builder or other person in control of such structure for such structure.
(Code 1988, § 6-2-3)
Sec. 98-16. - Interruption of service; notice.
The city reserves the right to cut off any utility service without notice in case of emergencies. When an interruption in service is necessary for the maintenance and improvement of the utility system, affected customers will be notified as circumstances permit.
Sec. 98-17. - Restricting use.
The city hereby reserves the right to at any time restrict or prevent the use of any utility service furnished by the city during periods of emergency or circumstances demanding such restriction or prevention of use.
Sec. 98-18. - Sale of service by customer.
It shall be unlawful for any person to resell any utility service obtained from the city to others except by special arrangement with the City of Monroe.
(Ord. No. 2005-11, art. I, 12-6-2005)
Sec. 98-19. - Service connections—Supervision of.
Connections for any utility service furnished by the city shall be made under the supervision of the City of Monroe.
(Ord. No. 2005-11, art. I, 12-6-2005)
Sec. 98-20. - Same—Separate connections.
Every building, structure or consumer in the city shall have a separate utility service connection.
Sec. 98-21. - Same—Owner's consent.
Any person who shall make any connection in any manner to any utility system, whether owned by the city or not, without the prior knowledge and consent of the owner of such utility system shall be deemed in violation of this chapter.
Sec. 98-22. - Unlawful use.
No person, other than employees of the city, shall be authorized to connect, turn on, turn off or disconnect any utility service offered by the city, or remove, replace or repair any equipment connected to any such utility service.
(Code 1988, § 6-2-3)
Sec. 98-23. - Maintenance of equipment by consumer.
The consumer of any utility service furnished by the city shall maintain and keep in good repair all connections, appliances and other apparatus installed and used in connection with such utility service.
Secs. 98-24—98-55. - Reserved.
