PART I - CHARTER[1]

Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Editor's note— Printed herein is the city's Charter as set forth in 1959 Ga. Laws, page 2683. Amendments to the act are indicated by parenthetical history notes following amended provisions. The absence of a history note indicates that the provision remains unchanged from the original act. Obvious misspellings have been corrected without notation. For stylistic purposes, a uniform system of headings and citations to state statutes have been used. Catchlines in brackets have been added by the editor. Additions made for clarity are indicated by brackets.
Pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 36-32-1, references to "recorders court" and "police court" have been changed to "municipal court" without notation. Similarly, references to "ordinary" and "court of ordinary" have been changed to "judge of the probate court" and "probate court" pursuant to art. 6, sec. 6, par. 14 of the Georgia Constitution of 1976.

Section 1. - New Charter.
An Act incorporating the City of Monticello approved December 18, 1901, (1901 Ga. Laws, page 565), as amended, is hereby repealed. The inhabitants of the territory embraced within the corporate limits described hereinafter shall be incorporated under the name and style of the City of Monticello; and said City of Monticello is hereby incorporated, and by that name and style shall have perpetual succession.
Section 2. - Corporate limits.
The corporate limits of the city shall extend and form a perfect circle with a radius three-fourths of one (¾) mile or 3,960 feet measured in a straight line without elevations or depressions, in all directions, from the center of the city square on which the Confederate Monument is located, as such square and monument presently exist in the City of Monticello.
Section 3. - Powers.
The city shall have, under this charter, the following powers:
1.
The right to govern itself by such ordinances, resolutions and bylaws for municipal purposes as it deems proper, not in conflict with this charter, nor the Constitution and Laws of the State of Georgia, nor the Constitution and the Laws of the United States.
2.
The city shall have the power to contract and be contracted with, sue and be sued.
3.
The city shall be capable in law or equity to purchase, have and hold, receive and enjoy, possess and retain for corporate purposes, any estate, or estates, real or personal, of whatever kind or nature, within or without the jurisdictional limits of the City of Monticello, and may sell, or otherwise dispose of same for the use and benefit of said city, as to the city council may deem fit and proper; the mayor of said city, by direction of the city council, making deed to any property sold or disposed of by said city.
4.
The city shall have the power and right, under this charter, to hold all property and effects now belonging to the city; to be used by said city for public purposes.
5.
The city shall have and use a common seal.
Section 4. - Council.
The municipal government of the City of Monticello shall be vested in a mayor and five councilmen, who shall be elected in the manner hereinafter set out, and who shall compose the city council of Monticello.
Code reference—City council, § 2-26.
Section 5. - Elections for mayor and councilmembers.
The municipal general election for the City of Monticello shall be conducted in accordance with Chapter 2 of Title 21 of the O.C.G.A., the "Georgia Election Code," as now or hereafter amended, on the Tuesday following the first Monday in November of each odd-numbered year. The city council may, by resolution, order a special election in accordance with law for the election of a councilmember or mayor when a vacancy has occurred for any reason. Such special election shall be for the purpose of filling the unexpired term of the councilmember or mayor, as the case may be.
(House Bill 391, § 1, 4-20-11)
Section 6. - [Mayor and councilmen—Eligibility for office; election districts and elections.]
(a)
Any person who is a resident of the territory described as the corporate limits of the city and who has been a resident thereof for one continuous year immediately preceding the date of election, who is 21 years of age and a qualified elector of the city, and who is otherwise qualified as provided in this section shall be eligible to be elected as mayor or councilmember. Should the mayor or councilmember elected from the city at large remove his or her residence from within the corporate limits of the city during his or her term of office, his or her office shall immediately become vacant. Should any councilmember elected from an election district remove his or her residence from the district from which he or she was elected during his or her term of office, his or her office shall immediately become vacant.
(b)
The mayor and one councilmember may reside anywhere within the City of Monticello and shall be elected by a majority of the qualified electors of the entire city. The councilmember elected from the city at-large shall be the mayor pro tempore.
(c)
(1)For purposes of electing the other four members of the city council, the City of Monticello is divided into two election districts by the following described line, to wit: Beginning at the point where Forsyth Street (State Highway 83) intersects with the southwestern boundary of the Monticello city limits line; from that point northeast along the centerline of Forsyth Street until it intersects with Short Street; thence along the centerline of Short Street in a southerly direction until it intersects with the Southern Railroad track; thence along and with the centerline of the Southern Railroad track in a northeasterly direction until it intersects with Key Street; from that point southeast along the centerline of Key Street until it intersects with Blue Ruin Street; from that point northeast along the centerline of Blue Ruin Street until it intersects with the Monticello city limits line.
Election District No. 1 shall contain all that territory and area within the city limits of the City of Monticello which lies east and southeast of the above-described line. Election District No. 2 shall contain all that territory and area within the city limits of the City of Monticello which lies west and southwest of the above-described line.
(2)
Two councilmembers shall be elected from Election District No. 1 and two councilmembers shall be elected from Election District No. 2. Each election district shall have two posts designated as Post 1 and Post 2. Candidates for the office of councilmember from each election district shall certify at the time of their qualification as candidates that they are residents of the election district from which they seek election. To be elected, a candidate shall receive a majority of the votes cast by the electors of the election district voting in the election. If no candidate receives a majority of the votes cast in the election district, a run-off election shall be held in accordance with Chapter 2 of Title 21 of the O.C.G.A., the "Georgia Election Code."
(1984 Ga. Laws, page 3779; House Bill 391, 4-20-11)
Section 7. - [Same—Filling vacancies; oath of office.]
(a)
The mayor and members of the city council in office on January 1, 2011, and any persons filling vacancies in such offices shall serve until the first Tuesday in January, 2012.
(b)
At the municipal general election in November, 2011, there shall be an election for the mayor and the councilmembers representing Post 1 in Election District No. 1 and Election District No. 2. Those persons elected in such election shall take office on the first Tuesday in January, 2012, and shall serve a term of office of two years and until their respective successors are elected and qualified. Thereafter, successors to such persons shall be elected at the November municipal general election immediately prior to the end of their terms of office and they shall take office in January immediately following such election and shall serve for terms of four years and until their respective successors are elected and qualified.
(c)
At the municipal general election in November, 2011, there shall be an election for the mayor pro tempore and the councilmembers representing Post 2 in Election District No. 1 and Election District No. 2. Those persons elected in such election shall take office on the first Tuesday in January, 2012, and shall serve a term of office of four years and until their respective successors are elected and qualified. Thereafter, successors to such persons shall be elected at the November municipal general election immediately prior to the end of their terms of office and they shall take office in January immediately following such election and shall serve for terms of four years and until their respective successors are elected and qualified.
(d)
On the first Tuesday in January immediately following their election, the mayor and councilmembers-elect shall meet in the city hall or council chamber and there severally take, before some officer authorized to administer oaths under the laws of this state, the following oath of office, to wit:
"I do solemnly swear that I will well and truly demean myself as (mayor or councilmember, as the case may be) of the City of Monticello for the ensuing term and that I will faithfully enforce the charter and ordinances of the city to the best of my skill and knowledge without fear or favor, so help me God."
Should the mayor or any councilmember be absent from the meeting, he or she shall take the oath of office as soon as possible thereafter.
(1984 Ga. Laws, page 3779; House Bill 391, 4-20-11)
Sections 8—13. - Reserved.
Editor's note— House Bill 391 of 2011 § 1, approved on April 20, 2011, repealed former §§ 8—13 in their entirety. Subject matter and legislative history of these repealed sections are listed below;
EXPAND
Section Subject Legislative History
Section 8 Superintending and managing elections 1959 Charter
Section 9 Election hours and records 1959 Charter
Section 10 Voter qualifications and registration 1959 Charter
Section 11 Illegal voting 1959 Charter
Section 12 Election contests 1959 Charter
Section 13 Exercising of office during pendency of contest 1959 Charter
    Section 14. - Vacancies.
Be it further enacted by the authority aforesaid, That in case of a vacancy in the office of mayor caused by death, resignation, failure to elect, removal from the city, or otherwise, said vacancy shall be filled by the city council of said city, who shall proceed at once to elect a mayor for the unexpired term, it being declared lawful and competent for said city council to elect one of its own members, should they see fit. And in the case of a vacancy in the office of councilman, caused by death, failure to elect, resignation, removal from the city, elevation to the mayoralty, or otherwise, the vacancy shall be filled by the remaining members of the city council, who shall proceed at once to elect a councilman for the unexpired term. Said mayor or councilman thus elected shall, before entering upon the duties of their respective offices, take the oath of office heretofore prescribed.
Section 15. - Same.
Be it further enacted by the authority aforesaid, That should the mayor or any councilman fail or refuse to perform the duties of his office for two consecutive months, or be guilty of any misconduct in the performance or nonperformance of his official duties, the office or offices may, in the discretion of the remaining members of the city council, be declared vacant and the vacancies filled as provided for in section 5 or section 14 of this Act; provided, however, that this power to declare said offices vacant shall not be exercised until the party whose office is affected shall have reasonable notice, not less than ten days, of the intention of the city council to investigate his conduct with a view of declaring his office vacant, which notice shall be written and specify the time and place of hearing, and said party affected shall have the right to be present at said hearing, to have compulsory process to compel the attendance of such witnesses as he may wish subpoenaed in his behalf, and to be represented by counsel.
Section 16. - Salaries.
The salary of the mayor shall not exceed one hundred and no/100 dollars ($100.00) per month. The compensation of each member of the council shall not exceed fifty and no/100 dollars ($50.00) per month.
Section 17. - Mayor.
The mayor shall be the chief executive officer of said city and shall be charged with the duty of seeing that all laws, ordinances, rules and regulations of said city are enforced. He shall preside at all meetings of the city council.
Section 18. - Mayor and council.
The mayor and councilmen shall constitute the city council which shall be the legislative department of said city, and as such shall have full power and authority to establish such rules, laws, ordinances, regulations and orders as they deem proper, respecting any and all municipal affairs, and which they may consider necessary or proper, or incident to the good government of said town, and to the peace, security, health, happiness, welfare, protection or convenience of the inhabitants thereof, and for the preservation, peace, good order, and dignity of said government.
Be it further enacted by the authority aforesaid, That the city council of said city shall have the power and authority to enact such ordinances, from time to time, as they may deem necessary to enforce the provisions of this charter; the city council shall not enact any ordinance or other measure unless it receives the vote of three councilmen, if there be a full board of five present. In the event a full board of five councilmen are not present, no ordinance or other measure shall be passed unless it receives the votes of three councilmen; provided; that in case of tie the mayor shall have the right to vote, and any ordinance or other measure in such cases receiving the votes of two councilmen and the mayor shall be passed and held of full force and effect. In no case shall the mayor have the right to vote upon any ordinance or measure, except in case of a tie; but it shall be his duty to vote in all cases where a tie arises, whether with a full board of five present or not, and such vote, when cast, shall count as the vote of a councilman in determining whether any ordinance has received the three votes necessary to pass. In the event a councilman shall be disqualified from voting in accordance with the disqualification prescribed by law of this State, or shall refuse to vote, a note of said refusal or disqualification shall be made upon the book of minutes, and the remaining members of the council shall proceed to vote and act as if said councilman was absent. It shall be optional, but not compulsory, for said city council to have posted any measure, ordinance or resolution, at such places in the city as they may direct for the information of the public, or they may have same published in any newspaper of said city; but the failure to so post or publish any ordinance, measure or resolution shall in no wise operate to render same void.
Section 19. - [Meetings of council; quorum; records.]
The city council shall be presided over at its meetings by the mayor, or in his absence, by the mayor pro tem., and a majority of the council shall be necessary to form a quorum for the transaction of business. The said council shall cause to be kept in a well-bound book an accurate record of all its proceedings, bylaws, acts, orders, ordinances and resolutions, which shall be fully indexed and open to the inspection of any one in said city. Said council shall hold monthly, semimonthly, or weekly meetings, as they may determine, and the mayor, or mayor pro tem., may call such other and additional meetings as emergencies may in his judgment require. At each meeting of said council the proceedings of the last meeting shall be read and corrected, if erroneous, and signed and approved as correct by the presiding officer for the time being. Upon the call of any member the yeas and nays on any question shall be taken and recorded on the book of minutes.
Code reference—City council meetings, § 2-26.
Section 20. - Mayor protempore; duties and powers.
The mayor pro tempore shall, in the absence or disqualification of the mayor, be the presiding officer of the city council. He shall be allowed to vote on all questions and shall, in the absence or disqualification of the mayor, or when the mayor from sickness or other reasons is unable to act, exercise all the functions of the office of mayor and all the duties, powers, rights, and privileges conferred by this charter upon the mayor.
(1984 Ga. Laws, page 3779)
Section 21. - [Appointments of certain city officials and employees.]
The city council shall, at their first meeting after election and qualification, appoint a city clerk, police chief, fire chief, attorney, and city manager who shall hold office for such period of time and receive such compensation as may be provided by the city council. Said city council likewise may appoint such other city employees as in their opinion should be employed. All such employees shall be appointed for such term and upon such conditions as may be prescribed by the city council and shall receive such compensation as may be provided at the time of appointment.
(1992 Ga. Laws, page 5773)
Editor's note— Section 22 was repealed in its entirety by 1989 Ga. Laws, page 4218.
Section 23. - Police department.
The city council shall have authority to establish a police department with such other officers and employees as they deem desirable and necessary, and to fix the compensation therefor.
Section 24. - Fire department.
The city council shall likewise have the right to establish a fire department, with such officers and employees as they deem desirable and necessary, and to fix the compensation therefor.
Section 25. - Tax assessors.
The city council shall, at their first meeting after election and qualification, elect three (3) upright, intelligent and discreet persons, who shall be freeholders and residents of said city, as city tax assessors, who shall hold office for two years, and until their successors are elected and qualified. It shall be the duty of said tax assessors to assess the taxable real estate of said city, and receive the returns of personal property, under oath of the taxpayer, and perform such other service as the said city council may, by ordinance, require to be performed in connection with said offices. It shall be the duty of said tax assessors to place a just, fair, and equitable valuation on all real estate within the incorporate limits of said city, and when the owner of personal property fails to return same for taxation, it shall be their duty to place a just, fair, and equitable valuation on same, and double said valuation and enter a note of said double valuation for the information of the city clerk. The tax assessors shall give notice by publication in the newspaper in which the legal advertisements of the sheriff of said county are published, once a week for two weeks, of the time when they will begin receiving tax returns, and the time when the books for receiving same shall be closed, which said times shall be fixed by the city council. In no event shall the books for receiving same be kept open for less than thirty (30) days. Should any vacancy happen in said board of assessors by death, resignation, refusal to perform the duties of the office, removal therefrom, or otherwise, such vacancy shall be immediately filled by the city council. Before entering upon the duties of the office, each of said assessors shall take and subscribe before some officer authorized to administer oaths by the laws of this State, the following oath of office:
Oath. I do solemnly swear that I will faithfully perform the duties of tax assessors of the City of Monticello, and will make a just and true valuation of all property subject to taxation in said city, according to its actual market value, so help me God.
Two of said assessors shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business, and any one of said assessors may administer the oath to be made by the taxpayer in his return of personal property for taxation.
Section 26. - Hearings.
Said tax assessors may hear, during the progress of their investigation, such evidence as the value of any property in said city as they may deem advisable; and if, after the publication of the notice of their intention to receive returns and assess property, as provided for in section 25 of this Act, any taxpayer gives notice to said assessors in writing that he or she desires to submit evidence relative to the value of his or her property liable to assessment, it shall be the duty of said assessors to appoint a time and place to hear such evidence, and hear same before assessing said property; provided, that the taxpayer is present and submits his evidence at the time and place appointed; but if he be not present, either personally or by agent, or attorney, said assessors shall proceed to assess the value of said property with or without hearing evidence, as they determine. If any person be dissatisfied with the valuation of his property as fixed by the assessors, he shall have the right to appeal to the city council. Said appeal shall be entered within four days from the date upon which the written or printed notice hereinafter provided for has been mailed by the clerk. Upon filing said appeal with the clerk of said city, it shall be the duty of the mayor to fix a day upon which a hearing shall be had to give the appellant three days' notice in writing of said hearing. Notice to the agent or attorney at law of said appellant shall be sufficient. At said hearing said city council shall hear all legal and competent evidence, pass upon same and render their decisions accordingly, and from this decision there shall be no appeal.
Section 27. - Appeals.
In the event the said tax assessors are not satisfied with the return of personal property for taxation, made by any taxpayer, they shall transmit said return to the city council, noting thereon, or annexed thereto, the grounds of their dissatisfaction, and upon the filing of this return with the clerk, it shall be the duty of the mayor to notify the taxpayer that his return of personal property for taxation has been excepted to by the city assessors, and fix a day upon which a hearing will be had; said notice shall be in writing, and shall be given at least three days before the time of said hearing. Notice to the agent or attorney at law of said taxpayer shall be sufficient. At said hearing said city council shall hear all legal and competent evidence, and render their decision assessing and fixing the valuation of said personal property, and from that decision there shall be no appeal.
Section 28. - Report of tax assessors.
Immediately after the city assessors have finished assessing the value of the taxable real estate of said city, and receiving the returns of personal property, they shall file a report of their actions with the clerk of the city, and immediately after such report is filed it shall be the duty of said clerk to mail a written or printed notice to every person, setting out the valuation of his taxable real estate in said city, as assessed by the city assessors, specifying, as near as practicable, the valuation assessed for each tract or parcel of land. All the returns of personal property under oath shall, as fast as made, be transmitted by said city assessors to the city clerk, and it shall be the duty of said clerk to prepare a tax digest, which shall contain the valuation of the taxable property, both real and personal, as the same has been determined under the provisions of this charter; noting upon said digest the property double taxed. The city council may, by ordinance, fix the time when said digest is to be completed by the city clerk, and said city council may, upon proper cause shown, relieve any taxpayer of the double taxation entered against him.
Section 29. - Municipal court dissolution.
Jurisdiction over all matters in which the municipal court of the City of Monticello had jurisdiction while in existence is granted to the following courts:
(1)
As to all matters which are pending in the municipal court of the City of Monticello on July 1,2015, of this section shall be transferred to the following courts:
(a)
As to all matters pending in the municipal court of the City of Monticello which are within the jurisdiction of the Probate Court of Jasper County as provided by law in the absence of a municipal court, to the Probate Court of Jasper County; and
(b)
As to all matters pending in the municipal court of the City of Monticello which are not within the jurisdiction of the Probate Court of Jasper County as provided by law in the absence of a municipal court, to the Magistrate Court of Jasper County,
(2)
As to all matters arising on and after July 1, 2015, or pending on the effective date of this section over which the municipal court had jurisdiction and which are not within the jurisdiction of the Probate Court of Jasper County in the absence of a municipal court, including, but not limited to, any violation of city ordinance of the City of Monticello, shall be tried before the Magistrate Court of Jasper County to which jurisdiction is hereby granted.
(3)
From and after July 1, 2015, all fines, fees, and forfeitures collected in the cases transferred to either the Probate Court of Jasper County or the Magistrate Court of Jasper County shall be paid to the respective court and remitted to Jasper County.
(1974 Ga. Laws, page 2315; 2015 Ga. Laws, Act No. 161)
Sections 30—35. - Reserved.
Editor's note— 2015 Ga. Laws, Act. No. 161 repealed former §§ 30—35 in their entirety. Subject matter and legislative history of these former sections are listed below.
EXPAND
Section Subject Legislative History
Section 30 Powers of municipal court judge 1959 Charter; 1974 Ga. Laws, page 2315; 1989 Ga. Laws, page 4218
Section 31 Clerk of the court 1959 Charter
Section 32 Appeals from judgments and decisions of the municipal court 1959 Charter
Section 33 Pardon powers of mayor 1959 Charter
Section 34 Confinement or bail of accused persons 1959 Charter
Section 35 Power of police to make arrests 1959 Charter
    Section 36. - Bonds.
The chief of police, regular or special policeman shall have the right, power and privilege (though they shall not be compelled, if it would be dangerous, to allow the prisoner to run at large) to release any person arrested within the corporate limits of said city upon said person giving a bond, to be approved by the mayor or chief of police of said city, payable to the City of Monticello, conditioned to pay the said City of Monticello an amount fixed by said mayor or chief of police, and named in said bond, in the event said person arrested does not appear before the corporate authorities of the city at the time and place specified in the bond, and from time to time, till said person arrested is tried for the offense for which he or she was arrested.
Section 37. - Bond forfeiture.
If any person who has been arrested charged with a violation of any law or ordinance of said City of Monticello, and has given a cash, surety or personal bond for his or her appearance before the proper corporate authorities to answer such charge, fails to appear at the time and place fixed and recited in the bond, said bond shall be declared forfeited, and a rule nisi directed to the principal and securities, shall issue, directing and requiring them to show cause before the municipal court at a sitting of said court to be held not less than sixty days from the time of the forfeiture nisi, why the bond should not be absolutely forfeited, copies of which rule nisi shall be served upon the principal and sureties on the bond at least 20 days before the sitting of the court to which it is made returnable, either personally or by leaving same at the most notorious place of abode of the person upon whom service is perfected, or by publishing the same once a week for four weeks prior to the sitting of the court to which the same is made returnable, in the newspaper published in said county in which the sheriff's advertisements are published. If, at such return term, no sufficient cause be shown to the contrary, the forfeiture shall be made final and absolute, and execution shall issue against the principal and securities on said bond, or such of them as have been served, for the full amount thereof, and all cost, which shall include the cost of publication, if service by that method is used, which execution shall be signed by the clerk of the council and mayor of said city, and shall have the same lien and binding effect upon the property of the defendants therein as execution issued upon judgments in justice or superior courts of this state. Said executions shall be directed to the chief of police of the City of Monticello, and to all and singular the sheriffs, the deputy sheriffs, or constables of said State, by any one of whom the same may be executed.
Section 38. - City council.
The city council shall have the power to control the finances and property of the city; to appropriate money, and provide for the payment of the debts and expenses of the corporation.
Section 39. - Ad valorem tax.
For the purpose of raising revenues to defray the ordinary current expenses incident to the support and maintenance of the city government, the said city council shall have full power and authority to levy and collect an ad valorem tax upon all property, both real and personal, in the corporate limits of the said city, not to exceed one (1) per centum, but when that amount is deemed insufficient, said city council shall have the authority to levy an additional tax in the mode and manner provided by the Constitution and the laws of the State of Georgia.
Section 40. - Business taxes.
The city council shall have the power to provide for the levying and collection of a business or occupation tax upon any trade, business, profession or occupation, except such as are exempt by law, carried on within the city limits, and upon the inhabitants of said city who engage in, or offer, or attempt to engage in, any profession, trade, business or occupation in said city, and on such persons as live without the limits of said city, but who engage in, or attempt, or offer to engage in, any profession, business, trade or occupation, not exempt by law, within the limits of said city, as said city council may deem expedient for the safety, benefit, convenience, and advantage of said city. This tax shall be in the nature of a license, which must be paid in advance of practicing or engaging in such profession, trade, business or occupation, and said city council shall provide by ordinance for the punishment of all persons required by ordinance to pay such occupation tax, or take out license for same, who engage in, or offer, or attempt to engage in, such business, trade, profession, or occupation before paying such tax or taking out such license and complying fully with all the requirements of said city council made in reference thereto.
Section 41. - Gross sales tax.
Be it further enacted by the authority aforesaid, That said City Council shall have power and authority to levy and collect tax upon the gross sales of every merchant or other vender of goods, wares and merchandise in said city. Said tax not to exceed one-half (½) of one per cent, and to be in lieu of a business license.
Section 42. - Businesses.
Be it further enacted by the authority aforesaid, That the said city council shall have full power and authority to license, regulate and control by ordinance all taverns, hotels, boardinghouses, cafes, restaurants, saloons for the sale of creams, ices, etc., stables, feed stables, sale stables, and lots, drays and other vehicles auctioneers, vendue masters, itinerant traders, theaters and theatrical performances, shows, circuses and exhibitions of all kinds, oil-mills, iceworks, laundry and waterworks, electric light works, itinerant lightning rod dealers, emigrant agents, book agents, peddlers of stoves, clocks, machines, or any kind of articles of merchandise whatsoever, itinerant venders of any and all kinds of goods, wares, merchandise, or other things, billiard, pool and bagatelle tables kept for public play, every keeper of a shooting gallery, or tenpin alley, upon the keeper of any table, device, stand, or play for the performance of any game or play, whether played with sticks, balls, rings, or other contrivances, upon balloons, flying-horses, or other like contrivances, bicycles, velocipedes or skating rinks, insurance agents, life, fire, accident, or other insurance companies, loan agents, and agents for any and all kinds of business, banks and bankers, brokers and commission merchants of all kinds, and dealers in futures, keepers of slaughterhouses, beef markets, green grocers, dealers in fresh oysters, vegetables, fruits, breads, and other articles of food, contractors and builders, and all mechanics or artisans, barber shops, junk shops, pawnbrokers, and upon all and every other establishment, business, trade, calling or occupation not heretofore mentioned, and which, under the laws of the State of Georgia, are subject to license.
Code reference—Businesses, ch. 18.
Section 43. - Fiscal year for licenses.
Be it further enacted by the authority aforesaid, That the said city council shall have power and authority to make and establish by ordinance a fiscal year, in their discretion, from which and to which all licenses shall date. Should any person apply for license for any business in said city for which a license is required, at any time after the fiscal year has begun, the said city council shall have authority to require from such person the same amount as required for a license for a full year, and in no case shall the said city council be required to prorate the amount of any license for a term less than a full year provided, nevertheless, that no change in the fiscal year shall operate to the injury of any person who has paid the amount of license required of him.
Section 44. - Executions.
Be it further enacted by the authority aforesaid, That said city council shall have power and authority to enforce, by execution, the collection of any debt or claim due or to become due to said city, for taxes, license fees, rents, impounding fees, fines and forfeitures, for laying sewers and drains, for cleaning and repairing privies, and for abating nuisances, and for any and all levies, assessments, fines, debts or demands, due, or to become due, to said city. Said executions to be issued by the clerk of the council, signed by him and the mayor of said city, directed to the chief of police of the City of Monticello, and to all and singular the sheriffs, the deputy sheriffs, and constables of this State, by any one of whom the same may be executed and who are authorized to levy the same upon the property against which it is issued or on the property of the owner against whom such execution shall issue, and the same to be sold as is provided by the Code of the State of Georgia, in cases of sales for taxes.
Section 45. - Same.
It shall be the duty of the chief of police to levy all executions in favor of the city, and after advertising for 30 days as sheriff's sales are advertised, he shall sell the property levied upon before the courthouse door in Jasper County, on a regular sheriff's sale day, and within the legal hours of sheriff's sale, and shall sell at public outcry to the highest bidder, and execute titles to the purchaser, and shall have the same power to place the purchaser in possession as sheriffs of the State have; provided however, should any of the property levied upon, as before provided, remain in the hands of the levying officer, and is of a perishable nature or liable to deteriorate in value from keeping, or there is expense attending the keeping of same (the same not being real estate), it may be sold as provided by law in such cases, except that the order to sell shall be obtained from the Mayor. In the event said executions are levied by any person authorized to levy and execute the same, and not by the chief of police, the time, place and manner of sale shall be the same as is levied by the said chief of police.
Section 46. - Same, effect.
The executions issued in accordance with the power and authority conferred by section 44 of this Act shall have the same force and binding effect as other executions for taxes; in case they are for ad valorem taxes due the city, and in case they are for other taxes, licenses, fines, forfeitures or demands due the city, shall have the same force and binding effect as executions issued from the superior courts and justice courts of this State, and may be levied by any officer to whom they are directed, upon any property in said State subject to said execution. The same right and privileges shall belong to the person against whom executions issue to file an illegality to said execution, and to any person not a party to said execution to file a claim to the property levied on and give bonds, as if said executions issued from a justice's or superior court of this State, and if the amount claimed on said executions is less than one hundred dollars, all the papers connected with said claim or illegality case shall be returned to the justice court of the district in which the city of Monticello is situated for trial, and said claim or illegality case shall be there tried as claim or illegality cases are tried by law in said court. If the amount claimed on said execution is more than one hundred dollars, or the property levied on is real estate, then all the papers in said case shall be returned to the superior court of Jasper County, should claim or illegality be filed, there to be tried as such cases are by law tried and determined in said court. In the event the real estate levied on lies in another county, and claim of illegality shall be filed, then such case shall be tried in the superior court of the county where the land is situate, as such cases are by law tried and determined in said court. In all cases, the officers making sale under said executions shall execute title to the property sold and put the purchaser in possession.
Section 47. - Taxation.
Be it further enacted by the authority aforesaid, That the said city council shall have the power and authority to provide by ordinance when the taxes of said city shall fall due, and tax executions shall be issued against all persons who have not paid their taxes by the time fixed and defined by ordinance.
Code reference—Taxation, ch. 50.
Section 48. - Bonds.
Be it further enacted by the authority aforesaid, That the said city council shall have the power and authority to contract debts and issue bonds of said city under and in accordance with the limitations provided in the Constitution of the State, and general laws of the State applicable to municipalities, and with the funds arising from the sale of any bonds thus issued, may refund existing debts, establish and maintain a system of waterworks, a system of lights, a public school system, erect public buildings, or any other improvement, convenience or necessity for the use of the citizens of said city, and to create a debt and issue bonds of said city for any other lawful purpose under the limitations therein stated.
Section 49. - Real estate.
Be it further enacted by the authority aforesaid, That the city council of said city are authorized to purchase real estate in the said City of Monticello, and erect thereon a building in which said corporate authorities and the officers of said city may transact the public business of the city, and in which to keep the records, archives and property of said city, and a building for a city prison or guardhouse, and such other buildings as may be necessary or convenient for carrying on the government of said city; that said city council are authorized to levy and collect a tax upon all the property, real and personal, within the limits of said city not to exceed two-tenths of one percent per annum, with which to pay for said buildings, out of said taxes so levied and collected; provided, however, that the city council shall not have the right or power to levy or collect said tax until the same is submitted to and approved by two-thirds
(⅔) of the qualified voters of the City of Monticello voting at an election held under the same rules and regulations as other city elections, and of which notice shall be given by publishing same once a week for four weeks in the newspaper published in said city to which the sheriff publishes his advertisements. Those favoring the levying of said tax shall vote in said election, "For levying tax," and those opposed to same, "Against levying tax," and if two-thirds (⅔) of the qualified voters voting in said election vote in favor of levying said tax, then the council of said city shall be authorized to levy and collect the same.
Section 50. - Bonds.
Be it further enacted by the authority aforesaid, That the City of Monticello shall have all the powers granted to municipalities under the "Revenue Bond Law" (1937 Ga. Laws, page 761 [O.C.G.A. § 36-82-60 et seq.] and any present or subsequent amendments thereto.
Be it further enacted by the authority aforesaid, That the City of Monticello is hereby authorized and empowered:
a.
Utilities. To buy, construct, extend, operate, serve customers and maintain gas and/or electric generating and distribution systems, together with all necessary appurtenances thereto, both within and without its corporate limits, as now constituted and as hereafter extended; and,
b.
Condemnation. To acquire by contract, purchase or condemnation rights-of-way, easements, property and privileges for its public utility systems, including gas and/or electric generating and distribution systems, both within and without the corporate limits of said city; provided, that any such condemnation shall be accomplished as prescribed by the laws of the State of Georgia governing the condemnation of property by the State of Georgia, political subdivisions thereof, or municipal corporations. If more than one law is so available at the time of the bringing of any such proceedings, the city may select the law to be used; and,
c.
[Contracts; improvements; rates and charges.] To have entire control over all public utilities now or hereafter owned or operated by said city, including gas and/or electric generating and distributing systems, within or without its corporate limits, and with authority to make all contracts necessary to operate such utilities, to make all improvements and extensions thereto and to fix, impose and collect the rates and charges made for services commodities, supplied by such public utilities; and,
d.
[Issuance and sale of obligations.] To issue and sell obligations of any of its revenue producing utility systems, including any gas or electric system it may now own or hereafter acquire, payable only from a pledge of the revenues of such system, or combination of systems, as provided in the "Revenue Bond Law" of the State of Georgia, and in Article VII, Section VII, Paragraph V, of the 1945 Constitution of the State of Georgia, or in any present or subsequent amendment to said Law or said Constitution pertaining thereto.
Code reference—Utilities, ch. 58.
Section 50.1. - Telecommunications.
The city shall have the power and authority to acquire, own, hold, lease, sell, resell, build, maintain, operate and contract with respect to a telecommunications systems network in order to provide telecommunications services and similar other services, including cable television services (CATV), to establish and charge rates, fees, tolls and charges for the services, facilities or commodities furnished or made available by such undertaking; to interconnect its system or services or both with the systems or services of consumers and other providers, to use telecommunications to respond to community needs, encourage the development of information-based organizations in the City of Monticello, Georgia, to finance from time to time any such telecommunications systems through the issuance of revenue bonds as then permitted by the Constitution and laws of the State of Georgia; and to make any contract with respect to and furnish the services of any said systems to consumers within or outside the corporate limits of the city.
(Ord. No. 01-12-11-1, § 1, 12-11-01)
Section 51. - Condemnation.
The city shall have the power, by ordinance establishing a lawful procedure, to condemn public or private property, either within or without the corporate limits of said city.
Section 52. - Same.
The city shall have the power of eminent domain and all the rights and privileges of eminent domain, granted to them by law and shall in order to make the provisions thereof effective, the city council may pass such ordinances as they deem necessary to insure the powers therein granted, and to protect the citizens from the limitations therein prescribed.
Section 53. - Sidewalks, streets, etc.
The city council of said city shall have the power therein to lay off, close, open and keep in good order and repair roads, streets and sidewalks, for the use of the public, and to provide how said paving, maintenance or care shall be paid, whether by said town or by the adjacent landowners, or by both; to prevent injury or annoyance to the public or individuals from anything dangerous or unwholesome; to protect places of divine worship in and about the premises where held; to abate, or cause to be abated, anything which, in the opinion of a majority of the whole council, shall be a nuisance; to protect the property and person of the citizens of said town, to preserve the peace and good order therein, and to punish all offenders for any and all kinds of disorderly conduct and breach of the peace in said town; to adopt rules for the regulations and government of its own body. The mayor and council shall have power to make and pass all needful orders, ordinances and bylaws not contrary to the Constitution and laws of Georgia, to carry into effect the foregoing enumerated powers, and all others conferred upon said town.
Code reference—Streets, sidewalks and other public places, ch. 46.
Section 54. - Same.
Be it further enacted by the authority aforesaid, That in all cases where the authorities of said city see proper to open any new street, or to widen any street, lane or alley, or in any way to change the same, it shall be lawful for them to have said street, lane or alley, or the proposed change in same surveyed or marked, and before proceedings to open same they shall give notice in writing to the owner of the land through which said street, lane or alley is to be opened, widened or changed twenty days, during which it shall be lawful for such owner, his agent or attorney, in case he cannot agree with said authorities as to the amount of damages, to file objections to the opening of said new street, lane or alley, or to widening or changing the old street, lane or alley, and make claim for damages which may result to such owner. In case no objection or claim for damages is filed within twenty days, it shall be lawful for the city council to proceed at once to open said street, lane or alley, or make such change in any old one agreeable to the survey made before the commencement of the proceedings, and the owner of the land through which said new street runs or such change is proposed to be made, shall be estopped thereafter from claiming any damages by reason of the opening of said new street, or changing or widening any old one. In case objections are filed and damages are claimed, it shall be the duty of the mayor of the city to select one disinterested freeholder resident in said city, and the owner or his agent shall select another, and they two a third, and in case the said owner shall refuse to select an assessor, the judge of the probate court of Jasper County shall appoint one for him, on application to him reciting said fact by the mayor of said city, and the three assessors so chosen, after hearing such evidence as may be offered by either party, shall proceed to assess the damages resulting therefrom; provided, either party being dissatisfied with said award shall have the right to appeal from same to a jury in the superior court of Jasper County, under the law governing appeals in other cases.
Section 55. - Use of sidewalks, etc.
Be it further enacted by the authority aforesaid, that the city council shall have the right and power to regulate the use of all sidewalks, crosswalks and structures over or under the same; to require the owner or occupant of any premises to keep the sidewalks in front of or along the same free from obstructions of any kind; to regulate and prevent the throwing of ashes, offal, dirt, garbage or any offensive matter into any street, avenue, lane, sidewalk or public place within the city, or into any stream of water within the city, and to prevent any injury of any kind to any street, alley, or public grounds or public buildings of said city.
Section 56. - Same, curbs, gutters, etc.
The city council of said city shall have the right to provide for and regulate curbs and gutters that flow into the streets or on the sidewalks of said city; to regulate or prohibit the use of the streets and public grounds for signs, signposts, awnings, telegraph and telephone poles, horse-troughs, racks, and posting handbills and advertisements; to regulate or prohibit the carrying of banners, handbills, and placards in the streets, on the sidewalks and public places of the city.
Section 57. - Zoning.
The city council of the said city shall have the right and power to prescribe the limits within which wooden buildings, or structures of any kind, shall not be erected, placed or repaired without the permission of said City council; to provide that any and all buildings within said limits, which shall be known as the fire limits, which shall have been damaged by fire, decay or otherwise to the extent of fifty percent of the value shall be torn down or removed, and to prescribe the manner of ascertaining such damage and the damage sustained by the owner by reason of being thus compelled to tear down or remove such building. In case of an offense against such fire regulations, the city council, after having given five days' notice, shall cause any building not fireproof, and erected in violation of the ordinances of said city, to be removed at the expense of the owner or builder thereof; to be collected by execution as in cases of other execution issued by said city; and said city council shall have the right to determine what are and what are not fireproof buildings within the meaning of said ordinances; said city council shall have the right and power to prohibit and prevent the construction of dangerous chimneys, fireplaces, hearths, stoves, stovepipes, ovens, boilers, and apparatus used about any building or manufactory, and to cause the same to be removed or placed in safe condition at the expense of the owner, when in the opinion of the city council it is necessary to do so in order to insure safety against fire.
Section 58. - Building permits.
Said mayor and council shall likewise have the power to prescribe by ordinance, rules and regulations for the erection or improvement of any building of any kind within the limits of said city, with authority to require building permit before same can be erected, and likewise full and complete authority to control and regulate the installation of all plumbing, for the protection of the property, the health and comfort of the inhabitants of said city.
Section 59. - Zoning.
Be it further enacted by the authority aforesaid, that the mayor and city council may in the interest of the public health, safety, order, convenience, comfort, prosperity or general welfare, adopt by ordinance a plan or plans for the districting or zoning of the city for the purpose of regulating the location of trades, industries, apartment houses, dwellings or other uses of property, or for the purpose of regulating the height of the buildings or other structures, or for the purpose of regulating the alignment of buildings or other structures near street frontages. The zoning regulations may be based upon any one or more [of] the purposes above described. The city may be divided into such number of zones or districts and such districts may be of such shape and area as the mayor and city council shall deem best suited to accomplish the purposes of the zoning regulations. In the determination and establishment of districts and regulations, classifications may be based on the nature or character of trade, industry, profession or other activity conducted or to be conducted upon the premises, the number of persons, families or other group units to reside in or use buildings, the public, quasi-public or private nature of the use of premises or upon any other basis or bases relevant to the promotion of the public health, safety, order, morals, conveniences, prosperity or welfare.
a.
Residence Sections. For the reasons above stated, said mayor and city council shall have the further right and power in any districts proposed to be set aside primarily for residence purposes to further classify the use thereof and to provide therein the class or classes of residence to be housed therein and to provide therein such other and similar regulations and restrictions as shall secure the peace and good order of the city and the residents thereof.
b.
Preparation of plan, notice and hearing, ordinance. No ordinance adopting zoning regulations as above authorized shall be passed by the Mayor and city council until after a comprehensive plan for the zoning of the city has been prepared and submitted to the mayor and city council by the city planning commission. Whenever the city planning commission shall certify to the mayor and city council a plan for the zoning of the city, the mayor and city council shall hold a public hearing thereon and shall give thirty days notice of the time and place thereof in a newspaper of general circulation in the city; and during said thirty days, a copy of such plan and proposed ordinance shall be on file for public examination in the office of the city planning commission or any such other office as may be designated by the mayor and city council. No ordinance, measure or regulations which violates, differs or departs from the plan or report submitted by the city planning commission shall take effect unless passed by the mayor and city council.
c.
Amendment of zone plan. The mayor and city council may from time to time amend or change the regulations or districts established by the zoning ordinance, but no such amendment or change shall become effective unless the ordinance proposing such amendment or change shall first be submitted to the city planning commission for approval or disapproval, and the city planning commission shall have been allowed a reasonable time, not less than fifteen days, for consideration and report. Whenever the owners of fifty percent of the land in any area shall present a petition duly signed and acknowledged to the mayor and city council requesting an amendment of the regulations prescribed for such area it shall be the duty of the mayor and city council to vote upon such amendment within sixty days of the filing of same by the petitioners with the city clerk.
d.
Board of Zoning Appeals. The zoning regulations shall be enforced and administered by the inspector of buildings under the rules and regulations of the board of zoning appeals. The mayor and city council shall create a board of zoning appeals which board shall hear and decide appeals from and review any order, requirement, decision or determinations, made by the inspector of buildings in the enforcement of the zoning regulations. The mayor and city council may authorize the board of zoning appeals to administer the details of the application of any zoning regulation and may delegate to such board in accordance with general rules set forth in the zoning ordinance power to permit exceptions to and variations from the zoning regulations, and to administer the zoning regulations as specified therein; or such administrative powers and functions may be delegated by the mayor and city council either in whole or in part of the city planning commission and the city planning commission when acting in accordance with such delegations shall be the board of zoning appeals.
e.
Certiorari to review decision of Board of Zoning Appeals. Every decision of the board of zoning appeals shall be subject to writ of certiorari issued from the superior court upon the same terms as such writs are issued in any case.
Code reference—Boards, authorities and commissions, § 2-51 et seq.
Section 60. - Animal pound.
The city council shall have authority to establish an animal pound for stray animals and to change the same whenever they deem proper; to fix a schedule of charges and penalties to be paid by the owner of such impounded animal or fowl before they are released from the pound; to regulate the mode and manner of sale or disposition of impounded animals or fowls where no owner appears to claim them, or where the payment of impounded fees charged, or penalties or cost is refused; to provide for the proper notice and advertising of impounded animals or fowls, and to provide for the disposition of the proceeds of the sale of impounded animals or fowls, and to provide for the punishment of all persons who, without authority, break or enter the pound.
Code reference—Animals, ch. 10.
Section 61. - Public health.
The city council of said city shall have the right and power to enact ordinances for the purpose of preventing the spread of contagious diseases, and to declare and enforce quarantine against such diseases, and to punish any violation or infringement of the quarantine rules and regulations of said city. The said city council of said city shall also have the power and right to establish, build and maintain hospitals or pest houses within the limits of said city, or outside those limits, as they may determine, and for this purpose they are authorized to buy, hold, possess, and receive real estate outside the limits of said city, and to condemn, if it cannot be bought, real estate to be used for these purposes, the condemnation proceedings being done as provided in section 51 of this Act. The said city council shall also have the power to compel the removal to the smallpox hospital or pest house of any person or persons who shall have smallpox within the limits of said city and who do not provide their premises with sufficient guards to completely quarantine them; but even when the premises on which said person may be who shall have the smallpox shall be sufficiently guarded, it shall still be within the power of said city council, when it is deemed necessary and safest, to remove said person to the hospital or pest house. The said city council shall also have the power and authority to declare by resolution that vaccination shall be compulsory upon all persons residing within the limits of said city, and upon all persons who may be working or sojourning in said city, whether they be permanent residents or not of said city; the said city council may purchase vaccine points, employ physicians to perform the vaccination, and provide in said resolution the time within which all persons as above referred to shall be vaccinated, and give notice of the place and persons who will perform the vaccination for and on behalf of said city, without charge to the individual; and any person failing or refusing to be vaccinated within the time required in said resolution, either by the physician appointed by the city to perform such vaccination, or by some other competent person, shall upon conviction be punished as the said council may by ordinance prescribe, consistent with the provisions of this Act.
Section 62. - [Succession in government and continuation of functions.]
This charter shall provide for succession in government in that the continuation of functions shall be made a part of this charter, and such continuation is hereafter provided for:
(a)
Present mayor and council. The present mayor and councilmen of the City of Monticello are hereby declared and appointed lawful officers of the City of Monticello, under this charter, until the 1st Tuesday in January, 1960, and until their successors are elected and duly qualified, as provided in this charter.
(b)
Intent. Nothing in this charter contained, except as specifically provided, shall affect or impair the rights or privileges of officers or employees of the city or of any office, department or agency existing at the time when this charter takes effect, or any provision of law in force at the time when this charter shall take effect and not inconsistent with the provisions of this charter, in relation to the personnel, appointment, ranks, grades, tenure of office, promotion, removal, pension and retirement, rights, civil rights or any other rights or privileges of officers or employees of the city or any office, department or agency thereof.
(c)
Present employees. All persons holding administrative office at the time this charter takes effect shall continue in office and in the performance of their duties until provisions shall have been made in accordance therewith for the performance of such duties or the discontinuance of such office. The powers conferred and the duties imposed upon any office, department or agency of the city by the laws of the State shall, if such office, department or agency, be abolished by this charter, or under its authority, be thereafter exercised and discharged by the office, department or agency designated by the council unless otherwise provided herein.
(d)
Present debts. The City of Monticello is hereby made responsible as a corporate body for all legal debts, contracts and obligations for which the Town of Monticello, as incorporated under an Act approved December 18, 1901 (1901 Ga. Laws, page 565), as amended, is now obligated.
(e)
Pending actions. No action or proceeding, civil or criminal, pending at the time when this charter shall take effect, brought by or against the city or any office, department or agency or officer thereof, shall be affected or abated by the adoption of this charter or by anything therein contained; but all such actions or proceedings may be continued notwithstanding that functions, powers and duties of any office, department or agency or officer party thereto may be or under this charter be assigned or transferred to another office, department or agency or officer, but in that event the same may be prosecuted or defined by the head of the office, department or agency to which such functions, powers and duties have been assigned or transferred by or under this charter.
Section 63. - Existing ordinances.
All existing valid ordinances, rules, bylaws, regulations and resolutions of the Town or City of Monticello, Georgia, not inconsistent with this charter shall remain in full force and effect for the City of Monticello until altered, amended or repealed.
