PART I - LOCAL AND SPECIAL ACTS
SUBPART A. - MONTGOMERY COUNTY COMMISSIONERS[1]
Act No. 309 (House Bill No. 417)
An Act to repeal an Act creating a Board of Commissioners for Montgomery County, approved December 3, 1937 (Ga. Laws 1937-38, Extra Session, p. 856), as amended by an Act approved March 6, 1939 (Ga. Laws 1939, p. 687); to create a Board of Commissioners for the County of Montgomery; to provide for the election of members thereof; to provide for the election of successors; to provide for the meeting and organization of the board of county commissioners; to provide for the election of a chairman, to set his bond and to provide for a salary for the chairman; to name a clerk for said board and to fix his bond and salary; to provide duties and powers of said board; to prohibit members of board of commissioners to buy from or sell to county anything of value and to prescribe penalty therefor; to provide how disbursements shall be made by said board; to provide duties for chairman of the board; to provide that the board shall be the agency to receive contributions for improvement of roads; to provide for severability of Act; to repeal conflicting laws; and for other purposes.
Be it enacted by the General Assembly of Georgia as follows:

Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Editor's note— Printed herein is 1953 Ga. Laws (Act No. 309), p. 2729, which created and established the Board of Commissioners of the County. Amendments to the Act are indicated by parenthetical history notes following amended provisions. The absence of a history note indicates that the provision remains unchanged from the original Act. Obvious misspellings have been corrected without notation. For stylistic purposes, a uniform system of headings and catchlines has been used. Additions made for clarity are indicated by brackets. Pursuant to 1976 Ga. Const. art. VI, § VI, ¶ IV, the term "Ordinary" has been changed to "Judge of the Probate Court." Pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 36-5-20, the term "Commissioners of Roads and Revenues" has been changed to "Board of Commissioners" and the term "Commissioner of Roads and Revenues" has been changed to "Commissioner."
State Law reference— County government generally, O.C.G.A. § 36-1-1 et seq.; claims against counties, O.C.G.A. § 36-11-1 et seq.; code of ethics for government service, O.C.G.A. § 45-10-1.

Sec. 1. - [1937 Act Repealed.]
The Act entitled "An Act to create a Board of Commissioners in and for the County of Montgomery; to provide for manner of electing members thereof; to provide for their qualifications for said office; to designate the districts into which the county shall be divided and to appoint commissioners for said districts; to provide for election of their successors; to provide for their qualification; to provide for the meeting and organization of the board of county commissioners; to provide members compensation and fix the amount of their bond; to provide for filling vacancies; to name county executive as clerk of said board and to fix his salary and bond; to provide duties and powers of said board; to provide for publication of quarterly report by board of commissioners and to provide for annual audit of county affairs, to give board of commissioners authority to sell county property and to provide method of sale; to prohibit member of board of commissioners, either directly or indirectly, to buy from or sell to county anything of value and to prescribe penalty therefor; to provide how disbursements shall be made by said board; to provide duties of the chairman of said board; to provide that the board may receive contributions for improvement of roads; to provide notice to be given of intention of becoming candidate for office of county commissioners; to provide that any unconstitutional part of this Act shall not affect remaining portion; and for other purposes," approved December 3, 1937 (Ga. Laws 1937-38, Extra Session, p. 856), as amended by an Act approved March 6, 1939 (Ga. Laws 1939, p. 687), is hereby repealed in its entirety.
Sec. 2. - [Board of commissioners.]
A Board of Commissioners in and for the County of Montgomery is hereby created. When hereinafter used, the word "board" shall be deemed to mean the Board of Commissioners of Montgomery County created by this Act.
Sec. 3. - [Composition.]
The Board of Commissioners of Montgomery County shall be composed of five members who shall be elected as hereinafter provided in this Act.
(1982 Ga. Laws (Act No. 1001), § 1)
Sec. 4. - [Description of Commissioner Districts.]
(a)
For purposes of electing members of the board, Montgomery County is divided into five commissioner districts, and those districts shall be and correspond to those five districts described in Appendix A attached to and made a part of this Act and further identified as 'User: Montgomery Co. Plan Name: montgomeryccsb-2022 Plan Type: Local'. One commissioner each shall be elected from each district by the electors of such districts.
(b)
(1)
For the purposes of such plan:
(A)
The term 'VTD' shall mean and describe the same geographical boundaries as provided in the report of the Bureau of the Census for the United States decennial census of 2020 for the State of Georgia. The separate numeric designations in a district description which are underneath a VTD heading shall mean and describe individual Blocks within a VTD as provided in the report of the Bureau of the Census for the United States decennial census of 2020 for the State of Georgia; and
(B)
Except as otherwise provided in the description of any district, whenever the description of any district refers to a named city, it shall mean the geographical boundaries of that city as shown on the census maps for the United States decennial census of 2020 for the State of Georgia.
(2)
Any part of Montgomery County which is not included in any district described in subsection (a) of this section shall be included within that district contiguous to such part which contains the least population according to the United States decennial census of 2020 for the State of Georgia.
(3)
Any part of Montgomery County which is described in subsection (a) of this section as being included in a particular district shall nevertheless not be included within such district if such part is not contiguous to such district. Such noncontiguous part shall instead be included within that district contiguous to such part which contains the least population according to the United States decennial census of 2020 for the State of Georgia.
(2012 Ga. Laws (Act No. 359), § 1, p. 4118; 2022 Ga. Laws (Act No. 350), § 1)
Editor's note— The attachment describing the composition of the commission districts for Montgomery County as referred to in this Act has not been included in the text of this codification at the discretion of the editor. Instead, a copy of the attachment may be found at 2012 Ga. Laws (Act No. 359), § 1, pgs. 4120 through 4121.
Sec. 5. - [Continuation in Office of Current Members; Manner of Election and Terms of Office.]
Members of the board representing Commissioner Districts 1, 2, and 3 shall be elected at the November general election in 2024, take office the first day of January immediately following that election, and serve for terms of office of four years and until their respective successors are elected and qualified. Members of the board representing Commissioner Districts 4 and 5 shall be elected at the November general election in 2022, take office the first day of January immediately following that election, and serve initial terms of office of four years and until their respective successors are elected and qualified. All future successors to members of the board whose terms of office are to expire shall be elected at the November general election immediately preceding the expiration of such terms, take office the first day of January immediately following that election, and serve for terms of office of four years and until their respective successors are elected and qualified.
(2012 Ga. Laws (Act No. 359), § 1, p. 4118; 2022 Ga. Laws (Act No. 350), § 1)
Sec. 6. - [Vacancies.]
Should a vacancy on the board occur for any reason, the Judge of the Probate Court of Montgomery County shall appoint a commissioner to fill said vacancy until a successor be elected and qualified at the next general election for members to the board.
(1997 Ga. Laws (Act No. 95), § 1)
Sec. 7. - [Oath; Chairman's bond.]
Each commissioner elected or appointed must qualify within thirty days after his election or appointment by taking and filing the following oath with the Judge of the Probate Court:
"I, ___________, do solemnly swear that I will faithfully discharge the duties of Commissioner of the County of Montgomery and that I will so act as in my judgment will be most conducive to the welfare and prosperity of said county. So help me, God."
The chairman of the board shall, in addition to the oath, make and file with the Judge of the Probate Court a bond in some solvent surety company doing business in the county for the faithful performance of his duties in the sum of one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) payable to the Judge of the Probate Court, and said bonding fee shall be a legal charge against the county. The board may in the discretion of the members fix a salary to be paid the chairman of the board within the limits fixed by this Act.
Sec. 8. - [Meetings.]
The board shall meet in each month on the first Thursday thereof. Annually, upon the first Tuesday of January, the board shall at its meeting elect one of its members as chairman. The chairman may call the board together for a special meeting whenever he deems it necessary, or any member of the board may request the chairman to call a meeting. Any three commissioners shall constitute a quorum for the purposes of holding a meeting of the board, provided that it shall at all times take a majority vote of the entire board to constitute an action by the board.
Sec. 9. - [Chairman.]
The chairman of the board shall preside at all meetings at which he is present, and shall perform such duties and have such powers as are or may be conferred upon him by law or authorized by the board, and make to the board such recommendations as he shall deem proper.
Sec. 10. - [Compensation of members.]
[a]
The compensation and expenses provided for in this Section shall be paid from the funds of Montgomery County.
[b]
[Compensation of the members of the Board of Commissioners including the Chairman will be pursuant to state law.]
(1983 Ga. Laws (Act No. 342), § 1)
Sec. 11. - [Boards' powers.]
The board shall have exclusive jurisdiction and control over the following:
1.
In governing and controlling all county property, letting, hiring and leasing county convicts.
2.
In levying taxes for county purposes in accordance with law.
3.
In examining and auditing the accounts of all officers or persons having the care, management, keeping, collecting or disbursing of money belonging to the county, or appropriated for its use and bring them to settlement.
4.
In examining, auditing, allowing and settling all claims against the county.
5.
In making such rules and regulations for the support of the paupers of the county and the promotion of the health of the county as are not inconsistent with the laws of the State.
6.
In establishing, altering, abolishing, or opening roads, bridges, and ferries in accordance with the law.
7.
In the appointment of a road superintendent and in the general management of the roads, bridges and revenues of the county, including the exercise of all powers over county matters and officers in said county as may be exercised in other counties of this State by the ordinaries where no county commissioners exist; to grant or refuse to grant licenses to do or perform any act for which license from the county or county authorities is required by law.
8.
They shall generally have and perform all the duties vested by law in the county ordinaries when sitting for county purposes.
9.
(A)
The board shall have authority to employ and retain a competent attorney at law, who shall be a resident of Montgomery County, and whose compensation shall not exceed two hundred dollars ($200.00) per annum, to be paid in equal monthly installments out of the county treasury of said county; to advise said board in all matters that may come before said board and to draw such county orders, contracts, etc., as are necessary; that should any special litigation or special matter arise which would require said county attorney to go out of said county at the instance of the board or perform extra services within said county in defense of suit against said board, for the same he shall be entitled to receive such compensation as is reasonable therefor as determined by the board.
(B)
Notwithstanding any other provision of this Act to the contrary, the county attorney employed by the board of commissioners shall not be required to be a resident of Montgomery County.
(1984 Ga. Laws (Act No. 754), § 1)
Sec. 12. - [Contributions for road and bridge improvement.]
The board may receive contributions for the improvement of the public roads or bridges of the county from persons who own property along said roads, or from any other person or persons, or from the State Government, or from the United States Government, or from any corporation or firm who may be interested in the improvement of the roads and bridges of the county, and such contributions, when received, shall be used for the improvement of the roads or bridges designated by the benefactor.
Sec. 13. - [Clerk.]
The person serving as clerk of the board of commissioners of Montgomery County at the time this Act becomes effective is hereby made and constituted the clerk of the board created by this Act, and he shall have such authority as may be delegated to him by the board. The clerk of the board shall serve for a like term as the members of the board, so long as his services are satisfactory to the board, and his successor shall be appointed by the board at the expiration of his term or at any time before such date of expiration, if for any reason the said office shall become vacant. The salary of the clerk of the Board shall not be more than $350.00 per month, paid from county funds, to be determined by the Board.
(1970 Ga. Laws (Act No. 805), § 1)
Sec. 14. - [Clerk's bond.]
The clerk of the board shall give bond in the sum of five thousand dollars ($5,000.00), payable to the board, in some solvent surety company doing business in the county and authorized by law to do business in this State, the same to be approved by the chairman of the board and conditioned for the faithful performance of his duties as such clerk, and said bonding fee shall be a legal charge against the county.
Sec. 15. - [Clerk's duties.]
The clerk of the board shall keep an accurate record of the meetings of the board, shall record the vote of each member of the board on any and all questions considered by the board, and shall keep an accurate account of all funds collected by him or turned over to him by any of the members of the board, agents of the board or officers of the county. He shall also keep an accurate record of all disbursements from funds in his hands, such records to include the person to whom disbursement is made, the time when the disbursement was made, the amount disbursed, and for what purpose the disbursement was made.
Sec. 16. - [Disbursements.]
All disbursements of funds of the county shall be by warrant drawn against the fund from which such debt shall be paid, and no other, and said warrant shall be signed by the chairman and clerk of the board. No warrant shall be drawn until the claim or debt shall be approved by the board, and all claims shall be itemized before being paid.
Sec. 16-A. - [Compensation for Assistant to Tax Commissioner.]
The board of commissioners is hereby authorized to pay to the assistant to the tax commissioner of Montgomery County an annual salary of up to $1,200.00, payable in equal monthly installments from funds of Montgomery County, to be determined by the board.
(1970 Ga. Laws (Act No. 805), § 2)
Sec. 17. - [Sales and purchases.]
The board shall have authority, whenever they deem it advisable or necessary, to sell any property belonging to the county at public outcry to the highest bidder for cash before the courthouse door, or at private sale to the highest bidder for cash, as in their discretion they deem to be to the best interest of the county. Personal property belonging to the county may be sold after publishing notice of the sale in the official gazette of the county for one week prior to such sale; provided, that in no event shall a commissioner buy from, or sell to the county, either directly or indirectly, anything or article of value whatsoever. Should any member of the board violate the foregoing provision, he shall forthwith forfeit his right to serve as a member of the board and shall be liable for punishment as for a misdemeanor.
Sec. 18. - [Reports; Audits.]
Be it further enacted by the authority aforesaid, that said board shall be required to publish detailed quarterly reports of all receipts or money or other things coming into their hands for the use and benefit of said county, as well as all expenditures and disbursements made by them, and such reports shall not be mere ledger balances, but shall be detailed statements of what money or other things of value have been received and from what sources received, and how expended or disbursed, and shall be so expressed that any person of average experience and intelligence can understand what is meant thereby and what has been done with the county's money or other thing of value; and at the same time said board shall publish a full and complete statement of how much money the county owes, if any, and to whom the same is due. Said board are hereby directed and commanded to publish said statements in the county paper in which sheriff's advertisements for said county are published, and they are authorized and empowered to pay therefor out of any fund in the county treasury a reasonable compensation for such publication, which, in no event, shall exceed the sum allowed for legal advertisements. It is further provided that as of the close of business on June thirtieth of each year, the board shall have a detailed audit made of the fiscal affairs of the county. Such audit shall be made by an individual, or firm, who is registered with the State Board of Accountancy of Georgia and shall include all offices and officers of the county receiving or disbursing county funds.
Sec. 19. - [Severability.]
Be it further enacted by the authority aforesaid, that if any portion of this Act shall for any reason be held illegal, that portion alone shall be affected, but the remaining portions of said Act shall not be affected thereby, and shall remain in full force and effect.
Sec. 20. - [Repealer.]
All laws and parts of laws in conflict with this Act are hereby repealed.
Notice of Intention to Apply for the Passage of a Special Bill.
Notice is hereby given that application will be made at the next session of the General Assembly of Georgia for the passage of the following bill:
An Act to abolish all laws creating and regulating the Board of Commissioners in and for the County of Montgomery.
This 10th day of December, 1952.
SUBPART B. - MONTGOMERY COUNTY DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY[2]

Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
Editor's note— Printed herein is 1966 Ga. Laws (Act No. 76), p. 899, which amended Section 1, Article VII, Section V, Paragraph I of the Constitution and thereby created the development authority of the County. Amendments to the Act are indicated by parenthetical history notes following amended provisions. The absence of a history note indicates that the provision remains unchanged from the original act. Obvious misspellings have been corrected without notation. For stylistic purposes, a uniform system of headings and catchlines has been used. Additions made for clarity are indicated by brackets.

Sec. A. - Created.
A.
There is hereby created a body corporate and politic in Montgomery County to be known as the Montgomery County Development Authority, which shall be an instrumentality of the State of Georgia and of Montgomery County and a public corporation, and which in this amendment is hereafter referred to as the 'Authority'.
Sec. B. - Members.
(1)
The Authority shall consist of five members who shall serve for a term of five years and until their successors are appointed and qualified and who shall be eligible for reappointment. The members shall be appointed by the Board of Commissioners of Montgomery County (hereinafter referred to as 'Board') as herein provided. A majority of the members shall constitute a quorum and a majority may act for the Authority in any matter. No vacancy shall impair the power of the Authority to act. Members of the Authority shall not be disqualified by reason of membership on the Authority to hold any other public office. Vacancies shall be filled for the unexpired term by the Board as herein provided.
(2)
For the purpose of appointment of members of the Authority, Montgomery County is divided into four Authority Districts. Authority District No. 1 shall consist of the Mt. Vernon Militia District; Authority District No. 2 shall consist of the Uvalda and Alston Militia Districts; Authority District No. 3 shall consist of the Ailey and the Higgston Militia District; and the Authority District No. 4 shall consist of the Tarrytown and the Kibbee-Tiger Militia Districts.
(3)
One member of the Authority shall be a resident of Authority District No. 1; one member of the Authority shall be a resident of Authority District No. 2; one member shall be a resident of Authority District No. 3; one member shall be a resident of Authority District No. 4; and one member of the Authority shall be a resident of and appointed from the county at large.
(4)
The first members of the Authority shall be appointed by the Board after this amendment is ratified and prior to January 1, 1967 and their terms of office shall begin January 1, 1967. The first members shall be appointed for terms of one, two, three, four and five years and thereafter their successors (except in the case of appointments filling unexpired terms) shall be appointed for terms of five years. All appointments, other than the original appointments and including appointments to fill unexpired terms, shall be made as follows: The Authority shall nominate three qualified persons for the appointment and the Board shall appoint one of the three nominees.
Sec. C. - Taxes.
The property, obligations and the interest on the obligations of the Authority shall have the same immunity Taxes from taxation as the property, obligations and interest on the obligations of Montgomery County. The exemptions herein provided shall not include exemptions from Sales and Use Taxes on property purchased by the Authority or for use by the Authority.
Sec. D. - Powers.
The powers of the Authority shall include, but not be limited to, the power:
(1)
To purchase, acquire, develop, improve, construct, own, operate, maintain, sell, lease as lessor and lessee, and mortgage real and personal property of all kinds, including, but not limited to, land, buildings, machinery, equipment, industrial plants, manufacturing plants, processing plants, commercial buildings, warehouses and other storage facilities, and plants and other facilities for storing, handling or processing agricultural and livestock products within the limits of Montgomery County.
(2)
To accept and administer gifts, grants and donations and to administer trusts.
(3)
To donate, grant, loan and lease without adequate consideration or without any consideration, or with or without security and on such terms as the Authority shall see fit, any of its funds or property to private persons and corporations operating or proposing to operate within Montgomery County, any industrial, commercial, agricultural, or recreational plant, facility, or enterprise. The provisions of this clause shall not be construed to limit any other power of the Authority.
(4)
To borrow money and to issue-notes, bonds and certificates of indebtedness therefor and to sell, convey, mortgage, pledge and assign any and all of its funds, property, revenues, and income as security therefor.
(5)
To contract with Montgomery County, State of Georgia, and with other public authorities, political subdivisions, and public agencies of the State of Georgia and also with the United States, and with any department, agency, or instrumentality of the United States.
(6)
To have and exercise usual powers of private corporations except such as are inconsistent with this amendment, including the power to appoint and hire officers, agents and employees and to provide their compensation and duties, which officers and agents may or may not be members of the Authority, and the power to adopt and amend a corporate seal and bylaws and regulations for the conduct and management of the Authority.
(7)
To aid, foster and encourage, and to promote the expansion of industry, agriculture, trade, commerce and recreation in Montgomery County, and to make long-range plans therefor.
(8)
To exercise such other powers and duties as may be delegated to it by the Board.
(9)
To accumulate (if the Authority shall see fit) its funds from year to year and to invest accumulated funds in any manner that public funds of the State of Georgia or any of its political subdivisions may be invested.
(10)
To do any and all acts and things necessary or convenient to accomplish the purpose and powers of the Authority as herein stated.
(11)
To contract with private persons and corporations and to sue and be sued in its corporate name.
Sec. E. - Tort liability.
The Authority shall have the same immunity and exemption from liability for torts and negligence as the State of Georgia and the officers, agents and employees of the Authority, when in performance of the work of the Authority, shall have the same immunity and exemption from liability for torts and negligence as the officers, agents and employees of the State of Georgia, when in performance of their public duties or work of the State. The Authority may be sued the same as private corporations on any contractual obligations of the Authority.
Sec. F. - Compensation.
The members of the Authority shall receive only such compensation for their services and expenses to the Authority as shall be authorized by the Board, but such compensation shall be paid from funds of the Authority.
Sec. G. - Funds.
Montgomery County, acting by the Board, is authorized to levy an annual tax, not to exceed one mill, on all taxable property within Montgomery County for the support of the Authority and for its use and purposes, and all funds raised by such tax shall be paid and appropriated by the Board to the Authority and when paid to the Authority, shall become a part of its funds and may be used by it for any of its purposes and powers as herein stated or as may be hereafter provided by law, which tax shall be in addition to all other taxes authorized by law.
Sec. H. - Property.
The property of the Authority shall not be subject to levy and sale under legal process, except such property, income or funds as may be pledged, assigned, mortgaged or conveyed to secure an obligation of the Authority, and any such property, funds or income may be sold under legal process or under any power granted by the Authority to enforce payment of the obligation.
Sec. I. - Intent.
The Authority is created and this amendment is adopted for the purpose of aiding, promoting, developing, and expanding for the public good and welfare of Montgomery County and its citizens, industry, agriculture, trade, commerce and recreation in Montgomery County, and to authorize the use of public funds of Montgomery County for such purposes so as to provide employment and to improve the economy and living conditions in Montgomery County, and this amendment and any law enacted with reference to the Authority shall be liberally construed for the accomplishment of this purpose.
Sec. J. - Effective date.
This amendment shall be self-executing and shall be effective immediately upon proclamation of its ratification by the Governor.
Sec. K. - General Assembly.
The General Assembly may by law further define and prescribe the powers and duties of the Authority and the exercise thereof, and may enlarge and restrict the same, and may likewise further regulate the management and conduct of the Authority. The scope and jurisdiction of the Authority shall be limited to Montgomery County. The General Assembly shall not extend the jurisdiction of the Authority nor the scope of its operations beyond the limits of Montgomery County.
Sec. L. - Property.
Should said Authority for any reason be dissolved, title to all property of any kind and nature, real and personal, held by the Authority at the time of such dissolution shall revert to Montgomery County, subject to any mortgages, liens, leases or other encumbrances outstanding against or in respect to said property at that time.
Sec. M. - Debt.
There shall be no limitation upon the payment of debt which the Authority may incur, but no debt created by the Authority shall be a debt of Montgomery County or of the State of Georgia and the Authority shall not be authorized to create in any manner any debt, liability; or obligation against the State of Georgia or Montgomery County.
Sec. N. - Bonds.
(1)
The Authority shall be authorized to issue revenue bonds for the purpose of financing or refinancing any project or undertaking within the scope of the Authority's powers, and may pledge any of its assets, income, or revenues as security for such bonds.
(2)
Revenue bonds issued or proposed for issue by the Authority may be validated as provided in the Act of the Legislature now known as the 'Revenue Bond Law' (Ga. L. 1937, pp. 761, et seq.), as amended, and the term 'municipality' wherever used in said Act, as amended, shall include the Authority, and the Authority shall have all of the rights and powers conferred upon municipalities by said Act, as amended.
(3)
Any private person or corporation and also any political subdivision, public authority or agency contracting with the Authority with respect to revenue bonds of the Authority proposed for validation under said Act, as amended, or with respect to any project or undertaking of the Authority to be financed or refinanced by such bonds may be made a party to the proceedings to validate such bonds under said Act, as amended, for the purpose of validating any such contract.
(4)
This part of this amendment ([Section] N) shall not limit the other powers given the Authority in this amendment to borrow money and to give security therefor or to require the validation of the obligations of the Authority by any court.
Sec. O. - Board defined.
The term 'Board' where used herein shall include the present Board of Commissioners of Montgomery County and also any other board, group, or individual which may hereafter constitute the governing body or authority of Montgomery County.
Sec. P. - Funds.
The Board shall be authorized to appropriate to the Authority any surplus funds at the time held by Montgomery County, which appropriation shall be in addition to the tax provided in [Section] G.
Sec. Q. - Debt.
The Authority, with the agreement of the Board, may pledge the Authority's revenues from the annual tax provided in [Section] G as security for any obligation or undertaking of the Authority. If said revenues are pledged as security for revenue bonds issued by the Authority, the agreement between Montgomery County (acting by the Board) and the Authority shall be subject to validation as provided in Paragraph (3) of [Section] N of this amendment.
Sec. R. - Severability.
If any provision of this amendment should be judicially determined to be invalid for any reason, such determination shall not affect any other part of the amendment nor the validity of the provision so determined to be invalid with respect to any person other than the person in whose favor such determination is made.
SUBPART C. - BOARD OF ELECTIONS AND REGISTRATION FOR MONTGOMERY COUNTY
Act No. 615 ( House Bill No. 1015 )

Sec. 1. - [Board of elections and registration created.]
Pursuant to subsection (b) of Code Section 21-2-40 of the O.C.G.A., there is created the Board of Elections and Registration of Montgomery County. The Board of Elections and Registration of Montgomery County shall have the powers, duties, and responsibilities of the superintendent of elections of Montgomery County under Chapter 2 of Title 21 of the O.C.G.A., the "Georgia Election Code," as the same now exists or may hereafter be amended, which powers, duties, and responsibilities are currently being exercised by the judge of the Probate Court of Montgomery County, and the powers, duties, and responsibilities of the Board of Registrars of Montgomery County under Chapter 2 of Title 21 of the O.C.G.A., the "Georgia Election Code," as the same now exists or may hereafter be amended.
(2022 Ga. Laws (Act No. 614), § 1)
Sec. 2. - [Definitions.]
As used in this Act, the term:
(1)
"Board" means the Montgomery County Board of Elections and Registration.
(2)
"Clerk of the superior court" means the clerk of the Superior Court of Montgomery County.
(3)
"Commissioners" means the Board of Commissioners of Montgomery County.
(4)
"County" means Montgomery County.
(5)
"Election," "elector," "primary," and "public office" shall have the same meanings as ascribed to those terms by Code Section 21-2-2 of the O.C.G.A., unless otherwise clearly apparent from the text of this Act.
(2022 Ga. Laws (Act No. 614), § 2)
Sec. 3. - [Composition; terms of office; appointment of chairperson.]
(a)
The board shall be composed of five members, each of whom shall be an elector and resident of the county, who shall be appointed by the commissioners.
(b)
The initial members of the board shall be appointed for terms of office beginning January 1, 2023. The commissioners shall designate two of the initial members to serve for terms of two years and three of the initial members to serve for terms of four years. Thereafter, all members shall be appointed for terms of four years.
(c)
Every two years, the board shall appoint or reappoint one of its members to serve as chairperson for a two-year term. The chairperson shall preside over all meetings of the board and shall be entitled to vote on all matters coming before the board.
(2022 Ga. Laws (Act No. 614), § 3)
Sec. 4. - [Eligibility to serve.]
(a)
No person who holds elective public office or a member of his or her immediate family shall be eligible to serve as a member of the board during the term of such elective service. The position of any member of the board shall be deemed vacant upon such member's, or upon a member of such member's immediate family, qualifying as a candidate for elective public office. Further, there shall be no members of the same immediate family serving on the board or on the staff of the board at the same time.
(b)
For the purpose of this section, the term "immediate family" shall be defined as a spouse, mother, father, stepmother, stepfather, grandmother, grandfather, child, stepchild, brother, sister, stepbrother, stepsister, half-brother, or half-sister.
(c)
Board members must have been registered to vote in Montgomery County prior to the date of appointment.
(2022 Ga. Laws (Act No. 614), § 4)
Sec. 5. - [Reappointment; resignation; appointment of successor; removal; oath.]
Each member of the board shall:
(1)
Be eligible to be reappointed to succeed himself or herself;
(2)
Have the right to resign at any time by giving written notice of such resignation to the commissioners and to the clerk of the superior court;
(3)
Serve until his or her successor is appointed and qualified;
(4)
Be subject to removal for good cause by the commissioners at any time after prior notice and a hearing; and
(5)
Before entering upon his or her duties, take substantially the same oath as required by law for registrars and shall have the same privileges from arrest.
(2022 Ga. Laws (Act No. 614), § 5)
Sec. 6. - [Certification of appointment.]
(a)
The commissioners shall certify the appointment of each member of the board by filing an affidavit with the clerk of the superior court no later than 30 days preceding the date upon which such member is to take office, and such affidavit shall state the name and residential address of the person appointed and certify that such member has been duly appointed as provided in this Act.
(b)
The clerk of the superior court shall record each such affidavit on the minutes of the superior court, shall certify the name of each such appointed member to the Secretary of State, and shall provide for the issuance of appropriate commissions to each such member within the same time and in the same manner as provided by law for registrars.
(2022 Ga. Laws (Act No. 614), § 6)
Sec. 7. - [Vacancies.]
In the event a vacancy occurs in the office of any board member before the expiration of his or her term, by removal, death, resignation, or otherwise, the commissioners shall appoint a successor to serve the remainder of the unexpired term in the manner provided for in Section 3 of this Act. The clerk of the superior court shall be notified of such interim appointments and shall record and certify such appointments in the same manner as the regular appointment of members.
(2022 Ga. Laws (Act No. 614), § 7)
Sec. 8. - [Powers and duties.]
The board shall be empowered with all the powers and duties relating to the conduct of primaries and elections as election superintendent pursuant to the provisions of Chapter 2 of Title 21 of the O.C.G.A., the "Georgia Election Code." The board shall be empowered with all the powers and duties relating to the registration of voters and absentee balloting procedures as boards of registrars pursuant to the provisions of Chapter 2 of Title 21 of the O.C.G.A., the "Georgia Election Code." This Act is intended to implement the provisions of subsection (b) of Code Section 21-2-40 of the O.C.G.A. and shall be construed liberally so as to effectuate that purpose. The board shall be authorized and empowered to organize itself, determine its procedural rules and regulations, adopt bylaws, specify the functions and duties of its members, and otherwise take such action as is appropriate to the management of its affairs; provided, however, that no such action shall conflict with state law. Any action and decision taken by the board shall be by a majority vote of the members of the board.
(2022 Ga. Laws (Act No. 614), § 8)
Sec. 9. - [Meetings.]
The board shall fix and establish directives, by appropriate resolution entered on its minutes, governing the execution of matters within its jurisdiction. The board shall hold a minimum of quarterly meetings at times, dates, and places as determined by the board. Any special meetings shall be called by the chairperson or any three members of the board. All meetings of the board shall be conducted pursuant to Chapter 14 of Title 50 of the O.C.G.A., relating to open meetings. The board shall maintain a written record of policy decisions that shall be amended to include additions or deletions. Such written records shall be subject to Article 4 of Chapter 18 of Title 50 of the O.C.G.A., relating to inspection of public records.
(2022 Ga. Laws (Act No. 614), § 9)
Sec. 10. - [Duties of chairperson.]
The chairperson of the board shall preside at all meetings of the board, serve as spokesperson for the board, and generally supervise, direct, and control the administration of the affairs of the board pursuant to law and duly adopted resolutions of the board.
(2022 Ga. Laws (Act No. 614), § 10)
Sec. 11. - [Authority.]
The board shall have the authority to conduct municipal elections and primaries for any municipality located within the county if such municipality has entered into a contract for that purpose with the commissioners and in conformance with Code Section 21-2-45 of the O.C.G.A.
(2022 Ga. Laws (Act No. 614), § 11)
Sec. 12. - [Primaries.]
Nothing in this Act shall be construed to require or prohibit joint primaries or to require or prohibit the commissioners or any other public agency to bear any expense of conducting primaries not otherwise required by law.
(2022 Ga. Laws (Act No. 614), § 12)
Sec. 13. - [Election supervisor.]
(a)
The county shall hire a full-time election supervisor to administer and supervise the conduct of the elections and primaries and the registration of electors of the county. The election supervisor shall not be eligible to serve as a member of the board. The election supervisor shall be considered a county employee for purposes of pay, benefits, sick leave, vacation, termination of employment, and other purposes. The election supervisor shall be subject to direction, evaluation, and corrective action by the county.
(b)
The election supervisor may recommend to the county for employment such full-time and part-time employees as may be deemed necessary by the election supervisor and as are approved in an annual budget adopted by the commissioners. All such employees shall be considered county employees for purposes of pay, benefits, sick leave, vacation, termination of employment, and other purposes in accordance with policies adopted by the commissioners.
(2022 Ga. Laws (Act No. 614), § 13)
Sec. 14. - [Compensation.]
Compensation for the members of the board, the election supervisor, clerical assistants, and other employees shall be fixed by the commissioners. All amounts payable under this section shall be paid from county funds.
(2022 Ga. Laws (Act No. 614), § 14)
Sec. 15. - [Offices, equipment, materials, and supplies.]
The commissioners shall provide the board with such proper and suitable offices, equipment, materials, and supplies as the commissioners deem appropriate.
(2022 Ga. Laws (Act No. 614), § 15)
Sec. 16. - [Training.]
The local election officials of Montgomery County shall attend training as required by Code Section 21-2-100 of the O.C.G.A., and the commissioners shall pay the cost of such training.
(2022 Ga. Laws (Act No. 614), § 16)
Sec. 17. - [Poll workers.]
The board shall be responsible for the selection, appointment, and training of poll workers.
(2022 Ga. Laws (Act No. 614), § 17)
Sec. 18. - [Transfer of powers and duties.]
Upon the effective date of this Act, the Probate Court of Montgomery County and the Board of Registrars of Montgomery County shall be relieved of all powers and duties transferred to the board by this Act and shall deliver to the board all facilities and personal property, including but not limited to equipment, supplies, materials, books, papers, and records, pertaining to such powers and duties.
(2022 Ga. Laws (Act No. 614), § 18)
Sec. 19. - [Effective date.]
This Act shall become effective on January 1, 2023.
(2022 Ga. Laws (Act No. 614), § 19)
Sec. 20. - [Repealer.]
All laws and parts of laws in conflict with this Act are repealed.
(2022 Ga. Laws (Act No. 614), § 20)
SUBPART D. - MONTGOMERY COUNTY—MAGISTRATE COURT; CHIEF MAGISTRATE; NONPARTISAN NOMINATION AND ELECTION
Act No. 572 (Senate Bill No. 242)
To provide for the nonpartisan nomination and election of the chief magistrate of Montgomery County; to provide for the requirements and procedures of the nonpartisan nomination and election; to provide for other matters relative to the foregoing; to provide for the authority for this Act; to repeal the Act providing for the appointment of the chief magistrate of Montgomery County, approved March 10, 1988 (Ga. L. 1988, p. 3843); to provide for an effective date; to repeal conflicting laws; and for other purposes.
Be it enacted by the General Assembly of Georgia:

Sec. 1. - [Nonpartisan election.]
The chief magistrate of Montgomery County shall be elected by the qualified voters of Montgomery County in a nonpartisan primary and election. Except as otherwise provided in this Act, the chief magistrate shall be elected pursuant to the general laws regarding elections of Georgia.
Sec. 2. - [Terms of office.]
The chief magistrate in office on the effective date of this Act and such magistrate's successors in office shall serve until December 31, 2002. Beginning with the elections held in 2002 and every four years thereafter, the chief magistrate shall be elected at the nonpartisan primary and general election immediately preceding the expiration of the term of office of the chief magistrate and shall take office on January 1 immediately following such election for a term of four years and until such judge's successor is elected and qualified.
Sec. 3. - [Candidate nomination in nonpartisan primary.]
Candidates for the office of chief magistrate shall be nominated in a nonpartisan primary to be held at the same time as and in conjunction with the general primary every four years. A nominating petition shall not be required to place the name of any such candidate on the primary ballot. A candidate may have his or her name placed on the primary ballot by filing a notice of candidacy with the county election superintendent and by paying the prescribed qualifying fee.
Sec. 4. - [Candidate nomination in nonpartisan general election.]
The candidate receiving a majority of votes in the nonpartisan primary shall be the nominee for the office of chief magistrate and shall be the only candidate for such office to have his or her name appear on the general election ballot. In the event no candidate receives a majority of the votes cast, the candidates receiving the two highest numbers of votes for the office shall be in a runoff to be held on the same day as a runoff from the general primary, as provided by state law, to determine which candidate will be on the general election ballot.
Sec. 5. - [Appearance on election ballots.]
The names of all candidates for the office of chief magistrate shall appear along with the other nonpartisan candidates in a separate section of each primary and general election ballot of each elector. No party designation or affiliation shall appear beside the name of any such candidate on any primary or general election ballot, and no candidate for the office of chief magistrate shall be nominated by any political party.
Sec. 6. - [Authority.]
This Act is enacted pursuant to the authority of Code Section 21-2-139 of the O.C.G.A.
Sec. 7. - [Repeal of 1988 law.]
The Act providing for the appointment of the chief magistrate of Montgomery County, approved March 10, 1988 (Ga.L. 1988, p. 3943), is repealed in its entirety.
Sec. 8. - [Effective date.]
(a)
Except as provided in subsection (b) of this section, this Act shall become effective upon its approval by the Governor or upon it becoming law without such approval.
(b)
Section 7 of this Act shall become effective on January 1, 2003.
Sec. 9. - [Repealer.]
All laws and parts of laws in conflict with this Act are repealed.
(2002 Ga. Laws (Act No. 572), §§ 1—9)
