Chapter 38 - LAW ENFORCEMENT
ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Secs. 38-1—38-18. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - SHERIFF (RESERVED)

Secs. 38-19—38-39. - Reserved.
ARTICLE III. - JAIL

Sec. 38-40. - Jail construction and staffing; fines.
(a)
Subject to O.C.G.A. § 15-21-92, in every case in which any superior court, probate court, state court, magistrate court or any court within the county shall impose a fine, which shall be construed to include costs for any offense against a criminal or traffic law of the state, or any ordinance of the county, there shall be imposed as an additional penalty a sum equal to ten percent of the original fine.
(b)
Subject to O.C.G.A. § 15-21-92, at the time of posting bail or bond in any case involving a violation of a criminal or traffic law of the state or an ordinance of the county, an additional sum equal to ten percent of the original amount of bail or bond shall be posted, and in every case in which any superior court, probate court, magistrate court or any other court within the county shall order the forfeiture of bail or bond, the additional sum equal to ten percent of the original bail or bond shall be paid over as provided under subsection (d) of this section.
(c)
The sums required in this section shall be in addition to that amount required by O.C.G.A. § 47-17-60 to be paid into the peace officers' annuity and benefit fund or O.C.G.A. § 47-11-51 concerning the judges of the probate courts retirement fund of the state.
(d)
The sums provided for in subsections (a) and (b) of this section shall be assessed and collected by the clerk or court officer charged with the duty of collecting monies arising from fines and forfeited bonds and shall be paid over to the board of commissioners by the tenth day of the month following the month in which such sums are collected. Such sums paid over to the board of commissioners shall be deposited into a special account to be known as the county jail fund.
(e)
Monies collected pursuant to this section and placed in the county jail fund shall be expended by the board of commissioners solely and exclusively for constructing, operating and staffing county jails, county correctional institutions and detention facilities of the county, or for the purpose of contracting for such facilities with other counties, the state, municipalities, or other political subdivisions as authorized by article IX, section III, paragraph I of the state constitution. The county jail fund and monies collected pursuant to this section are to be placed in the county jail fund and may be pledged as security for the payment of bonds issued for the construction of county jails, county correctional institutions and detention facilities of the county.
(Code 2000, § 15-101)
