CHAPTER 1. - GENERAL PROVISIONS

Sec. 1-1. - County created and original boundaries; name.
That from and immediately after the passage of this act, Baldwin and Wilkinson counties shall be divided as hereinafter pointed out viz: Beginning on the Oconee river where the line dividing the third and fourth districts of Baldwin county leaves said river, running fourth seventy-seven degrees thirty minutes west to Little River; thence up said river to the Indian boundary line, thence with the said Indian boundary line to the Appalachee river, thence down the same to its junction with the Oconee, thence down the same to the beginning; which tract or parcel of land so bounded and described shall form a new County, to be called and known by the name of Morgan.
(1807 Ga. Laws, page 3, § 1)
Sec. 1-2. - Boundary changes of 1815.
That all [Illegible Text] part of Jasper county north of a line beginning at the corners of Jasper, Morgan and Putnam counties, and running a direct course through the 15th and 19th districts, and intersecting the Indian boundary line at the corner of lots No. 154 and [No.] 181 in said 19th district, be added to, and become a part of Morgan county, and that the County Surveyor of Morgan county be directed to run said line by the Inferior court of said county, after the 10th day of January next, and that the said court be authorized to pay said Surveyor for running said line, as to them may appear just - Provided, nevertheless, that nothing in this law shall be so construed as to prevent the Collector of taxes for the county of Jasper, to collect the arrears of taxes due from any of the citizens of that part of Jasper county now added to the county of Morgan.
(1815 Ga. Laws, page 71, § 1)
Editor's note— The bracketed terms designating "[Illegible Text]" were printed here, as they appeared in the version of the Charter provision obtained from the Georgia Legislative Documents.
Sec. 1-3. - Boundary changes of 1823.
That from and after the passing of this Act, all that part of Morgan county lying West of a line commencing at the point where the Jasper and Newton lines corner upon Morgan, running thence a straight course towards the eighteen [Illegible Text] post, on the dry line near Joseph Lain's, until it strikes the West prong of Little River, thence running up the South prong of said river until it strikes the Newton line, be added to and become a part of the county of Newton.
(1823 Ga. Laws, page 61)
Editor's note— The bracketed terms designating "[Illegible Text]" were printed here, as they appeared in the version of the Charter provision obtained from the Georgia Legislative Documents.
Sec. 1-4. - Boundary changes of 1872.
The line between the counties of Greene and Morgan, be so changed as to include in Greene county all that portion of James B. Park's land, and also the mills of James B. Park, Greene Moore and James N. Armour, now situated in Morgan county.
(1871 Ga. Laws, page 306, § I)
