CHAPTER 4. - UTILITIES
ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Secs. 4-1—4-30. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - MORGAN COUNTY WATER AUTHORITY

Sec. 4-31. - Short title.
This Act shall be known and may be cited as the "Morgan County Water Authority Act."
(1989 Ga. Laws (Act No. 271), p. 4670, § 1)
Sec. 4-32. - Created; composition; qualifications; term; vacancy; public meetings.
(a)
There is created a body corporate and politic, to be known as the "Morgan County Water Authority," which shall be deemed to be a political subdivision of the State of Georgia and a public corporation and by that name, style, and title said body may contract and be contracted with, sue and be sued, implead and be impleaded, and complain and defend in all courts of law and equity.
(b)
The authority shall consist of five members, all of whom shall be residents of Morgan County, any or all of whom may hold any state or local elective or appointive public office, and none of whom is required to be a user of the facilities of the authority. To be eligible for appointment as a member of the authority, a person shall be at least 21 years of age and a resident of Morgan County for at least one year prior to the date of his appointment and shall not have been convicted of a felony. From and after July 1, 1989, the five members of the authority shall consist of and be selected as provided in this section. Each of the county and municipal governing authorities shall be entitled to appoint one member of the authority. The member appointed by the governing authority of Morgan County shall be appointed for a term of five years and until a successor is appointed and qualified. The member appointed by the governing authority of the City of Madison shall be appointed for a term of four years and until a successor is appointed and qualified. The member appointed by the governing authority of the City of Rutledge shall be appointed for a term of three years and until a successor is appointed and qualified. The member appointed by the governing authority of the City of Bostwick shall be appointed for a term of two years and until a successor is appointed and qualified. The member appointed by the governing authority of the City of Buckhead shall be appointed for a term of two years and until a successor is appointed and qualified. No member appointed by the governing authority of Morgan County shall be a resident of the City of Madison, City of Rutledge, City of Bostwick, or City of Buckhead. Members appointed by the governing authority of a municipality need not be a resident of such municipality. Successors to the members appointed as provided in this subsection shall be appointed by the respective governing authority making the original appointment for terms of five years and until their successors are appointed and qualified. Any member of the authority may be appointed to succeed himself. The authority shall select one of its members as chairman, one as vice-chairman, and one as secretary-treasurer, each of whom shall serve in such respective position for the succeeding year and until his or her successor is selected. Three members shall constitute a quorum.
(c)
In the event of a vacancy by reason of death, disqualification, resignation, or other reason, the governing body which appointed the member whose position has been vacated shall select and appoint a qualified person to fill the unexpired term of the member whose position has been vacated. A vacancy shall exist in the office of any member of the authority who is convicted of a felony or who enters a plea of nolo contendere thereto; who is convicted of a crime involving moral turpitude or who enters a plea of nolo contendere thereto; who moves his residence from the county; who is convicted of any act of misfeasance, malfeasance, or nonfeasance of his duties as a member of the authority; or who fails to attend any five consecutive regular or special meetings of the authority without an excuse approved by a resolution of the authority. No vacancy on the authority shall impair the right of the quorum to exercise all the rights and perform all the duties of the authority. The members of the authority shall serve without compensation, but all members shall be reimbursed from funds available to the authority for their actual expenses necessarily incurred in the performance of their duties. The authority shall make rules and regulations for its own government. The authority shall have perpetual existence. The authority shall meet at least annually in the month of January in each year and at such other times as it may deem necessary.
(d)
Except as otherwise allowed by law, all meetings of the authority, whether regular or special, shall be open to the public. The authority may hold public hearings on its own initiative or at the request of residents of Morgan County or residents of any area affected by the actions of the authority.
(1989 Ga. Laws (Act No. 271), p. 4670, § 2)
Sec. 4-33. - Definitions.
(a)
As used in this Act, the term:
(1)
"Authority" means the Morgan County Water Authority created by this Act.
(2)
"Cost of the project" means the cost of construction; the cost of all lands, properties, rights, easements, and franchises acquired; the cost of all machinery and equipment, financing charges, interest prior to and during construction and for one year after completion of construction; the cost of engineering, architectural, fiscal agents', and legal expenses, and of plans and specifications, and of other expenses necessary or incident to determining the feasibility or practicability of the project; the cost of administrative expenses and such other expenses as may be necessary or incident to the financing authorized in this Act; the cost of the acquisition or construction of any project; the cost of placing any project in operation; and the cost of condemnation of property necessary for such construction and operation. Any obligation or expense incurred for any of the foregoing purposes shall be regarded as a part of the cost of the project and may be paid or reimbursed as such out of the proceeds of revenue bonds issued under the provisions of this Act for such project.
(3)
"Project" means and includes the acquisition, construction, and equipping of water facilities for obtaining one or more sources of water supply, the treatment of water, and the distribution and sale of water to users and consumers, including, but not limited to, the State of Georgia and its counties and municipalities for the purpose of resale, inside and outside the territorial boundaries of Morgan County, and the operation, maintenance, additions, improvements, and extensions of such facilities so as to assure an adequate water utility system deemed by the authority to be necessary or convenient for the efficient operation of such type of undertaking. The term "project" shall also mean and include the acquisition, construction, and equipping of all necessary and usual facilities useful and necessary for the gathering of waste matter of every type, including both individual and industrial, and the treatment of sewage of any and every type, including, but not limited to, the acquisition and construction of treatment plants, ponds, and lagoons, inside and outside the territorial boundaries of Morgan County, and the operation, maintenance, additions, improvements, and extensions of such facilities so as to assure an adequate sewage system deemed by the authority necessary for the efficient operation of a sanitary and storm sewer system. Said water facilities and said sewerage facilities, at the discretion of the authority, may be combined at any time into a water and sewerage system as one revenue-producing undertaking and operated and maintained as such.
(4)
"Revenue bond" and "bonds" mean revenue bonds as provided for in Article 3 of Chapter 82 of Title 36 of the O.C.G.A. [O.C.G.A. § 36-82-60 et seq.], as now or hereafter amended, known as the "Revenue Bond Law," and such type of obligations may be issued by the authority as authorized under said "Revenue Bond Law" and any amendments thereto and, in addition, shall also mean obligations of the authority, the issuance of which is specifically provided for in this Act.
(5)
"Users of the facilities" or "users" means and includes each person, firm, partnership, company, corporation, association, organization, municipality, county, school board, political subdivision, authority, or other entity to which water is supplied or sewerage services are provided by the authority through the facilities of the authority and which actually makes payment to the authority for such water or sewerage services as are furnished by the authority.
(b)
Any project shall be deemed "self-liquidating" if, in the judgment of the authority, the revenues and earnings to be derived by the authority therefrom and all facilities used in connection therewith will be sufficient to pay the costs of operating, maintaining, repairing, improving, and extending the project and to pay the principal of and interest on the revenue bonds which may be issued to finance, in whole or in part, the cost of such project or projects.
(1989 Ga. Laws (Act No. 271), p. 4670, § 3)
Sec. 4-34. - Powers.
The authority is authorized:
(1)
To have a seal and alter the same at its pleasure;
(2)
To acquire by purchase, lease, or otherwise and to hold, lease, and dispose of real and personal property of every kind and character for its corporate purposes;
(3)
To acquire in its own name by purchase, on such terms and conditions and in such manner as it may deem proper, or by condemnation in accordance with the provisions of any and all existing laws applicable to the condemnation of property for public use real property, rights or easements therein, or franchises necessary for its corporate purposes; to use the same so long as its corporate existence shall continue; and to lease or make contracts with respect to the use or disposition of the same in any manner it deems to the best advantage of the authority, the authority having no power to accept and pay for any property condemned under this Act except from the funds provided under the authority of this Act. In any proceedings to condemn, such orders may be made by the court having jurisdiction of the suit, action, or proceedings as may be just to the authority and to the owners of the property to be condemned; and no property shall be acquired under the provisions of this Act upon which any lien or other encumbrance exists unless, at the time such property is acquired, a sufficient sum of money is deposited in trust to pay and redeem the fair value of such lien or encumbrance;
(4)
To appoint, select, and employ officers, agents, and employees, including engineering, architectural, and construction experts, fiscal agents, and attorneys, and to fix their respective compensations;
(5)
To make contracts and leases and to execute all instruments necessary or convenient, including contracts for construction of projects and leases of projects or contracts with respect to the use of projects which it causes to be constructed or acquired. In addition, any and all persons, firms, and corporations; the state; and any and all political subdivisions, departments, institutions, or agencies of the state are authorized to enter into contracts, leases, or agreements with the authority upon such terms and for such purposes as they deem advisable. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, authority is specifically granted to municipal corporations, counties, and other political subdivisions and to the authority to enter into contracts, lease agreements, or other undertakings relative to the furnishing of services and facilities by the authority to such municipal corporations, counties, and political subdivisions for terms not exceeding 50 years;
(6)
To construct, erect, acquire, own, repair, remodel, maintain, add to, extend, improve, equip, operate, and manage projects as defined in Section 3 [section 4-33(a)(3)] of this Act, the cost of any such project to be paid in whole or in part from the proceeds of revenue bonds or other funds of the authority or from such proceeds or other funds and any grant from the United States of America or any agency or instrumentality thereof or from the State of Georgia or any agency or instrumentality thereof, including Morgan County;
(7)
To make loans with and accept loans and grants of money, materials, or property of any kind from the United States of America or any agency or instrumentality thereof upon such terms and conditions as the United States of America or such agency or instrumentality may impose;
(8)
To make loans with and accept loans and grants of money, materials, or property of any kind from the State of Georgia or any agency, instrumentality, or political subdivision thereof upon such terms and conditions as the State of Georgia or such agency, instrumentality, or political subdivision may impose;
(9)
To borrow money for any of its corporate purposes, to execute evidences of such indebtedness, to secure the same, to issue negotiable revenue bonds payable solely from funds pledged for that purpose, and to provide for the payment of the same and for the rights of the holders thereof;
(10)
To exercise any power usually possessed by private corporations performing similar functions, including the power to make short-term loans and to approve, execute, and deliver appropriate evidence of any such indebtedness, which is not in conflict with the Constitution or general laws of this state; and
(11)
To do all things necessary or convenient to carry out the powers expressly given in this Act.
(1989 Ga. Laws (Act No. 271), p. 4670, § 4)
Sec. 4-35. - Revenue bonds—Generally.
The authority, or any authority or body which has or which may in the future succeed to the powers, duties, and liabilities vested in the authority created in this Act, shall have the power and is authorized to provide by resolution for the issuance of negotiable revenue bonds of the authority for the purpose of paying all or any part of the cost as defined in Section 3 [section 4-33(a)(2)] of this Act of any one or more projects. The principal of and interest on such revenue bonds shall be payable solely from the special fund provided in this Act for such payment. The bonds of each issue shall be dated, shall bear interest at such rate or rates per annum, shall be payable at such time or times, shall mature at such time or times not exceeding 40 years from their date or dates, shall be payable in such medium of payment as to both principal and interest as may be determined by the authority, and may be redeemable before maturity, at the option of the authority, at such price or prices and under such terms and conditions as may be fixed by the authority in the resolution for the issuance of bonds.
(1989 Ga. Laws (Act No. 271), p. 4670, § 5)
Sec. 4-36. - Same—Form; denomination; registration; place of payment.
The authority shall determine the form of the bonds, including any interest coupons to be attached thereto, and shall fix the denomination or denominations of the bonds and the place or places of payment of principal and interest thereon, which may be at any bank or trust company inside or outside the state. The bonds may be issued in coupon or registered form, or both, as the authority may determine, and provision may be made for the registration of any coupon bond as to principal alone and also as to both principal and interest.
(1989 Ga. Laws (Act No. 271), p. 4670, § 6)
Sec. 4-37. - Same—Signatures; seal.
In case any officer whose signature shall appear on any bonds or whose facsimile signature shall appear on any coupon shall cease to be such officer before the delivery of such bonds, such signature shall nevertheless be valid and sufficient for all purposes the same as if such officer had remained in office until such delivery. All such bonds shall be signed by the chairman of the authority and the official seal of the authority shall be affixed thereto and attested by the secretary of the authority and any coupon attached thereto shall bear the facsimile signatures of the chairman and the secretary of the authority. Any coupon may bear the facsimile signatures of such persons and any bond may be signed, sealed, and attested on behalf of the authority by such persons as at the actual time of the execution of such bonds shall be duly authorized or hold the proper office, although at the date of such bonds such person may not have been so authorized or shall not have held such office.
(1989 Ga. Laws (Act No. 271), p. 4670, § 7)
Sec. 4-38. - Same—Negotiability; exemption from taxation.
All revenue bonds issued under the provisions of this Act shall have and are declared to have all the qualities and incidents of negotiable instruments under the laws of this state. Such bonds, their transfer, and the income therefrom shall be exempt from all taxation within the state.
(1989 Ga. Laws (Act No. 271), p. 4670, § 8)
Sec. 4-39. - Same—Sale; price; proceeds.
The authority may sell such bonds in such manner and for such price as it may determine to be for the best interest of the authority. The proceeds derived from the sale of such bonds shall be used solely for the purpose or purposes provided in the resolutions and proceedings authorizing the issuance of such bonds.
(1989 Ga. Laws (Act No. 271), p. 4670, § 9)
Sec. 4-40. - Same—Interim receipts and certificates or temporary bonds.
Prior to the preparation of any definitive bonds, the authority may, under like restrictions, issue interim receipts, interim certificates, or temporary bonds, with or without coupons, exchangeable for definitive bonds upon the issuance of the latter.
(1989 Ga. Laws (Act No. 271), p. 4670, § 10)
Sec. 4-41. - Same—Replacement of lost or mutilated bonds.
The authority may provide for the replacement of any bonds or coupons which shall become mutilated or be destroyed or lost.
(1989 Ga. Laws (Act No. 271), p. 4670, § 11)
Sec. 4-42. - Same—Conditions precedent to issuance.
Such revenue bonds may be issued without any other proceedings or the happening of any other conditions or things other than those proceedings, conditions, and things which are specified or required by this Act. In the discretion of the authority, revenue bonds of a single issue may be issued for the purpose of any particular project. Any resolution providing for the issuance of revenue bonds under the provisions of this Act shall become effective immediately upon its passage and need not be published or posted, and any such resolution may be passed at any regular or special meeting of the authority by a majority of its members.
(1989 Ga. Laws (Act No. 271), p. 4670, § 12)
Sec. 4-43. - Credit not pledged.
Revenue bonds issued under the provisions of this Act shall not be deemed to constitute a debt of Morgan County or any municipality nor a pledge of the faith and credit of said county or any municipality; but such bonds shall be payable solely from the fund provided for in this Act and the issuance of such revenue bonds shall not directly, indirectly, or contingently obligate said county or any municipality to levy or to pledge any form of taxation whatever therefor or to make any appropriation for their payment. All such bonds shall contain recitals on their face covering substantially the foregoing provisions of this section.
(1989 Ga. Laws (Act No. 271), p. 4670, § 13)
Sec. 4-44. - Trust indenture as security.
In the discretion of the authority, any issuance of such revenue bonds may be secured by a trust indenture by and between the authority and a corporate trustee, which may be any trust company or bank having the powers of a trust company inside or outside the state. Such trust indenture may pledge or assign fees, tolls, revenues, and earnings to be received by the authority. Either the resolution providing for the issuance of revenue bonds or such trust indenture may contain such provisions for the protecting and enforcing of the rights and remedies of the bondholders as may be reasonable and proper and not in violation of law, including covenants setting forth the duties of the authority in relation to the acquisition of property, the construction of the project, the maintenance, operation, repair, and insuring of the project, and the custody, safeguarding, and application of all moneys, and may also provide that any project shall be constructed and paid for under the supervision and approval of consulting engineers or architects employed or designated by the authority and satisfactory to the original purchasers of the bonds issued therefor and may also require that the security given by contractors and by any depository of the proceeds of the bonds or revenues or other moneys be satisfactory to such purchasers and may also contain provisions concerning the conditions, if any, upon which additional revenue bonds may be issued. It shall be lawful for any bank or trust company incorporated under the laws of this state to act as such depository and to furnish such indemnifying bonds or pledge such securities as may be required by the authority. Such indenture may set forth the rights and remedies of the bondholders and of the trustee and may restrict the individual right of action of bondholders as is customary in trust indentures securing bonds and debentures of corporations. In addition to the foregoing, such trust indenture may contain such other provisions as the authority may deem reasonable and proper for the security of the bondholders. All expenses incurred in carrying out such trust indenture may be treated as a part of the cost of maintenance, operation, and repair of the project affected by such indenture.
(1989 Ga. Laws (Act No. 271), p. 4670, § 14)
Sec. 4-45. - To whom proceeds of bonds shall be paid.
In the resolution providing for the issuance of revenue bonds or in the trust indenture, the authority shall provide for the payment of the proceeds of the sale of the bonds to any officer or person who, or any agency, bank, or trust company which, shall act as trustee of such funds and shall hold and apply the same to the purposes of this Act, subject to such regulations as this Act and such resolution or trust indenture may provide.
(1989 Ga. Laws (Act No. 271), p. 4670, § 15)
Sec. 4-46. - Sinking fund.
The revenues, fees, tolls, and earnings derived from any particular project or projects, regardless of whether or not such fees, earnings, and revenues were produced by a particular project for which bonds have been issued, unless otherwise pledged and allocated, may be pledged and allocated by the authority to the payment of the principal and interest on revenue bonds of the authority as the resolution authorizing the issuance of the bonds or the trust instrument may provide. Such funds so pledged from whatever source received, including funds received from one or more or all sources, shall be set aside at regular intervals as may be provided in the resolution or trust indenture into a sinking fund which shall be pledged to and charged with the payment of:
(1)
The interest upon such revenue bonds as such interest shall fall due;
(2)
The principal of the bonds as the same shall fall due;
(3)
The necessary charges of paying agents for paying principal and interest and other investment charges; and
(4)
Any premium upon bonds retired by call or purchase as provided in this section.
The use and disposition of such sinking fund shall be subject to such regulations as may be provided in the resolution authorizing the issuance of the revenue bonds or in the trust indenture but, except as may otherwise be provided in such resolution or trust indenture, such sinking fund shall be maintained as a trust account for the benefit of all revenue bonds without distinction or priority of one over another. Subject to the provisions of the resolution authorizing the issuance of the bonds or in the trust indenture, any surplus moneys in the sinking fund may be applied to the purchase or redemption of bonds, and any such bonds so purchased or redeemed shall forthwith be canceled and shall not again be issued.
(1989 Ga. Laws (Act No. 271), p. 4670, § 16)
Sec. 4-47. - Remedies of bondholders.
Any holder of revenue bonds issued under the provisions of this Act or any of the coupons appertaining thereto and the trustee under the trust indenture, if any, except to the extent the rights given in this Act may be restricted by resolution passed before the issuance of the bonds or by the trust indenture, may either at law or in equity, by suit, action, mandamus, or other proceedings, protect and enforce any and all rights under the laws of the State of Georgia or granted under this Act or under such resolution or trust indenture and may enforce and compel performance of all duties required by this Act or by such resolution or trust indenture to be performed by the authority or any officer thereof, including the fixing, charging, and collecting of revenues, fees, tolls, and other charges for the use of the facilities and services furnished.
(1989 Ga. Laws (Act No. 271), p. 4670, § 17)
Sec. 4-48. - Refunding bonds.
The authority is authorized to provide by resolution for the issuance of bonds of the authority for the purpose of funding or refunding any revenue bonds issued under the provisions of this Act and then outstanding, together with accrued interest thereon and premium, if any. The issuance of such funding or refunding bonds, the maturities and all other details thereof, the rights of the holders thereof, and the duties of the authority in respect to the same shall be governed by the foregoing provisions of this Act insofar as the same may be applicable.
(1989 Ga. Laws (Act No. 271), p. 4670, § 18)
Sec. 4-49. - Validation.
Bonds of the authority shall be confirmed and validated in accordance with the procedure of the "Revenue Bond Law," Article 3 of Chapter 82 of Title 36 of the O.C.G.A. [O.C.G.A. § 36-82-60 et seq.]. The petition for validation shall also make party defendant to such action the State of Georgia or any municipality, county, authority, political subdivision, or instrumentality of the State of Georgia which has contracted with the authority for the services and facilities of the project for which bonds are to be issued and sought to be validated; and the state or such municipality, county, authority, political subdivision, or instrumentality shall be required to show cause, if any exists, why such contract or contracts and the terms and conditions thereof should not be inquired into by the court and the contract or contracts adjudicated as a part of the basis for the security for the payment of any such bonds of the authority. The bonds when validated and the judgment of validation shall be final and conclusive with respect to such bonds and the security for the payment thereof and interest thereon and against the authority issuing the same and the state and any municipality, county, authority, political subdivision, or instrumentality, if a party to the validation proceedings, contracting with the said Morgan County Water Authority.
(1989 Ga. Laws (Act No. 271), p. 4670, § 19)
Sec. 4-50. - Venue and jurisdiction.
Any action to protect or enforce any rights under the provisions of this Act or any suit or action against such authority shall be brought in the Superior Court of Morgan County, Georgia, and any action pertaining to validation of any bonds issued under the provisions of this Act shall likewise be brought in said court which shall have exclusive, original jurisdiction of such action.
(1989 Ga. Laws (Act No. 271), p. 4670, § 20)
Sec. 4-51. - Interest of bondholders protected.
While any of the bonds issued by the authority remain outstanding, the powers, duties, or existence of said authority or its officers, employees, or agents shall not be diminished or impaired in any manner that will affect adversely the interests and rights of the holders of such bonds. No other entity, department, agency, or authority will be created which will compete with the authority to such an extent as to affect adversely the interests and rights of the holders of such bonds, nor will the state itself so compete with the authority. The provisions of this Act shall be for the benefit of the authority and the holders of any such bonds, and, upon the issuance of bonds under the provisions of this Act, shall constitute a contract with the holders of such bonds.
(1989 Ga. Laws (Act No. 271), p. 4670, § 21)
Sec. 4-52. - Moneys received considered trust funds.
All moneys received pursuant to the authority of this Act, whether as proceeds from the sale of revenue bonds, as grants or other contributions, or as revenues, income, fees, and earnings, shall be deemed to be trust funds to be held and applied solely as provided in this Act.
(1989 Ga. Laws (Act No. 271), p. 4670, § 22)
Sec. 4-53. - Purpose of the authority.
(a)
Without limiting the generality of any provision of this Act, the general purpose of the authority is declared to be that of acquiring an adequate source or sources of water supply, treatment of such water, and thereafter the distribution of the same to the various municipalities and citizens in Morgan County and environs, including adjoining counties and municipalities located therein, and further for the general purpose of gathering and treatment of waste, both individual and industrial; but such general purpose shall not restrict the authority from selling and delivering water directly to consumers in those areas where there does not now exist water distribution systems or furnishing sewer facilities to such customers and areas where neither any county nor municipality deems it desirable or feasible to furnish water in such locality.
(b)
The authority shall also have the authority, where it deems it feasible, to sell its products and services to customers, governmental agencies, or governmental instrumentalities of adjoining states, providing the laws of the adjoining states do not prohibit or tax said activity.
(c)
The authority shall not have the authority to construct water lines for the distribution of water directly to customers within any municipality without first obtaining the express written consent of the appropriate governing body of said municipality and, likewise, the authority shall not have the authority to construct sewer lines directly to customers for the collection of waste and sewage inside any municipality without first obtaining the express written consent of the appropriate governing body of said municipality.
(1989 Ga. Laws (Act No. 271), p. 4670, § 23)
Sec. 4-54. - Rates, charges, and revenues; use.
The authority is authorized to prescribe and fix rates and to revise the same from time to time and to collect fees, tolls, and charges for the services, facilities, and commodities furnished and, in anticipation of the collection of the revenues of such undertaking or project, to issue revenue bonds as provided in this Act to finance, in whole or in part, the cost of the acquisition, construction, reconstruction, improvements, betterment, or extension of a water system, a sewerage system, or a combined water and sewerage system and to pledge to the punctual payment of said bonds and interest thereon all or any part of the revenues of such undertaking or project, including the revenues of improvements, betterments, or extensions thereto thereafter made.
(1989 Ga. Laws (Act No. 271), p. 4670, § 24)
Sec. 4-55. - Rules and regulations for operation of projects.
It shall be the duty of the authority to prescribe rules and regulations for the operation of the project or projects constructed or acquired under the provisions of this Act, including the basis upon which water service and facilities, sewerage service and facilities, or both, shall be furnished.
(1989 Ga. Laws (Act No. 271), p. 4670, § 25)
Sec. 4-56. - Tort immunity.
The authority shall have the same immunity and exemption from liability for torts and negligence as Morgan County; and the officers, agents, and employees of the authority when in the performance of the work of the authority shall have the same immunity and exemption from liability for torts and negligence as the officers, agents, and employees of Morgan County when in the performance of their public duties or work of the county.
(1989 Ga. Laws (Act No. 271), p. 4670, § 26)
Sec. 4-57. - Powers declared supplemental and additional.
The foregoing sections of this Act shall be deemed to provide an additional and alternative method for the doing of the things authorized by this Act, shall be regarded as supplemental and additional to powers conferred by other laws, and shall not be regarded as in derogation of any powers now existing.
(1989 Ga. Laws (Act No. 271), p. 4670, § 27)
