CHAPTER 2. - ADMINISTRATION[2]
Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
State Law reference— General powers of counties, Ga. Const. art. IX, § I, ¶ I; home rule for counties, Ga. Const. art. IX, § II, ¶ I.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Secs. 2-1—2-30. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS

Sec. 2-31. - Board of commissioners created.
That from and after the passage and approval of this Act, the county affairs of the County of Morgan shall be administered by a Board of Commissioners of Roads and Revenue, which shall consist of five members.
(1935 Ga. Laws (Act No. 265), p. 738, § 1)
Editor's note— The words "Roads and Revenue" were stricken from the official names of all governing authorities of the counties of the State of Georgia, and changed to "Board of Commissioners" by 1968 Ga. Laws, page 1141, as amended by 1982 Ga. Laws, page 3, and ultimately codified at O.C.G.A. § 36-5-20.
Sec. 2-32. - Composition; districts.
(a)
The Board of Commissioners of Morgan County shall consist of five members. For purposes of electing members of the board of commissioners, Morgan County is divided into five commissioner districts. The five commissioner districts shall be and correspond to those five numbered districts described in and attached to and made a part of this Act and further identified as Plan Name: morganwk8 Plan Type: Local User: Gina Administrator: Morgan Co.
(b)
When used in such attachment, the terms 'Tract' and 'BG' (Block Group) shall mean and describe the same geographical boundaries as provided in the report of the Bureau of the Census for the United States decennial census of 2000 for the State of Georgia. The separate numeric designations in a Tract description which are underneath a 'BG' heading shall mean and describe individual Blocks within a Block Group as provided in the report of the Bureau of the Census for the United States decennial census of 2000 for the State of Georgia. Any part of Morgan County which is not included in any such district described in that attachment shall be included within that district contiguous to such part which contains the least population according to the United States decennial census of 2000 for the State of Georgia. Any part of Morgan County which is described in that attachment as being in a particular district shall nevertheless not be included within such district if such part is not contiguous to such district. Such noncontiguous part shall instead be included within that district contiguous to such part which contains the least population according to the United States decennial census of 2000 for the State of Georgia. Except as otherwise provided in the description of any commissioner district, whenever the description of such district refers to a named city, it shall mean the geographical boundaries of that city as shown on the census map for the United States decennial census of 2000 for the State of Georgia.
(1935 Ga. Laws (Act No. 265), p. 738, § 2; 1993 Ga. Laws (Act No. 19), p. 3659, § 1; 2002 Ga. Laws (Act No. 429), p. 3748, § 1)
Editor's note— The attachment referred to in this Act was not included in the text of this codification at the discretion of the editor. The attachment is entitled the "Redistricting Plan Components Report," and describes the composition of the commission districts for Morgan County. It may be found at 2002 Ga. Laws (Act No. 429), pages 3749—3752, § 4.
Sec. 2-33. - Terms of office; election.
The term of office of the members of said Board shall be four years and until their successors are elected and qualified. They shall be elected by the qualified voters of Morgan County. The member elected from each district shall have been a resident of said district at least 12 months before his election. In any primary for the nomination of candidates of a political party for members of said Board of Commissioners, candidates shall be residents of and nominated from their respective districts, but such candidates for nomination shall be voted upon by the voters of the entire County. At the General Election, such nominees shall be voted upon by the voters of the entire County.
(1935 Ga. Laws (Act No. 265), p. 738, § 3; 1971 Ga. Laws (Act No. 241), p. 2638, § 1)
Sec. 2-34. - Successors.
The members of the Board of Commissioners of Morgan County in office on June 1, 2002, and any person selected to fill a vacancy in any such office shall continue to serve as such members until the regular expiration of their respective terms of office and upon the election and qualification of their respective successors. Each such member shall be deemed to represent the district described in Section [2-32] of this [article] and the attachment referred to in said section which has the same number as such members district had under previous law. A successor to each such member shall be elected from the district described in [2-32] of this [article] in the manner described in [2-33] of this [article]. Elections shall be conducted under the general election laws of Georgia, and members shall be commissioned by the Governor as other county officers are commissioned.
(1935 Ga. Laws (Act No. 265), p. 738, § 4; 1993 Ga. Laws (Act No. 19), p. 3659, § 2; 2002 Ga. Laws (Act No. 429), p. 3748, § 2)
Sec. 2-35. - Qualifications.
No person shall be eligible to hold office as a member of said board unless he shall have attained the age of thirty years and have resided in Morgan County for five years next preceding the beginning of the term for which he is elected, nor unless he is a person of good moral character, nor unless he shall have resided at least twelve months prior to the election in the district from which he is elected.
(1935 Ga. Laws (Act No. 265), p. 738, § 5)
Sec. 2-36. - Chairman; bond; powers.
The chairman of said board shall be elected by the members and shall give bond in the sum of $2,500.00 payable to the [Judge of the Probate Court] of said county and his successors in office, and conditioned for the faithful performance of all of his duties under this Act. For any breach of said bond, suit may be brought in the name of the [Judge of the Probate Court], either upon his own motion, or by direction of the grand jury. The premium on the bond shall be paid by the county. J. Frank Stovall, the present chairman, shall be chairman of said board until the end of his present term. The chairman shall have charge of all the business matters of the county, and shall have supervision of the work of the county in the building and repairing of roads, bridges, or any other works of the county under the general supervision of the board, subject to this Act. He shall, with the advice and consent of the board, appoint, and fix the salary and wages of the county warden, and all other officers and laborers of the county, engaged in the construction and repair on roads, bridges, buildings, or other work of the county, over which the board has jurisdiction, and shall have supervision over all such officers and laborers, and shall have power to discharge such officers or laborers at any time, with or without cause. He shall be the official purchasing and selling agent of the county for all animals, machinery, implements, materials and supplies of all kinds used in the construction or repair of buildings, roads, and bridges, and for all supplies for the use of the convicts; but all purchases and sales shall be subject to the ratification of the board. He shall do every act or thing necessary or proper in the discharge of his duties as county manager, subject to the general supervision of the board. The board shall check up all accounts, acts and doings of the county, at least once every month. The chairman shall be superintendent of roads, provided said chairman gives all of his time to the duties pertaining to the office of chairman of the Board of County Commissioners.
(1935 Ga. Laws (Act No. 265), p. 738, § 6)
Sec. 2-37. - Oath.
Before entering upon the discharge of their duties each member of said board of Commissioners shall make and subscribe before the [Judge of the Probate Court] of said county an oath to faithfully perform their duties according to the provisions of this Act, to the best of their knowledge and ability and to the best interest of the entire County of Morgan.
(1935 Ga. Laws (Act No. 265), p. 738, § 7)
Sec. 2-38. - Vacancy.
Any vacancy in the membership of said Board shall be filled by a special election to be called by the [Judge of the Probate Court] of Morgan County and conducted under the provisions of general law. The person elected shall be elected for the unexpired term resulting from the vacancy.
(1935 Ga. Laws (Act No. 265), p. 738, § 8; 1943 Ga. Laws (Act No. 74), p. 1088, § 1; 1971 Ga. Laws (Act No. 241), p. 2638, § 2)
Sec. 2-39. - Compensation.
At the first meeting of the board of commissioners in May 1995, and at the first meeting of the board of commissioners in January of each year, following the election of the chairman of said board, the remaining members of the board shall fix the compensation of the chairman for such calendar year. Such compensation shall be fixed in an amount of not less than $500.00 per month and not more than $2,000.00 per month. If no action is taken at such meeting to fix such compensation, the compensation of the chairman shall be $500.00 per month for the ensuing calendar year. The vice chairman of said board shall receive a salary of $450.00 per month. Each of the other members of the board shall receive a salary of $400.00 per month. In addition thereto, all members shall receive mileage at the rate of $0.25 per mile for expenses in attending board meetings or otherwise attending to the duties of their office. All expense bills shall be approved by the board before payment."
(1935 Ga. Laws (Act No. 265), p. 738, § 9; 1946 Ga. Laws (Act No. 513), p. 244, § 1; 1952 Ga. Laws (Act No. 562), p. 2173, § 1; 1958 Ga. Laws (Act No. 272), p. 2913, § 1; 1960 Ga. Laws (Act No. 801), p. 2942, § 1; 1968 Ga. Laws (Act No. 1191), p. 3585, § 1; 1981 Ga. Laws (Act No. 315), p. 3883, § 1; 1990 Ga. Laws (Act No. 843), p. 4117, § 1; 1995 Ga. Laws (Act No. 48), p. 3612, § 1)
Sec. 2-40. - Clerk of board; compensation.
The board may elect a clerk who must be an experienced bookkeeper and familiar with the duties to be performed by the clerk and shall be subject to removal at any time with or without cause, by the chairman, subject to approval of the board. The clerk shall receive as compensation a salary to be fixed by the board which shall not be less than $50.00 per month nor more than $250.00 per month.
(1935 Ga. Laws (Act No. 265), p. 738, § 10; 1945 Ga. Laws (Act No. 34), p. 547, § 1; 1952 Ga. Laws (Act No. 562), p. 2173, § 2; 1960 Ga. Laws (Act No. 801), p. 2942, § 2)
Sec. 2-41. - Jurisdiction.
That said board shall be and it is hereby vested with exclusive jurisdiction and the control over the following matters, to wit: In directing, controlling, and the caring for all property of the county, according to law, in levying taxes for county purposes, according to law, in establishing abolishing, or changing election precincts and militia districts, according to law; in supervising the tax officers' books and the allowing of insolvent lists of said county, according to law; in examining, settling, and allowing all claims against the county according to law; in examining and auditing all claims and accounts of officers having the care, management, keeping, collecting or disbursing of money belonging to the county or appropriated for its use and benefit, and bringing them to a settlement; and especially is it charged with frequently examining and auditing the books of the county treasurer or the depository, the tax-collector, tax-receiver, or tax-commissioner as the case may be, the sheriff, the superintendent of public schools and other officers of said county through whose hands county funds pass; and this to be done by the commissioners as often as they may deem wise. Though said board, for the purpose of carrying out the provisions of this act as the same relates to the other officers of the county and over which it is herein given jurisdiction, shall also have at its command an audit to be made of the books of the various offices of the county as hereinafter provided for. Said board may require from all such officers subject to examination, such reports as may be necessary to keep said commissioners fully informed at all times of the financial condition of the county. In controlling, caring for, and the managing of convicts of the county, according to laws; in promoting and preserving the public health of the county, with the authority to quarantine against contagious disease and epidemics, according to law; in regulating and fixing license fees as authorized by law; and generally to have and exercise all power heretofore vested in the commissioners or [Judge of the Probate Court] of said county when sitting for county purposes; and to exercise such other powers as are granted by law; or as may be necessary to the jurisdiction over county matters or county finances; in selecting and appointing all minor officers or employees of the county whose election or appointment is not otherwise provided for by law, such as warden, superintendents and guards of convicts of the chain-gang, county physician, health officer, tax-assessor, county policeman, and all other officers and guards as needed and authorized by law. All appointments of said board shall be subject to suspension or dismissal at any time; and no appointee as suspended or dismissed shall be entitled to a salary or compensation during suspension or after dismissal, no matter whether the time for which he was appointed has expired or not.
(1935 Ga. Laws (Act No. 265), p. 738, § 11)
Sec. 2-42. - County attorney.
That said board shall have authority to employ a competent attorney at law to advise them and to represent the county in any litigation which may arise in which said county is a party. Whenever it is deemed necessary, said board may employ additional counsel to assist the county attorney, and also to allow the county attorney additional compensation in litigating matters of the county.
(1935 Ga. Laws (Act No. 265), p. 738, § 12)
Sec. 2-43. - Employing convicts.
That said board shall have entire control and the management of the convicts of said county sentenced to work upon the roads or work of said county, and all convicts of this State assigned to the County of Morgan by the proper authorities of the State, and shall so employ them according to law and under such plans for working, building, repairing, and the maintaining of the public roads, bridges, and the work of said State as may now or hereafter be adopted or enforced by law in said county. Said board in the working of the roads in said county shall work the same in the various districts of said county in proportion to that the public road mileage of said districts bears to the whole county, less State-aid roads, except in emergency caused, at which time said board may disregard this section.
(1935 Ga. Laws (Act No. 265), p. 738, § 13)
Sec. 2-44. - Office; hours.
That said board shall have and maintain an office at the courthouse of said county for the transacting of business and the said office shall be kept open each day during the usual office hours (Sundays and holidays excepted) and during such office hours the books of said board and other public records in their office, custody or control shall be subject to inspection by any citizen of said county; provided such investigations shall be so conducted as to not seriously interrupt or impede the necessary business of said office.
(1935 Ga. Laws (Act No. 265), p. 738, § 14)
Sec. 2-45. - Minutes.
That said board shall keep a proper and accurate book of said minutes, wherein shall appear all orders and the proceedings had and passed in reference to county matters. Said board shall keep a full and accurate book of county vouchers, wherein shall appear in detail all orders and warrants drawn by it on the county treasury or depository, for what purpose, and on what fund. Said board shall also keep a book in which shall be recorded in itemized form, all articles or things of whatever kind purchased by it for the use and consumption of and by any department of the county government, giving the name of the article, date when purchased, from whom purchased, the price paid therefor, and for which department purchased and used. Said board shall also keep a cashbook in which shall be daily entered any cash item received by said board, from whom received, and for what purpose received. It shall keep a record, separate from other financial affairs of the county, of all expenditures on account of the chain-gang of the county, including supplies, equipment, and expense therefor, the pay of wardens, guards, etc. It shall keep a book of inventory of all county property, including road machinery, livestock, chain-gang outfit, road working tools, and of every other kind and class of property belonging to said county, together with a fair valuation of the same, where located and in whose custody in what condition, and of which inventory shall be carefully revised each year; and it shall keep such other books, and the records as may be necessary. Said books and records shall be kept so as to show at all times the financial condition of the county, and shall be kept open to the inspection of any and all citizens of Morgan County who may be interested in the same.
(1935 Ga. Laws (Act No. 265), p. 738, § 15)
Sec. 2-46. - Financial statements.
That said board, at the beginning of the second quarter of this Act, to wit, the first week in July, shall make up an itemized statement showing all amounts collected and expended on behalf of the county during the preceding quarter, and each quarter thereafter such statements to be made up and published of the preceding quarter as herein directed. Said statement shall show the balance of cash on hand at the beginning of the preceding quarter and at the end of the preceding quarter; also such outstanding obligations as said board or their predecessors shall have made. The chairman shall verify said statement by affidavit as follows:
I, _______, Chairman of the Board of Commissioners of Roads and Revenue of Morgan County, Georgia, do solemnly swear that the above is a full and true statement of the monetary transactions of said board for the quarter ending _______; and that said board has not received any rebate, directly or indirectly whatsoever, nor have I personally profited or known of any illegal profit to any one whomsoever through any transaction of my office; so help me God.
Said statement shall be published in the official gazette of said county, provided the said board can arrange for its publication at a price not to exceed $2.00 per 100 words. If the board cannot obtain the publication of said account or statement at said price by the official paper of the county, then it shall erect a bulletin board in the rotunda of the courthouse in view of the general public, and post such statement thereon.
(1935 Ga. Laws (Act No. 265), p. 738, § 16)
Sec. 2-47. - Conflict of interest, bids.
That it shall be unlawful for said board to employ any person related to any member in the third degree either by blood or marriage, or to contract with such person or persons for any equipment, material, or supplies, or for any work to be done on the public roads, bridges, or other work of the county, except when bids are received for equipment, material or supplies, or for work to be done on public roads, bridges, or other work of the county, upon full specification and due advertisement thereto, and a person related to the commissioner submit a bid and is the lowest bid therefor. Posting of notice at the courthouse for ten days or publication of the same in one issue of the official newspaper of said county, shall be considered due advertisement. The board shall have the right, however, to reject any and all bids; and it shall likewise be unlawful to have any financial interest in the sale or purchase of any article to or from the county, or to receive any rebate expenses out of transportation, or other valuable causes, in connection with or through the purchase of any equipment or supplies for the county, or the awarding of any contract of said county; and if any commissioner shall violate any provisions of this section he shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction therefor, shall be punished as prescribed in section 1065 of the Penal Code of Georgia of 1910, and shall forfeit his office; and such conviction shall create a vacancy in said office and shall be filled as hereinbefore provided for in this Act.
(1935 Ga. Laws (Act No. 265), p. 738, § 17)
Sec. 2-48. - Purchases.
That no material for public bridges, roads, public buildings, or property under the control of said board shall be purchased except upon written specifications as to quality, and all such materials or supplies must be suitable for the purpose intended, of good quality and standards generally recognized for such purposes as to be used. All laws of this State as to competitive bidding for all such materials shall be strictly observed.
(1935 Ga. Laws (Act No. 265), p. 738, § 18)
Sec. 2-49. - Contributions for roads.
That said board may receive contributions for the improvement of public roads, bridges or other public works of the county from any person who owns property adjacent thereto or from any other person who may be interested in the improvement of the same or from the State Government or from the United States Government, and such contributions, when received, shall be used for the improvement of the same as designated by the contributor; and the said commissioners shall keep a book of accounts which shall correctly show all such contributions, from whom received, and the distribution of same, and the chairman shall take and file receipts for all of such disbursements and shall be jointly and severally liable with the surety on his official bond to the [Judge of the Probate Court] of said county for any misappropriation of any such funds.
(1935 Ga. Laws (Act No. 265), p. 738, § 19)
Sec. 2-50. - Policy.
That it shall be the duty of said board in all road and bridge work done in said county, to always keep in view what will be to the greater good of the greater number; and this policy shall be uniformly observed by said commissioners.
(1935 Ga. Laws (Act No. 265), p. 738, § 20)
Sec. 2-51. - Sessions.
That said board shall hold one session of court for county purposes at the county courthouse on the first Tuesday in each month, and the session may be adjourned from day to day until all pending business may be disposed of. Said board may hold called sessions as often as in their judgment the powers and duties herein conferred may require.
(1935 Ga. Laws (Act No. 265), p. 738, § 21)
Sec. 2-52. - Physician.
That said board shall employ a competent physician to administer medical treatment to the convicts of said county, and such other duties as may be prescribed by said commissioners, for which said physician shall be paid a reasonable salary.
(1935 Ga. Laws (Act No. 265), p. 738, § 22)
Sec. 2-53. - Audit.
That the grand jury sitting at the first regular term of court in each year shall appoint a certified public accountant or a firm of certified public accountants, who shall be [a] nonresident of Morgan County, to audit all the books and accounts of the county, including the tax-receiver, tax-collector, tax-commissioners, treasurer or depository, sheriff, superintendent of schools, and especially of the Board of Commissioners of Roads and Revenue, and any of the officers or persons receiving or disbursing county funds. Said accountant so appointed shall have the power to examine upon oath any county officer or any citizen relative to any account, item, warrant, or transaction in connection with any of the affairs of said county, and particularly in connection with the Board of Commissioners of Roads and Revenue. Said accountants shall audit all books, accounts, vouchers, warrants, and other records of the entire county up to the first day of January of the year following his or their appointment, and shall prepare an inventory of all property and material of said county on hand at that date and make a report of their findings to the judge of the superior court of that county, who shall submit the same, together with his comments, criticism, and recommendation, to the grand jury at the first regular term of the superior court thereafter, which grand jury, in its discretion, may provide for the publication of said report in the official organ of the county or in pamphlet form. No accountant or firm of accountants shall be so employed who shall be in any way related to or for any business connection with any such officer or officers of books to be so audited. The grand jury appointing such accountant or accountants shall prescribe the amount to be paid them for their services; and after such services have been performed and the judge of the superior court has submitted said report to the grand jury, it shall be the duty of the Board of Commissioners of Roads and Revenue to provide for the paying of said accountant or accountants for their services, upon the written approval of the foreman of the grand jury making the appointment, together with the judge of the superior court.
(1935 Ga. Laws (Act No. 265), p. 738, § 23)
Sec. 2-54. - Sales.
That whenever said board deems it advisable, or necessary that any property belonging to said county be sold the same shall be sold after due advertisement in the official newspaper of the county, at public outcry, to the highest bidder for cash before the courthouse door.
(1935 Ga. Laws (Act No. 265), p. 738, § 24)
Sec. 2-55. - Cooperation with state.
That said board shall keep in constant touch with the office of the State Highway Department of Georgia and the office of the Director of Public Roads of the United States Department of Agriculture, and shall secure and keep in office and familiarize themselves with all bulletins and pamphlets bearing upon the subject of road building; and it shall be their duty at all times to entertain, and discuss with such officers and officials, theories and methods of road building.
(1935 Ga. Laws (Act No. 265), p. 738, § 25)
Sec. 2-56. - Road repairing.
That it shall be the duty of said board to have the main streets and thoroughfares of the incorporated cities and towns of said county, which are continuous or extensions of public roads leading into or from said cities or towns, worked and kept in repair in the same manner as the public roads of said county are now worked and maintained outside of said cities or towns of said county.
(1935 Ga. Laws (Act No. 265), p. 738, § 26)
Sec. 2-57. - Cooperation with cities and towns.
That it shall be the duty of said board to cooperate with the officials of the incorporated cities or towns within said county, in securing for said cities or towns appropriations from the State Highway Department of Georgia, or the Federal Government of the United States, funds or materials for the improvement of such streets or thoroughfares, as may be designated by said city or town officials, said board, highway engineer, or official of Georgia, or engineer or director of the Federal Bureau of Public Roads of the United States.
(1935 Ga. Laws (Act No. 265), p. 738, § 27)
Sec. 2-58. - Street work.
That the working of streets and thoroughfares in and through the several cities or towns of said county, as herein provided for, shall at all times be under the direction, supervision and control of said board, just as the public road work of the county is now performed, provided, that in event of a disagreement between the said municipal authorities and the said board as to any matter pertaining to the said work herein provided for, the judgment or decision of the said board shall be final and prevail in the premises.
(1935 Ga. Laws (Act No. 265), p. 738, § 28)
