Chapter 2 - ADMINISTRATION[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
State Law reference— Home rule power of counties, Ga. Const. art. IX, § II, ¶ I; general authority of counties to legislate, O.C.G.A. § 36-5-22.1.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Secs. 2-1—2-18. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS

Sec. 2-19. - De minimis expenditures.
Any cost incurred below $500.00 shall be a de minimis expenditure.
(Code 2000, § 3-204)
Sec. 2-20. - Meetings; organization and procedure.
(a)
Regular meetings.
(1)
Date and time. Except as otherwise decided by the county board of commissioners (hereinafter sometimes referred to as "board"), the board shall hold regular meetings on the first Tuesday of each month beginning at 10:00 a.m.; provided, however, that when the day fixed for any regular meeting of the board falls upon a day designated by law as a legal or national holiday, or for any good reason as determined by the board, such meeting shall be held at the same hour on the second Tuesday of said month.
(2)
Place. Except as otherwise decided by the board, all regular meetings of the board shall be held in the Morgan County Courthouse, lower courtroom, 149 E. Jefferson St., Madison, Morgan County, Georgia.
(3)
Meeting notice. The time, place, and dates of regular meetings shall be posted and maintained in a conspicuous place available to the public at the regular meeting place of the board.
(b)
Special meetings. The chairperson of the board shall call special meetings of the board whenever in his or her opinion the public business may require it, or at the express oral or written request of any three members of the board. Whenever a special meeting is called, the clerk of the board or the clerk's assistant shall notify each member of the board and any other entity legally required to be notified. Whenever any meeting required to be open to the public is to be held at the time and place other than at the time and place prescribed for regular meetings, the clerk or the clerk's assistant shall post a written notice for at least 24 hours in advance of the meeting at the place of regular meetings and by giving written or oral notice to the legal organ of the county. When special circumstances occur, a meeting may be held with less than 24 hours' notice upon giving such notice of the meeting and subjects expected to be considered at the meeting as is reasonable under the circumstances including notice to said legal organ or a newspaper having a general circulation in the county at least equal to that of the legal organ.
(c)
Agenda. All reports, communications, ordinances, resolutions, contract documents, or other matters to be submitted to the board shall, if practicable prior to each board meeting, be delivered to the clerk, whereupon said clerk shall immediately arrange a list of such matters according to the order of business, post a copy of the same at the meeting site, and furnish each member of the board with a copy of the same prior to the board meeting and as far in advance of the meeting as time for preparation will permit. All persons wishing to speak to the board or be placed on the agenda shall so notify the said clerk at least 46 business hours prior to the board meeting. No matter not on the said agenda shall be considered by the board and no person not on said agenda shall speak to the board unless a majority of the members of the board vote to do otherwise.
(d)
Election and duties.
(1)
Election of chairperson. The chairperson shall be elected annually at the first meeting in January of each year by the members of the board. Voting for the chairperson shall be conducted the same as any other matter before the board: by motion/nomination, second, and vote, except that all five commissioners shall be entitled to make motions and vote for the chairperson. The county manager shall serve as the moderator for the board during this process of electing the chairperson. The chairperson shall assume his or her chair immediately after his or her election.
(2)
Election of vice-chairperson. Immediately after the election of the chairperson, the members of the board shall elect a vice-chairperson, who shall serve as chairperson in the event of the absence of the chairperson. Voting for vice-chairperson shall be conducted in the same manner as for chairperson, except that the newly elected chairperson shall preside over that matter. All commissioners, including the chairperson, shall be entitled to move, second, and to vote for vice-chairperson.
(3)
Chairperson's duties. The chairperson shall be the presiding officer of the board and shall preserve strict order and decorum at all regular and special meetings of the board. He or she shall state every question coming before the board, announce the decision of the board on all subjects, and decide all questions of order, subject, however, to an appeal to the board in which event a majority vote of the board shall govern and conclusively determine such question of order. He or she shall not vote on any question, other than the election of chairperson and vice-chairperson, except in the event of a tie vote.
(4)
Appointment of other officials. At the conclusion of voting for chairperson and vice-chairperson, the county attorney, county physician and any other county official shall be appointed by the board during its public meeting.
(e)
Call to order; presiding officer. The chairperson, or, in his or her absence, the vice-chairperson, shall take the chair at the hour appointed for the meeting, and shall call the board to order. In the absence of the chairperson or vice-chairperson, the county clerk, or the clerk's assistant, shall call the board to order, whereupon a temporary chairperson shall be elected by the members of the board present. Upon the arrival of the chairperson or vice-chairperson, the temporary chairperson shall immediately relinquish the chair upon the conclusion of the business immediately before the board.
(f)
Roll call. Before proceeding with the business of the board, the county clerk or the clerk's deputy may call the roll of the members, and the names of those present shall be entered in the minutes.
(g)
Quorum. A majority of all the members elected to the board shall constitute a quorum at any regular or special meeting of the board. In the absence of a quorum, the presiding officer shall, at the insistence of any two members present, compel the attendance of absent members.
(h)
Order of business. At the hour set by law on the day of each regular meeting, the members of the board shall take their regular stations in the board chambers, and the business of the board shall generally be taken up for consideration and disposition and may use the following as a guide as to order:
(1)
Roll call;
(2)
Approval of minutes of previous meeting;
(3)
Petitions, remonstrances and communications;
(4)
Introduction and adoption of resolutions and ordinances;
(5)
Report of officers, boards and committees;
(6)
Unfinished business;
(7)
New business;
(8)
Miscellaneous;
(9)
Appropriations;
(10)
Adjournment.
(i)
Reading of minutes. Unless a reading of the minutes of a board meeting is requested by a member of the board, such minutes may be approved without reading.
(j)
Rules of debate.
(1)
Presiding officer may debate and vote, etc. The chairperson or such other member of the board as may be presiding may move, second and debate from the chair, subject only to such limitations of debate as are by these rules imposed on all members and shall not be deprived of any of the rights and privileges of a board member by reason of his or her action as the presiding officer except as otherwise specified in this section.
(2)
Obtaining the floor; improper references to be avoided. Every member desiring to speak shall address the chair, and, upon recognition by the presiding officer, shall confine himself or herself to the question under debate, avoiding all personalities and indecorous language.
(3)
Interruptions. A member, once recognized, shall not be interrupted when speaking unless it is to call him or her to order, or as herein otherwise provided. If a member, while speaking, is called to order, he or she shall cease speaking until the question of order is determined, and, if in order, he or she shall be permitted to proceed.
(4)
Privilege of closing date. The board member moving the adoption of an ordinance or resolution shall have the privilege of closing the debate.
(5)
Motion to reconsider. A motion to reconsider any action taken by the board may be made only on the date such action was taken. It may be made either immediately during the same session, or at a recessed or adjourned session thereof. Such motion must be made by one of the prevailing side, but may be seconded by any member, and may be made at any time and have precedence over all other motions or while a member has the floor; it shall be debatable. Nothing herein shall be construed to prevent any member of the board from making or remaking the same or any other motion at a subsequent meeting of the board.
(6)
Remarks of board member when entered in minutes. A board member may request, through the presiding officer, the privilege of having an abstract of his or her statement on any subject under consideration by the board entered in the minutes. If the board consents thereto, such statement shall be entered in the minutes.
(7)
Synopsis of debate when entered in minutes. The clerk may be directed by the presiding officer, with consent of the board, to enter in the minutes a synopsis of the discussion on any question coming regularly before the board.
(k)
Addressing the board. Any person on the agenda to address the board shall first secure the permission of the presiding officer so to do.
(l)
Addressing the board after motion made. After a motion is made by the board, no person shall address the board without first securing the permission of the board so to do.
(m)
Manner of addressing board; time limit. Each person addressing the board shall stand, shall give his or her name and address in an audible tone of voice, and, unless further time is granted by the board, shall limit his or her address to ten minutes. All remarks shall be addressed to the board as a body and not to any member thereof. No person, other than the board and the person having the floor, shall be permitted to enter into any discussion, either directly or through a member of the board, without the permission of the presiding officer. No question shall be asked a board member or county official or employee except through the presiding officer.
(n)
Silence constitutes affirmative vote. Unless a member of the board states that he or she is not voting, his or her silence shall be recorded as an affirmative vote.
(o)
Decorum.
(1)
By board members. While the board is in session, the members must preserve order and decorum, and a member shall neither, by conversation or otherwise, delay or interrupt the proceedings or the peace of the board nor disturb any member while speaking or refuse to obey the orders of the board or its presiding officer, except as otherwise herein provided.
(2)
By persons. Any person making personal, impertinent or slanderous remarks or who shall become boisterous while addressing the board shall be forthwith, by the presiding officer, barred from further audience before the board, unless permission to continue is granted by a majority vote of the board.
(p)
Enforcement of decorum. The sheriff, or such member or members of the sheriff's department as the sheriff may designate, shall be sergeant-at-arms of the board meetings. The sergeant-at-arms shall carry out all orders and instructions given by the presiding officer for the purpose of maintaining order and decorum at the board meeting. Upon instructions of the presiding officer, it shall be the duty of the sergeant-at-arms, or any of them present, to place any person who violates the order and decorum of the meeting under arrest, and cause him or her to be prosecuted under the provisions of this Code, the complaint to be signed by the presiding officer.
(q)
Special committees. All special committees shall be appointed by the presiding officer, unless otherwise directed by the board.
(r)
Standing committees. The only standing committee of the board shall be the committee of the whole. The chairperson of the board shall be presiding officer of the committee of the whole, and the rules of proceedings in the board shall be observed in the committee of the whole as far as the same may be applicable.
(s)
Members may file protests against board action. Any member shall have the right to have the reasons for his or her dissent from, or protest against, any action of the board entered on the minutes.
(t)
Reports of committees. The committee of the whole shall make its reports in writing, and shall return the petition, ordinance, resolution, account, or other paper submitted for consideration.
(u)
Reports and resolutions to be filed with the clerk. All reports, ordinances and resolutions shall be filed with the clerk and entered on the minutes.
(v)
Adjournment. A motion to adjourn shall always be in order and decided without debate.
(w)
Legal effect. Notwithstanding any other provision of this section, a majority of a quorum at any regular or special meeting of the board may vary any and all provisions of this article. The legal effect of any action taken by the board at any regular or special meeting shall not be affected in any way by the failure of the board to follow any rule or provision of this article unless the board's minutes show such failure was brought to the attention of the board at said meeting prior to the taking of the subject action.
(Code 2000, § 3-205; Ord. of 1-10-2006, § 1(3-205))
Sec. 2-21. - Executive session meeting; affidavit.
Prior to exiting any executive session meeting of the county board of commissioners, there shall be a motion properly made and approved that the board exit executive session and upon entering regular session adopt an ordinance authorizing and directing the presiding officer and entire board sign an affidavit in compliance with O.C.G.A. § 50-14-4(b) ratifying the propriety of the subject of such executive session within the exceptions provided by law and that no other matters were discussed other than those of a purely personal or nongovernmental nature.
(Ord. of 8-3-1999, § 102)
Secs. 2-22—2-45. - Reserved.
ARTICLE III. - DEPARTMENTS, OFFICERS, AND EMPLOYEES

Sec. 2-46. - Personnel ordinance.
The board of commissioners has the power, by resolutions adopted from time to time, to establish, modify, adopt, and repeal policies and procedures related to the hiring, advancement, job classification, salary, discharge, and other activities of county employees, staff and personnel.
(Code 2000, § 3-301)
Sec. 2-47. - Nepotism clause.
The county shall not employ any immediate family members of any current county commissioners. For the purposes of this section, the term "immediate family members" means spouses, parents, children, grandparents, grandchildren, brothers, and sisters.
(Res. of 7-13-2004, § 1(exh. A))
State Law reference— Code of ethics for government service generally, O.C.G.A. § 45-10-1 et seq.
Sec. 2-48. - Compensation for elected officers.
The clerk of the superior court, judge of the probate court, sheriff, and tax commissioner shall be compensated pursuant to salary tables set out in the Official Code of Georgia Annotated.
(Code 2000, § 3-302)
State Law reference— Codification in the Georgia Statutes of the salaries for certain county officials, fee system abolished and minimum salary guidelines for sheriffs, O.C.G.A. §§ 15-16-19, 15-16-20; minimum salary guidelines for clerks of superior courts, O.C.G.A. § 15-6-88; minimum salary for judge of probate court, O.C.G.A. § 15-9-63; minimum salaries for tax collectors and tax commissioners not compensated by fee system, O.C.G.A. § 48-5-183.
Sec. 2-49. - County officials and employees covered under workers compensation.
(a)
The board of commissioners, sheriff, probate judge, clerk of court, magistrate judge, tax commissioner, and coroner shall be covered under the Association of County Commissioners of Georgia Group Self-Insured Workers' Compensation Fund. While performing their elected duties, the officers shall be covered under the workers' compensation laws of the state.
(b)
Volunteer rescue, first responders and volunteer firemen of the county shall be covered under the Association of County Commissioners of Georgia Group Self-Insured Workers' Compensation Fund. While performing their duties, said employees shall be covered under the worker's compensation laws of the state.
(Code 2000, § 3-303)
Sec. 2-50. - Safety belt required; exception; violation.
(a)
All employees of the county, whether operating or riding in a county vehicle or his or her personal vehicle for county business during working hours must wear a safety belt while in the vehicle.
(b)
The only exception to subsection (a) of this section is as follows: operators of vehicles and machinery which have no safety belts.
(c)
An employee who fails to wear his or her safety belt will be considered in violation of a safety rule and will be subject to disciplinary action. A repeated violation of this section may subject an offender to dismissal from the work force of the county.
(Code 2000, § 3-304)
Sec. 2-51. - Services of building inspector.
(a)
The county building inspector shall be authorized to conduct building inspections in the unincorporated areas of the county, and all other duties mutually agreed upon by the board of commissioners and the affected incorporated areas.
(b)
The duties of the county building inspector in the affected incorporated area shall be as enumerated in the contract for services between the board of commissioners and the affected incorporated area or areas.
(Code 2000, § 3-305)
Secs. 2-52—2-75. - Reserved.
ARTICLE IV. - COURTHOUSE

Sec. 2-76. - Hours of operation.
(a)
The county courthouse shall be kept open for court and related business Monday through Friday from 8:30 a.m. each of said weekdays until 5:00 p.m. of each of said weekdays except during holidays.
(b)
Unless otherwise approved by a superior court judge or the chairperson of the county board of commissioners, during all hours exclusively of those stated above, the county courthouse shall be closed to the public and the outside doors thereof kept locked.
(c)
Unless given permission by the chairperson of the board of commissioners of the county or the sheriff of the county, no person except a worker in an office located in the said courthouse may be present in said courthouse except during the aforesaid mentioned permitted times. The aforesaid courthouse employees may only be permitted to be in said courthouse during the aforesaid prohibited times if they have been given permission by their supervisor.
(d)
Any person, firm, or corporation violating any provision of this chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be punished according to the general penalty described in section 1-9. Each time such violation is committed shall be deemed a separate offense.
(Code 2000, § 3-501)
State Law reference— Duty of county governing authority to keep county courthouse open during normal working hours, O.C.G.A. § 36-1-12.
Sec. 2-77. - Unclaimed money; notification; accounting.
(a)
All unclaimed money collected by the clerks of court of the county shall be the property of the county for the county's use in its general operating budget. For the purposes of this subsection, the term "unclaimed money" means any money collected by the clerks of court of the county that has not been retrieved by the party to whom it is due within five years of notification by the clerk of court of the existence of the money.
(b)
The clerk of the court in which the unclaimed money remains shall notify the party to whom money is due by certified mail to the party's last known address on record with the clerk. The five-year time period shall begin on the date that notice is mailed by the clerk.
(c)
After the expiration of this five-year period, the clerk of court shall deposit all unclaimed money in the name of the county in the county depository, minus any amounts that may be due any officers of the county. At the time of each such deposit in the county depository, the clerk of said court shall make and deliver to the county manager an itemized statement of the sources of said money.
(Code 2000, § 3-502)
State Law reference— Disposition of Unclaimed Property Act, O.C.G.A. § 44-12-190 et seq.; intangible property held by a state court or public corporation which remains unclaimed by owner for more than five years after becoming payable is presumed abandoned, O.C.G.A. § 44-12-204.
