ARTICLE III. - PROVISION FOR OFFICIAL ZONING MAP ESTABLISHMENT OF DISTRICTS

Section 301 - Official zoning map.
The City of Morrow is hereby divided into zoning districts, as shown on the official zoning map which, together with all explanatory matter thereon, is hereby adopted by reference and declared to be a part of this ordinance.
The official zoning map shall be identified by the signature of the mayor, attested by the city manager or designee, and bearing the seal of the city under the following words: "This is to certify that this is the Official Zoning Map referred to in the 1986 Zoning Ordinance of the City of Morrow, Georgia together with the date of adoption of this Ordinance."
Section 302 - Amendment to maps.
If, in accordance with the provisions of this ordinance, changes are made in district boundaries, classifications, conditional use approvals or other matters to be portrayed on the official zoning map, such changes shall be entered on the official zoning map promptly after the amendment has been approved by the city council with a notation indicating the date of the approved change.
Regardless of the existence of purported copies of the official zoning map which may from time to time be made or published, the official zoning map which shall be located in the office of the city manager or designee shall be the final authority as to the current zoning status of the city.
(Ord. No. 2009-06, § 1, 5-26-09)
Section 303 - Replacement of official zoning map.
In the event that the official zoning map becomes damaged, destroyed, lost or difficult to interpret because of the nature and number of changes and additions, the city council may adopt a new official zoning map which will supersede the prior official zoning map. Adoption of a new map shall be noticed for public hearing in accordance with the requirements of Article XVII of this ordinance. The new official zoning map should be identified by signature of the mayor, attested by the city manager or designee, and bearing the seal of the city under the following words: "This is to certify that this Official Zoning Map supersedes and replaces the Official Zoning Map adopted November 8, 1973, as part of the 1986 Zoning Ordinance of the City of Morrow, Georgia".
Unless the previous official zoning map has been lost, or has been totally destroyed, the prior map or any significant remaining parts thereof, shall be preserved, together with all available records pertaining to its adoption or amendment.
(Ord. No. 2009-06, § 2, 5-26-09)
Section 304 - Rules for interpretation of district boundaries.
Where uncertainty exists with respect to the location of the boundaries of any zoning district in Morrow, Georgia, the following rules shall apply:
1.
Where a zoning district boundary line is shown as approximately following a corporate limits line, a militia district line, a land lot line, a lot line or the center line of a street, a county road, a state highway, an interstate highway, or a railroad right-of-way or such lines extended, then such lines shall be construed to be the zoning district boundary lines.
2.
Where a zoning district boundary line is shown as being set back from a street, a county road, a state highway, an interstate highway or a railroad right-of-way, and approximately parallel thereto, then such zoning district boundary line shall be construed as being at the scaled distance from the center line of the street, county road, state highway, interstate highway or railroad right-of-way and as being parallel thereto.
3.
Where a zoning district boundary line divides a lot, the location of the line shall be the scaled distance from the lot lines.
4.
In the case of a double frontage lot fronting on two approximately parallel streets that is divided by a zoning district boundary line paralleling the streets, the restrictions of the zoning district in which each frontage of the double frontage lot lies shall apply to that portion of the double frontage lot.
5.
Where zoning district boundaries are in doubt, the Morrow Planning and Zoning Board shall make such interpretation using the appropriate scale from the official zoning map.
Section 305 - Districts listed.
For the purposes of this ordinance incorporated area of Morrow, Georgia is divided into zoning districts designated as follows:
EXPAND
AG Agricultural/Forestry District
RS-80 Single-Family Residence District
RS-30 Fee Simple Town Houses District
BG General Business/Commercial District
LM Light Manufacturing District
HM Heavy Manufacturing District
PC Planned Center District
CUPD Community University Planned District
MU Mixed-Use Development District
PI Public Institutional District
PRC Park/Recreation/Conservation District
  (Ord. No. 99-14, § 1, 6-8-99; Ord. No. 2004-12, 6-8-04; Ord. No. 2004-13, 6-8-04; Ord. No. 2004-18, § 1, 7-13-04; Ord. No. 2007-09, 8-28-07; Ord. No. 2009-06, § 3, 5-26-09)
Section 306 - Annexation.
The zoning of property to be annexed into the City of Morrow is a zoning decision in accordance with O.C.G.A. 36-66-3(4)(D). Therefore, the procedures for zoning property to be annexed into the City of Morrow shall be as follows:
(1)
The City of Morrow may begin the process of zoning property to be annexed into the city any time on or after the date the notice of the proposed annexation is provided to the governing authority of the county as required under O.C.G.A. 36-36-6;
(2)
The hearing required by O.C.G.A. 36-66-4(a) shall be conducted before the annexation of the subject property into the city;
(3)
In addition to the other notice requirements of O.C.G.A. 36-66-4, the city shall cause to be published within a newspaper of general circulation within the territorial boundaries of the county in which the property to be annexed is located a notice of the hearing as required under the provisions of O.C.G.A. 36-66-4(a) or (b), as applicable, and shall place a sign on the property when required by O.C.G.A. 36-66-4(b); and
(4)
The zoning classification approved by the city following the hearing required by O.C.G.A. 36-66-4(a) shall become effective on the later of:
(A)
The date the zoning is approved by the city; or
(B)
The date that the annexation becomes effective pursuant to O.C.G.A. 36-36-2.
(Ord. No. 96-12, § 1, 10-8-96)
