ARTICLE A. - MISCELLANEOUS REGULATIONS

Sec. 9-4-1. - Penalty.
Failure to comply with any requirement of this chapter or violation of any provision contained herein shall, upon conviction, be punishable as provided in section 1-1-8 of this Code. In addition to any fine or imprisonment prescribed in section 1-1-8, if any license or permit holder is convicted of a violation of this chapter, or of a requirement of state or federal law affecting any license or permit issued under this chapter, such permit or license shall be subject to revocation or suspension in accordance with the provisions of section 9-1-12.
Sec. 9-4-2. - Garage sales and rummage sales.
Sales commonly known as garage sales or rummage sales, conducted on residential property, shall be subject to the following rules and regulations:
(1)
These sales shall be conducted only by the owner or tenant of the residential property used.
(2)
Such sales shall be allowed a maximum of three times during a calendar year on one residential lot. No such sales shall be conducted for a longer period than 72 hours consecutively.
(3)
No wares, goods, or merchandise shall be advertised or offered for sale, or swap, or given away, except goods, wares, and merchandise owned by the property owner or the tenant conducting the sale.
(4)
No goods, wares, or merchandise shall be purchased by the owner or tenant for the purpose of selling, swapping, or giving away same at such a sale.
(5)
Any person desiring to conduct such a sale shall notify the city clerk no later than 12:00 noon of the day preceding the sale. The city clerk or his authorized representative shall issue a license to the person to conduct a sale upon the payment of a license fee as fixed from time to time by the mayor and council if the applicant otherwise meets the requirements of this section. This fee shall be in lieu of any other fees or business taxes in this Code.
(6)
Sales for religious and charitable purposes shall be exempt from the payment of a permit fee, but shall register with the city at least 48 hours prior to the sale and shall comply with all other provisions of this section; provided that goods owned by a member of such organization and donated to such sale shall satisfy the requirements of subsection (3) above.
(7)
It shall be unlawful for any person to conduct a garage sale or rummage sale without first obtaining a license as described herein, or in such a manner as to violate any of the provisions of this section, and the city manager is authorized and directed to enforce the provisions of this section.
(Ord. No. 93-10, § 1, 10-12-93)
Cross reference— Sign restrictions for garage sales, § 8-5-21(10).
Sec. 9-4-3. - Business certificate; special regulations for business of.
(a)
Prior to the issuance of a business certificate to write or post bail bonds, the applicant shall be required to post a surety bond with a value of $25,000.00. The bond shall be payable to the mayor, in his official capacity, and shall be contingent upon the payment of sums due the city on forfeited bonds written by the applicant. The bond shall be approved by the city manager.
(b)
It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to write or post bail bonds in the city and engage in the bail bonds business unless and until that person, firm, or corporation has obtained a business certificate as provided in this Code and has posted an approved bond as provided in this section.
(Code 1977, § 8-4006)
Sec. 9-4-4. - Liability insurance required for operators of certain amusement devices and carnival rides.
All persons, firms, or corporations shall, prior to operating an amusement device where human beings are conveyed, obtain from the city a permit. Upon receiving a permit the applicant must show evidence of personal liability insurance in the amount of $1,000,000.00 for each person and $2,000,000.00 for each accident plus $100,000.00 [for] property damages.
(Code 1977, § 8-4007; Ord. No. 2001-10, § 1, 5-8-01)
Sec. 9-4-5. - Mixed use retail establishments; approval required, when.
(a)
Restrictions.
(1)
It shall hereafter be unlawful for any person, corporation or company or any combination thereof to establish a mixed use retail establishment without specific approval of mayor and council where the nature of the merchandise to be sold presents imminently hazardous conditions which could develop into a danger to occupants, customers, adjacent property owners or tenants and/or the general public.
(2)
Such uses and/or combination thereof shall include but not be limited to: Service stations, used or new car sales or leasing, convenience stores; gasoline sales only in combination with vehicular sales or leasing or gasoline sales in combination with storage of vehicles for any purpose whatsoever except as may be permitted by mayor and council such as wrecker or service or delivery truck parked on the premises which is used as an integral part of the business.
(b)
Parking spaces.
(1)
Parking spaces for vehicles at all businesses shall be as stated in the zoning ordinance of the city and shall additionally provide ample turnaround areas, fire apparatus ingress and egress capability to include fire lanes where appropriate and as directed and general overall reduction of congestion of the area for convenience of the public, the owner/operator and the city.
(2)
Under no circumstances shall there ever be stored at any retail establishment which sells petroleum products or automobile or internal combustion engine vehicle parts or supplies any vehicles for sale, lease, rent or for hire at any time.
(Ord. No. 89-11, § 2, 7-25-89)
Editor's note— Ord. No. 89-11, §§ 1, 2, adopted July 25, 1989, pertaining to approval of mixed use retail establishments, did not specify manner of codification; hence, such provisions have been designated by the editor as § 9-4-5.
Cross reference— Branch, multiple or joint business, § 9-1-15.
Sec. 9-4-6. - Consumer fireworks retail sales stands.
(a)
The city fire marshal shall issue licenses for the operation of consumer fireworks retail sales stands, as that term is defined in section 402 of appendix A of this Code.
(b)
A maximum of two active city-issued licenses for the operation of a consumer fireworks retail sales stand shall exist at one time. Such licenses are available on a first-come, first-served basis.
(Ord. No. 2017-03 , § 2, 2-28-17)
Secs. 9-4-7—9-4-19. - Reserved.
