CODE OF ORDINANCES CITY OF MORROW, GEORGIA
____________
Adopted: September 14, 1999
Effective: September 14, 1999
____________
Published by Order of the City Council
____________
CURRENT
OFFICIALS
of the
CITY OF
MORROW, GEORGIA
____________
John J. Lampl II
Mayor
____________
Van T. Tran, Mayor Pro Tem
Dorothy Dean
Renee S. Knight
Khoa Vuong
City Council
____________
Yasmin Julio
City Clerk
____________
Lajuana C. Ransaw
City Attorney
PREFACE
This Code constitutes a republication of the general and permanent ordinances of the City of Morrow, Georgia.
Source materials used in the preparation of the Code were the 1987 Code, as reproduced in 1995, and updated through September, 1998, and ordinances subsequently adopted by the City Council. The source of each section is included in the history note appearing in parentheses at the end thereof. The absence of such a note indicates that the section was adopted for the first time with the adoption of the Code. By use of the comparative table appearing in the back of this Code, the reader can locate any section of the 1987 Code, as supplemented, and any subsequent ordinance included herein.
The Code contains various titles, chapters and articles which are topically arranged in a logical order. The sections within each title have been catchlined to facilitate usage. Notes which tie related sections of the Code together and which refer to relevant state law have been included.
Chapter and Section Numbering System
The section numbering system used in this Code consists of three parts separated by dashes. The figure before the first dash refers to the title number, the center figure refers to the chapter, and the third figure refers to the position of the section within the chapter. Thus, the second section of chapter 1 in title 1 is numbered 1-1-2, and the first section of title 2, chapter 1 is 2-1-1. Under this system, each section is identified with its title and chapter, and at the same time new sections can be inserted in their proper place by using the decimal system for amendments. For example, if new material consisting of one section that would logically come between sections 2-1-1 and 2-1-2 is desired to be added, such new section would be numbered 2-1-1.5. New titles and chapters may be included in the same way or, in the case of chapters, may be placed at the end of the title embracing the subject. New articles may be placed at the end of the chapter embracing the subject and assigned the next succeeding alphabetical letter designation.
Page Numbering System
The page numbering system used in this Code is a prefix system. The letters to the left of the colon are an abbreviation which represents a certain portion of the volume. The number to the right of the colon represents the number of the page in that portion. In the case of a title of the Code, the number to the left of the colon indicates the number of the chapter. In the case of an appendix to the Code, the letter immediately to the left of the colon indicates the letter of the appendix. The following are typical parts of codes of ordinances, which may or may not appear in this Code at this time, and their corresponding prefixes:
EXPAND
CHARTER AND RELATED LAWS CHT:1
CODE CD1:1
CODE APPENDIX CDA:1
CODE COMPARATIVE TABLE CCT:1
ORDINANCE DISPOSITION TABLE ODT:1
CHARTER INDEX CHTi:1
CODE INDEX CDi:1
  Indexes
The indexes have been prepared with the greatest of care. Each particular item has been placed under several headings, some of which are couched in lay phraseology, others in legal terminology, and still others in language generally used by local government officials and employees. There are numerous cross references within the (index itself or indexes themselves) which stand as guideposts to direct the user to the particular item in which the user is interested.
Looseleaf Supplements
A special feature of this publication is the looseleaf system of binding and supplemental servicing of the publication. With this system, the publication will be kept up-to-date. Subsequent amendatory legislation will be properly edited, and the affected page or pages will be reprinted. These new pages will be distributed to holders of copies of the publication, with instructions for the manner of inserting the new pages and deleting the obsolete pages.
Keeping this publication up-to-date at all times will depend largely upon the holder of the publication. As revised pages are received, it will then become the responsibility of the holder to have the amendments inserted according to the attached instructions. It is strongly recommended by the publisher that all such amendments be inserted immediately upon receipt to avoid misplacing them and, in addition, that all deleted pages be saved and filed for historical reference purposes.
Acknowledgments
This republication was under the direct supervision of Wilma W. Reed, Editor, of the Municipal Code Corporation, Tallahassee, Florida. Credit is gratefully given to the other members of the publisher's staff for their sincere interest and able assistance throughout the project.
The publisher is most grateful to Andrew J. Whalen, III, City Attorney, and Brenda J. Allen, City Clerk; for their cooperation and assistance during the progress of the work on this publication. It is hoped that their efforts and those of the publisher have resulted in a Code of Ordinances which will make the active law of the city readily accessible to all citizens and which will be a valuable tool in the day-to-day administration of the city's affairs.
Copyright
All editorial enhancements of this Code are copyrighted by Municipal Code Corporation and the City of Morrow, Georgia. Editorial enhancements include, but are not limited to: table of contents; section catchlines; pretitle section analyses; editor's notes; cross references; state law references; and index. Such material may not be used or reproduced for commercial purposes without the express written consent of Municipal Code Corporation and the City of Morrow, Georgia.
© Copyrighted material.
Municipal Code Corporation and the City of Morrow, Georgia. 1999.
ORDINANCE 99-21
ADOPTING ORDINANCE
AN ORDINANCE OF THE CITY OF MORROW, GEORGIA, ADOPTING AND ENACTING A NEW CODE FOR MORROW, GEORGIA; ESTABLISHING THE SAME; PROVIDING FOR THE REPEAL OF CERTAIN ORDINANCES NOT INCLUDED THEREIN, EXCEPT AS HEREIN EXPRESSLY PROVIDED; PROVIDING FOR THE MANNER OF AMENDING SUCH CODE; PROVIDING WHEN THIS ORDINANCE SHALL BECOME EFFECTIVE; PROVIDING CERTAIN PENALTIES; AND FOR OTHER PURPOSES.
The Mayor and Council of the City of Morrow, Georgia, hereby ordains:
Section 1. The document entitled "Code of Ordinances, City of Morrow, Georgia," a copy of which accompanies this ordinance and is incorporated herein and made a part hereof, is hereby adopted and shall be treated and considered as a new and original comprehensive ordinance.
Section 2. All ordinances and resolutions of a general and permanent nature of this city enacted on final passage on or before April 13, 1999, and not in the code or recognized and continued in force by reference therein are hereby repealed from and after the effective date of this ordinance, except as hereinafter provided.
Section 3. The repeal provided for in section 2 hereof shall not affect any offense or act committed or done or any penalty or forfeiture incurred or any contract or right established or accruing before the effective date of this ordinance; nor shall this repeal affect any ordinance or resolution of the city promising or guaranteeing the payment of money by or to the city, or authorizing the issuance of any bonds of the city, or any evidence of the city's indebtedness, or any contract or obligation assumed by the city; nor shall this repeal affect any rights or franchise granted by any ordinance or resolution of the city to any person, firm or corporation; nor shall this repeal affect any ordinance or resolution dedicating, naming, establishing, locating, relocating, opening, paving, widening, vacating, etc., any street or public way in the city; nor shall this repeal affect the present annual appropriation of the city; nor shall this repeal affect any ordinance or resolution levying or imposing charges, fees or taxes now due or accrued; nor shall this repeal affect any zoning ordinance of the city or amendments thereto; nor shall this repeal be construed to revive any ordinance or resolution or part thereof that has been repealed by a subsequent ordinance or resolution which is repealed by this ordinance.
Section 4. The provisions appearing in this code, so far as they are the same as provisions of ordinances and resolutions existing at the time of the effective date of this code, are intended, and shall be considered as continuations thereof and not as new enactments.
Section 5. Any and all additions or amendments to the code, when passed in such form as to indicate the intention of the mayor and council to make the same a part thereof, shall be deemed to be incorporated into the code so that reference to "The Code of the City of Morrow, Georgia," shall be understood and intended to include such additions and amendments.
Section 6. The code shall be kept on file in the office of the city clerk, and preserved in loose-leaf form, or in such other form as the city clerk may consider most expedient, and shall be considered the official code of the city. It shall be the express duty of the city clerk or someone authorized by the city clerk, to insert in their designated places all amendments, ordinances or resolutions which indicate the intention of the city governing authority to make those provisions a part of the code, when those provisions have been reprinted in page form, and to extract from the code all provisions which may be from time to time repealed. A copy of the code shall be available for all persons desiring to examine it in the office of the city clerk during regular business hours. Copies shall be made available upon request at a charge not to exceed $0.25 per page.
Section 7. As pages of the code are replaced because the matter contained in them shall have been repealed, amended or otherwise shall have been superseded or rendered obsolete or inoperative, the city clerk shall retain copies of the pages of the code so superseded, rendered obsolete or otherwise rendered inoperative in a file so that the former provisions of the code may be readily available and easily found. The purpose of this section is to permit anyone desiring to do so to ascertain the precise status of any section of the code as of a given date.
Section 8. In case of the amendment of any section of the code for which a penalty is not provided, the general penalty as provided by general law shall apply to the section as amended; or in case the amendment contains provisions for which a penalty, other than the aforementioned general penalty, is provided in another section in the same chapter, the penalty so provided in the other section shall be held to relate to the section so amended, unless the penalty is specifically repealed therein.
Section 9. It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to change or amend by additions or deletions, any part or portion of the code, or to insert or delete pages or portions thereof, or to alter or tamper with the official code in any manner whatsoever which may cause the law of the city to be misrepresented thereby.
Section 10. All ordinances or parts of ordinances in conflict herewith are, to the extent of any conflict, hereby repealed.
Section 11. This ordinance shall be in force and take effect on September 14, 1999.
Adopted this 14th day of September 1999.
EXPAND
      JIM MILLIRONS,
      MAYOR
    EXPAND
      CHARLES O. SORROW,
      MAYOR PRO TEM
    EXPAND
      C. R. HUIE,
      COUNCILMAN
    EXPAND
      VIRGIL L. KILBY,
      COUNCILMAN
    EXPAND
      THOMAS J. LaPORTE,
      COUNCILMAN
    ATTEST:
EXPAND
      Brenda Allen, City Clerk
    FIRST READING: 08-24-99
SECOND READING: 09-14-99
