ARTICLE VI. - ELECTIONS
DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Sec. 60. - Qualification of voters.
All residents of said city who are qualified to vote for members of the general assembly of this state and who have registered according to the laws of said city shall be qualified to vote in all elections in said city; however, it shall not be necessary for such residents to register with the county tax collector. Any other provision of the law to the contrary notwithstanding, all municipal elections held or conducted by the City of Moultrie shall be conducted in accordance with the provisions of Code Title 34A, the Georgia Municipal Election Code [O.C.G.A. § 21-2-1 et seq., the Georgia Election Code], as the same is now or hereafter amended.
(1943 Ga. Laws, page 1458, § 16; 1951 Ga. Laws, page 3250, § 5; 1952 Ga. Laws, page 2661, § 1; 1974 Ga. Laws (Act No. 1220), § 1)
Editor's note— 1951 Ga. Laws, page 3250, § 28, appearing as § 49 of this compilation, provided for a penalty applicable to "this Act," § 5 of which amended 1943 Ga. Laws, page 1458, § 16, (compiled as § 60). 1952 Ga. Laws, page 2661, § 1, amended § 16 (§ 60 of this compilation) to read as set out above, without reference to the penalty provision.
Sec. 61. - Voter registration; purging list.
It shall be the duty of the clerk of said city council to keep open at his office a book for the registration of voters, alphabetically arranged, in which book all qualified voters of said city may register at any time up to the closing of said book ten (10) days prior to each election. Said book shall be closed ten (10) days immediately preceding each election after which time no one shall be allowed to register until after said election. At all other times said book shall be open for registration of voters. All persons so registering shall be permanently registered for voting in all elections of said city and it shall not be necessary for them to re-register. Before registering his name as aforesaid each person shall take the following oath, which oath may be written or printed at the beginning of said registration book or at the top of the page on which said registration is had, to wit:
"I ___________, do solemnly swear (or affirm) that I am eighteen years old (or will be on the _____ day of ________, next), have resided in this State one year (or will have so resided in this State one year on the _____ day of ________, next), and in this county for six months (or will have so resided in said county for six months on the _____ day of ________, next), and have been a citizen of the City of Moultrie, Georgia, for at least 90 days (or will have been a citizen of Moultrie, Georgia, for 90 days on the _____ day of ________, next), so help me God."
The registrar shall date the time of each name so registered. The clerk of the said city shall make or cause to be made and delivered to the manager of each election an accurate alphabetical list of all the registered voters for that election. The managers shall have the right to require said voters to take the above oath before allowing them to vote, even though his name appears on the list of registered voters furnished them by the clerk as above set forth.
The council, in regular or special open session, shall appoint three (3) registrars, who shall be free-holders, to purge the registration list of the names of persons not legally qualified to vote. Said purging shall be done prior to the time the clerk makes up the list for the election managers of each election. Said registrars shall give the registrant two days notice by mail of the cause for striking his name before they strike his name from said list for any cause and the registrant shall be heard on said cause if he desires to be heard. The powers of said registrars are hereby limited to ascertain whether the registrant is qualified to vote for members of the general assembly of this state; however, it shall not be necessary for such registrant to register with the county tax collector. If the registrant is so qualified his name shall be placed on the city's voter's list, provided, the registrant resides and lives in said city and has resided and lived in said city ninety (90) days preceding the election and if said registrant is not so qualified, then his name shall not be put on the city's voter's list.
(1943 Ga. Laws, page 1458, § 60; 1951 Ga. Laws, page 3250, § 5; 1952 Ga. Laws, page 2661, § 2)
Editor's note— 1951 Ga. Laws, page 3250, § 28, appearing at § 49 of this compilation, provided for a penalty applicable to "this Act," § 5 of which amended 1943 Ga. Laws, page 1458, § 60 (compiled as § 61). 1952 Ga. Laws, page 2661, § 2, amended § 60 (§ 61 of this compilation) to read as set out above, without reference to the penalty provision.
Sec. 62. - Notice of opening of registration books.
Fifteen days prior to the close of said registration books the clerk of said city shall run a citation for one issue in the official organ of said city, or if there be no official organ of said city, then the said clerk shall post on the door of the city council chamber in a conspicuous place, a notice calling the attention of the voters of said city to the fact that the registration books of said city are opened for registration at his office.
(1943 Ga. Laws, page 1458, § 61)
Sec. 63. - Preventing registration; registering unqualified person; illegal registration, voting.
If the said clerk, or other party having in charge said registration book, shall knowingly prevent anyone qualified to register, or shall likewise knowingly register anyone or allow anyone to register who is not qualified to register, he shall be subject to be punished on conviction therefore [therefor] as prescribed by section 3 of this Act [Charter]. Should anyone register, or attempt to register or vote, or attempt to vote illegally in such election, he, on conviction thereof, shall be likewise punished.
(1943 Ga. Laws, page 1458, § 62)
Sec. 64. - Election managers; oath of office; voting procedure.
All elections held under the provisions of this Charter, and all elections in which any subject or question is submitted to the qualified voters of said City of Moultrie, shall be superintended and managed by a justice of the peace and two freeholders who are citizens of said city and own real estate therein, or by three freeholders, all of whom shall be citizens of said city, and own real estate therein, and each of said managers, before entering on his duties, shall take and subscribe before some officer qualified to administer an oath, or before each other, the following oath:
"We, and each of us, do solemnly swear that we will faithfully and impartially conduct this election and prevent all illegal voting to the best of our skill and power, so help us God".
Said managers shall keep or cause to be kept, two lists of voters and two tally sheets. All elections shall be held at the council chamber, or some other place previously provided by the council, and the voting shall be by ballots. The polls shall open at half-past seven a.m. and close at six p.m., standard time. The managers of all elections held under the provisions of this Charter shall be appointed by the ordinary of Colquitt County, Georgia.
(1943 Ga. Laws, page 1458, § 14; 1951 Ga. Laws, page 3250, § 2; 1972 Ga. Laws (Act No. 1448), § 4)
Sec. 65. - Voter lists; declaration of results; contest of election.
The said managers shall certify two lists of voters and two sheets, and shall place one list of said voters and one of said tally sheets in the ballot box, together with the ballots cast at said election, and seal the same, and shall forthwith deliver the same to the ordinary of Colquitt County. The other tally sheet and list of voters, together with certificate showing the results of said election, signed by said managers, shall be placed in a package and sealed, and forthwith delivered to the clerk of said city who shall safely keep the same, and at the first regular meeting of the council occurring three days after said election, deliver said package to said council, who shall open the same and declare the results, if no notice of contest has been given to the council. If notice of contest has been given, then all other proceedings shall be postponed until the contest shall have been decided. If the result of any election held in said city is contested, notice of such contest shall be filed with the ordinary of Colquitt County within three days after said election, setting forth all the grounds of contest, and upon the payment of a fee of ten dollars [$10.00] in advance to said ordinary, the said ordinary shall, within two days after he received the same, cause a copy of said notice to be served by the sheriff of said county, or his deputy, on the contestee, if said contest is for an office, and if the result of any election in which any question is submitted is contested, then said ordinary shall cause notice to be served on the mayor of the city, and published one time in the official organ of said city, or if there be no official organ, then the notice to be published one time in a newspaper published in said city. Said ordinary shall fix the time of hearing the contest, which shall not be later than ten (10) days after service has been perfected, of which time both parties shall have five days' notice before the hearing. The contestor shall pay the sheriff or his deputy two dollars in advance for serving notice of contest. All contests shall be heard at the courthouse of Colquitt County. Said ordinary is authorized to hear and determine contests, and the losing party shall pay all costs, for which said ordinary is authorized to give judgment and issue execution.
(1943 Ga. Laws, page 1458, § 15)
Sec. 66. - Reserved.
Editor's note— 2003 Ga. Laws (Act No. 291), § 2, repealed 1943 Ga. Laws, page 1458, § 5; codified as former § 66, and derived from Ga. Laws, page 2579, § 2; 1965 Ga. Laws, page 2744, § 1; 1985 Ga. Laws (Act No. 18), § 2; and Ord. No. 625A, § 1, adopted April 21, 1992. Former § 66 pertained to council districts designated.
Sec. 67. - Eligibility requirements for candidates.
No person shall be eligible to the office of mayor or member of council of said city unless he be a citizen of said city, and of the age of twenty-one years, and has resided in said city one year prior to said election and shall be a qualified elector of the city. Additionally, no person shall be eligible to hold office as a member of council unless he has resided in the council district from which he seeks election for at least one year prior to his election. Should the mayor or anymember of council cease to possess any of the qualifications specified in this section, or be convicted of crime involving moral turpitude while in office, he shall immediately forfeit his office.
(1943 Ga. Laws, page 1458, § 7; 1986 Ga. Laws (Act No. 1125), § 2)
Sec. 68. - Opposition candidates.
Any candidate for the office of councilman shall, upon qualifying with the mayor, designate the particular councilman he opposes and the ballot shall so specify.
(1943 Ga. Laws, page 1458, § 80)
DIVISION 2. - ABSENTEE VOTING

Sec. 69. - Application for absentee ballot.
Any registered voter, when required to be absent from the City of Moultrie or who, because of physical disability will be unable to vote in person, may vote by mail in all elections held in the City of Moultrie, provided that he or some member of his immediate family,—viz., husband or wife, father or mother, sister or brother or son or daughter—shall give notice in writing of such intention to registrars or the clerk of the City of Moultrie, not less than three days nor more than sixty days prior to the election in which he may desire to participate. The clerk shall promptly deliver all applications made to him to a registrar.
(1957 Ga. Laws, page 2588, § 1; 1968 Ga. Laws, page 2130, § 14)
Amendment note—1968 Ga. Laws, page 2130, § 14, amended 1957 Ga. Laws, page 2588, § 1, codified as § 69, by substituting three days for ten days therein.
Sec. 70. - Return postage required; physician's statement of disability.
Said voter shall accompany said application with postage, or the correct amount in legal tender necessary for the return to him of a blank ballot, and full instructions as to the marking the said ballot and its proper return to the said registrars. If the voter is making said application for a ballot because of physical disability, there shall also be enclosed a certified statement from a licensed physician to the effect that such voter will be unable to vote in person because of said physical disability.
(1957 Ga. Laws, page 2588, § 2)
Sec. 71. - Name enrolled; material to be sent to voter.
The registrar, upon receipt of the application for ballot, shall satisfy himself that the applicant is duly qualified to vote in the election for which said application is made, and shall enroll the name and address of the applicant, if found eligible, in a book to be provided for that purpose, and make out the certificate and coupon attached, as hereinafter provided, and forward the same to the applicant at least nine days prior to the date of holding said election, by mail, general delivery, and shall also enclose in said letter:
(a)
An envelope containing the folded ballot, sealed and marked "ballot within".
(b)
An envelope, for resealing the marked ballot, form of which is hereinafter provided, and called "voucher".
(c)
A properly addressed envelope for the return of said ballot.
(d)
A printed slip, giving full instruction regarding the manner of marking the ballot, in order that the same may be counted, and the manner of preparing and returning the same, which printed slip shall be provided the registrars by the clerk of the City of Moultrie.
(1957 Ga. Laws, page 2588, § 3)
Sec. 72. - Opening envelope containing blank ballot; marking; certification.
Upon receipt of the letter, forwarding [forwarded] by the registrars, the applicant shall open the sealed envelope marked "ballot within" in the presence of the postmaster or his assistant, or any person qualified under the law to attest deeds, who shall mail the same in return. The voter shall mark and refold the ballot without assistance and shall not disclose the manner in which it has been marked, except in case of physical disability, shall seal and sign the voucher, the postmaster or assistant, or any person qualified under the law to attest deeds signing as witness to said voucher.
Name _____ Color _____
Height _____ Color of Hair _____
Color of eyes _____ Weight (estimated) _____
Birthplace given by voter _____
Occupation _____
State and county where voter claimed to have last voted
County ___________ State _____
To the best of my knowledge, the above information is correct and the applicant has complied with the requirements of the law as above provided. I have no knowledge whatever of the marking, erasures or intent of the ballot enclosed. (If the voter received assistance because of physical disability, strike this last sentence and insert the following: "I assisted the voter because of physical disability")
EXPAND
(Signed) _____
(Postmaster, his assistant, or any person qualified under the law to attest deeds).
  In the Army and Navy a commissioned officer, commanding officer, or commissioned representative, shall sign the foregoing in lieu of the postmaster, or any other person qualified under the law to attest deeds. In territory without the jurisdiction of the United States the consular officer shall sign the certificate.
(1957 Ga. Laws, page 2588, § 4)
Sec. 73. - Voucher to be signed by voter.
The voucher shall be on the back of the return envelope containing the marked ballot, and shall be as follows:
"This is to certify that the enclosed ballot was received by me from the registrars of the City of Moultrie, State of Georgia. The envelope marked `ballot within' was opened by me in the presence of (postmaster, or any person qualified under the law to attest deeds, consul or commissioned officer), of the ___________, marked while in the office, without assistance or knowledge on the part of any one as to manner in which same was prepared, and then there sealed as provided by law.
EXPAND
(Signed) _____
Teste:
_____ Date ________, 19___"
  If the voter, because of physical disability, received assistance the person who serves as witness may fill in the blanks and sign for the voter, making a notation of the reason for such act.
(1957 Ga. Laws, page 2588, § 5)
Sec. 74. - Clerk to furnish sealed ballots to registrars; unused ballots to be returned.
It shall be the duty of the clerk of the City of Moultrie, at the expense of said city, to furnish the registrars of said city at least fifteen days prior to the date fixed for the holding of said election with a sufficient number of blank ballots, each properly sealed in an envelope marked "ballot within", and take the receipt for same. Within three days subsequent to the election, the registrars shall return to the clerk of the City of Moultrie all unused ballots in their original sealed envelope and a list of the voters who have been furnished ballots as provided in this Act [Division].
(1957 Ga. Laws, page 2588, § 6)
Sec. 75. - Form of ballots.
All ballots furnished by the clerk to the registrars under the provisions of this Act [Division] shall be printed and prepared in pads with a series number different from that used in the election for voters who vote in person, and with the words "Absentee Voter's Ballot" written thereon at the top of said pad or pads, and each ballot shall have attached at the top thereof a number strip which may be easily detached, and each number strip shall have attached at the top thereof a stub which may be easily detached and the same designation and number shall be printed upon the stub and the number strip, as provided for ballots in state and county elections.
(1957 Ga. Laws, page 2588, § 7)
State Law reference— Ballots for primary elections, O.C.G.A. §§ 21-2-284, 21-2-284.1.
Sec. 76. - Deposit of returned ballot; entry by registrar; disposition of coupon.
Upon the receipt of the returned ballot from the voter, the registrars shall, opposite the name of the voter on a book prepared for the absentee voter's list, write in ink the words "Deposited in a sealed box by me on ________[,] 19___" and then add his own signature, and shall deposit the envelope containing the ballot, unopened, in the sealed box to be provided for this purpose, and there it shall remain until the day of the election. The coupon enclosed with the return ballots shall be filed with the letter of application. The returned envelope shall show the series number and letter of the ballot deposited therein.
(1957 Ga. Laws, page 2588, § 8)
Sec. 77. - Delivery of ballots, etc., to election managers.
On the day of the election the registrars shall deliver the box containing the sealed ballots, together with the letters of application, and returned coupons attached, with a list of the same in triplicate, sealed, to the manager of the election, and shall take receipt for said box and sealed papers. The registrars shall also deliver to the managers the pad or pads with stubs showing series letter and number of ballots furnished, and no ballot shall be counted unless the series letter and number on the stub shall correspond with the series letter and number on the number strip of the ballot contained in the envelope returned by the absent voter.
(1957 Ga. Laws, page 2588, § 9)
Sec. 78. - Deposit of ballots in regular ballot box at close of regular voting.
At the close of the regular balloting, the box shall be opened by the managers of the election and the ballots deposited in the regular ballot box as follows: As each envelope is being removed from the box, the name of the voter shall be called and checked as if the voter were voting in person. If found entitled to cast his vote, the envelope shall then, but not until then be opened and the number strip shall be detached from the ballot and the ballot deposited in the regular box without examining or unfolding it and the number strip deposited in the box provided therefor.
(1957 Ga. Laws, page 2588, § 10)
Sec. 79. - Accounting for voted, rejected ballots; sealing box containing all opened, unopened envelopes; delivery to ordinary.
When all the ballots shall have been accounted for and either voted or rejected, the empty envelopes that previously contained the sealed ballots shall be returned to the original box together with the sealed package of letters of application and coupons, and the rejected envelopes, if any, on which, or on a paper attached thereto, shall be plainly written the cause of the rejection, signed by a majority of the managers of the election. The box shall thereupon be resealed and delivered to the ordinary of Colquitt County, Georgia, along with the other ballots, voter's list, etc.[,] now required by the city Charter to be delivered to said ordinary.
(1957 Ga. Laws, page 2588, § 11)
