Chapter 6 - ANIMALS[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Cross reference— Nuisances and hazards, ch. 113; noise from domestic animals, § 113-45(3).
State Law reference— Authority to exercise animal control, >Ga. Const. art. IX, § II, ¶ III(a)(3); Georgia Animal Protection Act, O.C.G.A. § 4-11-1 et seq.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 6-1. - Fulton County provisions adopted.
The Fulton County animal control ordinance, as now or hereafter amended, is hereby adopted as a general ordinance of the city to the extent that the animal control ordinance is not inconsistent with the provisions of this chapter. A copy of the current Fulton County animal control ordinance and any additions, deletions or local amendments thereto shall be maintained in the office of the city clerk and be available for inspection by the public.
Sec. 6-2. - Enforcement of Fulton County animal control ordinance.
The city code compliance officer as well as the county animal control officer and county board of health are hereby given the power to enforce the Fulton County animal control ordinance in the city.
Sec. 6-3. - Summons.
A city officer, at his direction, may elect not to impound a dog or other animal found in violation of any section of this chapter, but to issue or cause to be issued a summons directed to the owner or possessor of the dog to appear before the municipal court on a certain day to stand trial for the violation of this chapter.
(Code 1982, § 9-3-27)
Sec. 6-4. - Violations.
(a)
Penalty. Any person who violates any provisions of this chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and subject to a fine of up to $500.00 and/or imprisonment in jail for a period not to exceed 60 days, or both. Each and every violation of the provisions of this chapter constitutes a separate offense.
(b)
Vicious animals. Any vicious animal or fowl, as defined in the Fulton County animal control ordinance referenced in section 6-1, shall be deemed to be a nuisance and may be abated as a nuisance upon the conviction thereafter of its owner of a violation of this chapter.
(Code 1982, § 9-3-28)
Sec. 6-5. - Confinement of female dogs in heat required.
It shall be the duty of any owner, custodian or harborer of any female dog in heat within the city, when she is left unattended, to securely confine such dog inside a building or other enclosure to prevent such dog from coming into contact with another dog except for planned breeding.
(Code 1982, § 9-3-26)
Secs. 6-6—6-30. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - LOCAL LICENSE
DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Sec. 6-31. - Required.
It shall be the duty of each owner, custodian or harborer of any dog over four months of age kept, maintained or harbored within the city to obtain a county dog license for such dog.
(Code 1982, § 9-3-23(a))
Sec. 6-32. - Dogs brought into city.
It shall be the duty of all persons owning or having custody of any dog over four months of age brought into the city to obtain a county dog license for such dog within 14 days from the date of entry.
(Code 1982, § 9-3-23(b))
Sec. 6-33. - Application; evidence of inoculation.
Every person owning or keeping a dog in the city may be required, as determined by city council, to apply to the city clerk for a license for each dog so owned or kept. At the time of such application, such person shall present to the clerk evidence showing that the dog has been inoculated against rabies within one year.
(Code 1982, § 9-3-23(c); Ord. No. 270-03, § 1, 1-26-04)
Sec. 6-34. - Issuance.
After payment of a fee as set out in the schedule of fees and charges on file in the office of the city clerk, the clerk shall issue to the applicant a license and a tag which shall be fastened to the collar of the dog so licensed.
(Code 1982, § 9-3-23(c))
Sec. 6-35. - Expiration.
A license issued under this division shall expire 12 months from its date of issuance.
(Code 1982, § 9-3-23(c))
Secs. 6-36—6-60. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - HOUSEHOLD PETS.[2]

Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
Editor's note— Ord. No. 265-03, § 1, adopted Nov. 17, 2003, repealed §§ 6-61—6-66, which pertained to special kennel permit. For complete derivation see the Code Comparative Table at the end of this volume.

Sec. 6-61. - Number of household pets limited in residential districts.
(a)
For purposes of this division "household pet" is defined as any animal owned or kept for pleasure rather than sale, which is an animal of a species customarily bred and raised to live in the habitat of humans and is dependent upon them for food and shelter; except that livestock and wild animals shall not be deemed pets.
(b)
No person who is a resident of a district zoned solely for residential uses, according to the official zoning map of the city, as it now exists or as is subsequently amended, shall own, board, or be the custodian of more than four household pets; and no household, regardless of the number of persons residing in same, shall own, board, or be the custodian of more than four household pets.
(c)
For purposes of this section, an animal under the age of 14 weeks shall not be considered a household pet, provided that the animal is the offspring of a parent household pet belonging to and residing in the household with that owner or custodian.
(Ord. No. 265-03 § 2, 11-17-2003)
Secs. 6-67—6-100. - Reserved.
ARTICLE III. - COMMERCIAL GUARD/SECURITY DOGS

Sec. 6-101. - Warning signs.
It shall be the duty of all persons who keep, use or maintain any guard/security dog to have signs conspicuously posted on the premises where the guard/security dog is located to warn of the presence of the dog. This warning shall consist of a warning sign placed at each entrance and exit to the premises and in a position to be legible from the sidewalk or ground level adjacent to the sign at eye level. If the premises is not enclosed by a wall or fence, a sign shall be placed at every entrance and exit to each structure on the premises in which a guard/security dog is located. Each sign shall measure at least ten inches by 14 inches and shall contain block lettering stating "Warning, Guard Dog on Duty." In addition, for dogs rented or leased, the sign shall set forth the name, address and phone number of the responsible person or persons to be notified during any hour of the day or night.
(Code 1982, § 9-3-25(a))
Sec. 6-102. - Rabies vaccination.
It shall be the duty of any person who keeps, uses, or maintains a guard/security dog to ensure the dog is vaccinated against rabies and licensed as required by the Fulton County animal control ordinance adopted in section 6-1. The dog also must have the current vaccination tag affixed to a collar worn by the dog at all times as required by such ordinance.
(Code 1982, § 9-3-25(b))
Sec. 6-103. - Notification.
It shall be the duty of any person that sells, leases, and/or rents any guard/security dog to be used within the city to notify the Fulton County Animal Control S.P.C.A. of the location and number of guard/security dogs in use, kept, or maintained at a particular location. The animal control office shall maintain a record of the location, number of guard/security dogs, and current rabies vaccination and licensure of all guard/security dogs utilized within the city. The person that sells, leases, and/or rents a guard/security dog to be used in the city shall furnish the following information to the Fulton County Animal Control Office:
(1)
Name, address, and telephone number of the location where a guard dog is located.
(2)
Name, breed, sex, and current license tag information of each guard dog at any location in the city.
(Code 1982, § 9-3-25(c))
Sec. 6-104. - Transporting.
It shall be unlawful to transport any guard/security dog in an open bed truck, and the vehicle transporting guard dogs shall be identified as to the business owner. It shall be unlawful to transport any guard dog in the city except under the following conditions:
(1)
Each dog shall be placed in separate holding bins.
(2)
Each holding bin shall be enclosed and measure 48 inches long by 18 inches wide by 30 inches high.
(3)
Each holding bin shall be adequately ventilated.
(Code 1982, § 9-3-25(d))
Sec. 6-105. - Confinement in building or secure enclosure.
(a)
No guard/security dog shall be chained, tethered, or otherwise tied to any inanimate object such as a tree, post, or building, outside of its own enclosure.
(b)
A guard/security dog shall be confined by the owner/custodian/harborer within a building or secure enclosure out of which it cannot climb, dig, jump or otherwise escape of its own volition.
(Code 1982, § 9-3-25(e), (f))
ARTICLE IV. - WILDLIFE SANCTUARY

Sec. 6-131. - Purpose.
This section is adopted for the purpose of declaring and designating the City of Mountain Park as a wildlife sanctuary in an effort to protect wild animals and birds within the city in order to promote the aesthetic and environmental amenities of the city for the edification, education and well-being of the citizens and residents of the city.
(Ord. No. 259-03 § 1, 10-20-2003)
Sec. 6-132. - Definitions.
For the purpose of this section, words and terms are defined as follows:
(1)
Wildlife shall mean and include birds, warm-blooded animals and reptiles, which are not domesticated and which are not vermin as defined herein. "Wildlife" shall not include formerly domesticated animals which are feral, and any warm-blooded animals or reptiles which are determined to be a nuisance under applicable city ordinances.
(2)
Vermin shall mean rats, mice, dangerous or rabid animals, and poisonous snakes which are inherently dangerous to human health or life.
(3)
Sanctuary shall mean a place set apart for the protection and propagation of wildlife.
(4)
City shall mean the City of Mountain Park.
(5)
Weapon shall mean:
a.
Firearms of all sizes, makes and types;
b.
Guns or devices which discharge projectiles by spring under tension, by compressed air or gas, or by any other means, including but not limited to BB guns, air guns, and pellet guns;
c.
Bows and arrows;
d.
Spears;
e.
Slingshots;
f.
Any other missile or projectile thrown or launched with intent to harm or injure or kill wildlife;
g.
Any vehicle used with intent to harm or injure or kill wildlife; and
h.
A stick, club, took, or other device used with intent to harm or injure or kill wildlife.
(6)
Trap shall include any device or man-made creation by which wildlife can be trapped or ensnared.
(Ord. No. 259-03 § 1, 10-20-2003)
Sec. 6-133. - Wildlife sanctuary.
The city within its corporate limits is herewith declared to be and is designated as a wildlife sanctuary, and the appropriate officials are directed to place signs at all entrances to the city stating that the city is a wildlife sanctuary.
(Ord. No. 259-03 § 1, 10-20-2003)
Sec. 6-134. - Protection of wildlife.
It shall be unlawful for any person within the corporate limits of the city to:
(1)
Intentionally harm or injure or kill any wildlife;
(2)
Intentionally use any weapon to harm or injure or kill any wildlife;
(3)
Place or set any traps designed to entrap or ensnare any wildlife;
(4)
Intentionally disturb or destroy the nesting or breeding place of any wildlife;
(5)
Knowingly permit dogs and cats to harm or injure or kill any wildlife, or to disturb or destroy the nesting or breeding place of any wildlife; and/or
(6)
Take the eggs or young of any wildlife.
(Ord. No. 259-03 § 1, 10-20-2003)
Sec. 6-135. - Feeding wildlife
new
(a)
Purpose and findings. The purpose of this artificial feeding ban is to eliminate attractions to deer and other wildlife which, when combined with other management strategies, should reduce, over time, the depredation impacts on residents, as well as assure the safety of the traveling public on city streets.
(b)
Acts prohibited. No person may place or permit to be placed on the ground, or less than six feet above the ground surface, any seed, grain, fodder, salt licks, fruit, vegetables, nuts, hay or other edible materials which may reasonably be expected to result in deer feeding, unless such items are screened or protected in a manner that prevents deer from feeding on them. Living fruit trees and other live vegetation shall not be considered as deer feeding.
(c)
Exceptions. This prohibition shall not apply to:
(1)
Veterinarians, city/county animal control officers, parks maintenance staff, or county, state or federal game officials who are in the course of their duties, have deer in custody or under their management.
(2)
Persons feeding domestic animals.
(3)
The use of straw, hay or straw-related materials for erosion control, mulching, gardening or other landscape purposes.
(4)
The feeding of fish, where the food substance is placed directly into the water.
(5)
The feeding of songbirds, where the feeder is shielded to prevent deer from feeding from the feeder.
(d)
Enforcement.
(1)
Citations.
a.
Violations of this section are hereby declared to constitute a public nuisance.
b.
If, after written notice to comply, the proper owner fails to abate the nuisance, the code enforcement officer is authorized to issue citations to the municipal court.
(2)
A violation of this section shall be a civil infraction, punishable by a fine of not more than $150.00.
( Ord. No. O345-23 , § 1, 4-24-2023)
