Chapter 28 - TAXATION[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
State Law reference— Taxation power of municipal and county governments, Ga. Const. art. IX, § IV, ¶ I(a) and (b)(2); ad valorem taxation of property, O.C.G.A. § 48-5-1 et seq.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Secs. 28-1—28-18. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - SENIOR CITIZEN HOMESTEAD EXEMPTION

Sec. 28-19. - Definition; exemption.
(a)
For the purposes of this section, the term "senior citizen" will be defined either as provided in O.C.G.A. § 48-5-48.3 or its equivalent as applied by the tax commissioner and/or tax assessor of the county in which the property is situated (the standard county S4 exemption).
(b)
The exemption provided for herein shall be as follows: Senior citizens shall be granted a homestead exemption of $2,000.00 from city property tax on their primary residence in the city.
(c)
This exemption shall remain in effect from year-to-year until amended or repealed by the mayor and council of the city.
(Ord. No. 2014-03, §§ 1—3, 2-11-2014)
Secs. 28-20—28-41. - Reserved.
ARTICLE III. - AD VALOREM TAXES

Sec. 28-42. - Imposition.
(a)
Except as otherwise provided in this article, the city clerk or his designee shall be charged with the duty to administer the imposition, collection and enforcement of all taxes and special assessments levied or imposed by the city in accordance with the administrative procedures hereinafter set forth. To the extent this article fails to provide a designated procedure, said officer shall act in the manner established, if any, for county tax collectors under applicable state law. Nothing shall prevent the city from contracting with county tax officials to provide the services contemplated herein.
(b)
In determining the fair market value of property within its taxing jurisdiction, the city shall use the fair market value as finally determined for the property for county ad valorem tax purposes.
(c)
Following adoption of its current fiscal year budget, the mayor and council shall, by resolution, adopt a millage rate upon which property subject to ad valorem tax will be billed. Prior to adoption of said millage rate, the governing body shall publish the notice of proposed ad valorem tax rate as required by O.C.G.A. § 48-5-32. Millage rates shall be calculated using 40 percent of the assessed fair market value of the property upon which the tax is levied.
(d)
The city clerk or the city's designee shall cause a bill to be sent to all taxpayers at the address last shown on the county tax digest by regular U.S. mail, with adequate postage thereon; provided, however, failure by the taxpayer to receive a bill shall not constitute grounds for nonpayment or late payment of the tax. The bill shall state the location or description of the property (100 percent) and its taxable value due thereon. The bill shall also state the due date after which taxes shall be in default. The bill may also contain such additional information as allowed by law or authorized by the mayor and council.
(Ord. No. 2016-05, § 2(30-1), 9-13-2016)
Sec. 28-43. - Due date; payment; interest on past due taxes.
(a)
All ad valorem taxes shall be due and payable in full within 60 days after notice, unless the due date falls on a Saturday, Sunday, or legal holiday, in which case it shall be postponed until the first day following which is not a Saturday, Sunday, or legal holiday. Supplemental ad valorem taxes and special assessments shall be due and payable on the date set forth in the ordinance imposing the tax or assessment.
(b)
All taxes and assessments imposed by the city shall be paid in full in legal tender of the United States; except where specially authorized by law or ordinance of the mayor and council, no partial payments shall be accepted.
(c)
Taxes and special assessments shall bear interest in accordance with the provisions of state law.
(Ord. No. 2016-05, § 2(30-2), 9-13-2016)
Sec. 28-44. - Penalties.
All penalties imposed by state law are part of the tax or assessment and are to be collected as such. The proceedings to collect the original tax, the tax constituted from penalties imposed, and the interest shall all be conducted in the same manner. Any provision of law for criminal prosecution shall not operate to relieve any taxpayer of any tax, penalty, or interest imposed by this article.
(Ord. No. 2016-05, § 2(30-3), 9-13-2016)
Sec. 28-45. - Executions on delinquent taxes and assessments.
(a)
As soon as the last day for the payment of taxes and assessments has arrived, the city clerk shall notify, in writing, the taxpayer of the fact that the taxes have not been paid and that, unless paid within 30 days, an execution shall be issued.
(b)
The city clerk shall issue executions for the nonpayment of taxes and assessments at any time after 30 days have elapsed since giving notice as provided in subsection (a) of this section. The execution shall identify the defendant in fi. fa. (taxpayer), the years for which delinquent taxes are being executed, and the amount thereof. Executions shall be directed to "all and singular sheriffs and constables of the state."
(c)
All executions and sales shall proceed in accordance with state law.
(Ord. No. 2016-05, § 2(30-4), 9-13-2016)
