ARTICLE II. - TOWN COUNCIL
FOOTNOTE(S):
(3) State Law reference— Authority of council to bind subsequent council, O.C.G.A. § 36-30-3; councilmen incompetent to hold other municipal office, O.C.G.A. § 36-30-4; effect of residence in annexed territory as qualification for office, O.C.G.A. § 36-30-5; voting when personally interested, O.C.G.A. § 36-30-6; method of calling election in the event all seats in municipal governing authority are vacant, O.C.G.A. § 36-30-13; initial terms of office of members of governing authority, O.C.G.A. § 36-31-9.
DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Sec. 2-23. - Members; authority.
The town is governed by the town council, consisting of the mayor and five councilmembers who are vested with all corporate, legislative and other powers of the town, as permitted by the town Charter and by law. The council shall be the final judge of the election and qualifications of its members, also of the amount and manner of compensating them for their services, to the extent permitted by the town Charter and state law.
(Code 1947, § 1-1)
State law reference— Public employees generally, O.C.G.A. § 45-1-1 et seq.
Sec. 2-24. - Residency requirement.
To be eligible for the office of mayor or councilmember, a person shall have been a resident of the town for 12 months immediately preceding the date of qualification for election of the mayor or councilmember. Furthermore, the mayor and councilmembers shall continue to reside in the corporate limits of the town during their respective periods of service and shall be both registered and qualified to vote in municipal elections in this town.
(Code 1947, § 1-1a)
State law reference— Municipal and county governments prohibited from requiring officers or employees to be residents of the municipality or county, O.C.G.A. § 45-2-5.
Sec. 2-25. - Election; term.
Election of the mayor and councilmembers shall be elected as provided in the town Charter or by general law. Vacancies in office shall be filled as provided in the town Charter or by general law.
(Code 1947, § 1-2)
State law reference— Term of municipal offices, O.C.G.A. § 21-2-541.1; general assembly authorized to enact local laws relation to municipal elections, O.C.G.A. § 21-2-541.2; initial terms of office of member of municipal governing authorities, O.C.G.A. § 36-31-9.
Sec. 2-26. - Vacancies in office.
(a)
In the case that there is a vacancy in any two or more of the offices of the mayor and council by death, resignation, failure to elect, removal from office, removal from town or in any other way, special election shall be ordered by the mayor and council; in the event of no mayor, then by the council alone; in the event of no council, then by the mayor alone; and in the event of neither, then by any three or more citizens and voters of the town, giving 30 days' public notice by posting the same in three public places in the town, one to be at the door of the town hall, to fill such vacancy, except as otherwise provided in this section.
(b)
If any vacancy shall occur within three months of the next regular election of the mayor and council, then the mayor and council, or such portions of them that remain in office, may in their discretion refuse to order such election and await the regular election, but in the event that there be no quorum of the council to compose a regular working body as herein provided, then the mayor and council shall have authority to select some qualified voter citizen of the town or as many of them as may be needed, to form a quorum and regular working body of the council, who shall qualify in manner and form as the council regularly elected, and when so qualified they shall have all the rights and privileges for the remainder of the unexpired term for which they are elected, to fill as if they had been regularly elected.
(c)
Alternatively, the council may, in their discretion, if the vacancy occurs within three months of the regular election, either elect or appoint members to fill said vacancy, or may leave it to a vote of said citizens; but it shall be mandatory upon the mayor and council, or so many of them as may be left, to see that at no time there shall be less members of said council than will constitute a regular working body for all purposes that may be necessary for a period longer than 30 days.
(Code 1947, § 1-32)
State law reference— Vacations of public office, O.C.G.A. § 45-5-1 et seq.
Sec. 2-27. - Compensation; reimbursement of expenses.
The mayor and councilmembers shall receive such compensation as may be established from time to time by ordinance of the town council, together with reimbursement of their actual and necessary expenses incurred in the performance of their duties. Expense reimbursements shall be subject to approval by the town council.
(Code 1947, §§ 1-7, 1-12)
State law reference— Authority to provide compensation and employee benefits to municipal officers and employees, O.C.G.A. § 36-35-4.
Sec. 2-28. - Oath of office.
Each councilman, before entering upon the discharge of his duties, shall take the following oath before some officer duly authorized to administer oaths, to wit: "I, ____________, do solemnly swear that I will well and truly perform the duties of councilmember of the Town of Mount Airy to the best of my ability and skill, without favor or affections; that I will adopt such measures, rules and regulations as in my judgment shall be best calculated to promote the welfare of the inhabitants of said town, so help me God."
(Code 1947, § 1-11)
State law reference— Oath of public officers, O.C.G.A. § 45-3-1 et seq.
Secs. 2-29—2-59. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - AUTHORITY AND DUTIES

Sec. 2-60. - General authority of council.
The legislative authority of the town is vested by the town's Charter and general law in the town council, and the council is authorized to exercise those powers by duly established ordinance.
State law reference— Powers of municipal corporations generally, O.C.G.A. § 36-34-1 et seq.; home rule powers of municipalities, O.C.G.A. § 36-35-1 et seq.
Sec. 2-61. - Authority to organize and reorganize town administrative structure.
The mayor and council may by ordinance establish, abolish, merge, or consolidate offices, positions of employment, departments, and agencies of the town; provide that the same person shall fill a number of offices and positions of employment; and transfer or change the functions and duties of various offices, positions of employment, and department and agencies of the town.
State law reference— Municipal authority to establish municipal offices, agencies, and employments, O.C.G.A. § 36-34-2(1); authority to define, regulate, and alter the powers, duties, qualifications, compensation, and tenure of municipal officers, agents, and employees, O.C.G.A. § 36-34-2(2).
Sec. 2-62. - Duties of councilmembers.
It shall be the duty of each councilmember to faithfully discharge his duties as chairman or member of such committees as he shall be appointed on, and to perform such other and all duties as may be required of him by the town Charter, state law, and this Code.
(Code 1947, § 1-11)
Sec. 2-63. - Suits for and against the town.
It shall be the duty of the mayor and council to institute suit in the proper court in the name and behalf of the mayor and town council, when they, in their discretion by a majority vote, consider the rights of the town being interfered with in any manner whatever, or for any debt or right accruing to the town, or for any damage to the town or any other benefit or right accruing or resulting to the town, and likewise when any suit is instituted or commenced against the mayor and council or against any person or persons in the result of which the mayor and council has any interest that will be effected by the result of said suit against the defendant or defendants, it shall be the duty of the mayor and council, in their discretion expressed by a vote of a majority of their body, to provide for and defend such suit in the name and behalf of the mayor and council, if necessary.
(Code 1947, § 1-35)
State law reference— Liability of municipal corporations for acts or omissions, O.C.G.A. § 36-33-1 et seq.; public lawsuits, O.C.G.A. § 50-15-1 et seq.
Sec. 2-64. - Deeds, bills of sale, and other instruments of conveyance.
It shall be the duty of the mayor and council to take all deeds of conveyance or bills of sale to property for the town in the name of the mayor and council and their successors in office.
(Code 1947, § 1-36)
Secs. 2-65—2-86. - Reserved.
DIVISION 3. - MEETINGS

FOOTNOTE(S):
(4) State Law reference— Open meetings and notice of meetings required, O.C.G.A. § 50-14-1; meetings of governing bodies of counties and municipalities to be open, O.C.G.A. § 36-80-1.
Sec. 2-87. - Meetings.
(a)
Regular meetings. The town council shall hold regular meetings monthly on such other regular days and at such other regular times as may be determined from time to time by the town council.
(b)
Special meetings. The council may hold special meetings or work sessions on the call of the mayor or the mayor pro tem and two councilmembers. Notice of any such special meetings or work sessions shall be served on all other councilmembers personally or by personal telephone contact, no less that 24 hours in advance of the meeting. The notice requirements of this section shall not be required and shall be waived if the mayor and all councilmembers are present when this special meeting or work sessions are called. Such notice of any special meeting or work session may also be waived by a councilmember in writing before or after such a meeting. Attendance at a special meeting shall also constitute a waiver of notice on any business transacted in a councilmember's presence. Only the business stated in the notice may be transacted at a special meeting, unless all councilmembers unanimously consent to the transacting of additional business.
(c)
Work sessions. The mayor and town council may hold work sessions at such times as is necessary to carry out their duties. At work sessions, the mayor and council may discuss, deliberate, plan, or debate current town issues but may not take any vote or formal action and shall not publish or follow a formal agenda.
(d)
Open meetings. All meetings of the mayor and council shall be public to the extent required by law, and notice to the public of any special meetings shall be given, to the extent reasonably possible, as provided in O.C.G.A. § 50-14-1, or other such applicable laws as are or may hereafter be enacted.
(e)
Chairperson. In the absence of the mayor and mayor pro tem, any member of the council may be chosen to take the chair at the hour appointed for any meeting.
(f)
Compelling attendance of witnesses. The mayor and council may also adopt procedures and penalties for compelling the attendance of absent members, as well as punishment for contemptuous behavior conducted in the presence of the mayor and council.
(g)
Quorum. Unless otherwise provided by the town Charter or state law, a majority of councilmembers present shall constitute a quorum and shall be authorized to transact business of the town council. A less number may adjourn from time to time and compel attendance of absentees.
(h)
Voting. Voting on the adoption of any ordinances shall be by voice vote, and the vote shall be recorded in the minutes of the council. The mayor or any member of the council shall have the right to request a roll call vote, and such vote shall also be recorded in the minutes, if requested. Except as otherwise provided in this town's Charter or by general law, the affirmative vote of a majority of the quorum of councilmembers present, including the mayor in the event of a tie vote, shall be required for the adoption of any ordinance, resolution, or motion. All councilmembers shall have a duty to vote on any matter coming before the mayor and council that requires such a vote, unless a councilmember has a conflict of interest as defined in the town's Charter or is as otherwise legally excused or prohibited from voting by this Charter, or any other laws, ordinances, or regulations of the state.
(i)
Committee reports. Every committee shall report at the succeeding meeting of the council on all matters referred to them or show good cause why such report is not made.
(j)
Duty to attend. It shall be the duty of each member of the town council to attend each meeting of the town council, unless he is prevented by some unavoidable circumstance.
Sec. 2-88. - Agenda.
(a)
Preparation of agenda. The town clerk, with the advice of the mayor and council, shall prepare an agenda of subjects to be acted on for each meeting. The agenda shall be made available to the council and to the public at some time during the week immediately prior to the meeting. Members of the public may request that a particular subject be placed on the agenda for the following meeting. This request must be submitted in writing to the town clerk and received at least three business days before the meeting. A new subject that requires attention may be added to the agenda during a meeting by a majority vote of the council.
(b)
Repetitious motions. When a motion before the council is defeated, a motion regarding the same or a substantially similar subject shall not be placed on the agenda and may not be raised before the council for a period of six months from the date of its defeat, unless specifically authorized by unamious vote of four or more councilmembers.
(c)
Public hearings regarding zoning issues. Public hearings regarding zoning shall be conducted in according with O.C.G.A. §§ 36-66-4 and 36-66-5 and shall constitute an exception to the provisions of this sections that conflict with the cited statutes.
State law reference— Meeting agenda required, O.C.G.A. § 50-14-1.
Sec. 2-89. - Minutes of meetings.
(a)
Required; open to public. A summary of the subjects acted on and those members present at a meeting must be written and made available to the public for inspection within two business days of the adjournment of a meeting. The town clerk shall promptly record the minutes for each council meeting and such records shall be open to public inspection once approved as official by the council, but in no case later than immediately following the next regular meeting of the council.
(b)
Minimum contents of minutes. Minutes must, as a minimum, include the names of the members present at the meeting, a description of each motion or other proposal made, and a record of all votes. In the case of a roll-call vote the name of each person voting for or against a proposal must be recorded. In all other cases it shall be presumed that the action taken was approved by each person in attendance unless the minutes reflect the name of the persons voting against the proposal or abstaining.
Sec. 2-90. - Rules for the conduct of business.
Except as otherwise provided in this article or from time to time by the town council, Robert's Rules of Order shall govern the conduct of council meetings. The council may, at any time upon majority vote, suspend or modify the rules for conduct of business.
Sec. 2-91. - Authority to conduct inquiries and investigations; subpoena power.
The mayor or town council may make inquiries and investigations into the affairs of the town and the conduct of any department, office or agency thereof, and for this purpose may subpoena witnesses, administer oaths, take testimony, and require the production of evidence. Any person who fails or refuses to obey a lawful order issued in the exercise of these powers by the mayor or town council shall be subject to punishment as provided in section 1-11.
Secs. 2-92—2-110. - Reserved.
DIVISION 4. - ORDINANCES

Sec. 2-111. - Procedure for adoption of ordinances and retention of council records.
(a)
Time for presenting; rules for consideration. An ordinance may be introduced by any councilmember and read at a regular or special meeting of the mayor and council. Ordinances shall be considered and either adopted or rejected by the mayor and council in accordance with the rules it shall establish upon introduction of any ordinance.
(b)
Emergency ordinances. The mayor and town council may adopt emergency ordinances as provided and limited by the town's Charter.
(c)
Distribution of copies to council; copies for public inspection. The clerk shall, as soon as possible, distribute a copy of each ordinance to the mayor and each councilmember and retain a reasonable number of copies in his or her office for inspection and copying by members of the public.
(d)
Distribution of copies to codifier. Upon passage, the clerk shall forward certified copies of all ordinances to Municipal Code Corporation or any other person, firm, or corporation responsible for the codification of the town's ordinances, so this Code can be properly revised and updated.
(e)
Numbering of ordinances and resolutions. After adoption of ordinances, the town clerk shall number them consecutively, in the order of their final adoption, and record them in a permanent record book used solely for this purpose. The clerk shall do likewise for resolutions, using a separate series of numbers and a separate record book.
(f)
Filing and retention of original documents. The town clerk shall file and preserve the original copies of all ordinances, resolutions, and any written motions.
(Code 1947, § 1-31)
Sec. 2-112. - Veto power of mayor.
(a)
Presentation of adopted ordinances to mayor. Every ordinance adopted by the town council shall be promptly presented to the mayor by the clerk no later than five calendar days from the date of the meeting at which it was adopted.
(b)
Approval by mayor; effect of failure to approve or veto. Either at the meeting at which an ordinance was adopted or no later than five calendar days after receipt of an ordinance, the mayor shall return it to the clerk either with or without the mayor's approval. If the mayor has approved the ordinance, it shall become law immediately upon its return to the clerk. If the mayor neither approves nor disapproves the ordinance, it shall become law at 12:00 noon on the 11th calendar day after the council meeting at which it was adopted.
(c)
Veto; statement of reasons. If the mayor expressly disapproves an ordinance, the mayor shall submit to the town council and clerk a written statement of reasons for the veto. The statement of the mayor shall be circulated by the clerk to the council.
(d)
Recording of dates of consideration. In all instances, the clerk shall record upon the ordinance the date it was delivered to and received from the mayor.
(e)
Presentation of vetoed ordinance to council. If the mayor vetoes an ordinance as provided herein, the clerk shall present said ordinance to the town council at its next regular or special meeting. If the town council then or at its next meeting adopts the ordinance by an affirmative vote of four councilmembers, the ordinance shall become law.
(f)
Mayor's action regarding appropriation and budget ordinances. The mayor may disapprove, veto, or reduce any item or items of appropriation in any ordinance, resolution, or budget. The approved part of any budget or ordinance making appropriations shall become law, and the part disapproved shall not become law unless subsequently passed by the town council over the mayor's veto as provided herein. The reduced part shall also be presented to the town council as if disapproved or vetoed by the mayor and shall not become law unless passed by the town council over the mayor's veto as provided herein.
Secs. 2-113—2-137. - Reserved.
