ARTICLE I. - COMMISSIONER[2]

Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
Editor's note— This Act was submitted to referendum and approved by the county citizens on March 7, 2000.

Sec. I-I-1. - Sole commissioner as governing authority.
(a)
On and after January 1, 2001, the governing authority of Murray County shall be a sole commissioner to be elected as provided in this Act.
(b)
The commissioner shall be a qualified elector of Murray County and shall have been a resident of Murray County for at least 12 months prior to taking office. The commissioner shall be elected by the qualified electors of the entire county and he or she shall be nominated and elected in accordance with chapter 2 of title 21 of the O.C.G.A., the Georgia Election Code.
(c)
The sole commissioner created by subsection (a) of this section shall be the successor to the former board of commissioners. The commissioner shall have authority and control over the affairs of Murray County and shall generally exercise such authority and control of said county as is provided by law for a county board of commissioners.
(1999 Ga. Laws, p. 4345, Pt. 2, § 1)
Sec. I-I-2. - Election of sole commissioner.
Candidates for commissioner shall be nominated in the general primary to be held in July, 2000, and elected at the following November general election and shall take office on January 1, 2001, at which time the terms of all commissioners formerly in office shall end. Such commissioner shall serve for a term of four years and until his or her successor is elected and qualified. All succeeding commissioners shall be nominated and elected for four-year terms in accordance with chapter 2 of title 21 of the O.C.G.A., the Georgia Election Code, at the November election immediately preceding the expiration of the prior term and shall take office on January 1 of the following year.
(1999 Ga. Laws, p. 4345, Pt. 2, § 2)
Sec. I-I-3. - Oath of office, bond.
Before entering upon the duties of office, the commissioner shall take and subscribe to an oath for the faithful performance of his or her duties and shall give bond to and approved by the judge of the Probate Court of Murray County in the amount of $10,000.00, with good and sufficient security conditioned upon the faithful performance of his or her duties and the faithful accounting for all property and funds coming into his or her hands by virtue of his or her office.
(1999 Ga. Laws, p. 4345, Pt. 2, § 3)
Sec. I-I-4. - Filling vacancy in office.
In the event of a vacancy occurring in the office of commissioner for any reason other than expiration of term, that vacancy shall be filled for the remaining unexpired term by a person who shall be elected at a special election. The election superintendent of Murray County shall conduct that special election as soon as practicable and shall issue the call therefor not less than 30 days nor more than 45 days prior to that date. The person elected at such special election to fill that vacancy shall take office within ten days after the results of that election are certified and shall serve out the remaining unexpired term and until a successor is elected and qualified. The provisions of chapter 2 of title 21 of the O.C.G.A., the Georgia Election Code, shall apply to special elections to fill vacancies provided for in this section.
(1999 Ga. Laws, p. 4345, Pt. 2, § 4)
Sec. I-I-5. - Head of county; transaction of public business.
The commissioner shall be recognized as the official head of Murray County by state, federal, and other authorities for all purposes, including military and ceremonial functions. The commissioner shall specify one regular day of each week, and the first Tuesday of each month, in which he or she shall remain in his or her office at the courthouse of Murray County for the transaction of public business in connection with his or her office. The commissioner shall devote his or her entire time to the discharge of his or her duties and during his or her incumbency in office shall not engage in any business enterprise or accept any other responsibility which would interfere with the discharge of such duties.
(1999 Ga. Laws, p. 4345, Pt. 2, § 5)
Sec. I-I-6. - Compensation.
(a)
The commissioner shall receive an annual salary of $60,000.00 to be paid in equal monthly installments from the funds of Murray County.
(b)
In addition to the salary provided for in subsection (a) of this section, the commissioner shall be reimbursed for actual expenses incurred in the discharge of his or her official duties.
(1999 Ga. Laws, p. 4345, Pt. 2, § 6)
Sec. I-I-7. - [Reserved.]
