DIVISION 255. - OI OFFICE-INSTITUTIONAL

Sec. 255-010. - Purpose and intent.
The OI Office-Institutional District is primarily composed of a combination of service-oriented businesses and professional, administrative, non-profit, and public institutional or related offices located on or adjacent to community facilities. This district should, when possible, be employed as a buffer zone between predominantly residential and heavier commercial or industrial districts. Uses within this district should be those which do not generate excessive noise, traffic congestion or other health hazards and which will promote land use consistent with the Newton County Comprehensive Land Use Plan.
Sec. 255-020. - Principal uses and structures.
Principal uses and structures shall be allowed in the OI Office-Institutional District in accordance with division 505 of this ordinance.
Sec. 255-030. - Accessory uses and structures.
Accessory uses and structures shall be permitted in the OI Office-Institutional District in accordance with section 510-020(D) of this ordinance.
Sec. 255-040. - Conditional uses.
Conditional uses shall be permitted in the OI Office-Institutional District in accordance with division 505 of this ordinance. Conditional uses shall be subject to the additional use standards established in division 510 of this ordinance.
Sec. 255-050. - Property development standards.
A.
Minimum lot frontage. The minimum lot frontage shall be 100 feet.
B.
Minimum setback requirements.
1.
Front: 25 feet.
2.
Side: Zero feet with party walls; ten feet from property line and no less than 20 feet between buildings.
3.
Rear: 15 feet.
C.
Minimum floor area. None.
D.
Maximum impervious surface coverage. The maximum impervious surface area for property within a designated development node within this district is limited to 75 percent. The maximum impervious surface area for property outside a designated development node within this district is limited to 60 percent.
E.
Height. The maximum height of buildings shall be 35 feet.
F.
Buffer requirements. Where abutting any residential district, screening is required in conformance with section 520-020.
G.
Parking requirements. Off-street parking and loading space shall be provided in accordance with division 515 of this ordinance.
