DIVISION 265. - CH HIGHWAY COMMERCIAL

Sec. 265-010. - Purpose and intent.
The CH Highway Commercial District is composed of light to medium intensity commercial uses which are primarily designed to serve the automotive traveling public and should be located on major or minor arterial or collector streets as defined in the Newton County Comprehensive Land Use Plan. Such uses should be those which are not objectionable by reason of odor, dust, bright lights, noise or vibration and should, when possible, be conducted within a completely enclosed building. Individual development of such uses should be allowed subject to the following conditions:
A.
Such proposed use is not inconsistent with current or projected neighboring land use and zoning.
B.
The site plan for proposed use shall provide for adequate ingress or egress of vehicular traffic and shall not cause safety, health, or unreasonable traffic problems in the area.
C.
The proposed use is justified based on facts presented to indicate the need for such use, as called for in the Newton County Comprehensive Land Use Plan.
Sec. 265-020. - Principal uses and structures.
Principal uses and structures shall be allowed in the CH Highway Commercial District in accordance with division 505 of this ordinance.
Sec. 265-030. - Accessory uses and structures.
Accessory uses and structures shall be permitted in the CH Highway Commercial District in accordance with section 510-020(D) of this ordinance.
Sec. 265-040. - Conditional uses.
Conditional uses shall be permitted in the CH Highway Commercial District in accordance with division 505 of this ordinance. Conditional uses shall be subject to the additional use standards established in division 510 of this ordinance and the additional standards of section 265-010.
Sec. 265-050. - Property development and standards.
A.
Minimum lot frontage. The minimum lot frontage shall be 100 feet.
B.
Minimum setback requirements.
1.
Front: 25 feet.
2.
Side: Zero feet with party walls; ten feet from property line and no less than 20 feet between buildings.
3.
Rear: 15 feet.
C.
Minimum floor area. None
D.
Maximum impervious surface coverage. The maximum impervious surface area for property within a designated development node within this district is limited to 75 percent. The maximum impervious surface area for property outside a designated development node within this district is limited to 60 percent.
E.
Maximum height. The maximum height of buildings shall be 35 feet.
F.
Buffer requirements. Where abutting any residential district, screening is required in conformance with section 520-020.
G.
Parking requirements. Off-street parking and loading space shall be provided in accordance with division 515 of this ordinance.
