DIVISION 410. - GROUNDWATER RECHARGE AREA PROTECTION OVERLAY

Sec. 410-010. - Purpose and intent.
Pursuant to O.C.G.A. ยง 12-2-8 and the Georgia Department of Natural Resources, Environmental Protection Division's Rules for Environmental Planning Criteria chapter 391-3-16, the groundwater recharge area protection overlay district establishes regulations to protect significant groundwater recharge areas from pollution by spills, discharges, leaks, impoundments, applications of chemicals, injections, and other development.
Sec. 410-020. - Groundwater recharge area protection overlay district.
The Newton County Groundwater Recharge Area Protection Overlay District Map, which is available for inspection during office hours in the Newton County Planning Department, is delineated according to the Georgia Department of Natural Resources' "Significant Recharge Areas, Hydrological Atlas 18 (1989 Edition)" and the Georgia Department of Natural Resources' "Pollution Susceptibility Map," which categorizes Newton County by areas of high, medium, and low groundwater pollution potential.
Sec. 410-030. - Development standards.
All uses allowed in the underlying zoning districts, except those specifically prohibited in section 410-040, are permitted in the groundwater recharge area protection overlay district, subject to the following standards:
A.
New sanitary landfills must have synthetic liners and leachate collection systems.
B.
New above-ground chemical or petroleum storage tanks, having a minimum volume of 660 gallons, shall meet the requirements of U.S. EPA rules for oil pollution prevention, 40 CFR 112.1. Such tanks used for agricultural purposes are exempt, provided they comply with all federal regulations.
C.
New agricultural waste impoundment sites must be lined if they are within:
1.
A high pollution susceptibility area;
2.
A medium pollution susceptibility area and exceed 15 acre-feet;
3.
A low pollution susceptibility area and exceed 50 acre-feet.
At a minimum, the liner shall be constructed of compacted clay having a thickness of one foot and a vertical hydraulic conductivity of less than 5 x 10 -7 cm/sec or other criteria established by the U.S. Soil Conservation Service.
D.
Subject to minimum lot sizes established in article 2 of this zoning ordinance, new homes served by septic tank/drain field systems must be on lots having the following minimum size limitations as identified on Table MT-1 of the Department of Natural Resources' Manual for On-Site Sewage Management Systems (DNR Table MT-1):
1.
150 percent of the subdivision minimum lot size of DNR Table MT-1 if they are within a high pollution susceptibility area.
2.
125 percent of the subdivision minimum lot size of DNR table MT-1 if they are within a medium pollution susceptibility area.
3.
110 percent of the subdivision minimum lot size of DNR Table MT-1 if they are within a low pollution susceptibility area.
E.
Subject to minimum lot sizes established in article 2 of this zoning ordinance, new manufactured home parks served by septic tank/drain field systems must have lots or spaces having the following size limitations as identified on Table MT-2 of the Department of Natural Resources' Manual for On-Site Sewage Management Systems (DNR Table MT-2):
1.
150 percent of the subdivision minimum lot size of DNR Table MT-2 if they are within a high pollution susceptibility area.
2.
125 percent of the subdivision minimum lot size of DNR Table MT-2 if they are within a medium pollution susceptibility area.
3.
110 percent of the subdivision minimum lot size of DNR Table MT-2 if they are within a low pollution susceptibility area.
F.
No construction may proceed on a building or manufactured home to be served by a septic tank unless the Newton County Health Department first approved the proposed septic tank installation as meeting the requirements of the DNR manual and subsections (D) and (E) above.
G.
New facilities which handle hazardous materials, of types and amounts determined by the department of natural resources, shall perform their operations on impermeable surfaces having spill and leak collection systems, as prescribed by the department of natural resources.
H.
Any project involving the spray irrigation of wastewater sludges in areas of high pollution susceptibility must conform with the requirements specified in the department of natural resources' "Criteria for Slow Rate Land Treatment."
I.
Exclusive of mining settling basins, all new wastewater treatment basins must have an impermeable liner in areas having high pollution susceptibility.
Sec. 410-040. - Prohibited uses.
The following uses are prohibited:
A.
The land disposal of hazardous wastes.
B.
Permanent stormwater infiltration basins in areas of high pollution susceptibility.
