DIVISION 280. - M2 HEAVY INDUSTRIAL

Sec. 280-010. - Purpose and intent.
The M2 Heavy Industrial District is primarily composed of heavy or intense industrial uses. Such uses should be as isolated as possible from major residential areas, but should be reasonably accessible to community facilities such as water, sewer, etc. and major transportation corridors. Since this district provides the least protection from the encroachment of undesirable uses, extreme care should be taken by governing authorities to locate such uses in existing industrial parks, until such areas are filled, or until the need for additional areas is evident. Other districts outlined as buffer areas should be employed where possible between this district and other less intensive areas, particularly residential or light commercial districts.
Sec. 280-020. - Principal uses and structures.
Principal uses and structures shall be allowed in the M2 Heavy Industrial District in accordance with division 505 of this ordinance.
Sec. 280-030. - Accessory uses and structures.
Accessory uses and structures shall be permitted in the M2 Heavy Industrial District in accordance with section 510-020(E) of this ordinance.
Sec. 280-040. - Conditional uses.
A.
Conditional uses shall be permitted in the M2 Heavy Industrial District in accordance with division 505 of this ordinance. Conditional uses shall be subject to the additional use standards established in division 510 of this ordinance.
B.
In addition to the criteria for a conditional use permit established in division 625, the following criteria shall also be addressed for a conditional use within the M2 Heavy Industrial District:
1.
The proximity of the proposed use to existing residential structures or residentially zoned property;
2.
Whether the proposed use will generate pollutants of the air or water and, if so, the method proposed by the applicant for insuring that the proposed use will comply with all state and federal environmental regulations;
3.
Whether the proposed use will generate excessive traffic, noise, vibration, smoke, dust, gas fumes, odors, radiation, or create a fire or explosion hazard which may be objectionable due to proximity to surrounding structures, or which will adversely affect the existing use or usability of adjacent nearby property;
4.
How neighboring properties may be affected by the height of any proposed structure; and
5.
Whether the use would be consistent with the needs of the neighborhood or the community as a whole, be compatible which surrounding land uses and would not be in conflict with the overall general objectives of the comprehensive plan.
Sec. 280-050. - Property development and regulations.
A.
Minimum lot frontage. Minimum lot frontage on an arterial or collector street as defined in the Newton County Comprehensive Land Use Plan shall be 100 feet.
B.
Minimum setback requirements.
1.
Front:
a.
60 feet on arterial street;
b.
50 feet on collector [street].
2.
Side:
a.
Ten feet from property line and no less than 20 feet between buildings under 35 feet in height.
b.
40 feet between buildings over 35 feet.
3.
Rear: 15 feet.
C.
Maximum impervious surface coverage. The maximum impervious surface area for property within a designated development node within this district is limited to 75 percent. The maximum impervious surface area for property outside a designated development node within this district is limited to 60 percent.
D.
Minimum floor area. None.
E.
Maximum height of buildings. The maximum height of buildings shall be 75 feet.
F.
Buffer requirements. Where abutting any residential district, screening is required in conformance with section 520-020.
G.
Parking requirements. Off-street parking and loading space shall be provided in accordance with division 515 of this ordinance.
