CHAPTER 1 - GENERAL PROVISIONS[1]

Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
State Law reference— Home rule power of counties, Ga. Const. art. IX, § II, ¶ I; construction of statutes, O.C.G.A. § 1-3-1 et seq.; authority of municipality to adopt ordinances, resolutions or regulations, O.C.G.A. § 36-35-3.

Sec. 1-1. - How Code designated and cited.
The provisions embraced in the following chapters and sections shall constitute and be designated "The Code of Newton County, Georgia," and may be so cited. Such Code may also be cited as "Newton County Code" or the "County Code."
(Code 2001, § 1-101)
State Law reference— Codification requirements, O.C.G.A. § 36-80-19.
Sec. 1-2. - Rules of construction.
In the construction of this Code and of all sections, the following rules shall be observed unless such construction would be inconsistent with the manifest intent of the board of commissioners:
(1)
General rule. All words and phrases shall be construed and understood according to the common and approved usage of the language; but technical words and phrases and such others as may have acquired a peculiar and appropriate meaning in the law shall be construed and understood according to such peculiar and appropriate meaning.
(2)
Gender; singular and plural. Every word in any code provision or section importing the masculine gender shall extend to and be applied to females as well as males; and every word importing the singular number only shall extend and be applied to several persons or things as well as to one person or thing; and every word importing the plural number only shall extend and be applied to one person or thing as well as to several persons or things.
(3)
Tenses. The use of any verb in the present tense shall include the future when applicable.
(4)
Joint authority. All words purporting to give a joint authority to three or more county officers or other persons shall be construed as giving such authority to a majority of such officers or other persons unless it shall be otherwise expressly declared in the law giving the authority.
(5)
Delegation of authority. Whenever a provision requires the head of a department or other officer of the county to do some act or perform some duty, it shall be construed to authorize subordinates to do the required act or perform the required duty unless the terms of the provision designate otherwise.
(6)
Computation of time. The time within which an act is to be done as provided in any code provision or section or in any order issue pursuant to any section, when expressed in days, shall be computed by excluding the first day and including the last, except that if the last day is a Saturday, Sunday or a legal holiday it shall be excluded; and when any such time is expressed in hours the whole of Sunday, from 12:00 midnight to 12:00 midnight, shall be excluded. When the period of time prescribed is less than seven days, intermediate Saturdays, Sundays, and legal holidays shall be excluded in the computation.
(7)
Overlapping provisions. Where any provision of this Code imposes greater restrictions upon the subject matter than any general provisions imposed by this Code, the provision imposing the greater restriction or regulation shall be applicable.
(8)
Shall, may. The term "shall" is mandatory; the term "may" is permissive.
(Code 2001, § 1-102)
Sec. 1-3. - Definitions.
Words and phrases used in this Code shall have the following meanings, unless otherwise specified:
Advice and consent. Whenever the term "advice and consent" of the board of commissioners is used in this Code it shall be construed to mean an affirmative vote of the majority of the entire board of commissioners.
Board of commissioners. The term "board of commissioners" shall mean the board of commissioners of Newton County, Georgia.
Bond. When a bond is required by law, an undertaking in writing, without seal, is sufficient; and in all bonds where the names of the obligors do not appear in the bond, but are subscribed thereto, they shall be bound thereby.
Chairperson. The term "chairperson" shall mean the chairperson of Newton County, Georgia.
Code. The term "Code" shall mean this Code of Ordinances, Newton County, as designated in section 1-1.
Corporate limits. The term "corporate limits" shall mean the corporate limits of Newton County.
County. The term "the county" or "this county" shall mean Newton County, Georgia.
Court. The term "court" shall mean the Newton County Superior Court.
Delegation of authority. Whenever a provision requires the head of a department or an official of the county to do some act or perform some function, it shall be construed to authorize the head of such department or the official to designate, delegate and authorize subordinates to do the required act or perform the required function, unless the terms of the provisions designate otherwise.
Governing authority, governing body. The term "governing authority" or "governing body" shall mean the board of commissioners of Newton County, Georgia.
Interpretation. In the interpretation and application of any provision of this Code, it shall be held to be the minimum requirements adopted for the promotion of the public health, safety, comfort, convenience and general welfare. Where any provision of this Code imposes greater restrictions upon the subject matter than the general provision imposed by this Code, the provision imposing the greater restriction or regulation shall be deemed to be controlling.
Judge or recorder. The term "judge" or "recorder" shall mean the judge of the Newton County Superior Court.
Misdemeanor. The term "misdemeanor" shall mean a violation of the state criminal law punishable by a fine not in excess of $1,000.00 or confinement in a county or other jail for a term not exceeding 12 months, or by both such fine and imprisonment.
Month, year. The terms "month" and "year" shall mean calendar month and calendar year unless otherwise provided.
Names of officers, departments. The name or title of any officer or department shall be read as though the words "of Newton County" were added thereto.
Nontechnical and technical words. The ordinary significance shall be applied to all words, except words of art, or words connected with a particular trade or subject matter, in which case they shall have the significance attached to them by experts in such trade, or with reference to such subject matter.
Oath. The term "oath" shall be construed to include an affirmation in all cases in which, by law, an affirmation may be substituted for an oath, and, in such cases, the terms "affirm" and "affirmed" shall be equivalent to the term "swear" or "sworn."
O.C.G.A. The term "O.C.G.A." means the Official Code of Georgia Annotated, as amended.
Or, and. The term "or" may be read "and," and the term "and" may be read "or," if the sense requires it.
Ordinance. The term "ordinance" shall mean a legislative act of the governing body of a general and permanent nature.
Owner. The term "owner" when applied to a building or to land, shall include any part owner, joint owner, tenant in common, joint tenant by the entirety, of the whole or a part of such building or land.
Person. The term "person" shall include a corporation, firm, agency, partnership, association, organization, government, and any other group acting as a unit, as well as an individual.
Personal property. The term "personal property" shall include every species of property except real property, as hereinafter defined.
Preceding, following. The terms "preceding" and "following" shall mean next before and next after, respectively.
Property. The term "property" means anything of value, including, but not limited to, real estate, tangible and intangible personal property, contract rights, services, choses in action, and other interests in or claims to wealth admission or transportation tickets captured or domestic animals, food and drink, and electric or other power.
Real property. The term "real property" shall include lands, tenements, and hereditaments.
Reasonable time or notice. Reasonable time or notice shall be deemed to mean only such time as may be necessary for the prompt performance or the act required.
Resolution. The term "resolution" shall mean a legislative act of the municipal governing body of a special or temporary character.
Schedule of fees and charges. The term "schedule of fees and charges" means the official consolidated list compiled and published by the county which contains rates for utility and other public enterprises, fees, deposit amounts and various charges as determined from time to time by the board, an official copy of which is maintained in the office of the county clerk where it is available for reference and review during normal business hours.
Seal. The term "seal" shall mean the county seal.
Sidewalk. The term "sidewalk" shall mean any portion of a street between the curb line and the adjacent property line, intended for the use of pedestrians, but shall not include any unimproved areas between the curb line and improved walkways.
Signature, subscription. The term "signature" or "subscription" shall include a mark intended as such when the person cannot write.
State. The term "state" or "this state" shall mean the State of Georgia.
Street. The term "street" shall mean and include any public way, road, highway, street, avenue, boulevard, parkway, alley, viaduct or bridge, and the approach thereto, within the town.
Substantial compliance. A substantial compliance with any requirement of this Code or ordinances amendatory thereof, especially on the part of public officers, shall be deemed and held sufficient; and no proceeding shall be declared void for want of such compliance, unless expressly so provided.
Tenant or occupant. The term "tenant" or "occupant," when applied to a building or to land, shall include any person holding a written or oral lease of, or who occupies the whole or a part of such building or land, either alone or with others.
Week. The term "week" shall mean seven calendar days.
Writing or written. The term "writing" or "written" shall include printing and any other mode of representing words and letters, including pictures, illustrations, and printed or written designs.
Year. The term "year" shall mean a calendar year.
(Code 2001, § 1-103)
Sec. 1-4. - Catchlines of sections, effect of history notes, references in Code.
(a)
The catchlines of the several sections of this Code in boldface type are intended as mere catchwords to indicate the contents of the sections and shall not be deemed or taken to be titles of such sections nor as any part of such sections, nor, unless expressly so provided, shall they be so deemed when any of such sections, including the catchlines, are amended or reenacted. No provision of this Code shall be held invalid because of deficiency in any such catchline or in any heading to any chapter, article or division.
(b)
The history or source notes appearing in parentheses after sections in this Code are not intended to have any legal effect but are merely intended to indicate the source of matter contained in the section. Editor's notes, cross references, charter references, related law references and state law references which appear after sections or subsections of this Code or which otherwise appear in footnote form are provided for the convenience of the user of this Code and have no legal effect.
(c)
All references to chapters, articles, divisions, subdivisions or sections are to chapters, articles, divisions, subdivisions or sections of this Code, unless otherwise specified.
Sec. 1-5. - Section headings.
The underlined headings of the several sections and subsections of this Code are intended as mere captions to indicate the contents of the section or subsection and shall not be deemed or taken to be titles of such sections, nor as any part of the section or subsection, nor unless so expressly provided, shall they be so deemed when any of such sections or subsections, including the headings, is amended or re-enacted.
(Code 2001, § 1-104)
Sec. 1-6. - Provisions considered as continuations of existing ordinances.
The provisions appearing in this Code, insofar as they are the same as those of ordinances and resolutions existing at the time of adoption of this Code, shall be considered as continuations thereof and not as new enactments.
Sec. 1-7. - Effect of repeal or expiration of Code section or ordinance.
(a)
The repeal of a Code section or ordinance, or its expiration by virtue of any provision contained therein, shall not affect any right accrued or any offense committed, any penalty or punishment incurred, or any proceeding commenced before the repeal took effect or the ordinance expired.
(b)
When any ordinance repealing a former Code section, ordinance, clause or provision, shall be itself repealed, such repeal shall not be construed to revive such former Code section, ordinance, clause, or provision, unless it shall be expressly so provided.
(Code 2001, § 1-105)
Sec. 1-8. - Amending Code.
(a)
All ordinances passed subsequent to this Code which amend, repeal or in any way affect this Code shall be numbered in accordance with the numbering system of this Code and printed for inclusion herein. In the case of repealed chapters, sections, and subsections or any part thereof, by subsequent ordinances, such repealed portions may be excluded from the Code by omission from reprinted pages affected thereby. The subsequent ordinances as numbered and printed, or omitted in the case of repeal, shall be prima facie evidence of such subsequent ordinances until such time as the Code and subsequent ordinances omitted are readopted as a new Code by the board of commissioners.
(b)
Amendments to any of the provisions of this Code may be made by specific reference to the section number of this Code in the following language: "That section _____ of the Code of Ordinances, Newton County, Georgia 2001, is hereby amended to read as follows …." The new provisions may then be set out in full as desired.
(c)
In the event a new section not heretofore existing in the Code is to be added, the following language may be used. "The Code of Ordinances of the Newton County, Georgia 2001, is hereby amended by adding a section (or subsection chapter) to be numbered _____, which section reads as follows …." The new provision shall then be set out in full as desired.
(d)
All sections, chapters, or provisions sought to be repealed must be specifically repealed by section, chapter, or provision number, as the case may be.
(Code 2001, § 1-106)
Sec. 1-9. - Supplementation of Code.
(a)
By contract or by county personnel, supplements to this Code shall be prepared at least on an annual basis. A supplement to the Code shall include all substantive, permanent and general parts of ordinances passed by the board during the period covered by the supplement and all changes made thereby in the Code. The pages of a supplement shall be so numbered that they will fit properly into the Code and will, where necessary, replace pages which have become obsolete or partially obsolete, and the new pages shall be so prepared that, when they have been inserted, the Code will be current through the date of the adoption of the latest ordinance included in the supplement.
(b)
In preparing a supplement to this Code, all portions of the Code which have been repealed shall be excluded from the Code by the omission thereof from reprinted pages.
(c)
When preparing a supplement to this Code, the codifier (meaning the person authorized to prepare the supplement) may make formal, nonsubstantive changes in ordinances and parts of ordinances included in the supplement, insofar as it is necessary to do so to embody them into a unified Code. For example, the codifier may:
(1)
Organize the ordinance material into appropriate subdivisions.
(2)
Provide appropriate catchlines, headings and titles for sections and other subdivisions of the Code printed in the supplement, and make changes in such catchlines, headings and titles.
(3)
Assign appropriate numbers to sections and other subdivisions to be inserted in the Code and, where necessary to accommodate new material, change existing section or other subdivision numbers.
(4)
Change the words "this ordinance" or words of the same meaning to "this chapter," "this article," "this division," etc., as the case may be, or to "sections _____ to sections _____" (inserting section numbers to indicate the sections of the Code which embody the substantive sections of the ordinance incorporated into the Code).
(5)
Make other nonsubstantive changes necessary to preserve the original meanings of ordinance sections inserted into the Code; but in no case shall the codifier make any change in the meaning or effect of ordinance material included in the supplement or already embodied in the Code.
Sec. 1-10. - Altering Code.
It shall be unlawful for any person to change or amend by additions or deletions any part or portion of this Code, or to insert or delete pages or portions thereof, or to alter or tamper with such Code in any manner whatsoever, except by ordinance or resolution or other official act of the board of commissioners.
(Code 2001, § 1-107)
State Law reference— Altering, falsifying or stealing public records unlawful, O.C.G.A. § 45-11-1.
Sec. 1-11. - Severability.
The sections, paragraphs, sentences, clauses, and phrases of this Code are severable, and if any phrase, clause, sentence, paragraph, or section of this Code shall be declared unconstitutional or otherwise invalid by the valid judgment or decree of a court of competent jurisdiction, such unconstitutionality or invalidity shall not affect any of the remaining phrases, clauses, sentences, paragraphs, and sections of this Code.
(Code 2001, § 1-108)
State Law reference— Severability, O.C.G.A. § 1-1-3.
Sec. 1-12. - Violations; penalties.
(a)
In this section the term "violation of this Code" means any of the following:
(1)
Doing an act that is prohibited or made or declared unlawful, an offense, a violation or a misdemeanor by ordinance, by statute adopted by reference in this Code, by state rule or regulation adopted by reference in this Code, or by rule or regulation authorized by ordinance.
(2)
Failure to perform an act that is required to be performed by ordinance, by statute adopted by reference in this Code, by state rule or regulation adopted by reference in this Code or by rule or regulation authorized by ordinance.
(3)
Failure to perform an act if the failure is prohibited or is made or declared unlawful, an offense, a violation or a misdemeanor by ordinance, by statute adopted by reference in this Code, by state rule or regulation adopted by reference in this Code or by rule or regulation authorized by ordinance.
(b)
In this section, the term "violation of this Code" does not include the failure of a county officer or county employee to perform an official duty unless it is specifically provided that the failure to perform the duty is to be punished as provided in this section.
(c)
Unless a higher penalty is otherwise specified, whenever in this Code or in any ordinance of the county any act is prohibited or is made or declared to be unlawful or an offense, or whenever in this Code or any ordinance the doing of any act is required and the failure to do such act is declared to be unlawful, unless otherwise provided by state law, the violation of any such provision of this Code or any such ordinance shall be punished by a fine not to exceed $1,000.00 and imprisonment in the county jail not to exceed six months, or both a fine and sentence of imprisonment, provided the judge shall probate not less than 120 days of any sentence imposed, except as otherwise provided by law. In the event a sentence is revoked, a defendant shall not serve more than 60 days in a county jail. Any penalty provided for in this Code that includes a penalty of imprisonment up to 60 days shall not be interpreted to limit the imposition of any probated sentence in excess of 60 days up to the limits as otherwise provided by state law. Each day any violation of this Code or of any ordinance shall continue shall constitute a separate offense.
(Code 2001, § 1-109; Ord. No. O-0050118a, § 1, 5-11-2018)
Sec. 1-13. - Interpretation of Code.
In all interpretations of this Code and ordinances the courts shall look diligently for the intention of the county, keeping in view, at all times, the old law, the evil, and the remedy. Grammatical errors shall not vitiate, and a transposition of words and clauses may be resorted to when the sentence or clause is without meaning as it stands.
Sec. 1-14. - Rates, charges and fees established.
(a)
Unless otherwise provided for, all rates, charges, or fees necessary for the administration and enforcement of the provisions of this Code shall be as currently established or as hereafter adopted by motion, resolution or ordinance of the board, from time to time. Any rates, charges, or fees established by the county pursuant to the regulations or requirements established herein may be changed from time to time by the board, and such changes shall both be considered an amendment to this Code.
(b)
Whenever any provision of this Code provides that a rate, charge, or fee shall be established by the board, from time to time, and the amount of such rate, charge, or fee is not expressed in this Code in any dollar amount, then the amount of such rate, charge, or fee shall be the most recent and latest amount established, set or fixed by the board and published in the county fee schedule.
Sec. 1-15. - Prior offenses, penalties, contracts or rights not affected by adoption of Code.
(a)
Nothing in this Code or the ordinance adopting this Code shall affect any offense or act committed or done or any penalty or forfeiture incurred or any contract or right established or accruing before the effective date of this Code.
(b)
The adoption of this Code shall not be interpreted as authorizing or permitting any use or the continuance of any use of a structure or premises in violation of any ordinance or resolution in effect on the date of adoption of this Code.
Sec. 1-16. - Certain ordinances not affected by Code.
(a)
Nothing in this Code or the ordinance adopting this Code shall be construed to repeal or otherwise affect the validity of any of the following:
(1)
Any offense or act committed or done or any penalty or forfeiture incurred or any contract or right established or accruing before the effective date of this Code.
(2)
Any ordinance or resolution promising or guaranteeing the payment of money for the county or authorizing the issuance of any bonds of the county or any evidence of the county's indebtedness.
(3)
Any contract or obligation assumed by the county.
(4)
Any ordinance fixing the salary of any county officer or employee, unless superseded.
(5)
Any ordinance or resolution establishing and/or prescribing employment, benefits, and/or personnel policies and procedures for any county officer or county employee.
(6)
Any right or franchise granted by the county.
(7)
Any ordinance or resolution dedicating, naming, establishing, locating, relocating, opening, widening, paving, etc., any street or public way in the county.
(8)
Any appropriation ordinance.
(9)
Any ordinance or resolution which, by its own terms, is effective for a stated or limited term.
(10)
Any ordinance or resolution providing for local improvements and assessing taxes therefor.
(11)
Any zoning ordinance or amendments thereto, and any ordinance establishing a planning commission, including joint commissions.
(12)
Any ordinance or resolution dedicating or accepting any subdivision plat or providing for subdivision regulations.
(13)
Any ordinance or resolution describing or altering the boundaries of the county.
(14)
The administrative ordinances or resolutions of the county not in conflict or inconsistent with the provisions of this Code.
(15)
Any ordinance levying or imposing taxes not included herein.
(16)
Any ordinance or resolution establishing or prescribing street grades in the county.
(17)
Any ordinance or regulation prescribing traffic regulations for specific locations concerning through streets, parking limitations, parking prohibitions, one-way traffic, limitations on loads of vehicles or loading zones, not in conflict or inconsistent with this Code.
(18)
Any ordinance or resolution of agreement with another political subdivision.
(19)
Any other ordinance or resolution, or part thereof, which is not of a general and permanent nature; or which is referred to elsewhere in this Code as continuing in effect.
(b)
No such ordinance shall be construed to revive any ordinance or part thereof that has been repealed by a subsequent ordinance which is repealed by this chapter; and all such ordinances are hereby recognized as continuing in full force and effect to the same extent as if set out at length herein.
