ARTICLE X. - ACCESS, PARKING, AND LOADING

Sec. 34-331. - Applicability.
This article shall apply to:
(1)
Any new building constructed;
(2)
New uses or conversions of existing, conforming buildings;
(3)
Enlargements of existing structures; and
(4)
The occupancy of any building changed to another use.
This article shall not be construed so as to require additional parking spaces to be furnished for an existing building which is repaired, altered, maintained, or modernized, where no structural alterations are made and the size of the building is not increased.
(Code 2018, § 16.1001)
Sec. 34-332. - Access.
(a)
All parking shall be provided with vehicular access to a street. Parking areas shall not thereafter be encroached upon or altered without approval of the Zoning Administrator.
(b)
Loading areas shall be provided with access to a street or alley. Loading areas shall not thereafter be encroached upon or altered without approval of the Zoning Administrator.
(c)
Off-street parking and loading spaces shall have access so that their use will not require backing movements or other maneuvering within a street right-of-way.
(Code 2018, § 16.1002)
Sec. 34-333. - Shared driveways and inter-parcel access.
(a)
Applicability. This section shall apply to all new office, commercial, institutional, and (if permitted) industrial developments and major building renovations and repaving projects of office, commercial, institutional, and (if permitted) industrial developments.
(b)
Shared driveways. Shared driveways between two parcels along the common property line may be required by the Zoning Administrator during development permit review. In such cases, the subdivider and/or each property owner shall grant an access easement to facilitate the movement of motor vehicles and pedestrians across the site.
(c)
Inter-parcel access requirements. Inter-parcel access for vehicles between abutting and nearby properties shall be provided so that access to individual properties can be achieved between adjacent and nearby developments as an alternative to forcing all movement onto abutting highways and public roads, unless the Zoning Administrator during development permit approval determines that it is unnecessary to provide inter-parcel access due to the unlikelihood of patrons traveling among two or more existing or proposed uses on abutting or nearby sites. Where opportunities for shared access have been identified by the Zoning Administrator, developments must provide shared access with adjoining properties to facilitate frontage roads and/or driveway connections between parcels. The property owner shall grant an access easement to facilitate the movement of motor vehicles and pedestrians from site to site.
(d)
Locations. The location of vehicular connections across a property line shall be mutually determined and constructed by both property owners. Connection of parking areas for vehicular access may be provided in the front portion or rear portion of the site. In cases where it is not possible to provide the connection in the rear, it may be provided in the front portion of the site. In the case of coordination problems or any factors preventing construction of an inter-parcel connection, the Zoning Administrator will determine the location of the inter-parcel connection to be constructed by property owners.
(Code 2018, § 16.1003)
Sec. 34-334. - Visibility at intersections and driveways.
No fence, wall, sign, hedge or planting or similar improvement will be permitted to obstruct the sight lines or visibility of motorists and/or pedestrians at any intersection of public or private streets or at any driveway intersection with a public or private street. For purposes of this section, obstructions shall be defined in terms of height as elevations between 30 inches and 12 feet above any roadway or driveway, as applicable.
(Code 2018, § 16.1004)
Sec. 34-335. - Internal vehicular circulation.
(a)
Efficient and easily recognized vehicular circulation routes within a development are vital and shall be provided.
(b)
Internal vehicle circulation shall be designed or redesigned in a manner that avoids conflicts between through-traffic (i.e., traffic flowing into and out of the site) and local traffic (i.e., traffic through parking areas).
(c)
Interior vehicular circulation shall be provided by visually orienting the driver with a regular, logical system of interior driveways and roadways; identifying entrance drives with small entry signs; and preventing vehicles from driving across or through designated parking areas by placing raised landscaped dividers or walkways between parking aisles.
(Code 2018, § 16.1005)
Sec. 34-336. - Off-street parking required.
Off-street automobile parking spaces shall be provided on every lot on which any building, structure, or use is hereafter established in all zoning districts. Required parking spaces shall be available for the temporary parking of passenger vehicles for residents, customers, patrons, and employees, as appropriate given the subject use.
(Code 2018, § 16.1006)
Sec. 34-337. - Location of off-street parking areas.
(a)
Requirement. All parking spaces required by this article shall be provided on the same lot with the main building or use which it serves, except as specifically provided in this section.
(b)
Exemption. The Zoning Administrator may permit some or all of the required parking spaces to be provided on another lot, a substantial portion of which must be within 800 feet of such building, structure, or use. Any applicant proposing to use off-street parking on another site to meet the on-site parking requirements of this article shall submit evidence either of ownership or a valid agreement to lease the parking area off-site. Safe and convenient pedestrian access, such as a sidewalk or path, must exist or be provided from the structure or use to the off-site parking lot.
(Code 2018, § 16.1007)
Sec. 34-338. - Parking plan required.
(a)
Before any parking lot or other parking improvement is constructed, or building permit is issued, the parking lot layout and area must be found by the Zoning Administrator to be in compliance with all requirements of this article via the submission and approval of a parking plan.
(b)
No permit shall be issued for any parking area until the plans and specifications have been submitted for review by the Zoning Administrator. Such plans and specifications shall include the number of spaces provided and required; the location of entrances, exits, aisles, curbing where required, landscaping, screening, and surface materials; and provisions for drainage.
(c)
The Building Inspector shall not allow occupancy or use of a building until advised by the Zoning Administrator that parking facilities meet the requirements of this article.
(Code 2018, § 16.1008)
Sec. 34-339. - Minimum design requirements.
The following minimum design requirements shall be adhered to and demonstrated with the submission of appropriate plans and specifications during development permitting:
(1)
Paving; variations. Parking and loading areas shall be paved with concrete, asphaltic concrete, or asphalt, unless the Zoning Administrator specifically approves another dust-free surface material be substituted in lieu of such paving. Porous pavement parking spaces and grass pavers may be substituted for standard dust-free pavements subject to the approval of the city engineer. Aggregate (gravel) surface may be considered appropriate in agricultural and rural areas. Water quality considerations and the character of the district in which the parking lot is proposed to be constructed may be considered by the Zoning Administrator in modifying parking lot pavement requirements during the required site and design approval process.
(2)
Curbing and drainage. Parking and loading areas shall be properly graded if necessary but in all cases drained so as to prevent damage to abutting properties or public streets. Water quality effectiveness and character of the zoning district shall be considerations in determining curbing requirements by the Zoning Administrator.
(3)
Circulation. Dead-end parking areas shall be prohibited unless design conditions prevent a connected design, and they can only be used if 90-degree parking design is used.
(4)
Minimum parking space width. Off-street parking spaces shall be a minimum of nine feet in width, with wider ten-foot spaces encouraged in high-turnover areas.
(5)
Minimum parking space length. Off-street parking spaces shall be a minimum of 20 feet in length except where compact parking is authorized by the Zoning Administrator, in which case parking space lengths can be reduced to 16 feet.
(6)
Minimum aisle length. Parking driveway maneuvering aisle width requirements vary according to the width and length of parking spaces and the angle of parking. For a single row of 90-degree head-in parking, the minimum depth for a parking space plus the width of the aisle shall be 42 feet. For two rows of 90-degree head-in parking using the same aisle, the minimum depth for parking spaces plus the width of the aisle shall be 62 feet for nine-foot-wide spaces and 60 feet for ten-foot-wide spaces, measured from back of curb to back of curb).
(7)
Compact auto parking. Compact parking spaces may be used in parking areas when more than 20 parking spaces are required, provided that the areas for compact parking are clearly marked and not more than 20 percent of the number of parking spaces provided in the entire parking area is designated compact auto parking.
(8)
Angled parking. The Zoning Administrator may authorize parking lot designs that utilize 75, 60, and 45 degree-angled parking spaces with one-way or two-way aisles. If such angled parking is used, parking lots shall comply with acceptable parking dimensional standards for aisle widths as specified by the Institute of Transportation Engineers or other reputable source approved by the Zoning Administrator.
(9)
Maximum aisle length. Parking aisle length shall not exceed 500 feet without a break for circulation.
(10)
Landscaped divider. One landscaped divider (i.e., planted area within in between and separating the vehicle parking spaces fronting one another) with a minimum width of nine feet shall be provided for every fifth parking aisle in a parking lot; provided, however, that the Zoning Administrator may vary this requirement in cases of short parking aisles or where alternative designs prevent random maneuvers which can endanger pedestrians.
(11)
Lighting. Parking areas shall be appropriately lighted unless the Zoning Administrator determines that lighting would be incompatible with abutting properties. Where lighting of parking lots is required or provided, light poles should be located in landscaped planter strips. Where this cannot be accomplished, light poles must be placed on a reinforced concrete pedestal to protect them from damage or being knocked over.
(12)
Signage. Where needed to promote proper circulation within off-street parking areas, directional signs shall be placed in appropriate locations as specified by the Zoning Administrator via development permit approval or parking plan approval.
(Code 2018, § 16.1009)
Sec. 34-340. - Minimum number of on-site parking spaces.
(a)
Unless specifically provided otherwise in this article, on each lot where a building, structure, or use exists, each site shall be designed to provide and shall provide for off-street parking in the minimum amounts in Table 34-3.
(b)
No existing or future off-street parking area shall be reduced in capacity to less than the minimum required number of spaces, or altered in design or function to less than the minimum standards, unless specifically provided for in this article.
(c)
This section shall not be construed as requiring compliance of parking lots which lawfully existed on the effective date of the ordinance from which this article is derived; provided, however, that the Zoning Administrator shall ensure parking lots that do not comply with this article meet the requirements of this article or substantially comply when a new development permit is required or a building permit is required to add additional building space on the site. If substantial redesign of the parking lot is required to comply with this article in such cases of new development or building additions, the Zoning Administrator may accept substantial rather than complete compliance when the strict application of a requirement of this article would pose substantial practical difficulty.
Unless otherwise noted, the parking requirement shall be based on the gross square footage of the building or buildings devoted to the particular use specified in Table 34-3.
Table 34-3. Minimum Number of Off-Street Parking Spaces Required
EXPAND
Use Minimum Parking Required
COMMERCIAL USES
Animal hospital; kennel One per 400 square feet
Appliance sales and repair One per 500 square feet
Art gallery One per 400 square feet
Automated teller machine, no drive-through Two per machine
Auto parts store One per 500 square feet
Automobile sales One per 200 square feet of repair space plus one per 400 square feet of showroom/office
Automobile service and repair One per 250 square feet
Bank, credit union, savings and loan One per 300 square feet (plus provisions for drive-through facilities if applicable)
Barbershop or beauty parlor One per 300 square feet
Bed and breakfast inn Two for the owner-operator plus one per guest bedroom
Carpet or floor covering store One per 300 square feet of retail sales and office area, plus if applicable, warehouse requirements for designated storage, receiving, and shipping area
Car wash, staffed or automated Two stacking spaces for each car wash lane plus two drying spaces per lane
Contractor's establishment One per 300 square feet of office space and one per 2,000 square feet of outdoor storage
Convenience store One per 200 square feet
Dance hall One per 125 square feet
Day care center One per 500 square feet
Funeral home or mortuary One per four seats in largest chapel
Furniture and home furnishing store One per 600 square feet
Grocery store One per 300 square feet
Hardware store One per 400 square feet
Health or fitness club One per 200 square feet
Hotel, extended stay 1.5 per unit lodging unit
Hotel or motel One per lodging unit, plus one per each 150 square feet of banquet, assembly, meeting, or restaurant seating area
Laundromat One for each three washer/dryer combinations
Nursery or garden center One per 300 square feet plus one per 1,500 square feet outdoor sales or display area
Office One per 300 square feet
Open-air sales One per 250 square feet of indoor floor space plus one per 600 square feet of outdoor sales
Personal service establishment One per 250 square feet
Photofinishing laboratory One per 250 square feet
Photographic studio One per 300 square feet
Restaurant, bar, or tavern One per 125 square feet
Retail store One per 275 square feet
Self-storage facility (mini-warehouse) One per 40 storage units
Service station One per 250 square feet of office space plus two per service bay
Shopping center One per 275 square feet
INDUSTRIAL USES
Manufacturing, processing, assembling One per 1,300 square feet
Warehouse One per 2,000 square feet
Wholesale One per 1,000 square feet
INSTITUTIONAL USES
Assembly hall; auditorium; nonprofit club or lodge One per four seats in room with greatest seating capacity or one per 40 square feet in largest assembly area without fixed seating
Church, temple, synagogue and place of worship One per four seats in room with greatest seating capacity or one per 40 square feet in largest assembly area without fixed seating
Government office One per 300 square feet
Hospital 1.5 per bed
Library One per 400 square feet
Museum One per 500 square feet
Nursing home One per four beds
Post office One per 200 square feet
School One per 300 square feet
School for the arts One per 300 square feet
School, trade or business One per 200 square feet
Condominium, one bedroom 1.5 per unit plus 0.1 per unit for guest space
Condominium, two bedroom 1.5 per unit plus 0.1 per unit for guest space
Condominium, three bedroom 2 per unit plus 0.2 per unit for guest space
RESIDENTIAL USES
Single-family detached or attached Two per unit
Two-family dwelling Two per unit
RECREATIONAL USES
Athletic field 20 spaces per field
Billiard hall/amusement arcade One per 200 square feet
Bowling alley Two per each bowling lane (add parking for billiard hall/ amusement arcade, if provided)
Community center One per 300 square feet
Ice or roller skating rink One per 200 square feet
Miniature golf Two per hole
Stadium or sport arena One per twelve feet of bench seating
Swimming pool - subdivision amenity One per 150 square feet of surface water area
Swimming pool - public One per 125 square feet of surface water area
Tennis or racquet ball court Two per court
  (Code 2018, § 16.1010)
Sec. 34-341. - Interpretations.
(a)
Fractions. Where a fractional space results during the calculation of required parking, the required number of parking spaces shall be construed to be the next highest whole number.
(b)
Parking space requirement not specified. Where the parking requirement for a particular use is not described in Table 34-3, and where no similar use is listed, the Zoning Administrator shall determine the number of spaces to be provided based on requirements for similar uses, location of the proposed use, the number of employees on the largest shift, total square footage, potential customer use, and other expected demand and traffic generated by the proposed use. At the discretion of a development applicant, a parking generation study prepared by a qualified professional may be submitted to aid the Zoning Administrator in making such a determination; if submitted, it shall be considered by the Zoning Administrator prior to making a determination.
(c)
Computations for multiple floor uses within a building. In cases where a building contains some combination of residential use, office space, retail or wholesale sales area, and/or bulk storage area, the Zoning Administrator may authorize that the building space be divided into such floor space use areas and separate computations of floor areas (e.g., warehousing, retail, and/or office) in determining the off-street parking or loading space requirements of this article.
(Code 2018, § 16.1011)
Sec. 34-342. - Number of handicapped parking spaces required.
Regulations and dimensions for handicapped parking spaces shall be per requirements of the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) and the Georgia Accessibility Code.
(Code 2018, § 16.1012)
Sec. 34-343. - Off-street loading required.
On the same lot with every building, structure, or part thereof, erected or occupied for manufacturing, storage, warehouse, truck freight terminal, department store, wholesale store, grocery supermarket, hotel, hospital, mortuary, dry cleaning plant, retail business, or other uses similarly involving the receipt or distribution of vehicles, materials, or merchandise, there shall be provided and maintained adequate space for the standing, loading, and unloading of such materials to avoid undue interference with public use of streets, alleys, and private or public parking areas.
(Code 2018, § 16.1013)
Sec. 34-344. - Loading area specifications.
Unless otherwise approved by the Zoning Administrator, loading spaces shall be a minimum of 14 feet wide, 40 feet long, with 14 feet of height clearance. When the development requires loading and unloading by full-size tractor-trailers, loading spaces shall be 60 feet long with a 63-foot apron, for a total approach zone of 123 feet.
(Code 2018, § 16.1014)
Sec. 34-345. - Loading docks and spaces required.
Unless otherwise approved by the Zoning Administrator, when loading space is required by this article, it shall be provided in the quantity according to land use specified in Table 34-4.
Table 34-4. Minimum Number of Loading Docks and Loading Spaces Required
EXPAND
Land Use Size
(Gross Floor Area in Square Feet) Loading
Docks Loading
Spaces Total
Spaces
Office 0 - 30,000 0 1 1
30,001 - 100,000 1 1 2
Each additional 100,000 1 1 +2
Commercial 0 - 10,000 0 1 1
10,001 - 30,000 1 1 2
30,001 - 80,000 2 1 3
Each additional 80,000 1 0 +1
Industrial 0 - 5,000 0 1 1
5,001 - 30,000 1 1 2
30,001 - 50,000 2 1 3
50,001 - 100,000 3 1 4
Each additional 100,000 1 0 +1
  (Code 2018, § 16.1015)
Secs. 34-346—34-375. - Reserved.
