ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 32-1. - Purpose and intent.
This chapter setting forth rules and regulations is intended to serve the following purposes, among others:
(1)
To protect and promote the health, safety, and general welfare of the residents of the city;
(2)
To encourage economically sound and stable land development;
(3)
To assure the provision of required roads, utilities, and other facilities and services to new land developments in conformance with public improvements standards of the city;
(4)
To assure adequate provision of safe and convenient traffic access and circulation, both vehicular and pedestrian, in new land developments, especially for the purposes of assuring that all building lots will be accessible to firefighting equipment and other emergency and service vehicles;
(5)
To assure the provision of needed open spaces and building sites in new land developments through the dedication or reservation of land for recreational, educational, and other public purposes;
(6)
To assure the adequate provision of water supply, stormwater drainage, sanitation, lighting, and other necessary improvements;
(7)
To assure equitable handling of all subdivision plans by providing uniform procedures and standards for the subdivider, land developer, and staff to follow;
(8)
To assure, in general, the wise development of new land areas, in harmony with the comprehensive plan of the community;
(9)
To assure the accurate description of property and adequate and proper identification of property in public records;
(10)
To help conserve and protect the natural, economic, and scenic resources of the community;
(11)
To help eliminate the costly maintenance problems which develop when roads and lots are laid out without proper consideration given to various public purposes;
(12)
To protect lot purchasers who generally lack the specialized knowledge to evaluate subdivision improvements and design.
(Code 2018, § 17.102)
Sec. 32-2. - Authority.
This chapter is adopted pursuant to powers vested in cities by state law, including the state constitution, home rule powers, and state administrative rules for the adoption and implementation of comprehensive plans and the protection of vital areas of the state.
(Code 2018, § 17.103)
State Law reference— Powers and duties of governing body of municipality with regard to comprehensive and coordinated planning, including development and implementation of a comprehensive plan, O.C.G.A. § 36-70-3.
Sec. 32-3. - General definitions.
(a)
Except as specifically defined herein, all words used in this chapter have their customary dictionary definition.
(b)
The definitions contained within the zoning rules and regulations as set forth in this Code shall be applicable to this chapter and are included by reference as if fully contained herein. In the event of conflict between definitions of this chapter and the definitions delineated within such zoning rules and regulations, the definitions in this chapter shall prevail.
(Code 2018, § 17.201)
Sec. 32-4. - Specific definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Access easement means an easement devoted to vehicular access which affords a principal means of access to abutting property or properties, but which is not necessarily open to the general public and which is not necessarily improved to standards of the city.
Administrative appeal means a request for a review of an administrative officer's interpretation of any provision of this chapter, or an action taken by the administrative officer in the application or enforcement of this chapter.
Administrative officer means the Zoning Administrator of the city, or his authorized representative, or in the absence of such appointment the City Clerk.
Alley means a public or private thoroughfare that affords only a secondary means of access to abutting property.
Best management practices (BMPs) means a collection of structural practices and vegetative measures which, when properly designed, installed, and maintained, will provide effective erosion and sedimentation control.
Block means a piece or parcel of land entirely surrounded by roads.
Building means any structure.
City attorney means the attorney for the city.
Comprehensive plan means those coordinated plans or portions thereof which have been prepared by or for the City Council for the physical development of the jurisdiction; or any plans that designate plans or programs to encourage the most appropriate use of the land in the interest of public health, safety, and welfare.
Conservation means the management of natural resources to prevent waste, destruction, or degradation.
Cross section means a profile of the ground surface perpendicular to the centerline of a road, stream, or other feature.
Cul-de-sac means a road having one end open to traffic and being permanently terminated at the other end by a vehicular turnaround.
Curb means a boundary, usually constructed of concrete, usually marking the edge of a roadway or paved area, which is designed to channel stormwater to drainage inlets and/or prevent or deter access.
Curb radius means the curved edge of a road at road intersections.
Cut and excavation mean a portion of land surface or area from which earth has been removed or will be removed by excavation; the depth below original ground surface to excavated surface.
Deceleration lane means an added roadway lane of a specified distance that permits vehicles to leave the main vehicle stream and slow down.
Dedication means the deliberate appropriation of land by an owner for any general and public use or purpose, reserving to himself no other rights than such as are compatible with the full exercise and enjoyment of the public uses to which the property has been devoted.
Dedication plat means a plat that indicates property to be dedicated for public right-of-way or land for public use.
Detention means the temporary restraining of stormwater on-site.
Detention pond means a pond or pool used for the temporary storage of stormwater runoff and which provides for the controlled release of such stormwater.
Development means any manmade change of improved or unimproved real estate, including but not limited to buildings, structures, mining, dredging, filling, grading, paving, excavation, or drilling operations.
Development permit means approval by the administrative officer to proceed with development. For purposes of this chapter, the development permit required by this chapter shall be coordinated with the land disturbance permit required for compliance with local and/or state soil erosion and sedimentation control laws, as may be amended.
Development plan means any plan containing substantial information required to be filed by this chapter, which shows how the property to be affected by the development will be changed and improved in a specific manner, including the installation of roads and utilities and the erection of buildings and structures, among other specific requirements.
Drainage structure means a device composed of a virtually non-erodible material such as concrete, steel, plastic, or other such material that conveys water from one place to another by intercepting the flow and carrying it to a release point for stormwater management, drainage control, or flood control purposes.
Easement means a non-possessory interest in land; a grant by a property owner for the use by the public, a corporation, or persons, of a portion of land for a specified purpose or purposes.
Escrow account means a type of subdivision improvements guarantee where the subdivider deposits either cash, a note, a bond, or some other instrument readily convertible to cash for specific face value specified by the administrative officer to cover the costs of required improvements.
Fill means a portion of land surface to which soil or other solid material has been added; the depth above the original ground.
Fire flow means the flow of water required to extinguish the largest probable fire served by a water facility.
Gated community means residential areas that restrict access to normally public roads and spaces. Gates can include guardhouses, or electronic arms operated by card, codes, or remote control devices. Visitors must stop to be verified for entry.
Gradient means the rate of vertical change between two distance points, determined by dividing the vertical distance by the horizontal distance (i.e., rise over run).
Grading means altering the shape of ground surfaces to a predetermined condition; this includes stripping, cutting, filling, stockpiling, and shaping or any combination thereof, and shall include the land in its cut or filled condition.
Greenway means a linear park or open space conservation area that provides recreational opportunities, pedestrian and/or bicycle paths, and/or conservation of open spaces or natural areas.
Highway means a term applied to streets and roads that are under the jurisdiction of the Georgia Department of Transportation or federal highway agency. Highways are major arteries of the county circulation network, carry significant volumes of traffic for both long and short trips, and are designed with access to abutting properties with some degree of control and safe standards of design.
Homeowners' association means an organization formed for the maintenance and operation of the common areas of a development, where membership in the association is available to a person who has purchased a dwelling unit or lot within the development, and which may have the ability to legally assess each owner of a dwelling unit or lot, and authority to place a lien against all dwelling units and lots within the development.
Impact means the effect of any direct manmade actions or indirect repercussions of manmade actions on existing physical, social, or economic conditions.
Land disturbing activity means any activity which may result in soil erosion from water or wind and the movement of sediments into state waters or onto lands within the state, including but not limited to clearing, dredging, grading, excavating, transporting, and filling of land, but not including agricultural practices exempt from applicable soil erosion and sedimentation control requirements.
Letter of credit means a type of subdivision improvements guarantee whereby a subdivider secures an instrument from a bank or other institution or from a person with resources sufficient to cover the cost of improvements required by the city. The instrument pledges the creditor to pay the cost of improvements in case of default by the subdivider.
Lot means a portion or parcel of land intended as a unit for transfer of ownership or for development or both, intended to be devoted to a common use or occupied by a building or group of buildings devoted to a common use, and having principal frontage on a public road or an approved private road. In determining the area and dimension of a lot, no part of the right-of-way may be included.
Lot area means the total horizontal area within the lot lines of a lot, exclusive of public road rights-of-way or private road or access easements, where they exist.
Lot, corner, means a lot abutting upon two or more roads at their intersection.
Lot depth means the average horizontal distance between the front and rear lot lines.
Lot, double frontage, means a lot other than a corner lot that has frontage upon two or more roads that do not intersect at a point abutting the property.
Types of Lots
Lot Definitions
Lot, flag, means a tract or lot of land of uneven dimensions in which the portion fronting on a public road or where existing, a private road, is less than the required minimum width for construction of a building or structure on that lot. Such lots have elongated access from the road and a conventionally proportioned building site at the rear of the lot.
Lot frontage means the width in linear feet of a lot where it abuts the right-of-way of any public road, or where it exists, a private road.
Lot of record means any single parcel of land within the city which was legally platted and recorded in the clerk of superior court of the county's plat and deed records prior to adoption of this chapter or which was lawfully subdivided after the effective date of the Ordinance from which this chapter is derived.
Lot width means the distance between side lot lines measured at the regulatory/required building line.
Metes and bounds means a system of describing and identifying land by distances or measures (metes) and bearings or direction (bounds) from an identifiable point of reference, such as a monument or other marker or the corner of intersecting roads.
Mortgage lot means a lot which is created for the primary or sole purpose of meeting the requirement of a bank or lending institution for a loan or mortgage; or in cases of the county tax assessor in terms of land value assessment requirements, where property descriptions must be smaller than the total acreage of the tract on which the principal building that is the subject of the loan is located.
Open space means land and water areas retained for use as passive recreation areas or for resource protection or conservation in an essentially undeveloped state.
Pavement width means the width of a given lane, road, or other road pavement width, measured from back-of-curb to back-of-curb or to the edge of pavement where no curbs are required or exist.
Performance bond means a type of subdivision improvements performance guarantee in the form of a bond secured by the subdivider from a bonding company, in an amount specified by the administrative officer to cover the costs of required improvements, and payable to the city. The city may call in the performance bond in the event the subdivider defaults on required improvements.
Performance guarantee means any financial deposit or other security that may be accepted by the city as a guarantee that improvements required as part of an application for subdivision or land development are satisfactorily completed in conformance with approved plans.
Person means any individual, partnership, firm, association, joint venture, public or private corporation, trust, estate, commission, board, public or private institution, utility, cooperative, state agency, municipality, or other political subdivision of this State, any interstate body, or any other legal entity.
Plat, final, means a finished drawing of a subdivision showing completely and accurately all legal and engineering information, certification, and all other elements and requirements set forth in this chapter and as may be required by the county and state law , prepared for filing for record with the clerk of the county superior court.
Illustrative Final Plat
Plat, preliminary, means a drawing which shows the proposed layout of a subdivision in sufficient detail to convey the concept and workability of a subdivision, but not complete in form or detail required for recording.
Potable water means water that is suitable for human consumption, human contact, or in the preparation of foods for human consumption.
Preserve means an area in which beneficial uses or natural landforms in their present condition are protected; for example, a nature preserve or wildlife habitat management area.
Professional engineer means an engineer duly registered or otherwise authorized by the state to practice in the field of civil engineering.
Protective covenants means contracts made between private parties as to the manner in which land may be used, with the view toward protecting and preserving the physical and economic integrity of any given area.
Regional commission means the Northeast Georgia Regional Commission.
Registered land surveyor means a surveyor duly registered or otherwise authorized by the state to practice in the field of land surveying.
Reservation means the designation by plat or deed of a certain area reserved for possible future public purposes. A reservation does not transfer title of the reserved area to the public unless the City Council accepts the area for public purposes.
Resubdivision means the act of changing an existing lot created by a plat and recorded in the office of the superior court clerk of the county.
Retention means the permanent maintenance of stormwater on-site.
Retention pond means a pond or pool used for the permanent storage of stormwater runoff.
Retracement means a survey, not required to be reviewed and approved by the local jurisdiction prior to filing or recording in the clerk's office, but drawn to specifications required by this chapter.
Right-of-way, private, means that area distinguished from an access easement or public right-of-way, dedicated to property owners of the subdivision involved or to other individuals, and which affords permanent access to abutting property or properties. A private right-of-way is distinguishable from a public road right-of-way in that maintenance and ownership of the road and accessory improvements is by private individuals or a private association rather than the city, county, state, or another governmental entity.
Right-of-way, public, means that area distinguished from an easement or private road right-of-way which is owned in fee simple title by the city, county, state, or other governmental entity, for the present or future use of roads and highways, together with their drainage facilities and other supporting uses and structures.
Riprap means rocks, rubble, or stones, irregularly shaped and at least six inches in diameter, used for erosion control and soil stabilization.
Road means a state highway, county road, a road adopted as a county-owned right-of-way approved for county maintenance, a street owned and/or maintained by a municipality, or where permitted, or a private road. Roads afford the principal means of access to abutting property or properties and are required to meet specifications contained in this chapter. The term includes "street" but does not include "access easement."
Road, private, means an improved road, distinguished from a public road in that the right-of-way which affords a principal means of access to an abutting property or properties is privately owned and maintained. Private roads are required to meet specifications contained in this chapter.
Road, public, means a state highway, county road, a road adopted as a county-owned right-of-way approved for county maintenance, or a street owned and/or maintained by a municipality. New public roads are required to meet specifications contained in this chapter.
Roadway drainage structure means a device such as a bridge, culvert, or ditch, composed of a virtually non-erodible material such as concrete, steel, plastic, or other such material that conveys water under a roadway by intercepting the flow on one side of a traveled way consisting of one or more defined lanes, with or without shoulder areas, and carrying water to a release point on the other side.
Runoff coefficient means ratio of the amount of rain which runs off a surface to that which falls on it; a factor from which runoff can be calculated.
Septic tank means an approved watertight tank designed or used to receive sewage from a building sewer and to effect separation and organic decomposition of sewerage solids, and discharging sewage effluent to an absorption field or other management system.
Sewer means an artificial and usually subterranean conduit designed to carry off sewage and/or water. The term includes any pipe, manhole, connection, or other appurtenances thereto, located in a public right-of-way or easement that is designed to transport sewage and/or water.
Sewer, sanitary, means a sewer that carries sewage and residential, commercial, or industrial waste.
Sewer, storm, means a sewer that carries storm, surface, and groundwater drainage but excludes sewage and residential, commercial, and industrial wastes.
Sidewalk means a hard-surfaced pedestrian access area adjacent to or within the right-of-way of a public road or private road.
Sight visibility triangle means the areas at the corners of an intersection of two roads or at the intersection of a road and any driveway, which may vary based on type of road involved, that are to be kept free of vegetation, trees, shrubs, groundcovers, berms, fences, buildings, structures, or other materials or objects that may impair or impede a person's ability to observe other persons or traffic on the adjacent intersecting roadway and/or driveway.
Subdivision means the division of a tract or parcel of land into two or more lots, building sites, lease lots, or other divisions for the purpose, whether immediate or future, of sale, lease, legacy, or building development. The term shall include the opening of a new road, a change in existing roads, or divisions of land involving the extension of water, sewer, or gas lines. The term includes re-subdivision and, where appropriate to the context, relates to the process of subdivision or to the land or area subdivided.
Conventional Suburban Subdivision
Subdivision, major, means the subdivision of a tract of land into two or more lots that involve the installation of a new road, and any subdivision involving six or more lots regardless of whether or not installation of a new road is required.
Subdivision, minor, means the subdivision of a tract of land into not more than five lots in which the installation of a new road is not required, and where each lot has minimum required frontage on an existing state highway, county-owned public road, city street, or other public road.
Trail means a way designed for and used by equestrians, pedestrians, and/or cyclists using non-motorized bicycles.
Utilities means all lines and facilities related to the provision, distribution, collection, transmission, or disposal of water, storm and sanitary sewage, oil, gas, power, information, telecommunication and telephone cable, and including facilities for the generation of electricity.
Vacation means the termination of, or termination of interest in, an easement, right-of-way, or public dedication of land.
Variance means a minimal relaxation or modification of the strict terms of this chapter as applied to specific property when, because of particular physical surroundings, shape, or topographical condition of the property, compliance would result in a particular undue hardship upon the owner, as distinguished from a mere inconvenience or a desire to make a profit.
Vicinity map means a map, not necessarily to scale, showing the general location of the proposed subdivision or land development in relation to major roads and/or natural features.
Well means a hole or shaft excavated, bored, drilled, dug, or driven to tap an underground supply of water.
(Code 2018, § 17.202)
Secs. 32-5—32-36. - Reserved.
