ARTICLE V. - SPECIFIC USE PROVISIONS

Sec. 34-136. - Accessory building, structure, or use.
(a)
Yard location. Accessory buildings, structures, and uses shall be located in a rear yard or side yard, unless otherwise specifically provided in this chapter.
(b)
Setback. Accessory buildings and structures shall be located a minimum of five feet from any side or rear property line.
(c)
Height. Accessory buildings shall not exceed two stories or 24 feet in height in RR and SR zoning districts.
(d)
Size limitations. Except in agricultural zoning districts, in no case shall an accessory building or structure exceed the square footage of the principal building or structure to which it is accessory.
(e)
Timing. No accessory building, structure, or use shall be erected on a lot until construction of the principal building or establishment of principal use has commenced. Accessory buildings and structures must be constructed in conjunction with, or after, a building permit for the principal building is lawfully approved or use is established.
(Code 2018, § 16.501)
Sec. 34-137. - Amateur radio tower/antenna.
In zoning districts where permitted, amateur radio towers and antennas shall not exceed a height of 50 feet without conditional use permit approval. The antenna/tower shall be set back a distance of at least one-half the height of the tower/antenna from all property lines.
(Code 2018, § 16.502)
Sec. 34-138. - Condominium ownership.
If a condominium form of ownership is proposed, the development shall meet all applicable state laws including the Georgia Condominium Act, O.C.G.A. § 44-3-70 et seq. Proposed bylaws and the articles of incorporation for the condominium association shall be submitted to the Zoning Administrator with the application for development permit approval.
(Code 2018, § 16.503)
Sec. 34-139. - Construction field office.
Manufactured homes or other temporary buildings or structures shall not be occupied as a permanent office or for any other use in any district; provided, however, that an industrialized building or other temporary buildings or structures may be used for a temporary office or other permitted nonresidential use, subject to the following:
(1)
Approval by the Zoning Administrator and issuance of a permit by the building inspector;
(2)
Said permit shall be temporary but renewable once after a period of six months;
(3)
Said permit shall only be issued if plans and permits have been approved for one or more permanent buildings on the subject property;
(4)
Adequate water and sewage disposal for the structure is approved by the county health department; and
(5)
Said industrialized building or temporary building or structure shall be removed from the site no later than upon the occupancy of the appropriate permanent building or structure intended for such use.
(Code 2018, § 16.504)
Sec. 34-140. - Day care center.
In zoning districts where permitted, day care centers shall have at least 150 square feet of outdoor play area and at least 35 square feet of indoor space provided for each child or other person served. The outdoor play area shall be enclosed by a fence with a minimum height of four feet. Adequate and safe areas for the drop-off and pick-up of patrons shall be provided.
(Code 2018, § 16.505)
Sec. 34-141. - Fences and walls.
(a)
Height. No fence or freestanding wall, other than a retaining wall or necessary fencing encompassing a tennis court, shall be more than eight feet in height. Fences or freestanding walls constructed in a front yard of a residential lot shall not exceed four feet in height; provided, however, that this shall not apply to subdivision or project identification monuments at the entrance to a subdivision or development and wall or fence extensions thereof, where permitted, which shall not exceed eight feet in height and columns shall not exceed ten feet in height.
(b)
Composition. Walls composed or constructed of exposed concrete block, tires, junk, or other discarded materials shall not be permitted.
(c)
Gates. When gates for vehicular access are required or proposed abutting a public or private street, said gates shall not be located closer than 20 feet of a public street or road right-of-way.
(d)
Location. No fence or wall shall be constructed in a public right-of-way, except that retaining walls may be placed partially within the right-of-way of a local road if they do not pose a visibility or other public hazard.
(e)
Temporary fencing exempted. These requirements shall not apply to temporary fencing erected around a lot during construction of a building for security, safety, tree protection, or code compliance reasons.
(f)
Permit required. A permit shall be required to be issued by the building inspector.
(Code 2018, § 16.506; Ord. No. R-2103, § 3, 12-6-2021)
Sec. 34-142. - Guest house.
In zoning districts where permitted, no more than one guest house shall be permitted as an accessory building on any single residential lot. Guest houses shall be located to the rear of the principal dwelling and shall not exceed 50 percent of the gross floor area of the principal dwelling. Guest houses shall not be rented or otherwise occupied separately from the main residence, except for non-paying guests or domestic employees residing on the premises and sharing meals in the principal dwelling.
(Code 2018, § 16.507)
Sec. 34-143. - Home occupation.
Home occupations may be established as an accessory use to a dwelling as provided in permitted uses requirements for the zoning districts established by this chapter. No more than one home occupation may be established for each dwelling. In districts where permitted, the following regulations shall apply to home occupations. Failure to meet one or more of these regulations at any time shall be unlawful and grounds for immediate revocation of business registration.
(1)
Physical limitations. The gross floor area of building devoted to a home occupation shall not exceed 750 square feet, or 25 percent of the gross floor area of the dwelling, whichever is greater. An accessory building may be used in connection with the home occupation, subject to compliance with all other provisions of this section.
(2)
Alterations to the dwelling. The exterior appearance of the dwelling must remain that of a dwelling. No internal or external alterations inconsistent with the residential use of the principal building, and if applicable, an accessory building, may be permitted.
(3)
Vehicles and parking. Vehicles kept on-site in association with the home occupation shall be used by residents only, except for the parking of employees as may be permitted by this section. Only vehicles used primarily as passenger vehicles shall be permitted in connection with the conduct of the home occupation. Incoming vehicles related to the home occupation, if any, shall at all times be parked off-street within the confines of the residential driveway or other on-site permitted parking. The transporting of goods by truck in connection with a home occupation is prohibited.
(4)
Equipment, off-site impacts, and nuisances. No home occupation shall generate traffic, sound, smell, vibration, light, or dust that is offensive or that creates a nuisance. No equipment that interferes with radio and/or television reception shall be allowed. Home occupations must exclude the use of machinery or equipment that emits sound (e.g., saws, drills, musical instruments, etc.) that is detectable beyond the property. Chemical, electrical, or mechanical equipment that is not normally a part of domestic or household equipment and which is used primarily for commercial purposes shall not be permitted.
(5)
Signs prohibited. There shall be no signs permitted in conjunction with a home occupation, although this shall not preclude the property owner from erecting signs permitted on the lot pursuant to the sign regulations set forth in its Code of Ordinances.
(6)
Employees. Only occupants of the dwelling and one additional full-time employee or two part-time employees shall be authorized to work on the premises in connection with a home occupation.
(7)
Display, stock-in-trade, and sales. There shall be no display, and no stock-in-trade nor commodity sold on the premises, in connection with a home occupation, nor shall there be any activity associated with the home occupation visible outside the dwelling. No deliveries or pick-ups by or on behalf of customers shall be permitted.
(8)
Uses specifically prohibited. The following uses are specifically prohibited as home occupations: auto sales or auto or vehicle or implement repair; restaurants; animal hospitals, veterinary clinics, kennels, or the keeping of animals; funeral homes; retail or wholesale shops; machine shops; personal service establishments (including beauty salons); special event facilities; and lodging services.
(9)
Approval. All home occupations shall be subject to the Zoning Administrator's approval. The applicant for a business registration shall file for home occupation approval from the Zoning Administrator on forms provided by the Zoning Administrator.
(10)
Modifications by conditional use permit. The provisions of this section may be modified or varied pursuant to application by the property owner for a conditional use, according to procedures specified in article VIII of this chapter.
(Code 2018, § 16.508)
Sec. 34-144. - Junked vehicle or material.
It shall be unlawful to park or continuously store abandoned, wrecked, junked or inoperable vehicles, power-driven construction equipment, semi-trailers, used lumber or metal, used appliances, tires, or any other miscellaneous scrap material in quantity that is visible from a public street. No such parking or storage shall be allowed in front yards. Appropriate screening as determined by the Zoning Administrator, based upon the elevations and uses of surrounding properties, may be used to comply with this provision in side and rear yards.
(Code 2018, § 16.509)
Sec. 34-145. - Livestock quarters and enclosures.
No livestock quarters shall be located within 100 feet of any property line. Except in agricultural zoning districts, the maximum number of large, hoofed livestock, including but not limited to cows, horses, emus, and llamas, shall be two animals per fenced acre.
(Code 2018, § 16.510)
Sec. 34-146. - Manufactured homes.
(a)
Foundation and skirting if elevated. The wheels and towing devices shall be removed, and manufactured homes shall be attached to a permanent foundation constructed in accordance with the city's building code and/or state and federal regulations, as applicable. The area beneath the ground floor of the dwelling shall be either a slab foundation or enclosed around the exterior of the building with a foundation wall or non-load-bearing wall constructed of masonry (stone or brick), cast in place concrete, or concrete block finished with stucco or similar architectural treatment, penetrated by openings only for ventilation and access.
(b)
Tie-downs. Each manufactured home shall have tie-downs or other devices securing the stability of the manufactured home and shall be installed in accordance with the requirements of the manufacturer and the regulations of the Georgia Office of Insurance and Safety Fire Commissioner.
(c)
Code compliance. The dwelling shall be constructed in accordance with all applicable requirements of the state building code and in accordance with the standards established by the National Manufactured Housing Construction and Safety Standards Act of 1974, as amended by the Manufactured Housing Improvement Act of 2000 (42 USC 5401 et seq.).
(d)
Roof pitch. The roof shall have a minimum 3:12 roof pitch which means having a pitch equal to at least three inches of vertical height for every twelve inches of horizontal run.
(e)
Roof composition. The roof shall have a surface of wood shakes, asphalt composition, wood shingles, concrete, fiberglass tiles, slate, built-up gravel materials, standing seam (non-corrugated) tin or steel or other materials approved by the Zoning Administrator.
(f)
Exterior siding. The exterior siding materials shall consist of wood, masonry, hardboard, stucco, Masonite, vinyl lap, or other materials of like appearance.
(g)
Landing at building entrances. Each manufactured home if elevated shall include a landing installed at each outside doorway. The minimum size of the landing shall be four feet by six feet (excluding steps) at each doorway. The landing if elevated shall include steps which lead to ground level, and both landing and steps must meet applicable building code requirements.
(Code 2018, § 16.511)
Sec. 34-147. - Swimming pool, private.
Private swimming pools and their customary accessory buildings and structures shall be located in rear yards and shall be set back at least 15 feet from all side and rear lot lines and be enclosed by a wall or fence not less than four feet nor more than six feet in height.
(Code 2018, § 16.512)
Sec. 34-148. - Tennis court, private.
Tennis courts on individual residential lots shall be located in rear yards and shall be set back at least 15 feet from all side and rear lot lines and be enclosed by fence of sufficient height. Lighting for any private tennis court shall not be permitted, except by conditional use permit approval.
(Code 2018, § 16.513)
Sec. 34-149. - Vehicle or implement for sale.
Front yards and off-street parking areas for any use or development shall not be used to store and display vehicles for sale, except in cases of an approved commercial vehicle sales lot. This provision shall not apply to the placing of a "For Sale" sign on or in one licensed and operable vehicle, boat, other vehicle, or implement located in a private driveway and which licensed vehicle, boat, other vehicle, or implement is owned by an occupant of said private property.
(Code 2018, § 16.514)
Sec. 34-150. - Vehicle storage.
In RR and SR zoning districts, recreational vehicles such as boats, boat trailers, travel trailers, recreational vehicles, pick-up campers or coaches, motorized dwellings, motor coaches, tent trailers, and other similar vehicles may be parked or stored only in established areas in side yards, rear yards, carports in approved locations, or in an enclosed building; provided, however, that such vehicles may be parked or stored anywhere on residential premises for a period not to exceed 24 hours during loading and unloading. Parking or storage of such vehicles shall not take place on any vacant lot.
(Code 2018, § 16.515)
Sec. 34-151. - Yard sale.
Yard sales, where permitted, shall not exceed 72 hours for each yard sale. A yard sale on a particular property shall not occur more frequently than three times annually.
(Code 2018, § 16.516)
Secs. 34-152—34-180. - Reserved.
