ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 34-1. - General purposes.
This chapter serves the following purposes which shall not be considered exhaustive:
(1)
To prevent air and water pollution;
(2)
To regulate and/or to prohibit the keeping of animals and fowl;
(3)
To regulate the erection and construction of buildings and all other structures, and to regulate the height, bulk, placement, and the size of buildings and structures;
(4)
To protect and preserve the natural resources, environment, and vital areas of the city;
(5)
To regulate the operation of motor vehicles and exercise control over all traffic, including parking upon or across the streets, roads, alleys, and walkways of the city;
(6)
To establish a planning commission of the city; and to confer upon such commission the necessary and appropriate authority for carrying out all the powers conferred upon or delegated to same;
(7)
To provide for the protection of property of the city;
(8)
To regulate or prohibit specific businesses and commercial activities which may be dangerous to persons or property;
(9)
To regulate the transportation, storage, and use of combustible, explosive, and flammable materials;
(10)
To implement the city's adopted comprehensive plan;
(11)
To promote responsible growth, lessen congestion in the public thoroughfares, secure safety from fire and health dangers, and promote desirable living conditions;
(12)
To regulate the distribution of uses on the land to avoid both the undue concentration of population and the inappropriate dispersion of population, prevent the encroachment of incompatible land uses within residential areas, and preserve property values;
(13)
To provide procedures for the exercise of zoning powers pursuant to and consistent with the Zoning Procedures Law, O.C.G.A. ยง 36-66-1 et seq.;
(14)
To discourage sizes and types of development which would create excessive requirements and costs for public services;
(15)
To discourage or prohibit uses in certain locations which because of their size or type would generate an abnormal amount of traffic on minor streets;
(16)
To establish relationships between and among land uses that will ensure compatibility and maintain quality of life;
(17)
To protect and promote suitable environments for family and household residences, institutions, commercial and other employment centers, and other uses; and
(18)
For the purpose of all other powers, functions, rights, privileges, and immunities necessary or desirable to promote or protect the safety, health, peace, security, good order, comfort, convenience, or general welfare of the city and its inhabitants.
(Code 2018, ยง 16.104)
Sec. 34-2. - Purposes of design review.
(a)
Establishing the appropriate character of certain zoning districts in the city by necessity requires attention to the aesthetics of development. It is in the public interest to direct and control the visual appearance of buildings, structures, and development in certain zoning districts of the city, to prevent patently offensive harm to the existing visual character of the city, and to safeguard the happiness, comfort, and general well-being of citizens. Careful attention to the architectural design of buildings and the layout of land development sites within certain zoning districts is in the best interests of the city, its citizens, and business owners. Attractive and integrated architectural and site design features tend to improve an area's image, raise overall property values, attract new businesses and residents, and improve the quality of life.
(b)
The City Council finds that its citizens have widely shared human values related to the visual environment. The desire to protect certain features of the visual environment reflects a widespread pattern of community preference rather than simply the desires of a narrow few. That finding is supported by community visioning and character area delineation completed as a part of the city's comprehensive planning process. Regulations for design review and aesthetics are therefore based on the visual sensibilities of the average person in the community. The City Council finds further that visual harm to a widespread pattern of community preference can occur without the imposition of the design review provisions adopted in this chapter.
(c)
After careful study of specific existing features of the visual environment in certain zoning districts, the City Council finds that reasonable and intelligible standards can be established for implementation and administration to protect areas from associational dissonance. These include neutral and objective criteria such as (among others) height, bulk, scale, placement, topography, building materials, landscapes, and streetscapes. The design review requirements contained in this chapter are reasonably related to legitimate public purposes, and they are the minimum necessary to prevent substantial harm to existing features of the visual environment selected for protection.
(Code 2018, ยง 16.105)
Sec. 34-3. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning.
Abandon means to stop the use of property or the occupancy of a building intentionally. Abandonment is presumed when the use of a property or building has ceased and the property or building has been vacant for 12 months or more.
Abutting means having property lines in common, or having property separated by only an alley. Separation by a street right-of-way is not considered abutting.
Adaptive reuse means rehabilitation or renovation and occupancy of an existing building or structure for use other than the present use.
Agriculture means farming, including plowing, tilling, cropping, utilization of best management practices, seeding, cultivating, or harvesting for the production of food and fiber products (except commercial logging and timber harvesting operations); aquaculture; sod production; orchards; Christmas tree plantations; nurseries; and the cultivation of products as part of a recognized commercial enterprise. This term specifically includes "horticulture," or the growing of fruits, vegetables, herbs, flowers, or ornamental plants. This term also includes plant nurseries and greenhouses, where lands or structures are used primarily to cultivate trees, shrubs, flowers, or other plants for sale.
Alteration means any change in the supporting members of a building or structure such as bearing walls, columns, and girders, except such emergency change as may be required for safety purposes; any addition to a building; any change in use; or any movement of a building from one location to another.
Animal hospital means an establishment designed or used for the care, observation, or treatment of domestic animals.
Animal quarters means any structure which surrounds or is used to raise, breed (husbandry), house, shelter, care for, feed, exercise, train, exhibit, display, or show any animals or livestock other than domestic pets. This is not intended to apply to non-structural, fenced land for grazing. This includes the term "barn" when used to shelter livestock or other animals.
Annexation means the process by which a parcel of land is transferred from the jurisdiction of the unincorporated county to the jurisdiction of the city.
Appeal means a request for a review of an administrative official's interpretation of any provision of this chapter, or a request for a review of an action taken by an administrative official in the application or enforcement of this chapter.
Appearance means the outward aspect that is visible to the public.
Applicant means a property owner or his authorized representative who has petitioned the city for approval of an application under the terms of this chapter.
Assisted living facility means residences for the elderly who are in need of assistance that provide rooms, meals, personal care, and supervision of self-administered medication. They may provide other services incidental to the above. For purposes of this chapter, assisted living facilities are considered institutionalized residential living and care facilities.
Attractive means having qualities that arouse satisfaction and pleasure in numerous, but not necessarily all, observers.
Auction house or auction yard means any building, structure, enclosure, or place where goods or livestock are sold by auction (i.e., through bid in competition with others). This use is a wholesale trade establishment.
Automobile sales or service establishment means new or used car, truck, tractor, trailer, boat, recreational vehicle, camper, motorcycle, and other motorized vehicle sales, leasing, rental, and/or service, including manufactured home and modular building sales, agricultural implements and equipment, and similar pieces of equipment or vehicles. This definition includes automotive services such as rental car facilities, top and body, paint, automotive glass, transmission, and tire repair shops, car washes, and oil change and lubrication facilities.
Bank or financial establishment means a business that accepts money for deposit into accounts from the general public or other financial institutions, and which may include personal or business loans, wire transfers, and safe deposit boxes. Such uses include but are not limited to banks, savings and loan institutions, and credit unions, and security and commodity exchanges.
Bed and breakfast inn means a facility where overnight accommodations for not more than ten residents are provided to transients for compensation, with or without a morning meal. A bed and breakfast inn does not include retail uses, public bar, conference center, or special event facilities.
Broadcasting studio means a room or suite of rooms operated as a radio or television broadcasting studio or station with local broadcast capability or intended for satellite distribution of programs, and usually including satellite dishes, microwave dishes, and/or other communications equipment.
Buffer, natural vegetative, means a strip of land of specified width located between a side or rear property line and a building, structure, or use, intended to separate and obstruct the view of the site on which the buffer is located from an abutting property, and which contains a natural area consisting of trees and/or other vegetation, undisturbed except for approved access and utility crossings, and replanted where sparsely vegetated.
Build-to line means an alignment established a certain distance from the curb or right-of-way line to a line along which a building or buildings shall be built.
Building means and includes the word "structure."
Building, accessory, means a building subordinate to the main building on a lot and used for purposes incidental to the main or principal building and located on the same lot therewith.
Building, principal, means a building in which is conducted the principal use of the lot on which said building is situated. In any residential zoning district, any structure containing a dwelling unit shall be defined to be the principal building on the plot on which same is situated, except for detached accessory apartments. When an accessory building is attached to a principal building by a breezeway, passageway, or similar means, the accessory building shall be considered part of the principal building and shall comply with the yard requirements for a principal building.
Building bulk means the visual and physical mass of a building.
Building coverage, maximum, means the highest percentage of a given lot that may be occupied by all principal and accessory buildings and structures on said lot, measured within the outside of the exterior walls of the ground floor (i.e., "footprint") of all principal and accessory buildings and structures on the lot, not including steps, terraces, and uncovered porches.
Building footprint means the horizontal area of a building as seen in plan view, measured from the outside of all exterior walls and supporting columns.
Building, height of, means the vertical distance measured from the finished grade to the highest point of the coping of a flat roof; to the deck lines of a mansard roof; or to the mean height level between the eaves and ridge of a gable, hip or gambrel roof. In this context finished grade is determined as the average elevation of the ground on all sides of a building.
Building inspector means the city's official, or designee, responsible for implementing and enforcing minimum standard codes applicable in the city.
Building materials sales means an establishment offering lumber or other construction materials used in buildings for sale to contractors or the general public. When operated in whole or in part outside the confines of a building, a building materials sales establishment is an open-air business.
Building setback line means a line establishing the minimum allowable distance between the front wall of a principal building and the street right-of-way line or another building wall and a side or rear property line when measured perpendicularly thereto. Covered porches, whether enclosed or not, shall be considered as a part of the building and shall not project into beyond a required building setback line. For purposes of this chapter, a minimum required building setback line and minimum required yard shall be considered the same.
Business service establishment means a business activity engaged in support functions to establishments operating for a profit on a fee or contract basis, including but not limited to: advertising agencies, photocopying, blueprinting and duplication services, mailing agencies, commercial art and graphic design; personnel supply services and employment agencies, computer and data processing services, detective, protective, and security system services, accounting, auditing, and bookkeeping services, messenger services and couriers, publications and business consulting firms, food catering, interior decorating, and locksmiths.
Camp or campground means any place established or maintained for two or more individual spaces or sites for temporary living quarters in cabins, structures, or tents for recreation or vacation purposes for a fee.
Car wash means the use of a site for washing and cleaning of passenger vehicles, other vehicles, or other light duty equipment. Car washes consist of self-service, staffed, or mechanically automated facilities. For purposes of this chapter, a car wash is considered an automobile service establishment whether it is a principal use or accessory to another use or building.
Carport means a roofed, accessory building or structure, not necessarily fully enclosed on the sides and usually open on two or more sides, made of canvas, aluminum, wood, or any combination thereof, including such materials on movable frames, for the shade and shelter of private passenger vehicles or other motorized or non-motorized equipment such as tractors and boats.
Certificate of occupancy means a document issued by the building inspector indicating that the building and use or reuse of a particular building or land is in conformity with all applicable codes and regulations, and that such building or land may be occupied for the purpose stated therein.
Character means those attributes, qualities and features that make up and distinguish a development project or area of the city and give such project or area of the city a sense of purpose, function, definition, and uniqueness.
Church means a building or structure, or group of buildings or structures, that by design and construction are primarily intended for conducting organized religious services. Associated accessory uses include, but are not limited to, schools, meeting halls, indoor recreational facilities, day care, counseling, and kitchens. This term includes synagogues, temples, and places of worship.
Clinic means an institution or professional office, other than a hospital or nursing home, where persons are counseled, examined, and/or treated by one or more persons providing any form of healing or medical health service. Persons providing these services may offer any combination of counseling, diagnostic, therapeutic or preventative treatment, instruction, or services, and which may include medical, physical, psychological, or mental services and facilities for primarily ambulatory persons.
Club or lodge, nonprofit, means a building or premises, used for associations or organizations of an educational, fraternal, or social character, not operated or maintained for profit. Representative organizations include American Legion, Elks, Rotary, Lions, and Veterans of Foreign Wars. The term shall not include casinos, nightclubs, bottle clubs, or other establishments operated or maintained for profit.
Cohesiveness means unity of composition among elements of a structure or among structures, and their landscape development.
Commercial recreational facility, indoor, means a use that takes place within an enclosed building that involves the provision of sports and leisure activities to the general public for a fee, including but not limited to the following: assembly halls, auditoriums, meeting halls, for-profit art galleries, billiard halls and pool rooms, amusement halls, video arcades, ice and roller skating rinks, bowling alleys, and fully-enclosed theaters.
Commercial recreational facility, outdoor, means a use of land and/or buildings that involves the provision of sports and leisure activities to the general public for a fee, and which all or part of the activities occur outside of a building or structure, including but not limited to the following: amusement parks, stadiums, amphitheaters, fairgrounds, drive-in theaters, golf driving ranges, miniature golf courses, batting cages, race tracks for animals or motor-driven vehicles, archery ranges, unenclosed firearms shooting ranges and turkey shoots, fish ponds, botanical and zoological gardens, ultra-light flight parks, and bungee jumping.
Common area means land within a development, not individually owned or dedicated to the public, and designed for the common usage of the development. These areas include green open spaces and yards and may include pedestrian walkways and complementary structures and improvements for the enjoyment of residents of the development. Maintenance of such areas is the responsibility of a private association, not the public.
Community recreation means a private recreational facility for use solely by the residents and guests of a particular (usually residential) development, including indoor facilities such as community meeting rooms and outdoor facilities such as swimming pools, tennis courts, and playgrounds. These facilities are usually proposed, planned, and provided in association with a development and are usually located within the boundaries of such development.
Compatibility means with regard to development, the characteristics of different land uses or activities that permit them to be located near each other in harmony and without conflict; with regard to buildings, harmony in appearance of architectural features in the same vicinity.
Comprehensive plan means any plan adopted by the City Council, or any plan adopted by a regional commission covering the local jurisdiction, or portion of such plan or plans. This definition shall be construed liberally to include the major thoroughfare plan, master parks and recreation plan, or any other study, document, or written recommendation pertaining to subjects normally within the subject matter of a Comprehensive Plan as provided by the Georgia Planning Act of 1989, if formally adopted by the City Council.
Condition of zoning approval means a requirement adopted by the City Council at the time of approval of a rezoning, zoning amendment, or conditional use, placing greater or additional requirements or restrictions on the property than provided in this chapter in order to mitigate or reduce an adverse impact of the request and to further protect the public health, safety, or general welfare. This definition is not intended to be construed as limiting the legislative powers of the City Council in any way.
Condominium means a form of ownership as defined by state law in which common elements are jointly owned.
Condominium building means a building containing one or more individually owned units or building spaces situated on jointly owned, common areas as defined by laws of the state. When a building on property under condominium ownership contains only one dwelling unit, that building is considered a detached, single-family condominium building. When a building on property under condominium ownership contains two or more dwelling units, that building is considered an attached, multifamily condominium building.
Construction field office means a structure used as an office in conjunction with a project while it is being constructed. A construction field office is a temporary use. It may be an industrial building, as defined herein.
Continuing care retirement community means a residential facility providing multiple, comprehensive services to older adults. Such facility normally contains a combination of independent living units, assisted living, and skilled nursing care units as defined herein.
Continuity means the flow of elements or characteristics in a non-interrupted manner.
Contractor's establishment means an establishment engaged in the provision of construction activities, including but not limited to, plumbing, electrical work, building, grading, paving, roofing, carpentry, and other such activities, including the storage of material and the overnight parking of commercial vehicles. Also, this definition includes landscaping companies, as defined herein.
Convenience store means a retail store, usually with a floor area usually no more than 5,000 square feet, that sells convenience goods, such as prepackaged food items and a limited line of groceries. Convenience stores may or may not sell gasoline, diesel, and kerosene but do not include automotive services.
Crisis center means a facility or portion thereof and premises that are used for the purposes of emergency shelter, crisis intervention, including counseling, referral, hotline response, and similar human social service functions. Said facility may include meal preparation, distribution, or service for residents of the center as well as nonresidents, merchandise distribution, or shelter, including boarding, lodging, or residential care. This term includes domestic violence and centers, homeless shelters, and halfway houses.
Curb means a boundary, usually constructed of concrete, usually marking the edge of a roadway or paved area, which is designed to channel stormwater to drainage inlets and/or prevent or deter access.
Day care center means any place operated by a person, society, agency, corporation, institution or group, and licensed or registered by the State of Georgia as a group day care home or day care center, wherein are received for pay for group supervision and care, for fewer than 24 hours per day, seven or more persons.
Density means the quantity of building per unit of area; for example, the number of dwellings per area (gross square foot or per acre).
Design guideline means a standard of appropriate activity that will establish, preserve, or enhance the architectural character and site design and function of a building, structure, or land development.
Development means any manmade change to improved or unimproved real estate, including, but not limited to, buildings or other structures, mining, dredging, filling, grading, paving, excavating, drilling operations, or permanent storage of materials; any activity which alters the elevation of the land, removes or destroys plant life, or causes structures of any kind to be erected or removed.
Developmentally disabled person means a person with a disability resulting in substantial functional limitations in such person's major life activities which disability is attributable to mental retardation, cerebral palsy, epilepsy, or autism or is attributable to any other condition related to mental retardation because such condition results in impairment of general intellectual functioning or adaptive behavior similar to that of mentally retarded persons.
Dry cleaning plant means a building, portion of a building, or premises used or intended to be used for cleaning fabrics, textiles, wearing apparel, or articles of any sort by immersion or agitation, or by immersions only, in volatile solvents included, but not limited to, solvents of the petroleum distillate type, and/or the chlorinated hydrocarbon type, and the processes incidental thereto.
Dumpster means a container designed to hold refuse that has a hooking connection that permits it to be raised and dumped into a sanitation truck for disposal, or a container (excluding temporary placements) designed to hold refuse that is loaded onto a truck.
Dwelling means a building or portion of a building arranged or designed to provide living quarters for one or more families or households on a permanent or long-term basis.
Dwelling, single-family detached, means a site-built residential building, or an industrialized building, designed for occupancy by one family or household. This term does not include manufactured homes or mobile homes. Single-family, detached dwellings may be under fee simple (i.e., individual lot) ownership or on a condominium basis.
Dwelling, single-family detached, condominium, means a residential building designed for occupancy by one family only, where more than one dwelling is located on a single lot and the land is owned in common.
Dwelling, single-family detached, fee simple, means a building designed or arranged to be occupied by one family or household only, and where such dwelling is located on its own lot in fee simple title.
Dwelling, two-family (duplex), means a building designed or arranged to be occupied by two families or households living independently of each other. A duplex may be of the kind where both dwelling units are located on a single lot, or it may be of the kind where each dwelling unit is located on its own lot in fee simple title, but where the two dwelling units are attached along a common property line.
Dwelling, multifamily, means a building other than a duplex, designed for or occupied exclusively by three or more families or households with separate housekeeping facilities for each family.
Dwelling unit means a building, or portion thereof, designed, arranged and used for living quarters for one or more persons living as a single housekeeping unit with cooking facilities, but not including units in hotels or other structures designed for transient residence.
Easement means a non-possessory interest in land; a grant by a property owner for the use by the public, a corporation or persons, of a portion of land for a specified purpose or purposes.
Easement, access, means an easement devoted to vehicular access which affords a principal means of access to abutting property or properties, but which is not necessarily open to the general public and which is not necessarily improved to standards of the city.
Exterminator means an establishment engaged in pest control for businesses, institutions, residences, or industries. Such a use is a business service establishment.
External design feature means the general arrangement of any portion of structures or landscaping, including the type and texture of the materials, the type of roof, windows, doors, lights, signs, and fixtures of portions which are open to the public view.
Extractive industry means removal or recovery by any means whatsoever of sand, gravel, soil, rock, minerals, mineral substances or organic substances other than vegetation, from water or land on or beneath the surface thereof, exposed or submerged. This term includes gravel pits, mines, quarries, and similar operations.
Family means an individual; or two or more persons related by blood, marriage, or guardianship; or up to six unrelated individuals residing together as a single housekeeping unit. For purposes of this chapter, a "household" as defined is also considered a family.
Family day care home means a private residence in which a business, registered by the state, is operated by any person who receives therein (for pay) for supervision and care for fewer than 24 hours per day, not more than six persons who are not residents in the same private residence. For purposes of this chapter, a family day care home may be operated as a home occupation, subject to the requirements of this chapter.
Fee simple means a form of ownership where the owner is entitled to the entire property with unconditional power of disposition during his life and which descends to his heirs and legal representatives upon his death intestate.
Fence means an enclosure or barrier, composed of wood, masonry, stone, wire, iron, or other materials or combination of materials used as a boundary, means of protection, privacy screening, or confinement, including brick or concrete walls but not including hedges, shrubs, trees, or other natural growth.
Finance, insurance, and real estate establishment means such uses include but are not limited to banks, savings and loan institutions and credit unions, security and commodity exchanges, insurance agents, brokers, and service, real estate brokers, agents, managers, and developers, trusts, and holding and investment companies.
Flea market means the use of land, structures, or buildings for the sale of produce or goods, usually second-hand or cut-rate. A flea market is considered an open-air business.
Forestry means an operation involved in the growing, conserving, and managing of forests and forest lands. Forestry operations or practices include the raising and harvesting of timber, pulp woods, and other forestry products for commercial purposes, the construction of roads, insect and disease control, and fire protection, and may include the temporary operation of a sawmill and/or chipper to process the timber cut from the parcel or parcels. This term does not include the cutting of timber associated with approved land development.
Funeral home means a building used for human funeral services. Such building contains a chapel and may include space and facilities for embalming and the performance of other services used in the preparation of the dead for burial or cremation, the performance of autopsies and other surgical procedures, the indoor storage of caskets, funeral urns, and other related funeral supplies, and/or the indoor storage of funeral vehicles.
Gas tank sales means the retail sale of bulk storage tanks for flammable and combustible liquids, compressed gases or liquefied petroleum (LP) gas. Gas tank sales are considered open-air business uses.
Greenhouse means a building designed or used for growing or propagating plants, with walls or roof usually designed to transmit light.
Group home means a single housekeeping unit of more than six unrelated persons, whether or not they are developmentally disabled.
Guest house means a lodging unit for temporary guests in an accessory building. No guest house shall be rented or otherwise used as a separate dwelling.
Harmony means a quality that represents an attractive arrangement and agreement of parts of a composition, as in architectural elements.
Health spa means an establishment which for profit or gain provides as one of its primary purposes, services or facilities which are purported to assist patrons improve their physical condition or appearance through change in weight, weight control, treatment, dieting, or exercise. The term includes establishments designated as "reducing salons," "exercise gyms," "health studios," "health clubs," "fitness studios," and other terms of similar import. Not included within this definition are facilities operated by nonprofit organizations, facilities wholly owned and operated by a licensed physician at which such physician is engaged in the practice of medicine, or any establishment operated by a health care facility, hospital, intermediate care facility, or skilled nursing care facility.
Home occupation means any use, occupation, or activity conducted on the same site as a dwelling which is clearly incidental and secondary to the use of the dwelling for residence purposes and does not change the character thereof, as may be lawfully established under the terms of this chapter.
Hospital means an institution licensed by the state and providing primary health services and medical or surgical care to persons, primarily in-patients, suffering from illness, disease, injury, deformity, or other abnormal physical or mental conditions, and including as an integral part of the institution, such related facilities as laboratories, outpatient facilities, or training facilities.
Hotel means a commercial lodging service with one or more buildings devoted to the temporary shelter for the traveling public, and where entry to individual guest rooms is via a central lobby. A hotel is a lodging service for purposes of this chapter.
Household means a family, as defined herein, or a group of not more than six persons, including developmentally disabled persons and their caretakers, who need not be related by blood, marriage, or guardianship, living together in a dwelling unit as single housekeeping unit.
Impact means the effect of any direct manmade actions or indirect repercussions of manmade actions on existing physical, social, or economic conditions.
Impervious surface means a manmade structure or surface, which prevents the infiltration of water into the ground below the structure or surface. Examples are buildings, structures, roads, driveways, parking lots, decks, swimming pools, and patios.
Improvements means the physical additions and changes to land that may be necessary to produce usable, desirable, and acceptable lots or building sites.
Industrialized building means any structure or component thereof which is designed and constructed in compliance with the state minimum standards codes and is wholly or in substantial part made, fabricated, formed, or assembled in manufacturing facilities for installation or assembly and installation on a building site and has been manufactured in such a manner that all parts or processes cannot be inspected at the installation site without disassembly, damage to, or destruction thereof.
Industrialized building, residential, means any dwelling unit designed and constructed in compliance with the Georgia State Minimum Standard One- and Two-Family Dwelling Code which is wholly or in substantial part, made, fabricated, formed, or assembled in a manufacturing facility and cannot be inspected at the installation site without disassembly, damage to, or destruction thereof. Any such structure shall not contain a permanent metal chassis and shall be affixed to a permanent load-bearing foundation. The term shall not include manufactured homes as defined by the National Manufactured Housing Construction and Safety Standards Act of 1974, as amended by the Manufactured Housing Improvement Act of 2000 (42 USC 5401 et seq.).
Institutional residential living and care facilities means an umbrella term that encompasses the following uses as specifically defined in this chapter: assisted living facility, intermediate care home, nursing home, skilled nursing care facility, and personal care home.
Intermediate care home means a facility which admits residents on medical referral; it maintains the services and facilities for institutional care and has an agreement with a physician and dentist who will provide continuing supervision including emergencies; it complies with rules and regulations of the applicable state agency. The term "intermediate care" means the provision of food, including special diets when required, shelter, laundry, and personal care services such as help with dressing, getting in and out of bed, bathing, feeding, medications, and similar assistance, such services being under appropriate licensed supervision. Intermediate care does not normally include providing care for bed patients except on an emergency or temporary basis.
Junk means scrap or waste material of any kind or nature collected for resale, disposal, or storage, or by accumulation.
Kennel means any facility used for the purpose of commercial boarding or sale of domestic animals or pets such as dogs and cats, and any other customarily incidental treatment of the animals such as grooming, cleaning, selling of pet supplies, or otherwise. This term includes animal grooming services and pet psychologists.
Kitchen means any room or part of a room designed, built, used, or intended to be used for cooking, the preparation of food, or dishwashing. The presence of a range, oven, or dishwasher, or utility connections suitable for serving a range or oven, shall normally be considered as establishing a kitchen.
Landscape strip means an area of landscaping of specified width.
Landscaping means the modification of the landscape for an aesthetic or functional purpose; also the area within the boundaries of an individual lot that includes the preservation of existing vegetation and the continued maintenance thereof, as well as the installation of trees, shrubs, groundcovers, grass, and flowers. Landscaping areas may also include decorative rock, bark, mulch, and other similar approved materials in addition to vegetation and live plant material.
Landscaping company means a business engaged in the provision of landscaping services and/or the wholesale or retail sale of landscaping products including but not limited to sod, trees, landscaping timbers, and earth covering materials. The processing of wood into timbers, mulch, and/or chips is considered an incidental use of a landscaping company whose primary purpose is the wholesale or retail sale of landscaping products.
Laundromat means a facility where patrons wash, dry, or dry clean clothing or other fabrics in machines operated by the patron. A laundromat is considered a personal service establishment.
Livestock means cattle, horses, pigs, sheep, goats, llamas, emus, ostriches, donkeys, mules, goats, sheep, chickens, ducks, geese, and other fowl, rabbits, minks, foxes and other fur or hide-bearing animals, customarily bred or raised in captivity, whether owned or boarded, whether kept for pleasure, utility, or sale.
Lodging service means a facility that offers temporary shelter accommodations or place for such shelter open to the public for a fee, including "hotels" and "motels." The term "bed and breakfast inn" is defined separately and is not considered a lodging service for purposes of this chapter.
Lot means a parcel of land occupied or capable of being occupied by a use, building, or group of buildings devoted to a common use, together with the customary accessories and open spaces belonging to same. The word "lot" includes the word "plot" or "parcel."
Lot, corner, means a lot abutting upon two or more streets at their intersection.
Lot, double frontage, means any lot, other than a corner lot, which has frontage on two streets.
Lot, flag, means a tract or lot of land of uneven dimensions in which the portion fronting on a street is less than the required minimum width required for construction of a building or structure on that lot; also called a panhandle lot.
Lot area, minimum, means the smallest permitted total horizontal area within the lot lines of a lot, exclusive of street and alley rights-of-way but inclusive of easements.
Lot width means the distance between side lot lines measured at the front building line.
Lot of record means a lot which is part of a subdivision, a plat of which has been lawfully recorded in the records of the clerk of superior court of the county; or a parcel of land, the deed of which has been lawfully recorded in the same office.
Manufactured home means a structure, transportable in one or more sections, which, in the traveling mode, is eight body feet or more in width or 40 body feet or more in length; when erected on site, is 320 or more square feet in floor area; and which is built on a permanent chassis and designed to be used as a dwelling with or without a permanent foundation when connected to utilities, and includes the plumbing, heating, air conditioning, and electrical systems contained therein; or a structure that otherwise comes within the definition of a "manufactured home" under the National Manufactured Housing Construction and Safety Standards Act of 1974, as amended by the Manufactured Housing Improvement Act of 2000 (42 USC 5401 et seq.).
Manufacturing, processing, or assembling means the mechanical or chemical transformation of materials or substances into new products. The land uses engaged in these activities are usually described as plants, factories, or mills, and characteristically use power-driven machines and materials handling equipment. Establishments engaged in assembling component parts of manufactured products are also considered under this definition if the new product is neither a fixed structure nor other fixed improvement. Also included is the blending of materials such as lubricating oils, plastic resins, or liquors.
Material change in appearance means a change that will affect either the exterior architectural or environmental features of a building, structure, land use activity, or development site. A material change in appearance shall include but is not necessarily limited to the following:
(1)
The construction of a new building or structure;
(2)
The reconstruction or alteration of the size, shape, or facade of an existing building or structure, including any of its architectural elements or details;
(3)
Commencement of excavation for construction purposes; and
(4)
Installation of freestanding signs, walls, fences, steps, and pavements, or other appurtenant features.
Metes and bounds means a system of describing and identifying land by a series of lines around the perimeter of an area; "metes" means bearings and distances and "bounds" refers to physical monuments.
Mini-warehouse. See Self-service storage facility.
Mobile home means a structure, transportable in one or more sections, which, in the traveling mode, is eight body feet or more in width or 40 body feet or more in length; when erected on site, is 320 or more square feet in floor area, and which is built on a permanent chassis and designed to be used as a dwelling with or without a permanent foundation when connected to utilities, and includes the plumbing, heating, air conditioning, and electrical systems contained therein; and which has not been inspected and approved as meeting the requirements of the National Manufactured Housing Construction and Safety Standards Act of 1974, as amended by the Manufactured Housing Improvement Act of 2000 (42 USC 5401 et seq.).
Model home means a dwelling temporarily used as a sales office or demonstration home for a residential development under construction, said dwelling being used as an example of a product offered for sale to purchasers (by a realtor, building developer, or contractor). The dwelling may be furnished but is not occupied as a residence while being used as a model home.
Motel means a commercial lodging service with one or more buildings devoted to the temporary shelter for the traveling public, and where entry to individual guest rooms is via the exterior of the building rather than through a central lobby.
Museum means a building having public significance by reason of its architecture or former use or occupancy, or a building serving as a repository for a collection of natural, scientific, literary curiosities or objects of interest, or works of art, and arranged, intended, and designed to be viewed by members of the public with or without an admission fee, and which may include as an accessory use the sale of snacks and goods to the public as gifts or for their own use.
Nonconforming building or structure means a building or structure, which may be principal or accessory, that does not meet one or more applicable setbacks for the zoning district in which said building or structure is located; a building or structure that exceeds the maximum height or building coverage for the zoning district in which said building or structure is located; or a building or structure that otherwise does not comply with dimensional requirements established by this chapter for the particular principal building or accessory structure, or for the zoning district in which the nonconforming building or structure is located.
Nonconforming lot means a lot which does not conform to the minimum lot frontage requirements of this chapter and/or the minimum lot size and minimum lot width requirements of the zoning district in which the lot is located as established by this chapter, but which was a lot of record prior to the effective date of the ordinance from which this chapter is derived or its amendment.
Nonconforming situation means any development, land improvement, or activity, not otherwise included within the definition of nonconforming lot, nonconforming building or structure, nonconforming use, or nonconforming sign which does not meet the provisions of this chapter at the time of its adoption or amendment. Examples of nonconforming situations include but are not limited to, noncompliance with off-street parking regulations or access requirements, failure to adhere to landscape strip requirements, tree protection, and insufficient landscaping requirements.
Nonconforming use means any building or use of land or building lawfully existing on or before the effective date of the ordinance from which this chapter is derived or as a result of subsequent amendments to this chapter, which does not conform to the use provisions of the zoning district in which it is located.
Nursery or kindergarten school means any building used routinely for the daytime care or education of preschool age children and including all normal accessory and play areas. For the purpose of this chapter, a nursery or kindergarten school is considered to be a day care center.
Nursing home means a facility which admits patients on medical referral only and for whom arrangements have been made for continuous medical supervision; it maintains the services and facilities for skilled nursing care, rehabilitative nursing care, and has an agreement with a physician and dentist who will be available for any medical and/or dental emergency and who will be responsible for the general medical and dental supervision of the patients; it complies with rules and regulations of the applicable state agency.
Occupied, as applied to any land or building, shall be construed to include the words "intended, arranged, or designed to be used or occupied."
Office means a building or portion thereof wherein services are performed involving predominantly administrative, professional, or clerical operations, and not involving retail sales or other sales of any kind on the premises.
Office/warehouse means a building that combines office and warehouse or storage functions, where the majority of the area of the building is devoted to warehouse or storage functions, and which does not involve retail sales.
Open-air business means any commercial establishment with the principal use of displaying products in an area exposed to open air on three or more sides, including but not limited to rock yards, nurseries, garden centers and garden supply stores, lumber and building materials yards, flea markets, statuaries and monument sales establishments, and liquid petroleum dealers and tank sales. A roadside stand is not considered to be an open-air business.
Open space means land and water areas retained for use as passive recreation areas or for resource protection or conservation in an essentially undeveloped state.
Open space, landscaped, means that portion of a given lot not covered by buildings, parking, access, and service areas, that is designed to enhance privacy and the amenity of the development by providing landscaping features, screening, and buffering for the benefit of the occupants or those in neighboring areas; or a general appearance of openness. Landscaped open space may include but need not be limited to grass lawns, decorative planting, berms, walls and fences, ornamental objects such as fountains, statues and other similar natural and manmade objects, wooded areas, and water courses, any or all of which are designed and arranged to produce an aesthetically pleasing effect within the development.
Parking space means an area having dimensions of not less than 300 square feet, including driveway and maneuvering area, to be used as a temporary storage space for a private motor vehicle.
Parking structure means a structure or portion thereof composed of one or more fully or partially enclosed levels or floors used for the parking or storage of motor vehicles. This definition includes parking garages, deck parking, and underground parking areas under buildings.
Pedestrian-scale development means development designed with an emphasis primarily on the street sidewalk and on pedestrian access to the site and building, rather than auto access and parking areas. The building is generally placed close to the street and the main entrance is oriented to the street sidewalk. In the case of pedestrian retail districts, there are generally windows or display cases along building facades which face the street.
Permit means the authorization necessary to conduct an activity under the provisions of this chapter.
Permit, development, means an official authorization issued by the Zoning Administrator in accordance with this chapter to proceed with land disturbance and grading and site development, as set forth in this chapter.
Person includes a firm, association, joint venture, organization, partnership, corporation, trust, and company, as well as an individual.
Personal care home means any dwelling, whether operated for profit or not, which undertakes through its ownership or management to provide or arrange for the provision of housing, food service, and one or more personal services for two or more adults who are not related to the owner or administrator by blood or marriage. Personal care tasks include assistance with bathing, toileting, grooming, shaving, dental care, dressing, and eating.
Personal service establishment means a facility engaged in the provision of services to persons and their apparel, including but not limited to barber[shops] and beauty shops, coin-operated laundromats, full service laundries, dry cleaners, photographic studios, shoe repair and shoeshine shops, travel agencies, massage parlors, escort services, fortune-telling, psychics, clothing or costume rental, dating service, hair removal or replacement, or tanning salon.
Planning commission means the Nicholson Planning Commission.
Recreational vehicle means a vehicular-type unit primarily designed as temporary living quarters for recreational, camping, or travel use, which either has its own motive power or is mounted or drawn by another vehicle. This term includes motorized homes, motorized campers, pick-up campers, travel trailers, camping trailers, and tent trailers, among others.
Recycling processing center means any facility utilized for the purpose of collecting, sorting, and processing materials to be recycled, including but not limited to plastics, glass, paper, and aluminum materials.
Relocated residential structure means a detached, single-family dwelling, site-built (i.e., excluding a manufactured home or mobile home) that is moved or disassembled into more than one structure and moved to another site, whether temporarily or permanently.
Research laboratory means a facility for scientific laboratory research in technology-intensive fields, including but not limited to biotechnology, pharmaceuticals, genetics, plastics, polymers, resins, coatings, fibers, fabrics, films, heat transfer, radiation research facilities, computer software, information systems, communication systems, transportation, geographic information systems, multi-media, and video technology. Also included in this definition are facilities devoted to the analysis of natural resources, medical resources, and manufactured materials, including environmental laboratories for the analysis of air, water, and soil; medical or veterinary laboratories for the analysis of blood, tissue, or other human medical or animal products; and forensic laboratories for analysis of evidence in support of law enforcement agencies.
Restaurant means any establishment in which the principal business is the sale of foods and beverages to customers in a ready-to-consume state, and in which customers are served their food and/or beverages by a restaurant employee at the same table or counter at which the items are consumed; or customers are served their food and/or beverages by means of a cafeteria-type operation where the food or beverages are consumed within the restaurant building. This term includes taverns, bars, pubs, and sidewalk cafes.
Restaurant, drive-through, means any establishment in which the principal business is the sale of food and beverages to customers in a ready-to-consume state and in which the principal or accessory method of operation of all or any portion of the business is to allow food or beverages to be served directly to the customer in a motor vehicle without the need for the customer to exit the motor vehicle.
Retail trade establishment, enclosed, means any business offering goods and products for sale to the public, which may include the incidental repair of such goods and products, that operates entirely within a structure containing a roof and walls on all sides, except for outdoor display or other use during business hours and accessory storage in enclosed, subordinate buildings. These include but are not limited to the following: convenience stores including the sale of gasoline; hardware, paint, glass and wallpaper stores; grocery and miscellaneous food stores including retail bakeries; apparel, shoe, and accessory clothing stores; furniture, upholstery, floor covering, household appliance and home furnishing stores; musical instrument stores, radio, television, and computer stores; record, tape, and compact disc stores; eating and drinking places not involving drive-in or drive-through facilities; drug stores, apothecaries, and proprietary stores; liquor stores and bottle shops; used merchandise stores and pawn shops; sporting goods stores and bicycle shops; art and stationery stores; hobby, toy, and game shops; jewelry, gift, novelty, souvenir, and antique shops; camera and photographic supply stores; luggage and leather goods stores; sewing, needlework, and piece goods stores; catalogue and mail-order stores; newsstands, florists, tobacco shops, automotive parts stores not involving repair, video rental and sales stores; and watch and clock sales and repair shops.
Retreat center means a facility used for professional, educational, or religious meetings, conferences, or seminars, and which may provide meals in a single building, lodging, and recreation for participants during the period of the retreat or program only. Such center may not be utilized for the general public for meals or overnight accommodations. Housing is usually in lodges, dormitories, sleeping cabins, or other such temporary quarters, which do not contain kitchens.
Rezoning means an amendment to the official zoning map that changes the zoning district of one or more properties specified in an application.
Riding academy or equestrian center means an establishment where horses are kept for riding, competition, or educational purposes incidental to a club, association, ranch, educational institution, or similar establishment, but which does not involve commercial sales and is not open to the general public for a fee.
Riding stable means an establishment where horses or other animals that can be ridden by humans are kept for riding and which offers the general public rides for a fee.
Right-of-way, public, means that area distinguished from an easement or private road right-of-way which is owned in fee simple title by the city or other government for the present or future use of alleys, roads, and highways, together with any drainage facilities and other improved ancillary structures.
Road means a state highway, a county road, a road adopted as a county-owned right-of-way approved for county maintenance, a street owned and/or maintained by a municipality, a street approved for city maintenance, or where permitted, a private road. Roads afford the principal means of access to abutting property or properties. The term includes "street" but does not include "access easement."
Road, private, means an improved road, distinguished from a public road in that the right-of-way which affords a principal means of access to abutting property or properties is privately owned and maintained.
Roadside stand means a use offering either farm-grown or prepared food products such as fruits, vegetables, canned foods, or similar agricultural products for sale on the premises within or without a temporary structure on the premises, with no space for customers within the structure itself.
Roof means the cover of a building, including the eaves and similar projections.
Salvage yard means a place of business primarily engaged in the storage, sale, dismantling, or other processing of uses or waste materials which are not intended for reuse in their original forms. Typical uses include paper and metal salvage yards, used tire storage yards, or retail and/or wholesale sales of used automobile parts and supplies. This term includes junkyards.
Sawmill means a facility where logs or partially processed wood is sawn, split, shaved, stripped, chipped, or otherwise processed to produce wood products. This term does not apply to the processing of timber for use on the same lot by the owner or occupant of that lot.
Scale means proportional relationships of the size of parts to one another and to humans.
School for the arts means an educational use not operated by the county board of education that offers or provides instruction to more than two students at a time in dance, singing, music, painting, sculpting, fine arts, or martial arts.
School, private, elementary, middle, or high, means an educational use for students in grades one through twelve or for only certain ranges of grades one through twelve, not operated by the county board of education, which has a curriculum at least equal to a public school with regard to the branches of learning and study required to be taught in the public schools of the state.
School, public, means an educational use for students in grades one through 12 or for only certain ranges of grades one through twelve, operated by the county board of education.
School, special, means an educational use not operated by the county board of education that provides special education to more than two students at a time, including but not limited to the training of gifted, learning-disabled, and mentally or physically handicapped persons.
School, trade, means an educational use not operated by the county board of education and having a curriculum devoted primarily to business (including barbers and beauticians), industry, trade, or other vocational-technical instruction.
Self-service storage facility means mini-warehouse; a structure, building, or group of buildings divided into separate compartments, spaces, or stalls, which may be of different sizes and which may or may not be climate-controlled, and which are leased or rented on an individual basis to businesses and residents for temporary storage needs, but where no commercial transactions or activities take place other than the rental of the storage units for exclusively storage purposes.
Service and fuel filling station means any building, structure, or land use for the retail sale of motor vehicle fuel and oil accessories, and which may include the servicing of motor vehicles; except that major repairs, body repairs, and painting of motor vehicles shall not be considered servicing of motor vehicles.
Showroom means a principal or accessory use where wholesale or retail goods are displayed.
Sidewalk means a hard-surfaced pedestrian access area adjacent to or within the right-of-way of a public road or private road.
Sight visibility triangle means the areas at the corners of an intersection of two streets, or at an intersection of a street and driveway, that must be kept free of shrubs, groundcovers, berms, fences, structures, or other materials or items that would obstruct views at heights between 30 inches to 12 feet as measured from the ground.
Skilled nursing care facility means a facility which admits residents on medical referral; it maintains the services and facilities for skilled nursing care and has an agreement with a physician and dentist who will provide continuing supervision including emergencies; it complies with rules and regulations of the applicable state agency. The term "skilled nursing care" means the application of recognized nursing methods, procedures, and actions directed toward implementation of the physician's therapeutic and diagnostic plan; along with detection of changes in the patients' regulatory system, preservation of body defenses, prevention of complications, and preservation of emotional well-being.
Solid waste transfer facility means a fixed facility where solid waste from collection vehicles is consolidated and temporarily stored for subsequent transport to a permanent disposal site.
Special event facility means a facility or assembly hall available for lease by private parties or special events such as weddings. This term includes wedding chapels.
Street furniture means those features associated with a street that are intended to enhance the street's physical character and use by pedestrians, such as benches, trash receptacles, planting containers, pedestrian lighting, kiosks, etc.
Street hardware means objects other than buildings or street furniture that are part of the streetscape. Examples are: non-pedestrian streetlight fixtures, utility poles, traffic lights and their fixtures, fire hydrants, etc.
Streetscape means the appearance and organization along a street of buildings, paving, plantings, street hardware, street furniture, and miscellaneous structures.
Structure means anything built, constructed, erected, established, or composed of parts joined together in some definite manner, the use of which requires location on the ground or which is attached to something having permanent location on the ground. For purposes of this chapter, swimming pools and tennis courts are considered structures. Tents, vehicles, trailers, and play equipment attached to the ground in some permanent or temporary way shall be considered structures. A structure may or may not be easily moved from a given location on the ground. Walls and fences are considered structures but are subject to setback regulations for walls and fences, rather than principal or accessory building setback regulations.
Subdivision means the division of a tract or parcel of land into two or more lots, building sites, lease lots, or other divisions for the purpose, whether immediate or future, of sale, lease, legacy, or building development. The term shall include the opening of a new road, a change in existing roads, or divisions of land involving the extension of water, sewer, or gas lines. The term includes resubdivision and, where appropriate to the context, relates to the process of subdivision or to the land or area subdivided.
Taxicab or limousine service means any place used to dispatch motor vehicles with drivers for hire.
Tow service means an establishment that dispatches towing vehicles and which provides for the temporary storage of vehicles but does not include disposal, disassembly, salvage, or accessory storage of inoperable vehicles. This term is distinguished from "wrecked motor vehicle compound" and "salvage yard" as defined herein.
Townhouse means one of a group of three or more single-family, attached dwelling units under fee simple ownership.
Truck stop means an establishment engaged primarily in the fueling, servicing, repair, or parking of tractor trucks or similar heavy commercial vehicles, including the sale of accessories and equipment for such vehicles. A truck stop may also include overnight accommodations, showers, or restaurant facilities primarily for the use of truck drivers.
Use, accessory, means a use of land subordinate to the principal building or use on a lot for purposes incidental and related to the principal building or use and located on the same lot therewith.
Use, conditional, means a use that would not be appropriate generally or without restriction throughout a particular zoning district and which is not automatically permitted by right within said zoning district but which, if controlled as to number, area, location, relation to the neighborhood or other pertinent considerations, may be found to be compatible and approved by the City Council after review and recommendation by the planning commission within that particular zoning district, as provided in certain instances by this chapter. An approved conditional use runs with the property.
Use, permitted, means a use by right which is specifically authorized in a particular zoning district.
Use, public, means any building, structure, or use owned and/or operated by the federal government, the state, the county or other county, a municipality, or any authority, agency, board, or commission of the above governments, that is necessary to serve a public purpose, such as but not limited to the following: government administrative buildings, post offices, police and fire stations, libraries and publicly operated museums, public health facilities and public hospitals, public works camps, parks and community centers, public roads and streets, water and sanitary sewerage intake, collection, pumping, treatment, and storage facilities, emergency medical facilities, and jails and correctional facilities.
Use, temporary, means a use or structure in place for only a short period of time.
Used, as applied to any land or building, shall be construed to include the words "intended, arranged, or designed to be used or occupied."
Variance means a grant of relief from the requirements of this chapter which permits construction or use in a matter otherwise prohibited by this chapter; a minimal relaxation or modification of the strict terms of the height, area, placement, setback, yard, buffer, landscape strip, parking and loading, or other regulations which are dimensional in nature as applied to specific property when, because of particular physical surroundings, shape, or topographical condition of the property, compliance would result in a particular hardship or practical difficulty upon the owner, as distinguished from a mere inconvenience or a desire to make a profit.
Warehouse means a use involving the storage of products, supplies, and equipment, and which typically involves truck transportation to and from the site.
Wastewater treatment plant means a facility or group of units used for the treatment of industrial or domestic wastewater for sewer systems and for the reduction and handling of solids and gasses removed from such waste, whether or not such facility is discharging into state waters.
Wetlands means those areas that are inundated or saturated by surface or groundwater at a frequency and duration sufficient to support, and that under normal circumstances do support, a prevalence of vegetation typically adapted for life in saturated soil conditions.
Wholesale trade establishment means an establishment engaged in the selling or distribution of merchandise to retailers; to industrial, commercial, institutional or professional business users; or to other wholesalers.
Wireless telecommunication equipment means any equipment used to provide wireless telecommunication services but which is not affixed to or contained within a wireless telecommunication facility, but is instead affixed to or mounted on an existing building or structure that is used for some other purpose. Wireless telecommunication equipment also includes a ground-mounted base station used as an accessory structure that is connected to an antenna mounted on or affixed to an existing building.
Wireless telecommunication facility means any freestanding facility, building, pole, tower, or structure used to provide wireless telecommunication services and which consists of, without limitation, antennas, equipment and storage and other accessory structures used to provide wireless telecommunication services.
Wrecked motor vehicle compound means an area used to store disabled or impounded motor vehicles until such time as their disposition (either by junk, salvage, repair, etc.) has been determined by the insurance company, the owner of the vehicle, or his legal representative.
Yard means a space on the same lot with a principal building; open, unoccupied, and unobstructed by buildings or structures from ground to sky, except where encroachments and accessory buildings are expressly permitted.
Yard, front, means an open, unoccupied space on the same lot with a principal building, extending the full width of the lot, and situated between the street right-of-way and the front line of the building projected to the side lines of the lot. For corner and double frontage lots, front yard requirements apply to all road frontages. Where "build to" line requirements are specified in this chapter, they supersede front yard requirements.
Yard, rear, means an open, unoccupied space on the same lot with a principal building, extending the full width of the lot and situated between the rear line of the lot and the rear line of the building projected to the side lines of the lot.
Yard sale means the temporary sale of home furniture, appliances, clothing, and/or domestic items owned by an occupant of a residential dwelling and taking place on the premises on which such occupant resides, whether in the yard or in a carport or garage. Yard sales which do not take place on the premises on which such occupant resides are considered open-air businesses, except that this shall not be construed to prevent the sale of such items by another family or household in connection with an event where such items are sold by the occupant of a residence on the premises where the yard sale occurs. This term includes garage sales.
Yard, side, means an open, unoccupied space on the same lot with the principal building, situated between the building and the side line of the lot, and extending from the rear line of the front yard to the front line of the rear yard.
Zoning map means the official zoning map of the city.
(Code 2018, ch. 16, art. XII; Ord. of 9-12-2013)
Sec. 34-4. - Penalties for violation.
Any person who violates any provisions of this chapter or any permit condition or limitation established pursuant to this chapter shall be liable for a civil penalty as provided by state law or section 1-13. Each day during which violation or failure or refusal to comply continues shall be a separate violation. Any person who violates any provisions of this chapter, or any permit condition or limitation established pursuant to this chapter may be sentenced to a period of confinement of up to 30 days.
(Code 2018, ยง 16.1105)
Secs. 34-5โ34-30. - Reserved.
