ARTICLE IX. - PERMITS AND CERTIFICATES

Sec. 34-296. - Development permit.
(a)
Required. A development permit shall be required for any proposed use of land or buildings, and before any improvement, grading, or alteration of land or buildings commences; to indicate and ensure compliance with all provisions of this chapter and other applicable regulations in this Code. Such development activities include but are not limited to clearing and grubbing, grading and/or land disturbance, and the construction of such improvements as streets, surface parking areas and drives, stormwater drainage facilities, sidewalks, or other structures permanently placed on or in the property.
(b)
Separate requirements for phased applications. If the tract is to be developed in phases, then a separate development permit shall be required for each phase.
(c)
Exemptions. A development permit shall not be required for individual structures within approved subdivisions, nor shall a development permit be required for a detached, single-family dwelling on an individual lot not part of an approved subdivision or development.
(d)
Application. No person shall conduct any land-disturbing or development activity within the city without first applying for and obtaining a development permit and land disturbance permit from the Zoning Administrator, to perform such activity.
(e)
Application requirements. Applications shall be made in accordance with application requirements specified by the Zoning Administrator and this section. All applications for a development permit shall be made to the Zoning Administrator and shall be accompanied by the following:
(1)
Application on the form furnished by the Zoning Administrator.
(2)
A fee as established by resolution of the City Council.
(3)
A copy of the approved preliminary plat if subdivision is required and preliminary plat approval has been obtained; or an application for preliminary plat approval, if required.
(4)
A sufficient number (as approved by the Zoning Administrator) of sets of plans drawn to scale, signed and stamped by one or more qualified professionals who have authority to produce such plans or portions thereof, with addresses and contact information.
The application shall be checked for completeness at the time of submission. Incomplete applications will not be processed and will be returned to the applicant.
(f)
Agency and Zoning Administrator review. The Zoning Administrator shall forward a copy of the development permit application, including the civil plans and drawings for the project, to other city departments and government agencies or others as appropriate, for their review and comment. The applicant may be required by the Zoning Administrator to secure development approval from other agencies if they are affected by (or have jurisdiction over) the development. Development approval may be required from but is not necessarily limited to the following, as applicable: the city engineer, the city street and/or public works department, the Georgia Department of Natural Resources, the soil and water conservation district with jurisdiction, the county fire department, the county health department, the Georgia Department of Transportation, and the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers.
(g)
Consolidation and submission of comments to applicant. Upon receipt of comments from other city departments and external agencies as appropriate, the Zoning Administrator shall provide all comments to the applicant for resolution and as appropriate shall indicate on one or more copies of the civil drawings or in writing all comments related to compliance with applicable city regulations and agency requirements. Thereafter, the applicant shall submit revised plans to reflect all such comments.
(h)
Issuance. All development permits shall be issued by the Zoning Administrator who shall in no case grant any development permit for the use, construction, or alteration of any land or building if the land or building as proposed to be used, constructed, or altered would be in violation of any of the provisions of this chapter or other applicable regulations of the city. The applicant shall be responsible for compliance with all codes, regulations, and zoning requirements and for the satisfaction of all of the comments of reviewing city departments, external agencies, and the Zoning Administrator. Although review may have been achieved, if another city department or external agency requires approval or a permit, the owner shall also be responsible for obtaining such approval or permit from all other agencies affected by the project prior to issuance of the development permit by the Zoning Administrator.
(i)
Denial. If the development permit is denied, the Zoning Administrator shall state in writing the reason for the denial and the applicant shall be notified of the denial. A record of all development permits shall be kept on file in the office of the Zoning Administrator which shall be a public record.
(j)
Duration of validity. A development permit shall expire two years after its issuance, subject to the following provisions:
(1)
If the work described in any development permit has not begun within one year from the date of issuance thereof, said permit shall expire; and
(2)
If work described in any development permit has not been substantially completed within two years of the date of issuance thereof, said permit shall expire.
Application processes shall begin anew for any expired development permit.
(k)
Suspension or revocation. The development permit may be suspended or revoked by the city as to all or any portion of the land affected by the permit, upon finding that the holder or his successor in title is not in compliance with the approved development permit or is in violation of any applicable regulations of this chapter or other ordinances in this Code.
(Code 2018, § 16.901)
Sec. 34-297. - Building permit.
(a)
The building inspector is hereby authorized to issue building permits in accordance with all provisions of this chapter and relevant ordinances of this Code, but only after the Zoning Administrator has issued a development permit; or, if no development permit is required, after a review of said building permit for compliance with the provisions of this chapter and applicable regulations of the city.
(b)
No building or other structure shall be erected, moved, extended, occupied, enlarged, or structurally altered; nor shall a building or structure's use be changed; nor shall any excavation, grading, or filling of any lot for the construction of any building or structure be commenced until the building inspector has issued a building permit for such work in conformity with the provisions of this chapter and all applicable building and related codes.
(c)
Approval of a building permit shall require an application to the Building Inspector as specified in the minimum standard codes. If the building permit is denied, the building inspector shall state in writing the reason for the denial and the applicant shall be notified of the denial. A record of all building permits shall be kept on file in the office of the Building Inspector.
(d)
Any building permit issued shall become invalid unless the work authorized by it has commenced within 180 days of its date of issue, or if the work authorized by it is suspended or abandoned for a period of six months.
(e)
Chapter 1 of the International Building Code of the most current edition adopted by the state, which is hereby adopted as if fully set forth in this chapter, shall govern specific procedures and submission requirements.
(Code 2018, § 16.902)
Sec. 34-298. - Certificate of occupancy.
A certificate of occupancy issued by the building inspector is required in advance of occupancy or use of any building or structure hereafter erected or changed in the occupancy classification or use of an existing building or structure.
(Code 2018, § 16.903)
Sec. 34-299. - Design review permit.
(a)
Permit required. Unless specifically exempted by the provisions of section 34-300, a design review permit shall be required to be issued by the planning commission, acting as the design review board, prior to the establishment of a use, or erection of a building or structure, or the occupancy of land or water within the INST, TC, and HB zoning districts.
(b)
Application requirements. A design review permit requires an application to be made by the property owner or agent for the property owner. At a minimum, application requirements shall include the materials specified for a development permit in section 34-296. The planning commission may refuse to act on an incomplete application or an application for design review permit that fails to contain submission materials with respect to design that it finds necessary to make a decision on said permit, which may include a site plan and landscaping plan, building elevation drawings, photographs, and/or color and material samples for building materials.
(c)
Criteria for decisions. The planning commission shall act in an administrative decision-making context and shall base its decision to approve, conditionally approve, or deny material changes in appearance proposed in an application for a design review permit on the proposed development, building, or structure's consistency with any design guidelines adopted by the City Council; as well as the design and appropriateness of the external design features, including but not limited to arrangement, building bulk, colors, character, cohesiveness, continuity, harmony, landscapes, materials, scale, streetscapes, and texture, and the relation of such elements to similar features of structures and development in the immediate surrounding area. Grounds for denying an application for design review permit may include, but are not limited to, character foreign to the area; arresting and spectacular effects; violent contrasts of material or color, or intense or lurid colors; a multiplicity or incongruity of details resulting in a restless and disturbing appearance; and/or the absence of unity and coherence in composition not in consonance with the density and character of the present structure or surrounding area. In granting a design review permit, however, the planning commission may also impose such reasonable requirements and conditions with respect to the location, construction, maintenance, and operation of any use or building, whether or not articulated in design guidelines adopted by the City Council, as may be deemed necessary for the protection of adjacent properties and the public interest.
(d)
Timeframe for decision. The planning commission shall make a final determination on a complete application for a design review permit within 45 days from the date a complete application is received. If the design review permit is denied, the Zoning Administrator shall prepare a written notice to the property owner or applicant stating in writing the reason or reasons the planning commission denied the design review permit.
(e)
Records of decisions. The planning commission shall keep records of its examinations and other official actions with respect to design review permit applications, all of which shall be filed with the City Clerk and which shall be public record.
(f)
Appeal of decision. Decisions of the planning commission with respect to issuance or denial of a design review permit shall be final unless within 30 days of the decision an appeal of the decision of the planning commission is filed with the City Council by the property owner, or an aggrieved property owner with standing, in which case the Mayor and City Council shall decide such appeal and affirm or overturn the decision of the planning commission. In processing any such appeal, the procedure shall be governed by section 34-261, with the exceptions that transmittal to and recommendation by the planning commission shall not be required; the application shall proceed directly to the City Council.
(g)
Changes after permit issuance. After the issuance of a design review permit, no material change in the appearance of a site, building, or structure shall be made or permitted to be made by the owner or occupant thereof, unless and until all requirements of this section are met.
(h)
Exclusions. Nothing in this section shall be construed to prevent the ordinary maintenance or repair of any exterior design feature in or on property, which maintenance or repair does not involve a material change in design, material, or outer appearance thereof; nor to prevent the property owner from making any use of property not prohibited by other laws, ordinances, or regulations.
(i)
Enforcement. The city, through the Zoning Administrator, code enforcement officer, or city attorney, shall be authorized to institute any appropriate action or proceeding in a court of competent jurisdiction to prevent any material change in the appearance of a land, water, building, or structure subject to the requirements of this section, except those changes made in compliance with the provisions of this section.
(Code 2018, § 16.904; Ord. of 9-12-2013)
Sec. 34-300. - Design review permit exemption.
Notwithstanding the provisions of section 34-299, the Zoning Administrator shall be authorized to administratively authorize and approve the following enumerated material changes in appearance of an external design feature without the need to obtain a design review permit from the planning commission. The Zoning Administrator is authorized to prepare administrative forms and to issue design review permit exemptions for material changes in appearance of an external design feature specifically enumerated in this section.
(1)
Any new single-family dwelling used for single-family dwelling purposes only including accessory buildings, structures, and accessory uses.
(2)
Any material change in the appearance of an existing single-family dwelling or manufactured home used for single-family dwelling purposes only, including accessory buildings, structures, and accessory uses.
(3)
Window air conditioning units installed on the side or rear facade of a building, and air conditioning, heating, or mechanical systems located on the ground, in a side or rear yard.
(4)
Satellite dishes, provided they are not mounted on front or side building facades or in front yards.
(5)
Ramps or other equipment required for handicapped accessibility.
(6)
Dumpsters, when located in rear yards and screened.
(7)
Grading, land disturbance, and/or paving or improvement for additional parking for four or less parking spaces or less than 1,200 square feet of area.
(8)
Fences and walls in side or rear yards, constructed of wood, brick, concrete, stone, or vinyl-coated chain-link, provided that they do not exceed eight feet in height.
(9)
Ground signs, unlighted, not exceeding 15 square feet in area.
(10)
Window signs, unlighted.
(11)
Signage for temporary special events approved by the Zoning Administrator.
(12)
Temporary ground signs, not exceeding 15 square feet in area.
(13)
Temporary wall signs, not exceeding 15 square feet in area.
(14)
Other minor alterations. Where in the opinion of the Zoning Administrator a requested change constitutes a minor alteration, the Zoning Administrator may issue an exemption. The Zoning Administrator may consult with the chairman of the planning commission in deciding whether such exemption pursuant to this subsection is warranted and appropriate.
(Code 2018, § 16.905; Ord. of 9-12-2013)
Secs. 34-301—34-330. - Reserved.
