ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 16-1. - Collection of taxes, fees and other revenues.
All taxes, fees, penalties, fines or other revenue due the city shall be paid to the Office of the General Government Administration Department Head or a designee of the General Government Administration Department Head. Any city employee collecting any monies due the city or receiving such monies for any reason shall promptly deliver such monies to the Office of the General Government Administration Department or designee.
(Code 1979, § 3-1-51(a); Code 1998, § 38-1; Ord. No. 15-96, 7-8-1996)
Sec. 16-2. - Use of credit cards for collections.
(a)
All sums due the city including, but not limited to, ad valorem taxes, occupation taxes, fines, forfeitures, penalties, license fees, permit fees and registration fees, may be paid by the use of credit cards. The city General Government Administration Department Head, with the approval of the Mayor and Council, shall establish the procedures for acceptance of credit card payments for amounts due the city. The Mayor is authorized to enter into agreements with credit card issuers to facilitate the acceptance of credit card payment by the city.
(b)
A credit card agreement may provide for the acceptance of the credit card payments from the credit card company at a discount from the face amount of the payment or for the withholding of administrative fees from the face amount of the payment. Such discounted fee is granted in exchange for the improved government cash flow, reduction of administrative expenses and increased public convenience as a result of credit card payment.
(c)
A surcharge equal to the administrative fees charged by the credit card issuers to the city may be imposed upon any person making a payment by credit card, when such surcharges are permitted by the operating rules and regulations of the credit card issuer.
(d)
Any agreement with a credit card issuer for the acceptance or payments via credit shall contain a provision that the agreement may be canceled at any time by the city.
(e)
No person making payment by credit card to the city is relieved from liability for the underlying obligation except to the extent that the city actually receives final payment of the obligation in cash or its equivalent. If final payment is not made by the credit card issuers or other guarantor of payment in the credit card transaction, the underlying obligation for the money due is not extinguished. All applicable penalties, interest and collection fees on the unpaid amount shall be due from the person making the payment by credit card.
(f)
Such penalties, interest and fees on an unpaid amount shall accrue from the date the unpaid obligation was first due under the application statute or ordinance. The city shall follow the collection procedures for the unpaid amount that would have otherwise been applicable had the credit card payment not been attempted.
(Code 1979, § 3-1-51(b)—(g); Code 1998, § 38-2; Ord. No. 18-95, § IV, 11-6-1995; Ord. No. 15-96, 7-8-1996)
Sec. 16-3. - Delinquent taxes, fees, special assessment tax or other revenue; interest.
(a)
Any city tax, fee, penalty, fine, special assessment tax or other revenue due the city which has not been paid within the time limits set for payment, may be collected by the city, after providing ten days' written notice, by the issuance of a fi. fa., by the General Government Administration Department Head, or a designee thereof, and execution by the Mayor or his designee on any property, personal or real, of that person located within the county for the amount due.
(b)
Any debts due the city as described in subsection (a) of this section are hereby declared also to be personal debts of the person owning the taxed property or otherwise owing funds to the city, and the amount due may be collected plus interest, penalties, costs and attorney's fees from that person as provided generally for the collection of personal debts under general state law.
(c)
Tax bills for property also subject to a special assessment levied by the city shall include, in addition to the information contained in subsection (a) above, a separate sum due as a result of the special assessment. Said tax bill shall further include an adequate description of the basis for said special assessment and the legal authority providing for same.
(d)
Executions under this section may be assigned, sold or otherwise transferred with the approval of the Mayor and may be collected after the transfer as provided in this section.
(e)
All delinquent fi. fas. issued under subsection (a) of this section as well as any interest or penalty thereon shall be included as a part of and in addition to the annual ad valorem tax bill.
(f)
Upon order of the General Government Administration Department and ten days' written notice, any license, privilege or permit granted by the city shall be revoked for the failure to pay any monies due the city for taxes, fees, penalties, interest, fines, special assessment tax, or other revenue; provided that any person aggrieved by the order may, within ten days thereof, appeal to the City Council. After a hearing thereon, the City Council may approve or modify the order, or restore the license, privilege or permit by adopting a motion to that effect by a majority vote of all City Council members present.
(g)
All fi. fas. issued under this section shall earn interest at the maximum interest rate allowed by state law and such failure to pay shall further incur a penalty in the maximum percentage amount allowed by state law.
(Code 1979, § 3-1-52; Code 1998, § 38-3; Ord. No. 18-95, § IV, 11-6-1995; Ord. No. 08-2013, 11-4-2013)
Editor's note— Ord. No. 08-2013, adopted Nov. 4, 2013, changed the title of § 16-3 from "Delinquent taxes, fees, or other revenue; interest" to read as herein set out.
Secs. 16-4—16-24. - Reserved.
