Chapter 14 - EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT AND SERVICES[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
State Law reference— Georgia Emergency Management Act of 1981, O.C.G.A. § 38-3-1 et seq.; Interstate Civil Defense and Disaster Compact, O.C.G.A. § 38-3-70 et seq.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 14-1. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Emergency management means the preparation for the carrying out of all emergency functions, other than functions for which military forces are primarily responsible; to prevent, minimize and repair injury and damage resulting from emergencies, energy emergencies, disasters or the imminent threat thereof, of manmade or natural origin caused by enemy attack, sabotage, acts of domestic or international terrorism, civil disturbance, fire, flood, earthquake, wind, storm, wave action, oil spill or other water contamination requiring emergency action to avert danger or damage, epidemic, air contamination, blight, drought, infestation, explosion, riot or other hostile action, radiological action, or other causes. These functions include, without limitation, firefighting services; police services; emergency medical services; medical and health services; rescue; engineering; warning services; communications; defense from radiological, chemical, biological, and other special weapons to include weapons of mass destruction; evacuation of persons from stricken areas; emergency welfare services; consequence management functions to include victim services; emergency transportation; plant protection; temporary restoration of public utility services; and other functions related to civilian protection, together with all other activities necessary or incidental to the preparation for and carrying out of the foregoing functions.
(Code 1979, § 4-9-1; Code 1998, § 18-1)
Sec. 14-2. - Unlawful acts during emergencies.
It shall be unlawful for any person to commit any of the following acts during an emergency:
(1)
To willfully obstruct, hinder, or delay any member of the emergency management corps in the enforcement of any lawful rule or regulation issued pursuant to this article or in the performance of any duty imposed by virtue of this article.
(2)
To do any act forbidden by any lawful rules or regulations issued pursuant to this article if such act is of such a nature as to give assistance to the enemy, imperil the life or property of any inhabitant of this city, or prevent, hinder or delay the defense or protection thereof.
(3)
To wear or carry or display without authority any mark or identification specified by the emergency management agency.
(Code 1998, § 18-2)
Sec. 14-3. - Penalties.
Any person violating any provision of this chapter, or any rule, order, or regulation made pursuant to this chapter, shall, upon conviction thereof, be punished as provided in section 1-11.
(Code 1979, § 4-9-6; Code 1998, § 18-3)
Sec. 14-4. - Liberality of construction of chapter provisions.
This chapter shall be construed liberally in order to effectuate its purpose.
(Code 1979, § 4-9-7; Code 1998, § 18-4)
Secs. 14-5—14-26. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - COUNTYWIDE AGENCY

Sec. 14-27. - Part of county agency.
It is the desire and intent of the Mayor and Council that the city be a part of the county emergency management agency.
(Code 1979, § 4-9-2; Code 1998, § 18-36)
Sec. 14-28. - Director—Designation, appointment.
The present Emergency Management Director of the county will serve as Director for the entire county. Should that office become vacant, the chairperson and Board of County Commissioners, with concurrence of the Mayors of cities within the county, shall nominate for appointment by the Governor, a Director of Emergency Management for the county.
(Code 1979, § 4-9-2; Code 1998, § 18-37)
Sec. 14-29. - Same—Powers.
When appointed, the Emergency Management Director is charged with the duty to:
(1)
Represent the Mayor and Council of this city on matters pertaining to emergency management;
(2)
Assist city officials in organizing city departments for emergency operations;
(3)
Develop, in conjunction with city and county departments, the county plan for emergency functions set forth in section 14-30. Such plan will be consistent with the state emergency operations plan and shall be submitted to the Board of County Commissioners and the governing bodies of the cities in the county for approval;
(4)
Maintain the emergency management agency and to oversee the carrying out of the day-to-day administration of the county emergency management program, including the submission of required reports to the state emergency management agency;
(5)
Submit reports as required by governing officials in keeping with good management practices, e.g., financial, daily activity, etc.;
(6)
Obtain, with the authority of governing officials, a facility to be used as the county emergency operations center; and
(7)
Coordinate the activities of the county emergency operating center staff during periods of an emergency, and under the supervision of the Board of County Commissioners.
(Code 1979, § 4-9-2; Code 1998, § 18-38)
Sec. 14-30. - Composition, functions of agency.
(a)
The county emergency management agency shall be established around existing city and county departments, and the emergency functions described in section 14-1 are assigned as follows:
EXPAND
Department/Agency Functions*
Chairperson, County Commissioners Direction and control
Mayors of cities
County Police Department Communications and warning
Sheriff's office
Police
County administrators office Emergency public information
County Police Department Search, rescue and recovery
Police Departments
Sheriff's Department
County Police Department Law enforcement services
Police
Sheriff's Department
County Police Department Evacuation services
Police
Fire Department
Fire Department Fire services
Administrative Services Transportation services
Board of Education
County public utilities Public works services
City public utilities
Fire Medical and deceased identification services
County Police Department
Police
American Red Cross Emergency shelter services
Emergency Management
American Red Cross Food services
Board of Education
Department of Family and Children Services (DFACS) Human services
Fire Radiological protection
Fire Damage assessment services
Fire and emergency services Resources management
Fire Hazardous materials
Emergency Management Attack preparedness, dam failure preparedness
  *As appropriate to the local organization, these functions can be assigned to existing departments or may be separate. Functions should be assigned consistent with the local emergency operations plan.
(b)
Heads of the city departments listed above are responsible for assisting county department heads in developing appropriate annexes to the local emergency operations plan (EOP) for their assigned emergency functions. Such annexes will be submitted to the Emergency Management Director for inclusion in the local EOP for submission to appropriate local officials for approval.
(Code 1979, § 4-9-3; Code 1998, § 18-39)
Sec. 14-31. - Additional emergency powers.
Upon a manmade or natural disaster, actual enemy attack upon the United States, or any other emergency which may affect the lives and property of the citizens of the city, the Mayor separately, or jointly with the chairperson of the Board of County Commissioners, or in their absences their legally appointed successors, may determine that an emergency or disaster exists and thereafter shall have and may exercise for such period as such emergency or disaster exists or continues, the power to:
(1)
Enforce all rules, laws and regulations relating to emergency management, and to assume direct operational control over all emergency management resources;
(2)
Seize or take for temporary use, any private property for the protection of the public;
(3)
Sell, lend, give or distribute all or any such property or supplies among the inhabitants of the county and to maintain a strict accounting of property or supplies distributed and for funds received for such property or supplies; and
(4)
Perform and exercise such other functions and duties, and take such emergency actions, as may be necessary to promote and secure the safety, protection and well-being of the inhabitants of the city.
(Code 1979, § 4-9-4; Code 1998, § 18-40)
Sec. 14-32. - Volunteers.
All persons, other than officers and employees of the city, performing emergency functions pursuant to this article, shall serve with or without compensation. While engaged in such emergency functions, duly assigned volunteers shall have the same immunities as city officers and employees.
(Code 1979, § 4-9-5; Code 1998, § 18-41)
Secs. 14-33—14-52. - Reserved.
ARTICLE III. - ALARM SYSTEMS[2]

Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
State Law reference— Restrictions on operation, installation, maintenance, etc., of electronic security systems by counties and municipalities, O.C.G.A. § 36-60-12; Georgia Emergency Telephone Number 911 Service Act of 1977, O.C.G.A. § 46-5-120 et seq.

Sec. 14-53. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Alarm system means an assembly of equipment and devices designated and arranged to detect and signal an unauthorized intrusion into a premises or to signal an attempted robbery at a protected premises, and with respect to such signal, public police are expected to respond.
False alarm means the activation of a burglary and/or robbery alarm by other than a forced entry or attempted forced entry to the premises and at a time when no burglary or robbery is being committed or attempted on the premises.
Response means the dispatch of a police officer to the premises where an alarm system has been activated indicating a burglary and/or robbery is presently in progress on those premises.
(Code 1979, § 4-7-1; Code 1998, § 30-31)
Sec. 14-54. - Prohibitions.
It is unlawful for anyone to activate any robbery or burglary alarm for the purpose of summoning police except in the event of an actual or attempted burglary or robbery, or for anyone notifying the police of an activated alarm and having knowledge that such activation was apparently caused by an electrical or other malfunction of the alarm system, or was apparently caused by maintenance or service to the alarm system, to fail at the same time to notify the police of such apparent malfunction or repair.
(Code 1979, § 4-7-2; Code 1998, § 30-32)
Sec. 14-55. - Fees.
For the police response to any false alarm, the city shall charge and collect from the person or business having or maintaining such burglary or robbery alarm system on the premises owned or occupied by him, fees as set forth in the schedule of fees and charges.
(Code 1979, § 4-7-3; Code 1998, § 30-33)
Sec. 14-56. - Penalties.
Any person or business violating or failing to comply with any of the provisions of this article shall be summoned to the municipal court for each violation and noncompliance, and upon conviction shall be punished as provided by section 1-11.
(Code 1979, § 4-7-4; Code 1998, § 30-34)
