DIVISION 2. - ADMINISTRATION, INTERPRETATION, ENFORCEMENT, PENALTIES AND REMEDIES

Sec. 54-107. - Administration and interpretation.
The provisions of this chapter shall be administered by the zoning administrator who shall be appointed by the city council and serve at its pleasure. The zoning administrator shall be responsible for interpretation of the provisions of these regulations and for maintenance of the official zoning map.
(Ord. No. 220, art. XXI, § 2101, 4-11-1994)
Sec. 54-108. - Enforcement.
The provisions of these regulations shall be enforced by the zoning administrator.
(Ord. No. 220, art. XXI, § 2102, 4-11-1994)
Sec. 54-109. - Development permit required.
(a)
A development permit shall be required for any proposed use of lands or buildings to indicate and ensure compliance with all provisions of these regulations before any building permit is issued or any improvement, grading, land disturbing activity or alteration of lands or buildings commences; provided, however, that development permits for individual structures within approved single-family residential subdivisions or for single-family dwelling units on individual lots shall not be required. If a land disturbance permit is required pursuant to the city's soil erosion and sediment control regulations set forth in chapter 20, article V, the development permit and land disturbance permit shall be considered one and the same.
(b)
All development permits shall be issued by the zoning administrator, who shall in no case approve a development permit for the use, construction, or alteration of any land or building if the land or building as proposed to be used, constructed or altered would be in violation of any of the provisions of these regulations or any other codes and laws. Development permits shall be valid for two years from its issuance.
(c)
If work described in any development permit has not begun within 120 days from the date of issuance thereof, said permit shall expire, and further work shall not proceed until a new development permit has been obtained.
(Ord. No. 220, art. XXI, § 2103, 4-11-1994)
Sec. 54-110. - Building permit required.
(a)
No building, structure or sign, except as specifically exempted by these regulations, shall be erected, moved, extended, enlarged or structurally altered, nor shall any excavation or filling of any lot for the construction of any building be commenced, until the zoning administrator has issued a building permit for such work in conformity with the provisions of these regulations.
(b)
All building permits shall be issued by the zoning administrator. In cases of uncertainty regarding whether a proposed building or structure conforms to any provisions within these regulations, the planning director shall make the determination. Building permits shall become invalid unless the work authorized by it shall have been commenced within 90 days of its date of issue, or if the work authorized by it is suspended or abandoned for a period of six months or more.
(Ord. No. 220, art. XXI, § 2104, 4-11-1994)
Sec. 54-111. - Certificate of occupancy required.
(a)
A certificate of occupancy issued by the zoning administrator is required in advance of occupancy or use of any lot or change or extension in the use of any lot; any building or structure hereafter erected; or any change in the use of an existing building or structure.
(b)
All certificates of occupancy shall be issued by the zoning administrator, and no such certificate shall be issued unless the proposed use of a building or land conforms to the applicable provisions of these regulations. Business licenses shall not be issued until the business conforms to the regulations of the district in which it is located and a valid certificate of occupancy is issued.
(Ord. No. 220, art. XXI, § 2105, 4-11-1994)
Sec. 54-112. - Penalties for violation.
Any person, firm or corporation violating, neglecting or refusing to comply with any of the provisions of these regulations shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction, shall be fined not less than $50.00 nor more than $200.00 for each offense, or as determined by the court of proper jurisdiction. Each day such violation continues shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. No. 220, art. XXI, § 2106, 4-11-1994)
Sec. 54-113. - Remedies.
In case any building or structure is or is proposed to be erected, constructed, reconstructed, altered, converted or maintained, or any building structure or land is or is proposed to be used in violation of any provision of these regulations, the zoning administrator or any other appropriate authority may, in addition to other remedies, and after due notice to the owner of the violation, issue a citation for violation of these regulations requiring the presence of the violator in the court of proper jurisdiction; or institute injunction, or other appropriate action or proceeding to prevent such unlawful erection, construction, reconstruction, alteration, conversion, maintenance or use to correct or abate such violation or to prevent the occupancy of such building, structure or land. Where a violation of these regulations exists with respect to a structure or land, the zoning administrator may, in addition to other remedies, require that utility service be withheld therefrom until such time as the structure or premises is no longer in violation of these regulations.
(Ord. No. 220, art. XXI, § 2107, 4-11-1994)
Secs. 54-114—54-139. - Reserved.
