ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 44-1. - Statement of findings and policy.
(a)
The city council finds that it should maintain broad jurisdiction over the regulation of subdivisions. Whenever property is divided, the public interest is affected to a degree. Property lines and lot configurations have a significant effect on street alignments, property use, zoning boundaries, and the allocation of costs for public improvements. When property is subdivided without description by metes and bounds and without public review and approval, problems can occur. Traffic congestion, blighted areas, slums, increased cost of public improvements, and other defects are attributable in large measure to imperfect land subdivision. Correction of these defects is costly, and its accomplishment slow, and repetition of mistakes must be avoided. Without regulations, tracts may be sold without provisions for water, sewage disposal, or even access; tracts may be sold which, due to their size, dimension or character cannot be developed; tracts may be subdivided in such a manner that compliance with ordinances regulating development is not possible; land may be sold without an accurate description of the tract and/or without recording easements or other rights in the property being conveyed; tracts may be sold leaving an unplatted portion of property. The city council therefore finds that regulation of land subdivision and development is necessary to help prevent these problems.
(b)
The city council finds that the resulting designs and patterns of subdivisions become the pattern of the community, which in turn influence the character of the entire city. Once land has been cut up into streets, blocks, and lots, and publicly recorded, the die is cast and the pattern is difficult to change. For generations the people who occupy such land will be influenced by the character of its design. The subdivision and development of land affects the welfare of the entire community in so many important respects that it can not be entrusted to haphazard subdivision methods. The city has interests in ensuring development proceeds in an orderly and rational manner, in accordance with city plans and policies, and authority to control land development must therefore be exercised.
(c)
Accordingly, the city council finds that, in order to close off loopholes normally associated with subdivision regulations, review of virtually all land subdivisions must be required. The interests of the city, the owner and the occupant of a house will be best served if all subdivisions have been properly designed, soundly conceived, and properly developed. Some exemptions to the platting requirement are provided, but only those which are clearly beyond the public interest to regulate. Exemptions are to be used legitimately and not for the purpose of avoiding subdivision regulations.
(Ord. No. 221, § 101, 4-11-1994)
Sec. 44-2. - Purpose and intent.
These regulations are adopted for the following purposes:
(1)
To protect and provide for the public health, safety, and general welfare of the municipality;
(2)
To guide the future growth and development of the municipality, in accordance with the comprehensive plan;
(3)
To provide for adequate light, air, and privacy, to secure safety from fire, flood, and other dangers, and to prevent the overcrowding of land and undue congestion of population;
(4)
To protect the character and social and economic stability of all parts of the municipality and to encourage the orderly and beneficial development of all parts of the municipality;
(5)
To protect and conserve the value of land and the value of buildings and improvements upon the land, and to minimize the conflicts among the uses of land and buildings;
(6)
To guide public and private policy and action in order to provide adequate and efficient transportation, water, sewerage, schools, parks, playgrounds, recreation and other public requirements and facilities, and to ensure that public facilities are available and will have a sufficient capacity to serve the proposed subdivision;
(7)
To provide the most beneficial relationship between the uses of land and buildings and the circulation of traffic throughout the municipality, with particular regard to the avoidance of congestion in the streets and highways, and the pedestrian traffic movements appropriate to the various uses of land and buildings, and to provide for the proper location and width of streets and building lines;
(8)
To establish reasonable standards of design and procedures for subdivisions, resubdivisions, and land development, in order to further the orderly layout and use of land;
(9)
To ensure proper legal descriptions and monumenting of subdivided land;
(10)
To preserve the natural beauty and topography of the municipality, to ensure appropriate development with regard to natural features, to prevent the pollution of air, streams and ponds, to ensure the adequacy of drainage facilities, to encourage the wise use and management of natural resources to preserve the integrity and stability of the community and the value of land;
(11)
To ensure that all building lots have adequate access and circulation, especially for firefighting equipment and other emergency and service vehicles;
(12)
To ensure the provision of needed open spaces and building sites in new land developments through the dedication or reservation of land for recreational, educational and other public purposes;
(13)
To ensure equitable handling of all subdivision plans by providing uniform submittal requirements, approval procedures and improvement standards for the subdivider;
(14)
To help eliminate the costly maintenance problems which develop when streets and lots are laid out without proper consideration given to various public purposes;
(15)
To protect lot purchasers who generally lack the specialized knowledge to evaluate subdivision improvements and design.
(Ord. No. 221, § 102, 4-11-1994)
Sec. 44-3. - Authority and delegation.
The city council hereby delegates to the city zoning administrator the authority and power to administratively review, approve and disapprove certain plats for the subdivision of land and all land development plans within the corporate limits of the municipality, as more specifically provided in this chapter, provided such plats do not involve dedication of land for any purpose to the municipality ("minor" subdivisions), nor involve variance to the development standards provided in this chapter. The zoning administrator is further authorized to sign and record plats approved by the city council.
(Ord. No. 221, § 104, 4-11-1994; Ord. No. 2020-CO-12-810, § 10, 3-8-2021)
Sec. 44-4. - Plat approval and recording required.
It shall hereafter be unlawful for any person, firm, corporation, owner, agent or subdivider, by deed, map or other instrument, to sell, transfer, agree to sell, offer at public auction, negotiate to sell or subdivide any land until a final plat approved by the city council, or exemption plat approved by the zoning administrator, as the case may be, and recorded in the office of the superior court clerk of the county in accordance with this chapter. No subdivision plat, nor part thereof, shall be recorded in the superior court of the county, unless such plat has been approved for recording by the zoning administrator. The description by metes and bounds in the instrument of transfer or other document used in the process of selling or transfer shall not exempt the transaction from this chapter or from the penalties established herein. The city, through its attorney or other designated official may enjoin such transfer of, sale, or agreement by appropriate action.
(Ord. No. 221, § 106, 4-11-1994)
State Law reference— Procedures for approval of plats of subdivisions dear a part of the state highway system, O.C.G.A. § 32-6-150 et seq.
Sec. 44-5. - Development approval required.
No person shall commence construction of any improvements on any land in the corporate limits of the city, and no development permits, land disturbing activity permits, building permits, certificates of occupancy, or other instrument of approval shall be issued by the zoning administrator, prior to the approval of a preliminary plat, or prior to approval and recording of a final or exemption subdivision plat, as the case may be, as provided in this chapter, nor prior to the approval of land development plans which demonstrate compliance with this chapter and other applicable land development regulations in effect in the city. This provision shall not be construed as requiring a new plat for existing lots of record, as defined in this chapter. Nor shall this provision be construed as prohibiting the zoning administrator from granting development approval upon the establishment of an interest bearing escrow account (with interest accruing to the benefit of the city for use on the specified development project) for cash payments made to the city in lieu of construction of required public improvements and facilities at the time of the development approval hereunder under conditions where such public improvements and facilities should be deferred until such time as such improvements would be a part of a more complete and usable facility (such as incremental sidewalk construction).
(Ord. No. 221, § 107, 4-11-1994; Ord. No. 2011-CO-09-677, § 1, 10-10-2011)
State Law reference— Proposed or existing subdivisions that access the state highway system must obtain state department of transportation approval prior to undertaking additions or changes to plats that might affect road safety, O.C.G.A. §§ 32-6-150—32-6-153.
Sec. 44-6. - Recording of unapproved plats prohibited.
No plat of subdivision of land within the municipality, whether submitted for plat approval or submitted as an attachment to or exhibit of a deed or other instrument of transfer, shall be filed or recorded in the office of the clerk of the superior court of the county without the approval thereon of the city zoning administrator and without such approval having been entered in writing on the plat by the zoning administrator. Notwithstanding the exemptions provided in the O.C.G.A. § 15-6-67, all plats shall require the approval of the zoning administrator before recording, even if no new streets or roads are created, or if no new utility improvements are required, or no new sanitary sewer or approval of a septic tank is required. The city council is authorized to take any action within its power to ensure compliance by the clerk of the superior court of the county, with the provisions of this section.
(Ord. No. 221, § 108, 4-11-1994)
State Law reference— Standards for maps and plats recorded in the office of the clerk of the superior court, O.C.G.A. § 15-6-67.
Sec. 44-7. - Compliance with specifications required.
No land dedicated as a public street or for other public purpose shall be opened, extended or accepted as a public street or for other purpose unless such improvements are constructed in accordance with the specifications fixed by this chapter and formally approved and accepted as public improvements by the city council.
(Ord. No. 221, § 109, 4-11-1994)
Sec. 44-8. - Compliance with city zoning ordinance.
No person shall subdivide or develop land, and the zoning administrator shall not approve any subdivision or development of land, unless the lots created pursuant to a subdivision meet or exceed all applicable requirements of chapter 54, zoning, as may be amended from time to time.
(Ord. No. 221, § 110, 4-11-1994)
Sec. 44-9. - Exemptions from plat approval.
The following types of land transfer are specifically exempted from plat approval requirements of this chapter:
(1)
The sale of cemetery plots;
(2)
The sale of lots consistent with a previously approved and recorded plat or deed;
(3)
The creation of a leasehold for a space within a multiple-occupant building or the division of property into leaseholds for commercial, industrial or institutional uses (i.e., shopping center);
(4)
The creation of a leasehold for agricultural use of a property where the use does not involve the construction of a building to be used as a residence or for any purpose not directly related to agricultural use of the land, or crops or livestock raised thereon; and
(5)
Mortgage lots and other parcel transfers by lawsuits for partition, inheritance, the probate of an estate, merger of title, or by a court of law;
provided, however, that such exemptions shall not apply to land development requirements of this chapter, and such exemptions shall not require the city council to issue permits should the resulting lots or parcels not meet applicable zoning and/or subdivision regulations. Furthermore, said exemptions do not exclude the land transfers in this section from recording requirements in cases where a plat is the method of land conveyance.
(Ord. No. 221, § 112, 4-11-1994)
Sec. 44-10. - Exemptions from approval by city council.
The following types of subdivisions are exempt from the requirement of review by the planning commission and approval by the city council, but such subdivisions shall require approval by the zoning administrator to ensure minimum lot sizes and dimensions as may be required by chapter 54, zoning are met, and to ensure the subdivision is properly recorded:
(1)
The division of a tract or parcel for purposes of creating a dedication plat;
(2)
The combination, recombination or aggregation of properties for land assembly purposes; and
(3)
Minor subdivisions as defined in this chapter.
(Ord. No. 221, § 113, 4-11-1994)
Sec. 44-11. - Definitions.
(a)
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this subsection, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Alley means a private or public thoroughfare which affords only a secondary access to a building or abutting property and is not intended for general traffic circulation.
Auction means a public sale of property to the highest bidder.
Block means a piece or parcel of land entirely surrounded by public streets, public lands, railroad rights-of-way, watercourses, or any other barrier to the continuity of development.
Building means any structure, either temporary or permanent, above or below ground, having a roof or other covering, and designed, built, or used as a shelter or enclosure for persons, animals or property of any kind, including tents, awnings, or vehicles used for purposes of a building. The term "building" includes the term "structure."
Building setback line means a line establishing the minimum allowable distance between the building, including any covered porches, and the street right-of-way or property line when measured perpendicularly thereto. In the case of corner lots or double frontage lots, front yard requirements shall be observed for those areas adjacent to street rights-of-way.
Centerline of street means that line surveyed and monumented by the city council and designated as the center of a public street. If a centerline has not been surveyed, it shall be the line running midway between the outside curbs, ditches or pavement/improvement ends of such street, or such midway line extended.
City attorney means the attorney of the City of Oakwood.
City engineer means the person appointed by the city council to review engineering aspects of plans.
Comprehensive plan means those coordinated plans or portions thereof which have been prepared by or for the city council for the physical development of the jurisdiction; or any plans that designate plans or programs to encourage the most appropriate use of the land in the interest of public health, safety and welfare.
Cul-de-sac means a street having one end open to traffic and being permanently terminated at the other end by a vehicular turn-around.
Cul-de-sac, temporary, means a nonpermanent vehicular turnaround located at the termination of a street.
Culvert means a drain or conduit that carries water under a driveway, roadway, railroad, pedestrian walk or public way.
Curb means a concrete boundary marking the edge of a paved area.
Curb cut means a provision for vehicular ingress and/or egress between property and an abutting street.
Deceleration lane means an added roadway lane that permits vehicles to slow down and leave the main vehicle stream.
Development means any manmade change of improved or unimproved real estate, including, but not limited to, buildings, structures, mining, dredging, filling, grading, paving, excavation or drilling operations.
Drainage means the removal of surface water or groundwater from land by drains, grading or other means.
Easement means a nonpossessory interest in land; a grant by a property owner for the use by the public, a corporation or persons, of a portion of land for a specified purpose or purposes.
Escrow account means a type of subdivision improvement guarantee where the subdivider deposits either cash, a note, a bond or some other instrument readily convertible to cash for a specific face value specified by the city to cover the costs of required improvements.
Grade means the slope of a street, or other public way, specified in percentage terms.
Gridiron pattern means a street and block system resulting in formal, regular, rectangular blocks and resulting in four-way intersections.
Letter of credit means a type of subdivision improvement guarantee whereby a subdivider secures a letter of credit from a bank or other institution or from a person with resources sufficient to cover the cost of improvements required by the city. The letter pledges the creditor to pay the cost of improvements in case of default by the subdivider.
Lot means a portion or parcel of land intended as a unit for transfer of ownership or for development or both, intended to be devoted to a common use or occupied by a building or group of buildings devoted to a common use, and having principal frontage on a public street. In determining the area and dimension of a lot, no part of the right-of-way may be included.
Lot area means the total horizontal area within the lot lines of a lot, exclusive of public street rights-of-way.
Lot, corner, means a lot abutting upon two or more streets at their intersection.
Lot, depth, means the average horizontal distance between the front and rear lot lines.
Lot, double frontage, means a lot other than a corner lot which has frontage upon two or more streets that do not intersect at a point abutting the property.
Lot, flag, means a tract or lot of land of uneven dimensions in which the portion fronting on a public street is less than the required minimum width for construction of a building or structure on that lot.
Lot frontage means the width in linear feet of a lot where it abuts the right-of-way of any public street.
Lot mortgage means a lot created out of a tract to enable the contract purchaser of the tract to finance construction of a single-family residence or other building thereon.
Lot width means the distance between side lot lines measured at the regulatory/required building line.
Performance bond means a type of subdivision improvement guarantee in the form of a bond, secured by the subdivider from a bonding company, in an amount specified by the city to cover the costs of required improvements, and payable to the city. The performance bond may be cashed in by the city in the event the subdivider defaults on required improvements.
Plat dedication means a plat which indicates property to be dedicated for public right-of-way or land for public use.
Plat, final, means a finished drawing of a subdivision showing completely and accurately all legal and engineering information and certification necessary for recording.
Plat, preliminary, means a drawing which shows the proposed layout of a subdivision in sufficient detail to indicate its general design.
Reservation means a method of holding land for future public use by designating public areas on a subdivision plat.
Resubdivision means the further division of a lot or lots within a subdivision previously approved and recorded.
Right-of-way means that area, distinguished from an easement, specified for the present or future use of roads, streets and highways, together with its drainage facilities and other supporting uses and structures.
Shade tree means a tree in a public place, street, special easement or right-of-way adjoining a street.
Sidewalk means a hard surfaced area provided for pedestrian use, usually located alongside a road within the right-of-way.
Street means a public or private thoroughfare which is open to the general public and which affords the principal means of access to abutting property.
Street, arterial, unless otherwise specified by the comprehensive plan, transportation element of the comprehensive plan or major thoroughfare plan, arterial streets are those streets and highway facilities, including full and partial access controlled highways and major urban area entrance highways, which are designed to carry the highest traffic volumes and the longest trips through and within an urban area.
Street, collector, unless otherwise specified by the comprehensive plan, transportation element of the comprehensive plan or major thoroughfare plan, collector streets are those streets that collect traffic from minor streets or other collector streets and channel it to the arterial system. Collector streets provide land access and traffic circulation within commercial and industrial areas.
Street, public, means a dedicated and accepted public right-of-way which affords the principal means of access to abutting properties.
Structure means anything constructed or erected, the use of which requires permanent location on the ground, or which is attached to something having more or less permanent location on the ground, not including utility poles.
Subdivision means the division, proposed division, redivision or proposed redivision of any land into two or more lots, parcels, sites, units, plots or interests, for the purpose, whether immediate or future, of offer, sale, lease, gift, charitable donation, or development. The term "subdivision" includes the division or development of residential and nonresidential land, whether by deed, metes and bounds description, intestacy, lease, map, plat or other recorded instrument. Subdivision also refers to the land to be so divided, as the context may indicate. Certain types of subdivision are exempted from the procedural requirements of this chapter but otherwise require compliance with the provisions of this chapter.
Subdivision improvement guarantee means a legal device used by local governments to assure that required capital improvements are, in fact, completed in a satisfactory manner by subdivision developers.
Subdivision, minor, means the division of a buildable lot of record into five or fewer lots, where the following conditions exist:
(1)
Proposed lots comply with all zoning requirements;
(2)
Each proposed lot fronts on an existing public street and complies with the county health department requirements;
(3)
All slope and utility easements as determined necessary by the zoning administrator are provided to the city;
(4)
Each lot created is not resubdivided pursuant to the provisions for minor subdivisions; and the entire contiguous property owned by the subdivider is included.
Minor subdivisions are those that, because of their small size, can be administratively approved in expedited fashion by the zoning administrator.
Subdivision, one-lot, means a term typically referring to the division of one lot from a larger tract or parcel. Since the division of any tract results in two lots (the lot created, plus the lot remnant) this chapter recognizes one lot subdivisions as being a subdivision as defined in this section.
Variance means a minimal relaxation or modification of the strict terms of this chapter as applied to specific property when, because of particular physical surroundings, shape, or topographical condition of the property, compliance would result in a particular hardship upon the owner, as distinguished from a mere inconvenience or a desire to make a profit.
Zoning administrator means the city manager or his authorized representative.
(b)
Except as specifically defined in this section, all words used in this chapter have their customary dictionary definition.
(Ord. No. 221, art. II, 4-11-1994)
Sec. 44-12. - Owner's association when required.
new
(a)
Homeowner's association. For any residential development consisting of individual lots and/or containing common open space or other lands in common ownership, a homeowner's association which provides for building and grounds maintenance and repair, insurance and working capital shall be required to be created which shall be responsible for the ownership and maintenance of common areas, open spaces and/or stormwater detention facilities as well as enforcement of the requirements and restrictions herein. The homeowner's or property owner's association must be maintained as the responsible owner of such facilities and shall not be dissolved unless another ownership entity is approved by the Oakwood City Council.
(1)
Membership in the homeowner's association must be mandatory for each property in the development.
(2)
Such associations must also include homeowner's declaration and bylaws, including covenants, conditions and regulations applicable to each property in the development;
(3)
The declaration and bylaws shall be enforced by the association or by an association management company designated by them, which shall have the power to compel the payment of membership dues and assessments.
(4)
The homeowner's association shall be formed under the provisions of O.C.G.A. 44-3-220, et seq., which is known as the "Georgia Property Owners' Association Act."
(5)
The documents creating the homeowner's association must provide that an adequate reserve fund for the association will exist at the time that control of the association transfers from the developer to the purchasers of homes in the development; that no debt shall transfer to the association; and that any facilities required under this Code, the operation and maintenance of which are the legal responsibility of the homeowner's association, shall at the time of transfer meet the standards of and properly function under the requirements of this Code. The reserve fund must be equal to no less than one year's expenses reasonably expected for the association's minimum operations and maintenance as required by this Code. Adequate reserve account shall mean an amount not less than $125.00 per occupied residence for residential associations or for nonresidential subdivisions, an amount approved by the planning director. In lieu of a reserve fund, documents creating the homeowner's association may provide for a contract committing the developer to pay for all the association's minimum operations and maintenance as required by this Code for the one year period following transfer of control.
(6)
The covenants, conditions and regulations shall, at a minimum, regulate and control the following:
a.
Equal access and right of use to all shared facilities;
b.
Perpetual and continued maintenance of open and shared space, specifically including storm water detention facilities;
c.
Tax liability in the case of default;
d.
The method of assessment for dues and related costs;
e.
Where appropriate, party wall maintenance and restoration in the event of damage or destruction;
f.
Exterior items such as fences, lawn ornaments, landscape areas and landscape buffers;
g.
Building improvements;
h.
Outside storage;
i.
Animals, including household pets;
j.
Sign;
k.
Overnight parking of vehicles;
l.
Trash collection containers;
m.
Limit percentage of rentals in the subdivision to no more than 15 percent of the developed lots. Emergency exemptions may be approved by the association on a limited basis. Under no circumstance shall the percentage of rentals exceed 20 percent, inclusive of emergency exemptions with approval of a 60 percent majority of the owner-occupied lots.
n.
Front elevations shall be a minimum 60 percent brick and/or stone and a maximum of 40 percent fiber cement siding or stucco with the remaining elevations being brick, stone, stucco or fiber cement siding or any combination thereof;
o.
Limit ownership to no more than two developed lots so long as one such lot is owner occupied.
(7)
For subdivisions, the homeowner's association must be formed and incorporated at the same time the final plat for the subdivision or any portion of the subdivision is first recorded. A copy of the proposed homeowner's association documents is to be submitted with applications for final subdivision plat approval.
(b)
Owners' association. For nonresidential development projects, an association of the property owners that is consistent the requirements for a residential homeowner's association will serve in lieu of the requirements of this section.
(c)
Condominium association. For condominium projects, incorporation of a condominium association consistent with state law will serve in lieu of the requirements of this section, provided that:
(1)
Specific maintenance responsibilities for storm water detention facilities are included; and
(2)
The documents creating the condominium association must provide that an adequate reserve fund for the association will exist at the time that control of the association transfers from the developer to the purchasers of the units in the development. The reserve fund must contain an amount equal to no less than one year of expenses reasonably expected for the minimum operations legally required of the association.
(d)
Approval and recording. The instruments of such creation and financial endowment shall be submitted to the planning director for review and approval; covenants are also subject to approval by the city attorney, and such approval shall be obtained prior to recording. Said instruments shall also be recorded at the time of final plat recording with cross-references to recording information on both the instruments and the final plat. A copy of the recorded instruments shall be filed with the planning director following recording.
(e)
Transfer of responsibility. During the period of time that majority control is retained by the developer of a homeowner's, owner's or condominium association, the developer shall retain such records as tax forms, bank statements, expense records or other data relevant to establishing the minimum operations costs of the association to support compliance with the reserve fund requirements hereof.
(f)
Association contact. Owner associations of developments that contain stormwater management facilities as required by this Code shall appoint a representative as a point of contact for the City of Oakwood. The representative shall provide a report of all maintenance activities, submit copies of any maintenance records and coordinate inspections to be performed by the city personnel. The contact information and reports shall be provided to the city annually, no later than July.
(Ord. No. 2023-CO-03-853, § 8, 4-10-2023)
Secs. 44-13—44-40. - Reserved.
new
