[ARTICLE V. - VOTER REGISTRATION][5]

Footnotes:
--- (5) ---
Editor's note— 1961 Ga. Laws (Act No. 198), page 2543 amended the Charter but did not specify specific sections amended. Hence inclusion as article V. The provisions of this article appear obsolete or superseded by

Sec. 151. - [Prior registered voter list abolished.]
Effective June 1, 1961, the present list of registered voters for the City of Ocilla, Georgia is hereby abolished.
(1961 Ga. Laws (Act No. 198), page 2543 , § 1)
Sec. 152. - [New voter list required.]
A new voters list for the City of Ocilla shall be obtained as hereinafter set forth. All eligible voters in said City shall re-register during the period from June 1, 1961 through June 30, 1961, inclusive. The Office of the City Clerk shall be open these days, with the exception of Sundays, Wednesday afternoons and Saturday afternoons for the purpose of registering voters. Prior to June 1, 1961, notice shall be given to all citizens eligible to register in said registration period by advertisement of same in the Ocilla Star, the official organ for Irwin County and the City of Ocilla, once a week for two weeks, immediately preceding said registration period. Said notice shall state that all voters in said City must re-register and give information as to the re-registration period above, together with the time and dates for citizens to register.
(1961 Ga. Laws (Act No. 198), page 2543 , § 2)
Sec. 153. - Use of list required; oath.
That after the registration books are closed on June 30, 1961 no person shall be allowed to vote in any election held in and for said City for any purposes, who has not been duly registered in accordance with the preceding section or who has not been duly registered as hereinafter provided. During the month of June, 1961, as set forth above and effective 30 days before the City election of 1961 it shall be the duty of the Clerk of the City Council to open and keep open his office each day except Sundays and at such hours as the Mayor and Aldermen may prescribe, a book for all registered voters, alphabetically arranged, in which book all registered voters, alphabetically arranged, in which book all qualified voters of said City may register at any time up to the closing of said book on June 30, 1961 and thereafter ten days prior to each election. Said book shall contain a place for said person's address and age which shall be completed by the party so registering. Said book shall be opened during the month of June, 1961 as set forth above and thereafter thirty days prior to the date of any election and remain open for twenty days, after which time no one shall be allowed to register until after said election. Before registering his name as aforesaid, each person shall take the following oath, which oath may be written or printed at the beginning of said registration book, or at the top of the page on which said registration is had, to-wit: "I — do solemnly swear (or affirm) that I am 18 years old (or will be prior to the next election to be held in said City); have resided in this State one year (or will have so resided in this State one year prior to the next election), and that I have resided in said City of Ocilla six months (or will have so resided in said City six months prior to the next election), and am now a bona fide citizen of the City of Ocilla, Georgia; I have paid all taxes and license fees to said City, which have been required of me, and which I have had an opportunity to pay, except for the present year, so help me God."
(1961 Ga. Laws (Act No. 198), page 2543 , § 3)
Sec. 154. - [Board of registrars.]
Be it further enacted that the Mayor and Aldermen shall have the authority to appoint three citizens of said City for terms of one year each who are qualified voters thereof, as a Board of Registrars, whose duty it shall be to examine the registration books and strike from the list of persons registered therein all who are disqualified to vote in the approaching election to be held for any purpose whatever in said City. Said Board of Registrars shall have all such persons served with notice that their names have been stricken from said registration book within four days after the registration books are closed. Notice may be served on said person by mailing a notice to said person, at the address as shown on the registration list (if any) by First Class United States Mail, with sufficient postage to insure delivery thereof, or by the City marshal or any of the City policemen. After said letter has been mailed no further notice shall be required as to whether said party received same. Said notice shall state that said person's name has been stricken from said voters registration list, together with the reason or reasons it was so stricken and it shall require said person to appear before said Board within three days after said notice has been mailed or served on said party to show cause why said person's name shall not remain removed from the registration books. The notice shall state the place, time, date and hour said person shall appear before said Board. After said Board of Registrars have heard all the evidence and grounds of protest so made, said Board may reinstate such name or names so stricken or not as the facts may justify. The final decision of said Board as to the qualifications of any such voter registering shall be conclusive as to his or her qualifications and the right to vote in any such election in said City. The managers of all elections herein provided for shall have the right to require any voter to make the oath contained in the registration books before allowing him to vote; provided, however, a challenge is made to such voter voting in such election by any citizen of said City. Should any vacancy appear on said Board of Registrars the Mayor shall have the authority to appoint any other qualified voter in said City to fill said vacancy. Any voter who does not vote in any election within a period of three years may be stricken from the voters list by said Board of Registrars.
(1961 Ga. Laws (Act No. 198), page 2543 , § 4)
Sec. 155. - [Unauthorized voting.]
Be it further enacted, That any person voting at any City election, who is not qualified to vote according to the provisions of the Charter of said City, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, and upon conviction thereof in any Court of Irwin County having jurisdiction of the same, said person shall be punished in accordance with the Georgia law.
(1961 Ga. Laws (Act No. 198), page 2543 , § 5)
Sec. 156. - [Repealer.]
All laws and parts of laws in conflict with this Act are hereby repealed.
(1961 Ga. Laws (Act No. 198), page 2543 , § 6)
