Chapter 46 - STREETS, SIDEWALKS AND OTHER PUBLIC PLACES
ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 46-1. - Working of streets.
Council shall provide each year for working and keeping in good order the streets and sidewalks of the City, by contract or otherwise. The Public Works Director shall see that all ordinances are properly observed and enforced.
(Code 2003, § 4-1001)
Sec. 46-2. - Private work on streets.
No person shall lay out, extend or alter any street, lane or open square without the consent of the Council at a regular meeting, and any application of this kind shall be published one month before a final action of the Council is taken thereon.
(Code 2003, § 4-1002)
Sec. 46-3. - Street surveys.
Surveys for the establishment, streets and sidewalks shall be made by the Public Works Director, who shall have supervision and control over working of the streets and sidewalks of the City.
(Code 2003, § 4-1003)
Sec. 46-4. - Permit to dig in streets—Generally.
No person shall make any excavation or opening or dig any ditch, trench, tunnel or hole in, along, across or under any street, sidewalk or other public place for the purpose of laying or placing therein any pipe, wires, poles or for any other purposes, unless a written permit therefor has been issued by the Council, provided that a permit shall not be required where such work is performed under a contract with the City but in the event such work requires a sidewalk or street to be wholly or partially obstructed, the person shall notify the Clerk, the streets and lanes and sanitation department and the police department at least two hours before obstructing the sidewalk or street, unless prevented by sudden emergency.
(Code 2003, § 4-1004)
Sec. 46-5. - Permits to dig in streets—Application for permit.
All persons desiring a permit in order to make an opening in any street or sidewalk, as set forth in Section 4-1004, shall make written application therefor, which application shall show the location of the proposed opening, the purpose therefor and the approximate number of square yards of surface to be cut. Such application shall be accompanied by a fee established by the Council.
(Code 2003, § 4-1005)
Sec. 46-6. - Permit to dig in streets—City indemnified.
Any person obtaining a permit as provided for in Sections 46-4 and 46-5 agrees, as a condition of the issuance of the permit, to indemnify and hold harmless the City against any claims or expenses, including attorney's fees, for bodily injury or property damage for accidents or occurrences arising out of the person's operations.
(Code 2003, § 4-1006)
Sec. 46-7. - Permit to dig in streets—Street repair.
When any part of any street, sidewalk, alley or other public place of the City shall be torn or dug up for any purpose, the person making such excavation or opening shall have the duty of refilling such excavation or opening so as to restore it to essentially the same condition that existed prior to the excavation or opening and such refilling shall be done in accordance with the standards and specifications issued by the Council.
(Code 2003, § 4-1007)
Sec. 46-8. - Permit to dig in streets—Leaving unprotected.
It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation who obtains a permit under this chapter to do any excavation of any kind which may create or cause a dangerous condition in or near any street, alley, sidewalk or public place of the City without placing and maintaining proper guard rails and signal lights or other warnings at, in or around the same, sufficient to warn the public of such excavation or work, and to protect all persons using reasonable care from injuries on account of same.
(Code 2003, § 4-1008)
Sec. 46-9. - Permit to dig in streets—Supervision and control.
All excavations and work in streets, sidewalks, alleys or public places of the City shall be under the supervision and control of the Public Works Director, whose duty it shall be to inspect the same from time to time during the progress thereof. Upon the completion thereof, the Director shall make a final inspection and see that the street, sidewalk or public place is restored to a condition as good in all respects as before the excavation or work was made or done, and that all debris, materials, tools and equipment are removed therefrom.
(Code 2003, § 4-1009)
Sec. 46-10. - Planting of trees.
All shade trees in the City shall be planted ten feet from the inside line of the sidewalks.
(Code 2003, § 6-2001)
Sec. 46-11. - Encroachments on sidewalks—Generally.
No person shall erect any fence, railing, steps, platform, portico, or other obstruction beyond the line designating the limit of the land appropriated or condemned as streets or public highways, and thus encroach upon the streets, sidewalks or alleys of the City.
(Code 2003, § 6-2002)
Sec. 46-12. - Encroachments on sidewalks—Failure to remove.
Any person who has erected or is erecting any such encroachments shall be notified to remove same, and upon failure to comply with the requirements of the notice within 24 hours thereof, the Chief of Police shall have the same removed, and the Clerk shall issue an execution against the person so offending for the amount expended in having the same removed.
(Code 2003, § 6-2003)
Sec. 46-13. - Displaying goods on sidewalks.
It shall be unlawful for any person to display any wares, goods or merchandise or any kind upon any part of a sidewalk.
(Code 2003, § 6-2004)
Sec. 46-14. - Obstructing streets; construction.
No person shall deposit, place or put, or cause to be deposited, placed or put, any vehicle of any kind, or any goods, wares, boxes, barrels, casks, logs, or any other obstruction in or upon the streets, alleys or sidewalks of the City, so as to obstruct the free passage and use thereof. This section shall not be construed as to prohibit the use of such streets, alleys and sidewalks for delivering goods, wares and merchandise or other hauling where such use is necessary, nor shall it prohibit the use thereof for hauling, moving or transporting building material about the premises where building is being done, provided such obstruction shall be as little as possible, and only when and so long as necessary. Before building or remodeling in close proximity to the sidewalk, a passageway shall be constructed so as to leave the sidewalk unobstructed and provide safe and easy passage.
(Code 2003, § 6-2005)
Sec. 46-15. - Awnings.
No person shall erect or keep, or permit to be erected or kept, any awnings over any sidewalk in any business district or zone in the City which awnings are supported by posts placed upon the sidewalk or street. No person shall erect any other type of awnings over the sidewalks without first having made application for a building permit and received a permit from the City.
(Code 2003, § 6-2007)
Sec. 46-16. - Playing ball on streets prohibited.
No person shall play any ball game on any of the streets of the City.
(Code 2003, § 6-2017)
Sec. 46-17. - Use of nails and tacks restricted.
It is hereby declared unlawful for any person to drive any nails or tacks into the telephone, telegraph or electric light poles, or into any house or store situated on any sidewalk or street of the City except with the prior permission of the owner.
(Code 2003, § 6-2018)
Sec. 46-18. - Driving through street barricade.
No person shall drive any vehicle into or upon any alley or street that has been barricaded by an employee of the City.
(Code 2003, § 6-2019)
Sec. 46-19. - Removing barricade forbidden.
No person, other than an employee of the City shall remove any barricade which has been erected by the City.
(Code 2003, § 6-2020)
Sec. 46-20. - Felling trees.
It shall be unlawful to fell trees so as to obstruct the streets, alleys and lanes of the City.
(Code 2003, § 6-2021)
Secs. 46-21—46-43. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - PARADES AND DEMONSTRATIONS

Sec. 46-44. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Block means that portion of any street lying between its intersections with other streets.
Group demonstration means any assembly together or concert of action between or among two or more persons for the purpose of protesting any matter or of making known any position or promotion of such persons, or of or on behalf of any organization or class of persons, or for the purpose of attracting attention of such assembly.
Parade means any assemblage of two or more persons riding in or operating any vehicle in any march, ceremony, show, exhibition or procession of any kind in or upon the public streets, sidewalks, alleys, parks, or other public grounds or places.
Person means any person, firm, corporation, partnership, association, or other organization, whether formal or informal.
Picket line means any two or more persons formed together for the purpose of making known any position or promotion of such persons, or on behalf of any organization or class of persons.
(Code 2003, § 6-2008)
Sec. 46-45. - Permit required.
It shall be unlawful for any person to organize, conduct or participate in any parade, picket line or group demonstration in or upon any street, sidewalk, alley, or other public place within the City unless a permit therefor has been issued by the City in accordance with the provisions of this article.
(Code 2003, § 6-2009)
Sec. 46-46. - Standards.
The Mayor shall issue a permit for the proposed parade, unless the Mayor finds that:
(1)
Such parades, picket lines or group demonstrations are to commence before 6:00 a.m. or terminate after 5:00 p.m.
(2)
Such parades or group demonstrations are to be held at the same time and place as those designated in a permit issued pursuant to a written application previously received by the Mayor or designee.
(3)
The conduct of the parade will substantially interrupt the safe and orderly movement of other traffic contiguous to its route.
(4)
The conduct of the parade will require the diversion of so great a number of police officers of the City to properly police the line of movement of the parade and of contiguous areas so that adequate police protection cannot be provided the remainder of the City.
(5)
The conduct of the parade will require the diversion of so great a number of ambulances so that adequate ambulance service to portions of the City not occupied by the parade and contiguous areas will be prevented.
(6)
The concentration of persons, animals and vehicles at assembly points of the parade will substantially interfere with adequate fire and police protection of, or ambulance service to, areas contiguous to such assembly areas.
(7)
The conduct of the parade is reasonably likely to result in violence to persons or property causing serious harm to the public.
(8)
The conduct of the parade will interfere with the movement of fire-fighting equipment to such an extent that adequate fire protection cannot be provided to the City.
(Code 2003, § 6-2010)
Sec. 46-47. - Requirements and issuance of permits.
The Mayor or designee shall issue permits as required in Section 46-45, and in the issuance thereof shall:
(1)
Require a written application for permit to be filed not less than 24 hours in advance of such parade, picket line, or group demonstration which application shall specify the time and place for the commencement of any such picket line and the time, place, route, and duration of any such parade or group demonstration;
(2)
Require that the application for a permit specify whether or not minors below the age of 18 years will be permitted to participate; and
(3)
Require that the application for a permit shall specify and the permit shall designate the person or persons in charge of the activity. Such person shall be required to accompany the parade, picket line, or group demonstration and shall carry such permit at the time. Such permit shall not be valid in the possession of any other person.
(Code 2003, § 6-2011)
Sec. 46-48. - Certain activities prohibited.
No person shall take to, bring to or keep in any parade, picket line or group demonstration any dog or vicious animal, whether leashed or unleashed.
(Code 2003, § 6-2012)
Sec. 46-49. - Revocation of permit.
The Mayor shall revoke any permit granted for a parade, picket line, or group demonstration for any of the following causes:
(1)
The violation by any participant of Section 46-48; or
(2)
The failure to comply with the terms and conditions of the permit.
(Code 2003, § 6-2013)
Sec. 46-50. - Interference prohibited.
No person shall hamper, obstruct, impede, or interfere with any parade, picket line, or group demonstration being conducted under authority of a permit duly issued by the Mayor.
(Code 2003, § 6-2014)
Sec. 46-51. - Additional regulations applicable to picketing.
Picket lines and picketing shall be subject to the following additional regulations:
(1)
Picketing may be conducted only on the sidewalks reserved for pedestrian movement and may not be conducted on the portion of a street used primarily for vehicular traffic;
(2)
Not more than ten pickets promoting the same objective shall be permitted to use either of the two sidewalks within a single block at any one time;
(3)
Pickets may carry written or printed placards or signs not exceeding two feet in width and two feet in length promoting the objective for which the picketing is done, provided the words used are not derogatory or defamatory in nature;
(4)
Pickets must march in single file and not abreast and must not march closer together than 15 feet, except in passing one another. Pickets shall not be allowed to walk more than five feet from the curb line and shall be in continuous motion.
(Code 2003, § 6-2015)
Sec. 46-52. - Exceptions.
This article shall not apply to:
(1)
Funeral processions; or
(2)
Any governmental agency acting within the scope of its functions.
(Code 2003, § 6-2016)
Secs. 46-53—46-77. - Reserved.
ARTICLE III. - UNDERGROUND UTILITY DAMAGE PREVENTION[1]

Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
State Law reference— Georgia Utility Facility Protection Act, O.C.G.A. § 25-9-1 et seq.

Sec. 46-78. - Title.
This article may be cited as the "Underground Utility Damage Prevention Ordinance."
(Code 2003, § 8-5001; Ord. of 3-1-1983, § 1)
Sec. 46-79. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Damage means and includes the substantial weakening of structural or lateral support of an underground utility, penetration or destruction of any protective coating, housing or other protective device of an underground utility, and the partial or complete severance of an underground utility.
Demolish or demolition means any operation by which a structure or mass of material is wrecked, razed, rendered, moved or removed by means of any tools, equipment, or discharge of explosives.
Excavate or excavation means an operation for the purpose of the movement or removal of earth, rock, or other materials in or on the ground by use of mechanized equipment or by discharge of explosives, and including augering, backfilling, digging, ditching, drilling, grading, plowing-in, pulling-in, ripping, scraping, trenching and tunneling, but not including the tilling of soil for agricultural purposes.
Mechanized equipment means equipment operated by means of mechanical power including trenchers, bulldozers, power shovels, augers, backhoes, scrapers, drills, cable and pipe plows and other equipment used for plowing-in or pulling in cable or pipe.
Operator means any city or utility commission who owns or operates a utility.
Utility means any line, system or facility used for producing, storing, conveying, transmitting, or distributing communication, electricity, gas petroleum, petroleum products, hazardous liquids, water, steam or sewage.
Working day means every day, except Saturday, Sunday and national and legal State holidays.
(Code 2003, § 8-5002; Ord. of 3-1-1983, § 2)
Sec. 46-80. - Excavation and demolition permits.
A permit issued pursuant to law authorizing excavation or demolition operations shall not be deemed to relieve a person from the responsibility for complying with the provisions of this article.
(Code 2003, § 8-5003; Ord. of 3-1-1983, § 3)
Sec. 46-81. - Prohibited conduct.
Except as provided in Section 46-84, no person may excavate in a street, highway, public space, a private easement of an operator, or near the location of a utility installed on the premises of a customer served by such utility, or demolish a building, without having first ascertained, in the manner prescribed in Sections 46-82 and 46-83, the location of all underground utilities in the area that would be affected by the proposed excavation or demolition.
(Code 2003, § 8-5004; Ord. of 3-1-1983, § 4)
Sec. 46-82. - Notice of intent to excavate or demolish.
(a)
Except as provided in Section 46-84, before commencing any excavation or demolition operation designated in Section 46-81, each person responsible for such excavation or demolition shall serve written or telephonic notice of intent to excavate or demolish at least three, but not more than ten, full working days:
(1)
On each operator (City Engineer, Superintendent of Utilities or City Manager) which has a list indicating that it has underground utilities located in the proposed area of excavation or demolition; or
(2)
Where demolition of a building is proposed, operators shall be given reasonable time to remove or protect their utilities before the demolition of the building is commenced.
(b)
The written or telephonic notice required by Subsection (a) of this section must contain the name, address, and telephone number of the person filing the notice of intent, and, if different, the person responsible for the excavation or demolition, the starting date, anticipated duration, and type of excavation or demolition operation to be conducted, the location of the proposed excavation or demolition, and whether or not explosives are to be used.
(c)
If the notification required by this section is made by telephone, an adequate record of such notification shall be maintained by the operators, Gas Superintendent and/or City Manager notified to document compliance with the requirements of this article.
(Code 2003, § 8-5005; Ord. of 3-1-1983, § 5)
Sec. 46-83. - Response to notice of intent to excavate or demolish.
(a)
Each operator or designated representative notified in accordance with Section 46-82 shall, not less than two working days in advance of the proposed excavation or demolition (unless a shorter period is provided by agreement between the person responsible for the excavation or demolition and the operator or designated representative), supply, by use of maps when appropriate, the following information to the person responsible for the excavation or demolition:
(1)
The approximate location and description of all of its underground utilities which may be damaged as a result of the excavation or demolition;
(2)
The location and description of all utility markers indicating the approximate location of the underground utilities; and
(3)
Any other information that would assist that person in locating and thereby avoiding damage to the underground utilities, including providing adequate temporary markings indicating the approximate location of the underground utility in locations where permanent utility markers do not exist.
(b)
For purpose of this section, the approximate location of underground utilities is defined as a strip of land at least three feet wide, but not wider than the width of the utility plus 1½ feet on either side of the utility.
(Code 2003, § 8-5006; Ord. of 3-1-1983, § 6)
Sec. 46-84. - Emergency excavation or demolition.
Compliance with the notice requirements of Section 46-82 is not required of persons responsible for emergency excavation or demolition to ameliorate an imminent danger to life, health, or property; provided, however, that such persons give, as soon as practicable, oral notice of the emergency excavation or demolition to each operator having underground utilities located in the area where such excavation or demolition is to be performed and requests emergency assistance from each operator so identified in locating and providing immediate protection to its underground utilities. An imminent danger to life, health, or property exists whenever there is a substantial likelihood that loss of life, health, or property will result before the procedures under Sections 46-82 and 46-83 can be fully complied with.
(Code 2003, § 8-5007; Ord. of 3-1-1983, § 7)
Sec. 46-85. - Precautions to avoid damage.
In addition to the notification requirements of Section 46-82, each person responsible for any excavation or demolition operation designated in Section 46-81 shall:
(1)
Plan the excavation or demolition to avoid damage to or minimize interference with underground utilities in and near the construction area;
(2)
Maintain a clearance between an underground utility and the cutting edge or point of any mechanized equipment, taking into account the known limit of control of such cutting edge or point, as may be responsible necessary to avoid damage to such utility; and
(3)
Provide such support for underground utilities in and near the construction area, including during backfill operations, as may be reasonably necessary for the protection of such utilities.
(Code 2003, § 8-5008; Ord. of 3-1-1983, § 8)
Sec. 46-86. - Excavation or demolition damage.
(a)
Except as provided by Subsection (b) of this section, each person responsible for any excavation or demolition operation designated in Section 46-81 that results in any damage to an underground utility shall, immediately upon discovery of such damage, notify the operator of such utility of the location and nature of the damage and shall allow the operator reasonable time to accomplish necessary repairs before completing the excavation or demolition in the immediate area of such utility.
(b)
Each person responsible for any excavation or demolition operation designated in Section 46-81 that results in damage to an underground utility permitting the escape of any flammable, toxic, or corrosive gas or liquid shall immediately, upon discovery of such damage, notify the operator, police and fire departments, and take any other action as may be reasonably necessary, to protect persons and property and to minimize the hazards until arrival of the operator's personnel or police and fire departments.
(Code 2003, § 8-5009; Ord. of 3-1-1983, § 9)
Sec. 46-87. - Criminal penalties.
Any person who violates any provision of this article shall be subject to a fine not to exceed the maximum allowed under the Charter of the City and/or imprisoned for a period not to exceed 90 days for each such violation. This does not affect any civil remedies for personal injury or property (including underground utilities) damage except as otherwise specifically provided for in this article.
(Code 2003, § 8-5010; Ord. of 3-1-1983, § 10)
