DIVISION 3. - WELLHEAD PROTECTION

Sec. 66-91. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this division, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Hazardous waste or material means any waste or material which because of its quantity, concentration or physical, chemical or infectious characteristics may:
(1)
Cause or significantly contribute to an increase in mortality or an increase in serious irreversible or incapacitating reversible illness; or
(2)
Pose a substantial present or potential hazard to human health or to the environment when improperly treated, stored, transported, disposed of or otherwise managed.
Sanitary landfill means a disposal site where solid wastes, including putrescible wastes, or hazardous wastes are disposed of on land by placing earth cover thereon.
Wellhead means the upper terminal of a well, including adapters, ports, seals, valves and other attachments.
(Ord. of 11-2-1993(2), § 2)
Cross reference— Definitions generally, § 1-4.
Sec. 66-92. - Administration.
The policies and procedures for the administration of any wellhead protection zone established under this division, including, without limitation, those applicable to nonconforming uses, exceptions, enforcement and penalties, shall be the same as provided in the zoning ordinance of the county.
(Ord. of 11-2-1993(2), § 6)
Cross reference— Administration, ch. 2.
Sec. 66-93. - Establishment of protection zone.
There is established a use district to be known as a wellhead protection zone, identified and described as all the area within a circle of the center which is the center of any county water supply wellhead and the radius of which is 250 feet.
(Ord. of 11-2-1993(2), § 3)
Sec. 66-94. - Permitted uses.
The following uses shall be permitted within a wellhead protection zone:
(1)
Any use permitted within existing agricultural or single-family residential districts, except that the minimum residential lot size for a lot any portion of which lies within the wellhead protection zone shall not be less than one acre.
(2)
Any other open land use where any building located on the property is incidental and accessory to the primary open land use.
(Ord. of 11-2-1993(2), § 4)
Sec. 66-95. - Prohibited uses.
The following uses or conditions shall be prohibited within wellhead protection zones, whether or not such use or condition may otherwise be ordinarily included as a part of a use permitted under section 66-94:
(1)
Surface use or storage of hazardous materials, expressly including commercial use of agricultural pesticides.
(2)
Septic tanks or drainfields appurtenant thereto.
(3)
Impervious surfaces other than roofs of buildings, and streets, driveways and walks serving buildings permitted under section 66-94.
(4)
Sanitary landfills.
(5)
Hazardous waste disposal sites.
(6)
Stormwater infiltration basins.
(7)
Underground storage tanks.
(8)
Sanitary sewer lines within 150 feet of a wellhead.
(Ord. of 11-2-1993(2), § 5)
Secs. 66-96—66-120. - Reserved.
