ARTICLE IV. - COIN-OPERATED DEVICES
DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Sec. 12-106. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Arcade room shall mean any establishment where more than three (3) coin-operated amusement machines are placed or kept for use or play, or on exhibition for the purpose of use or play by the general public.
Arcade room proprietor shall mean any proprietor of an arcade room. As used herein, the terms "proprietor" and "arcade room proprietor" shall be synonymous unless specifically provided otherwise.
Coin-operated amusement machine shall mean any machine or device operated by means of the insertion of a coin, token, or similar object, for the purpose of receiving the temporary services of such machine for recreation or a game of skill and for the playing of which a fee is charged. The term includes coin-operated electronic games, pinball machines, and other similar devices. The term does not include vending machines in which are not incorporated recreation features, nor does the term include any coin-operated mechanical musical devices or kiddie rides. As used herein the terms "machine" and "coin-operated amusement machine" shall be synonymous unless specifically provided otherwise.
Distributor shall mean any person who sets up for operation by another and leases or rents for the purpose of operation by another, any machine as herein regulated, whether such leasing or renting be for a fixed charge or rental, or on the basis of a division of the income derived from such device, or otherwise.
Proprietor shall mean any person who, as the owner or lessee, has under his control any establishment, place or premises in or at which a coin-operated amusement machine is placed or kept for use or play, or on exhibition for the purpose of use or play by the general public.
(Ord. No. 82-2, § 6-54, 3-9-82)
Secs. 12-107—12-120. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - LICENSE

Sec. 12-121. - Required.
No person shall engage in the business of a distributor or proprietor of coin-operated amusement machines without first having obtained the proper license therefor.
(Ord. No. 82-2, § 6-55, 3-9-82)
Sec. 12-122. - Application.
(a)
Application for license under this division shall be filed in writing with the city administrator, on a form to be provided by the city, and shall specify:
(1)
The name and address of the applicant, and if a firm, corporation, partnership or association, the principal officers thereof and their addresses.
(2)
Proprietors shall list the address of the premises where the licensed machine or machines are to be operated, together with the character of the business as carried on at such place.
(3)
Proprietors shall list the number of machines to be maintained on the premises.
(4)
Proprietors shall list the name and address of the owner and/or distributor of the machine or machines, if other than the proprietor.
(5)
Distributors shall list the names and addresses of all proprietors within the city on whose premises the distributor has installed, placed or assigned such machines and shall list the total number of machines at each location.
(6)
Whether or not the person having management of or supervision over the applicant's business have been convicted of a crime, misdemeanor or the violation of any municipal ordinance, the nature of such offense, and the punishment assessed therefor.
(7)
The information contained within this application shall not be released to the general public without the consent of the licensee.
(b)
The proper license fee shall accompany the application.
(Ord. No. 82-2, § 6-59, 3-9-82)
Sec. 12-123. - Reserved.
Editor's note— Ord. No. 99-02, adopted January 4, 1999, amended the Code by repealing former § 12-123 in its entirety. Former § 12-123 pertained to fees, and derived from Ord. No. 82-2, adopted March 9, 1982; and Ord. No. 94-05, adopted December 5, 1994.
Sec. 12-124. - Character qualifications.
No license shall be issued under this division to or renewed for any person who has or employs a person who has, within five (5) years of issuance or renewal, been convicted of, or pled guilty or nolo contendere to, any felony involving any federal or state offense or any federal or state misdemeanor involving drug-related offenses or offenses involving moral turpitude. The licensee will submit the identity of all owners and employees to the city on a continuing basis as changes occur. This information shall be forwarded to the police department for the purpose of allowing a complete check in order that these character qualifications be fulfilled, prior to the issuance or renewal of any license issued hereunder.
(Ord. No. 82-2, § 6-60, 3-9-82)
Sec. 12-125. - Increasing number of devices.
In case a proprietor licensed under the provisions of this division desires, after the expiration of any portion of any license year, to increase the number of machines to be used or played, or exhibited for use or play in his establishment, so that he then has three (3) or more machines, he shall surrender his license to the city administrator who shall issue a new arcade room proprietor license upon payment of the proper license fee therefor with any applicable credit for the previously paid license fee.
(Ord. No. 82-2, § 6-61, 3-9-82)
Sec. 12-126. - Assignment, transfer.
The license required by this division shall be nonassignable and nontransferable and in the case of a proprietor shall apply only to the premises for which such license is issued.
(Ord. No. 82-2, § 6-59, 3-9-82)
Sec. 12-127. - Display; identification of machine.
The license issued under this division shall be posted in a conspicuous place in the establishment of the licensee. In addition, each machine shall have placed upon it by the licensee a sticker showing the license number of its distributor and/or proprietor.
(Ord. No. 82-2, § 6-59, 3-9-82)
Sec. 12-128. - Revocation.
In the event that it comes to the attention of the governing body that the amusement machine in question has created a nuisance to the surrounding community or has violated any provision of this article, the following procedure will be followed:
(1)
The chief of police shall issue a notice of objection which shall include the address of the location and the specific reasons why the machine or machines in question are alleged to be a nuisance or alleged to violate any provision of this article. The chief of police will then notify the proprietor that a notice of objection has been filed and will set a date for a hearing before the governing body on this matter. Extensions and necessary investigations will be granted and conducted at the discretion of the chief of police.
(2)
At the time of the hearing, any resident, the distributor, the proprietor and the chief of police may be heard. After this hearing the governing body shall issue a "notice of decision" which will call for the dismissal of the objection, removal of the machines or such other remedy as they deem appropriate under the circumstances that are consistent with the purpose of this article.
(3)
The decision of the governing body shall be in writing and shall state the reasons for their decision and shall be based upon the merits of the case.
(4)
The decision of the governing body shall be final but may be appealed to the appropriate court within thirty (30) days.
(5)
The decision of the governing body shall be binding upon the proprietor and distributor of the machine under consideration.
(Ord. No. 82-2, § 6-62, 3-9-82)
Secs. 12-129—12-140. - Reserved.
DIVISION 3. - OPERATIONAL RULES

Sec. 12-141. - Conformance to division.
All businesses licensed under this article shall be subject to the provisions of this division. Violation of any of the provisions of this division shall be sufficient grounds for revocation of a license issued hereunder.
(Ord. No. 82-2, § 6-63, 3-9-82)
Sec. 12-142. - Inspection.
The chief of police shall inspect or cause the inspection of any place or building in which any such machine or machines are operated or set up for operation and to inspect, investigate and test such machines as needed.
(Ord. No. 82-2, § 6-63(b), 3-9-82)
Sec. 12-143. - Devices to be kept in plain view; gambling devices prohibited.
(a)
All machines coming under this article shall at all times be kept and placed in plain view of and open and accessible to any person who may frequent or be in any place of business where such machines are kept or used. However, no machine shall be placed within five (5) feet of any public entrance or exit and no proprietor, except arcade room proprietors may keep or maintain a machine between any public entrance or exit and any cash register.
(b)
Nothing in this article shall be construed to authorize, permit or license any gambling device of any nature whatsoever.
(Ord. No. 82-2, § 6-63(a), 3-9-82)
Sec. 12-144. - Attendant required.
It shall be unlawful for any proprietor to open his business to the public unless an attendant is present. The attendant shall be of sufficient mental and physical capacity so as to be able to provide aid to patrons if needed or desired. Such attendant shall not be less than eighteen (18) years of age.
(Ord. No. 82-2, § 6-63(c), 3-9-82)
Sec. 12-145. - Refunds and adjustments.
Refunds and adjustments to all customers shall be the responsibility of the proprietor of the machine in question.
(Ord. No. 82-2, § 6-63(d), 3-9-82)
Sec. 12-146. - Loitering.
(a)
As used in this section, "loitering" shall mean remaining idle in essentially one (1) location and shall include the concepts of spending time idly, loafing, or walking about aimlessly, and shall also include the colloquial expression "hanging around."
(b)
It shall be unlawful for any person to loiter within the immediate vicinity of any machine or business premises regulated under this article or for any person licensed to operate an arcade room to permit loitering on or in the immediate vicinity of any machine or business premises regulated hereunder in such a manner as to:
(1)
Create or cause to be created a danger of a breach of the peace;
(2)
Create or cause to be created any disturbance or annoyance to the comfort and repose of any person;
(3)
Obstruct the free passage of pedestrians or vehicles;
(4)
Obstruct, molest, or interfere with any person lawfully in any public place.
(Ord. No. 82-2, § 6-63(e), 3-9-82)
Sec. 12-147. - Alcoholic beverages.
No proprietor shall allow alcoholic beverages to be brought onto their premises by any person.
(Ord. No. 82-2, § 6-63(f), 3-9-82)
Secs. 12-148—12-165. - Reserved.
