Chapter 26 - EMERGENCY SERVICES[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Cross reference— Public safety, ch. 58.
State Law reference— Restrictions on operation, installation, maintenance, etc., of electronic security systems by local governments, O.C.G.A. § 36-60-12; Georgia Emergency Telephone Number 911 Service Act of 1977, O.C.G.A. § 46-5-120 et seq.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Secs. 26-1—26-30. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - E 911 SYSTEM

Sec. 26-31. - Monthly E 911 charge imposed.
Pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 46-5-133, there is imposed a monthly E 911 charge upon each exchange access facility subscribed to by telephone subscribers whose exchange to access lines are in areas in the incorporated and unincorporated areas of the county.
(Code 1987, § 2-61)
Sec. 26-32. - Amount of charge.
The amount of the charge imposed by this article shall be as set forth in the schedule of fees and charges on file in the office of the county clerk per exchange access facility provided to the telephone subscriber in the incorporated and unincorporated areas of the county.
(Code 1987, § 2-62)
Sec. 26-33. - Effective date of charge.
This charge shall become effective and shall begin on the first day of the first month following passage on October 23, 1992.
(Code 1987, § 2-63)
Sec. 26-34. - Implementation of system.
The chair of the board of commissioners is authorized and empowered to execute any and all documents necessary to effectuate implementation of the E 911 system including but not limited to the negotiation and execution of a contract for the operation of an emergency 911 system which contract is hereby expressly approved by this board upon signature of the board by the chair of the board of commissioners.
(Code 1987, § 2-64)
Sec. 26-35. - E 911 department—Created.
There is hereby created a department to be entitled the E 911 department.
(Code 1987, § 2-68)
Sec. 26-36. - Same—Location.
The E 911 department, together with all offices and communication facilities related therewith, shall be located at the building housing the county sheriff's department.
(Code 1987, § 2-69)
Sec. 26-37. - 911 charge on prepaid wireless transactions.
In accordance with O.C.G.A. § 46-5-134.2, there is hereby imposed a prepaid wireless 911 charge as defined by O.C.G.A. § 46-5-134.2 (a)(4) upon every prepaid wireless retail transaction occurring within the jurisdiction of the public service answering point in the amount of .75 cents.
(Res. No. 11-16, § 1, 6-28-2011)
Sec. 26-38. - Collection of 911 charge on prepaid wireless transactions.
Prepaid wireless 911 charges collected by sellers shall be remitted to the commissioner of the department of revenue at the times and in the manner provided by Chapter 8 of Title 48 of the Official Code of Georgia Annotated with respect to the sales and use tax imposed on prepaid wireless calling service.
(Res. No. 11-16, § 2, 6-28-2011)
Sec. 26-39. - Administrative provisions.
The county clerk is hereby directed to file with the state revenue commissioner a certified copy of this section and amendments thereto, in accordance with O.C.G.A. § 46-5-134.2 (j)(1), within ten days of enactment of this section.
(Res. No. 11-16, § 3, 6-28-2011)
Sec. 26-40. - Depositing of funds; use of funds.
In accordance with O.C.G.A. § 46-5-134.2 (j)(5), funds received by this county from charges imposed by this article shall be deposited in the Emergency Telephone System Fund maintained by this county pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 46-5-134 and kept separate from general revenue of the jurisdiction; all such funds shall be used exclusively for the purposes authorized by O.C.G.A. § 46-5-134 (f).
(Res. No. 11-16, § 4, 6-28-2011; Res. No. 11-20, § 1, 7-26-2011)
Secs. 26-41—26-60. - Reserved.
ARTICLE III. - EMERGENCY MEDICAL SERVICES[2]
Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
State Law reference— Emergency medical services, O.C.G.A. § 31-11-1 et seq.

DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Sec. 26-61. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Ambulance means a motor vehicle that is specially constructed and equipped and is intended to be used for emergency medical transportation of patients. This vehicle meets a 60-inch headroom requirement and is properly equipped, maintained and operated in accordance with other rules and regulations contained in this article.
Ambulance provider means any person, agency or company providing ambulance service which is operating within the county.
Ambulance service means the providing of emergency care and transportation on the public streets, highways, and airspace of the county for a wounded, injured, sick, invalid or incapacitated human being to or from a place where medical or hospital care is furnished.
Communications center means any agency or organization designated by the county for the centralized receipt and referral of requests for emergency services.
Convalescent vehicle means a motor vehicle not used for emergency purposes but used only to transport persons who are convalescent, nonacutely ill or otherwise nonambulatory.
Emergency means any medical condition which necessitates immediate medical attention and, if left untreated, could result in death, disablement, permanent injury or damage to an involved human being.
Emergency service request means any request for emergency assistance received by the communications center and referred to an ambulance provider or first responder.
First responder means any agency which customarily receives and responds to requests for emergency assistance but which does not routinely include, as part of its function, the transportation of patients.
Health department means the county health department or the state department of human resources or such other department as may be designated by the board of commissioners.
Health officer means the director of the county health department or his designee.
Person means any individual, firm, partnership, association, corporation, company, group of individuals acting together for a common purpose or organization of any kind, including any governmental agency or entity other than an agency of the United States Government.
(Code 1987, § 6.5-31)
Cross reference— Definitions generally, § 1-4.
Sec. 26-62. - Compliance required.
No person shall operate an ambulance service in the county without complying with the provisions of this article.
(Code 1987, § 6.5-32(a))
Sec. 26-63. - Exceptions.
The provisions of this article shall not apply to the following:
(1)
An ambulance or ambulance service operated by an agency of the United States Government;
(2)
A vehicle rendering assistance temporarily in the case of a major catastrophe or disaster;
(3)
An ambulance operated from a location outside of the county and transporting patients, picked up beyond the limits of the county to locations within county;
(4)
A convalescent vehicle or the operator thereof;
(5)
An ambulance transporting a patient from a hospital in the county to a location outside of the county;
(Code 1987, § 6.5-32(a))
Sec. 26-64. - Records generally.
(a)
Records of each emergency ambulance trip report shall be made by the ambulance service in a manner, frequency and on such trip report forms as may be prescribed by the state department of human resources and of the county health department. Each such trip report must be signed by the ambulance crew members and the licensed physician or licensed professional nurse receiving the patient. All medical orders shall be recorded on the report together with the signature of the authorizing physician.
(b)
Complete and accurate copies of each trip report shall be submitted to the department of human resources by the tenth of each month following the date of occurrence of the ambulance trip. A copy of each trip report shall also be left with the hospital receiving the patient and shall become a part of the patient's medical record. In addition, each ambulance service shall submit data and information relating to specific cases or to its performance within the county, to the health department in such a manner and at such a time as requested by the health department.
(Code 1987, § 6.5-32(b))
Sec. 26-65. - Employee training records.
Each ambulance provider operating in the county shall maintain training records for each employee containing pertinent information regarding certification as an EMT, cardiac technician or advanced EMT and any other related courses of training, all of which records shall be maintained at a location in the county and shall be readily available for inspection by the health officer.
(Code 1987, § 6.5-32(c))
Sec. 26-66. - Content of trip reports.
Each ambulance service provider shall maintain a record of each call or request for emergency ambulance services. Copies of individual records shall be provided to the health department upon request. The record shall contain the following information:
(1)
Patient's name and the name and address of the caller if other than the patient;
(2)
Location of patient; apparent problem;
(3)
Number for return telephone calls;
(4)
Time call received;
(5)
Unit dispatched and time of dispatch;
(6)
Time of arrival at scene;
(7)
Time of arrival at emergency facility;
(8)
Attendant and driver names and EMT numbers.
(Code 1987, § 6.5-32(d))
Sec. 26-67. - Duty to serve.
Any owner, operator or employee of an ambulance provider which has accepted an emergency service request, or has responded to any other request for emergency assistance, shall not refuse to transport any patient requesting, or for whom, emergency medical assistance was requested. In the absence of compelling reasons to the contrary, each emergency patient is to be transported by such ambulance provider to an appropriate emergency facility of the patient's choice.
(Code 1987, § 6.5-32(e))
Sec. 26-68. - Response to calls.
An ambulance provider, to which an emergency service request is referred by the communications center, shall either immediately accept such request for emergency service for immediate handling or advise the communications center that it will not accept the request and the reason thereof. An ambulance provider which accepts such a request shall at the time of the acceptance advise the communications center of the identity of the vehicle which will be responding and shall immediately inform the communications center of any subsequent changes in the status of that ambulance.
(Code 1987, § 6.5-32(f))
Sec. 26-69. - Notice of arrival.
Any ambulance provider or any ambulance operator who responds to an emergency service request shall immediately notify the communications center by the most expedient method upon arrival of the ambulance at the scene of the reported emergency.
(Code 1987, § 6.5-32(g))
Sec. 26-70. - Response to calls from other than communication center.
(a)
Any ambulance provider or ambulance operator who obtains knowledge of the need for emergency service in the county by any means other than from the communications center, shall, before responding to such need for emergency service, immediately notify the communications center by the most expedient manner of such need for emergency service; provided, however, that nothing in this section shall preclude an ambulance provider from providing such life-sustaining care as may be immediately necessary in a life-threatening situation.
(b)
The communications center, upon receiving notification pursuant to subsection (a) of this section shall designate an appropriate ambulance provider which shall become responsible for the transportation of the patient from the scene of the emergency to an appropriate medical facility.
(Code 1987, § 6.5-32(h), (i))
Sec. 26-71. - Use of emergency signal devices.
No ambulance operator will utilize flashing lights, sirens or similar devices enroute to any emergency located on a public thoroughfare or property customarily open to the public or which would require the involvement or investigation by any public safety agency unless the communications center has designated that ambulance to be responsible for the transportation of the patients from the scene of the emergency to an appropriate medical facility.
(Code 1987, § 6.5-32(j))
Sec. 26-72. - Nonresponsive arrival at scene.
(a)
Any ambulance which responds to or arrives at the scene of a medical emergency for which it has not been designated responsible by the communications center, shall provide the emergency medical care necessary to sustain and stabilize the patient until the arrival of the designated provider.
(b)
A nondesignated provider will not transport a patient from the scene of a medical emergency except under the following conditions:
(1)
The patient's condition is life-threatening or otherwise subject to rapid and significant deterioration; and
(2)
There is clear indication that, in view of the estimated time of arrival of the designated ambulance, the patient's condition warrants immediate transport.
(c)
Any nondesignated ambulance service which elects to transport an emergency patient pursuant to subsection (b) of this section should immediately inform the communications center of that fact and the destination of the patient. A complete report of each patient transportation shall be made in a manner and on such forms as may be prescribed by the health department and shall be submitted to the county health department within 72 hours of the transportation of a patient.
(Code 1987, § 6.5-32(k), (l))
Secs. 26-73—26-90. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - EMERGENCY MEDICAL SERVICES COUNCIL

Sec. 26-91. - Created; membership.
(a)
There is hereby created in and for the unincorporated area of the county a commission to be known as the Paulding County Emergency Medical Services Council, which shall consist of not more than 12 members who shall be appointed for a term of not more than one year each. All proposed appointments to the county emergency medical services council shall be subject to the nomination and confirmation process whereby recommendations for nominations shall be submitted to the chair of the board of commissioners who shall present formal nominations to the board of commissioners for a vote and confirmation.
(b)
In making these nominations for the county emergency medical services council, the chair of the board of commissioners shall seek proposed recommendations of members to make up the county emergency medical services council as follows:
(1)
One member shall be the county director of emergency management or his/her designee;
(2)
One member shall be the county board of education superintendent of schools or a designee of the county board of education;
(3)
One member shall be the City of Dallas, Georgia, police chief or the designee of the mayor and city council of Dallas, Georgia;
(4)
One member shall be the City of Hiram, Georgia, police chief or the designee of the mayor and city council of Hiram, Georgia;
(5)
One member shall be the county sheriff or his designee;
(6)
One member shall be recommended by Well-Star Hospital, preferably either an emergency room physician or the director of emergency room nursing;
(7)
One member shall be the director of county E 911 communications center or its designee;
(8)
One member from each of the emergency ambulance provider companies in the county, which members shall be the director from the emergency ambulance provider companies or their designees;
(9)
One member shall be the county fire department chief or his/her designee;
(10)
One member shall be the director of the county health department or his designee;
(11)
One member shall be from the board of commissioners or its designee.
(c)
The department of human resources representative from Region I will serve on the committee as an advisory member only.
(d)
Each member so appointed shall serve for a term as designated and until a successor shall be appointed to replace such member as provided in this section.
(e)
If any recommendation is not received or not nominated by the chair of the board of commissioners or not confirmed by the board of commissioners, the chair of the board of commissioners may make a substitute nomination subject to confirmation by the board of commissioners.
(Res. No. 02-01, § 1, 1-8-2002; Res. No. 10-08, § 4, 5-25-2010)
Sec. 26-92. - Powers and duties.
The county emergency medical services council is hereby authorized and empowered to:
(1)
Conduct public meetings with the frequency of such meetings occurring at least once each calendar quarter;
(2)
Make and prescribe rules and bylaws regarding the conduct of the meetings of the county emergency medical services council;
(3)
Report its finding and recommendation as the provisions of emergency medical service in the county to the board of commissioners at least on a semi-annual basis;
(4)
Inquire into all matters which concern the provision of emergency medical services as may be requested by the board of commissioners.
(Res. No. 02-01, § 2, 1-8-2002)
Sec. 26-93. - Compensation; expenses.
The members of the county emergency medical services council shall not receive a salary and are not considered employees of the county by virtue of such appointment. If the county emergency medical services council or any member thereof is required to incur any expenses in association with their duties as a member of the council, such council members shall be reimbursed at the current rate of reimbursement as is available to the office of the board of commissioners pursuant to the written policy thereon.
(Res. No. 02-01, § 3, 1-8-2002)
Secs. 26-94—26-110. - Reserved.
DIVISION 3. - LICENSES

Sec. 26-111. - Required.
No person shall operate an ambulance service in the county without a valid ambulance service license issued by the county health department and the state department of human resources pursuant to the provisions of this article.
(Code 1987, § 6.5-33(a)(1))
Sec. 26-112. - Qualification.
Only a person who operates an ambulance service in compliance with this regulation shall be eligible to receive and retain a county ambulance service license. No county ambulance service license shall be issued to any person who does not hold a valid ambulance service license from the state department of human resources.
(Code 1987, § 6.5-33(a)(2))
Sec. 26-113. - Transfer.
Licenses issued under this division are not transferable with respect to person or location.
(Code 1987, § 6.5-33(a)(3))
Sec. 26-114. - Application.
Any person desiring to operate an ambulance service as provided in this division shall make written application to the health department. The application shall be made on forms provided by the health department for that purpose and shall contain as a minimum, but not limited to, the following information:
(1)
The name and address of the applicant; the ownership of the application organization shall be fully disclosed in the application. This disclosure shall include the names and addresses of all corporate officers and any persons having a five percent or more financial interest in the organization.
(2)
The name under which the applicant is doing business or proposes to do business.
(3)
The training and experience of the applicant and all other employees involved in the transportation and care of patients.
(4)
A picture or description of each ambulance, including the make, model, year of manufacture, motor and chassis number, and the color scheme, insignia, name, monogram or other distinguishing characteristics to be used to designate the applicant's ambulance.
(5)
Insurance coverage for vehicle.
(6)
Personnel listing.
(7)
Vehicle listing.
(8)
A list of all radio frequencies which the ambulance service uses, proposes to use, or for which it holds a federal communication commission license.
(9)
All office locations or base locations in the county from which its ambulances operate.
(Code 1987, § 6.5-33(a)(4)(a)—(i))
Sec. 26-115. - Changes in pertinent information.
It shall be the responsibility of each ambulance license holder or applicant to report in writing any changes in the information submitted pursuant to section 26-114. Such notification shall be provided to the health department within ten days.
(Code 1987, § 6.5-33(a)(4)(j))
Sec. 26-116. - Employee, agent on duty.
There shall be an employee or other agent of the ambulance service stationed on suitable premises and immediately available at all times to receive telephone calls and radio messages.
(Code 1987, § 6.5-33(a)(4)(k))
Sec. 26-117. - Issuance, term.
Upon determination that all the requirements of this article have been met, the health department shall issue a license valid for two years.
(Code 1987, § 6.5-33(a)(4)(l))
Sec. 26-118. - Fee.
All applications for a license under this division, except those submitted by governmental agencies, shall be accompanied by a fee as set forth in the schedule of fees and charges on file in the office of the county clerk.
(Code 1987, § 6.5-33(a)(4))
Sec. 26-119. - Suspension.
(a)
The health department, or its duly appointed hearing officer, may suspend any license to operate an ambulance service for failure to comply with the requirements of this article. The health department shall perform no such suspension prior to providing an opportunity for an appropriate hearing except that an emergency summary suspension may be performed, for a period not to exceed 20 days, if warranted by substantial and immediate or eminent hazard to public health.
(b)
License holders shall be notified in writing upon suspension of the ambulance service license. Such notice shall provide an opportunity for deficiency correction and compliance by the license holder and may provide for the termination of the suspension when compliance is attained.
(Code 1987, § 6.5-33(b))
Sec. 26-120. - Revocation.
(a)
The health department may, after providing an opportunity for a hearing, revoke an ambulance service license for violation of any of the requirements of this article or for interference with the health department and its duly authorized agents in the performance of their duty.
(b)
No ambulance provider, nor any owner, partner, or corporate officer thereof, whose license is revoked for failure to comply with or to maintain compliance with the applicable provisions of this article, shall be entitled to be relicensed or to be a party to a like service under any other license for a period of at least six months, in the county.
(Code 1987, § 6.5-33(c))
Secs. 26-121—26-135. - Reserved.
DIVISION 4. - STANDARDS FOR AMBULANCES

Sec. 26-136. - Generally.
Ambulances must be maintained on suitable premises that meet the requirements of the county health code; be of an approved design with 60-inch headroom in the patient compartment; be properly equipped, maintained and operated in accordance with other provisions of this division.
(Code 1987, § 6.5-34(a))
Sec. 26-137. - Inspection, approval.
Prior to their use as ambulances, vehicles must be submitted to an agent of the state department of human resources for its inspection and approval. The agent will indicate his approval by affixing a department of human resources decal to the windshield of the ambulance.
(Code 1987, § 6.5-34(b))
Sec. 26-138. - Maintenance.
The health department shall require that vehicles be maintained in good repair and safe working order and may require that certification to that effect be obtained and submitted on each ambulance provider in such manner and with such frequency as the health department may stipulate.
(Code 1987, § 6.5-34(c))
Sec. 26-139. - Spot inspections.
Duly authorized agents of the health department may inspect any emergency vehicle operated by any ambulance provider at any time as a condition to further operation with the county. Refusal to submit to such inspections will constitute grounds for immediate revocation of the county ambulance service license.
(Code 1987, § 6.5-34(d))
Sec. 26-140. - Hearing, revocation of license.
After providing an opportunity for an appropriate hearing, the health department and its duly authorized agents may, at any time, revoke the county ambulance service license for failure of the vehicle, or crew thereof, to meet the requirements of this article; provided that an emergency summary removal may occur for a period not to exceed 20 days if warranted by a substantial and immediate or eminent hazard to public health.
(Code 1987, § 6.5-34(e))
