ARTICLE IV. - MISCELLANEOUS[8]
Footnotes:
--- (8) ---
Editor's note— This article is a compilation of various special acts of the Georgia General Assembly which do not justify treatment as an article or division of this Part I. Section numbers have been arbitrarily assigned to the provisions of this article, and history notes have been provided indicating the source of each section.

DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Sec. 401. - Courthouse financing.
That constitutional amendment authorizing the governing authority of Paulding County to enter into contracts and other agreements, including certain security deeds and notes, for any period not exceeding 30 years with individuals, private firms, and corporations for the lease, lease-purchase, purchase and acquisition or financing of land and a building to be utilized as a county courthouse and certain related facilities (Resolution Act No. 185; House Resolution No. 776-1959; 1976 Ga. Laws, page 1817) shall not be repealed or deleted on July 1, 1987, as a part of the Constitution of the State of Georgia but is specifically continued in force and effect on and after that date as a part of the Constitution of the State of Georgia.
(1987 Ga. Laws, page 3722, § 1)
Sec. 402. - Fire protection districts.
Article VII, Section IV, Paragraph III of the Constitution is hereby amended by adding at the end thereof the following paragraph:
In accordance with such conditions and requirements as the General Assembly may prescribe, the General Assembly is hereby authorized to provide by law that the governing authority of Paulding County may establish and administer fire protection districts within the
bounds of said county and systems of fire protection and prevention within such districts and levy taxes or special assessments therefor on property located within such districts, upon the approval of a majority of the qualified voters voting at a special election called by the Ordinary of said county and held in said districts upon said question; provided that such taxes or assessments shall not exceed five mills upon the valuation of the property located within any such district; and provided further that the homestead exemptions granted by Article VII, Section I, Paragraph IV of this Constitution, and the statutes enacted pursuant thereto, shall not apply to the levy of such taxes and assessments.
(1972 Ga. Laws, page 1442, § 1)
Editor's note— This constitutional amendment was specifically continued in force and effect as a part of the constitution of the state by 1987 Ga. Laws, page 3724.
DIVISION 2. - ZONING

Sec. 431. - Zoning powers.
That the Ordinary of Paulding County shall have the right to create and establish restricted zones or districts throughout the territorial limits of Paulding County; to define the boundaries and limits of said districts; to define the character and kind of buildings or structures that may be erected in such areas or districts; to prohibit the erection of different buildings or structures therein; to prohibit the use or maintenance of any buildings in such areas or districts except for the purposes specified, and to adopt rules and regulations for the enforcement of this Act; provided, however, that said restricted areas or districts must be outside the limits of incorporated towns and municipalities in said county.
(1939 Ga. Laws, page 700, § 1)
Sec. 432. - Zoning districts.
Said Ordinary may establish such areas or districts over the entire county lying outside the limits of incorporated towns and municipalities or it may establish such areas or districts in any part of said county outside such towns and municipalities. It may proceed on the petition of fifty percent of the owners of the property located in such area or district to be established.
(1939 Ga. Laws, page 700, § 2)
Sec. 433. - Publication of proposed zoning.
Be it further enacted that before any such area or district is established or altered by said Ordinary, notice of the proposed action of the Ordinary shall be given by publication once a week for three weeks in the newspaper wherein the sheriff's advertisements in said county are published and also by posting a notice in three or more conspicuous places within the area to be included in such zoned or restricted area. Said notices shall contain information as to the street, streets, road or roads to be included in the district, and general information as to the nature of the restrictions sought to be imposed, and shall specify the time and place of the meeting before the Ordinary at which such proposed action will be considered. At such meeting before the Ordinary, or any subsequent meeting to which the matter may be deferred, opportunity for hearing shall be afforded to any one who has an interest or right in the realty to be affected by the proposed zoning regulation.
(1939 Ga. Laws, page 700, § 3)
Sec. 434. - Nonconforming uses.
Be it further enacted that in the case of buildings already erected in any proposed restricted area being used or designed for a purpose contrary to that which it is proposed to provide in such restricted area, the Ordinary may limit the further extension, maintenance or use of any such building beyond that existing at the time the proposed restriction is to take effect.
(1939 Ga. Laws, page 700, § 4)
Sec. 435. - Violations, remedies, etc.
Be it further enacted that any building or structure erected, occupied, used or maintained in violation of the provisions of this Act or in violation of the orders of said Ordinary in pursuance of this Act, is hereby declared to be a nuisance, and it is hereby made the duty of the solicitor general of the circuit in which Paulding County is located to prosecute all persons violating the provisions of this Act. This remedy is cumulative of other remedies provided by law for the abatement of nuisances. Said solicitor may proceed by prosecution of the guilty persons or by action to abate a nuisance or by injunction or otherwise, as he may see fit. This section shall not derogate from the right of any interested person to proceed otherwise.
(1939 Ga. Laws, page 700, § 5)
Sec. 436. - Punishment for violation.
Be it further enacted that any person, firm or corporation violating any of the provisions of this Act or any restrictions imposed by authority of this Act, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction, shall be subject to fine or imprisonment or both, as provided by law.
(1939 Ga. Laws, page 700, § 6)
Sec. 437. - Rules and regulations.
Be it further enacted that the Ordinary of Paulding County shall have the right and he is directed to make and establish rules and regulations to carry into effect this Act and to enforce same, and he is authorized and directed to make additional rules and to modify those existing from time to time as he may see fit in order better to carry out the purposes of this Act.
(1939 Ga. Laws, page 700, § 7)
Sec. 438. - Method of changing zoning districts.
Be it further enacted that said Ordinary may from time to time alter or change the boundaries of any restricted area or district authorized by this Act, or the restriction upon the whole or any part of the property included within any restricted area therefore established by authority of said Ordinary, provided the same notice and opportunity to be heard is given as provided by Section 3 of this Act for the establishment of a restricted area or district.
(1939 Ga. Laws, page 700, § 8)
