ARTICLE IX. - CANVASSER OR SOLICITOR[6]

Footnotes:
--- (6) ---
State Law reference— Peddlers and itinerant traders, O.C.G.A. § 43-32-1 et seq.; exception from local peddler or itinerant vendor licensing requirements for persons selling agricultural products, O.C.G.A. § 43-32-6.

Sec. 14-295. - Intent.
The intent of the mayor and city council in enacting this article is to regulate the sale of goods and services by canvassing or soliciting at residences in the city, to the end that criminal activity in the city and abusive techniques utilized by any such canvassers or solicitors which adversely affect the public health, safety, and welfare in the city will be curtailed. This article is not intended as a de facto prohibition of door-to-door solicitation, nor is it an attempt to adversely affect interstate commerce. Instead, this article is intended to balance competing interests, reduce criminal activity and protect city citizens from abusive sales techniques versus the conduct of proper commercial sales activity. This article is not intended to allow any business activity which would otherwise be unlawful.
(Ord. of 7-1-2012, § 18-231)
Sec. 14-296. - Definition.
For purposes of this article, the term "canvasser" or "solicitor" includes any person who solicits orders door-to-door or house-to-house on behalf of a business, individual, vocation or occupation.
(Ord. of 7-1-2012, § 18-232)
Sec. 14-297. - Exempt activities or organizations.
(a)
Persons, businesses and organizations exempted from local regulation by operation of state or federal law or by the Constitution of the United States, or of the state, are exempt from the requirements of this article.
(b)
Bona fide charitable or nonprofit organizations whose field sales representatives are under the age of 15 are not required to obtain an occupation tax certificate, canvasser's or solicitor's permit.
(Ord. of 7-1-2012, § 18-233)
Sec. 14-298. - Occupation tax certificate required, application.
(a)
All persons, firms, companies, corporations or other entities engaging or offering to engage in business as a canvasser or solicitor involving going from door-to-door or house-to-house, without an appointment or invitation, in residential areas or businesses of the city, for the purpose of soliciting orders, sales, subscriptions, or conducting business of any kind, shall file an application in the required form, and obtain an occupation tax certificate for such activity from the city or its designee; provided, however, that nonprofit agencies, entities, or organizations which are certified as exempt from payment of U.S. Income Taxes by the Internal Revenue Service may canvass or solicit without permits, upon registering with the city and furnishing the county police department written confirmation of their tax exempt status and a list of their representatives, including names, addresses, dates of birth, Social Security numbers, and telephone numbers.
(b)
The application shall include, but shall not be limited to, the information required on all occupation tax returns, along with the following additional information:
(1)
Full name, date of birth, address, and Social Security number of applicant.
(2)
Full names, dates of birth, and Social Security numbers of any other persons having an ownership interest in the proposed business. In the case of a corporation, this list shall include owners of 20 or more percent of the common or preferred stock.
(3)
Full names, dates of birth, and Social Security numbers, and titles of corporate officers, where appropriate.
(4)
Full name, address, telephone number, date of birth, title, and Social Security number of individuals to be employed.
(Ord. of 7-1-2012, § 18-234)
Sec. 14-299. - Work permits required, annual list.
(a)
Prior to the issuance of an occupation tax certificate, a work permit shall be required for the owners, managers and employees.
(b)
It shall be the duty of all persons holding an occupation tax certificate under this section to annually file, along with the renewal application for the occupation tax certificate, the names, home address, and home telephone number, date of birth, Social Security number and place of employment for all employees so engaged in canvassing or soliciting.
(Ord. of 7-1-2012, § 18-235)
Sec. 14-300. - Applicant disqualification.
No occupation tax certificate shall be granted to any person under the age of 18 or who has been convicted, pled guilty or entered a plea of nolo contendere under any federal, state or local law of any crime involving moral turpitude, illegal gambling, any felony, criminal trespass, public indecency, misdemeanor involving any type of sexual related crime, any theft or violence against person or property, any crime of possession or sale, or distribution of illegal drugs, distribution of material depicting nudity or sexual conduct as defined under state law, criminal solicitation to commit any of these listed offenses, attempts to commit any of these listed offenses, for a period of ten years prior to the date of application for such certificate, and has been released from parole or probation.
(Ord. of 7-1-2012, § 18-236)
Sec. 14-301. - General operating provisions.
It shall be the duty of any person granted a certificate under this article to maintain correct and accurate records concerning proposed method of operation in the county, including the dates and times and area of operation, and employee's assignments by geographic area and dates. Such record shall be kept for a minimum of 12 months beyond the expiration date of the occupation tax certificate and shall be made available for inspection by the county chief of police or his designee or the city or its designee. A copy of such record shall be forwarded to the county chief of police or his designee quarterly.
(Ord. of 7-1-2012, § 18-237)
Sec. 14-302. - Suspension or revocation of occupation tax certificate or permit.
(a)
The work permit of any canvasser or solicitor charged with any felony, criminal trespass, public indecency, misdemeanor involving any type of sex crime, theft or violence against person or property, criminal solicitation to commit any of these offenses, or violation of this article or any other of the city ordinance while canvassing or soliciting shall be deemed suspended and subject to seizure from the time of lawful arrest by the county police department, or an arrest for any violation of the Georgia Criminal Code by any law enforcement agency within the county. Such suspension shall remain in effect until the canvasser or solicitor is convicted or acquitted, or until the charge is dismissed, "dead-docketed," "nolle prossed," or "no-billed." It shall be the responsibility of the canvasser or solicitor to present the county police department with proof that the arrest which led to the suspension was dismissed, "dead-docketed," "nolle prossed," or "no-billed." Upon presentation of proof of such dispositions, the certificate or the canvasser or solicitor permit will be reinstated and will be valid until date of original expiration.
(b)
The certificate or permit of any canvasser or solicitor who is convicted, has entered a plea of guilty, or has received a nolo contendere to a felony, criminal trespass, public indecency, misdemeanor involving any type of sex crime, theft or violence against person or property, or criminal solicitation to commit any of these offenses, shall be deemed revoked and subject to seizure by the county chief of police or his designee or the city or its designee from the time of such conviction, guilty, or nolo contendere sentencing.
(c)
The certificate or permit of any canvasser or solicitor who is convicted, has pled guilty, or received nolo contendere sentencing for any violation of this article shall be deemed revoked and subject to seizure by the county chief of police or his designee or city or its designee from the time of such sentencing.
(Ord. of 7-1-2012, § 18-238)
Sec. 14-303. - Unlawful or prohibited activities.
The following are prohibited practices for canvassers and solicitors and any violation shall constitute grounds for suspension, revocation, or denial of renewal of certificate or permit, and/or arrest:
(1)
Canvassing or soliciting on Sunday, or between the hours of 7:00 p.m. and 9:00 a.m. Monday through Saturday.
(2)
Canvassing or soliciting at any location where a sign is posted at or near the main entrance or driveway to the residence or business prohibiting such activity.
(3)
Using any entrance, or part of the building, other than the main entrance to the residence or business.
(4)
Entering a residence except at the express invitation of the occupant.
(5)
Failure of the canvasser or solicitor to inform the occupant in plain terms of the purpose of the call.
(6)
The canvasser or solicitor to represent that they are participating in any contest, game or other competitive endeavor, or that they are offering the occupant an opportunity to participate in any such contest, game or endeavor.
(7)
The canvasser or solicitor to use vulgar, insulting or threatening language in the course of any solicitation.
(8)
The canvasser or solicitor to remain upon the property of the residence or business after the occupant has verbally indicated that they do not wish to make a purchase or donation. For the purpose of this article, a solicitation shall be deemed to continue until the solicitor has left property of the residence or business.
(9)
Canvassing or soliciting anyone under the age of 18.
(10)
Failure of canvasser or solicitor to have a valid permit prominently displayed on their person (upper front portion of the body commonly referred to as the top of the shoulders down to the waist) or refuse any customer or prospective customer's request to examine same. All canvassers or solicitors of nonprofit organizations who solicit funds without a certificate or permit shall have prominently displayed documentation identifying themselves, their organization, including tax exempt status, and shall not refuse any customer or prospective customer the right to examine same upon request. Except that canvassers or solicitors of nonprofit organizations who are under the age of 15 are not required to display or produce for examination any documentation.
(11)
For more than two canvassers or solicitors to engage in solicitation upon any residence or business at the same time for the same goods or services.
(12)
Canvasser or solicitor to make more than one solicitation call at the same residence within any consecutive two-week period without receiving prior invitation from the occupant of such residence.
(13)
Canvasser or solicitor to violate any of the provisions of this article, or to violate any other city ordinance while engaging in any of the activities described.
(14)
Canvasser or solicitor to engage in any of the conduct described in this article during a period in which their certificate or permit is denied, suspended, or revoked.
(15)
Canvasser or solicitor to lend, rent, or sell their certificate or permit card to another, or canvass or solicit using the certificate or permit card of another.
(16)
The canvasser or solicitor to deviate from the stated guidelines as set out in the certificate or permit application or amendments thereto filed by applicant or certificate holder.
(Ord. of 7-1-2012, § 18-239)
Secs. 14-304—14-324. - Reserved.
