ARTICLE IX. - PEACH COUNTY TIMBER OPERATIONS

Sec. 26-401. - Title
This article shall be known as the "Peach County Timber Operations Ordinance".
(Ord. of 4-11-2017)
Sec. 26-402. - Definitions.
As used in this article, the term;
Commissioners. Means Board of Commissioners of Peach County or their successors in office being the governing authority of Peach County.
County. Means Peach County, Georgia.
Timber. Means pine, cypress, and hardwood trees and trees of every size, species and description. Also, for purposes of this article, "timber" includes such trees after harvesting and while being transported as logs or shorter lengths.
Timber operations. Means purchasing and/or cutting and harvesting timber in Peach County, or transporting such timber from the site at which it was cut; or the moving of equipment to and from the site of such cutting.
Timber operator. Means any persons, firm, or corporation engaged in commercial timber operations, whether engaged in one or all of said activities described in "timber operations" above. It shall not include persons cutting or transporting timber solely for non-commercial personal use or firewood.
(Ord. of 4-11-2017)
Sec. 26-403. - Permit.
(a)
Permit required. No timber operator shall engage in timber operations in the county without first obtaining a permit to conduct such operations as provided herein; provided, however, employees of a timber operator shall not be required to obtain a separate permit for activities within the scope of such employment if their employer has obtained a valid permit for such activities; and provided further that an independent contractor transporting timber for another timber operator shall not be required to obtain a separate permit if the timber operator for whom he is transporting timber has obtained a valid permit for such timber operations at the same location.
(b)
Place of filing. The application for permit shall be signed by the applicant and filed with the office of Peach County Planning and Zoning, and forms shall be available at such office. The zoning administrator or his designee at said office of the Peach County Planning and Zoning shall review the application and issue the permit if all required information is provided. Completed application forms may be emailed to said office, and if the applicant provides email address, the permit may be emailed back to the applicant.
(c)
Application for permit. The application for permit shall be in the form prescribed by the commissioners and shall contain the following information:
(1)
The name, address, and telephone number of the applicant, timber operator, or timber purchaser.
(2)
If the applicant or timber operator intends to engage another or other contractor(s) to harvest or transport the timber, the applicant shall also include name, address, and telephone number of each such contractor or harvester.
(3)
The name, address, and telephone number of the owner of the property on which the applicant/purchaser/timber operator will engage in timber operations.
(4)
The location of the property on which the applicant/purchaser/timber operator will engage in timber operations (including tax map and parcel number).
(5)
The roads in Peach County upon which motor vehicles will travel in transporting such timber and in transporting the equipment to be used in the timber operations and showing all locations of ingress and egress from the timber tract to the public roads(s).
(6)
The applicant shall be responsible for ALL damages and shall present a letter of credit or cashier's check for $5,000.00 to protect the county against damages caused by the applicant. The applicant shall also be liable and responsible for all additional damage exceeding the $5,000.00.
(7)
The dates cutting operations are expected to commence and end.
(8)
The applicant shall present a copy of his/her/its current business license.
(d)
Posted notice. Once application requirements have been met, the planning and zoning office will provide a permit at no cost. Said permit must be displayed and available for review at the main point of ingress and egress to a public road and in such a location as to be seen by the traveling public.
(e)
Incomplete applications. Incomplete applications will not be accepted and will be returned to applicant.
(f)
Other laws. In addition to provisions of this article, the applicant for a permit shall comply with all state and federal regulations pertaining to its timber operations, including payment of all applicable ad valorem tax on the timber.
(g)
Cost. There shall be no cost or fee imposed for filing the application or issuing the permit.
(h)
Separate applications. Applicants must file a separate application and receive a separate permit for each separate timber cutting operation and each separate land owner.
(Ord. of 4-11-2017)
Sec. 26-404. - Violations; penalties.
Any timber operator who shall willfully fail to comply with this article shall be guilty of a misdemeanor; amenable to the process of the Magistrate Court of Peach County, Georgia, and, upon conviction, shall be punished by fine not to exceed $500.00. Each day the violation continues shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. of 4-11-2017)
Sec. 26-405. - Repealed.
All ordinances inconsistent herewith are hereby repealed.
(Ord. of 4-11-2017)
Sec. 26-406. - Effective date.
This article shall become effective May 1, 2017.
(Ord. of 4-11-2017)
Sec. 26-407. - Notice of timber operators.
The Peach County Board of Planning and Zoning shall mail or deliver a copy of the ordinance from which this article derives to all timber operators and other persons whom the board has knowledge of or can identify as persons or businesses which cut, harvest, or transport trees or timber on or from lands in Peach County, and publicize or make known by any reasonable means the general contents of this article to as many persons as possible dealing with timber in this county.
(Ord. of 4-11-2017)
Sec. 26-408. - Application/permit numbers.
Each application filed shall be assigned a number consisting of the year and quarter of the year of filing, followed by a number representing the order in which that application was filed in that year. (For example the first application filed in the first quarter 2017 would have a number of "2017-1-1"). The permit number will be the same number as the application number.
(Ord. of 4-11-2017)
