ARTICLE X. - BREWPUBS

Sec. 6-296. - Definition; licensing; excise tax; administration.
(a)
Definition. The term "brewpub" means any eating establishment in which beer or malt beverages are manufactured or brewed for retail consumption on the premises. The term "eating establishment," as used herein, means any public place, including a place available for rental by the public, selling prepared food for consumption by the public on the premises with a full-service kitchen prepared to serve food every hour they are open and deriving at least as much gross receipts annually from the sale of prepared meals or food as it derives from the sale of distilled spirits.
(b)
License required. No person, firm or corporation shall be issued a brewpub license without first obtaining a retail consumption license.
(c)
Authorization of license holder. A brewpub license authorizes the holder of such license to manufacture on the licensed premises not more than 1,500 barrels of beer in a calendar year solely for retail sale on the premises and solely in draft form.
(d)
Distribution. Distribution of any malt beverages produced by a brewpub licensed under this article to any wholesaler is prohibited.
(e)
Excise tax. There is hereby levied an excise tax on all beer and malt beverage produced by a brewpub at the rate of $6.00 per one-half barrel (15.5 gallons) and $12.00 per barrel (31 gallons). Such tax shall be paid to the city no later than the 20th day of each month for the preceding month's production. A late payment penalty not to exceed ten percent of the tax otherwise due shall be added to the amount due for any payment not received by the due date.
(f)
Administration.
(1)
The city, or its designee, is authorized to establish procedures for administering all provisions of this article, to include, but not limited to, reporting forms and requirements, or establishing procedures and schedules for conducting financial audits or inspections of the books or records of any establishment licensed under this article.
(2)
Every brewpub located within the city shall file a monthly report with the city or its designee, no later than the 20th day of each month, on such forms as the city or its designee may prescribe, setting forth all malt beverages produced during such preceding calendar month, to include beginning and ending inventories. Such report shall also indicate the total production of malt beverages during the report period and the proper tax remittance for such production. Failure to properly complete or submit the required reports shall subject the licensee to a late filing penalty not to exceed $25.00 for each deficient reporting period.
(Ord. of 7-1-2012, § 6-236)
Sec. 6-297. - Severability.
If any section, provision or clause of any part of this article shall be declared invalid or unconstitutional, or if the provisions of any part of this article as applied to any particular situation or set of circumstances shall be declared invalid or unconstitutional, such invalidity shall not be construed to affect the portions of this article not so held to be invalid, or the application of this article to other circumstances not so held to be invalid. It is hereby declared as the intent that this article would have been adopted had such invalid portion not been included herein.
(Ord. of 7-1-2012, § 6-237)
Secs. 6-298—6-337. - Reserved.
