Chapter 50 - VEGETATION[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Cross reference— Buildings and building regulations, ch. 14; junkyards and salvage operations, § 18-81 et seq.; environment, ch. 26; nuisances, § 26-26 et seq.; manufactured homes and trailers, ch. 30; solid waste, ch. 38.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Secs. 50-1—50-25. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - WEED AND BRUSH CONTROL

Sec. 50-26. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Dwelling or building means any dwelling, building or structure or part thereof used and occupied for human habitation, commercial, industrial or business uses, or intended to be so used and includes any outhouses and appurtenances belonging to or usually enjoyed therewith, and also includes any building or structure of any design.
(Ord. of 9-8-87, § 4)
Cross reference— Definitions generally, § 1-2.
Sec. 50-27. - Penalty for violation.
Any person who is found guilty of violating this article, upon conviction thereof, shall be punished according to the provisions of section 1-11.
(Ord. of 9-8-87, § 6)
Sec. 50-28. - Responsibility of owner; tenant; employee to clear.
Every person, whether owner, tenant, agent or employee, owning, holding or occupying property in the unincorporated areas of the county which is:
(1)
Three acres or less in total area; or
(2)
Is located in a platted subdivision which plat is recorded in the office of the clerk of the county superior court; or
(3)
Is located in a platted subdivision which has been approved by the county planning and zoning commission; and
(4)
Any portion of which property lies within 300 feet of a dwelling or building; shall keep all grass, weeds, wild bushes or underbrush in conformity with section 50-30 of this article.
(Ord. of 9-8-87, § 1; Ord. of 9-13-05)
Sec. 50-29. - Failure to clear after notice; violation.
If any such person shall fail or refuse to cut and remove weeds, grass, wild bushes or underbrush from the property within ten days after notice by the county zoning officer, the county sheriff or any of his lawful deputies, any law enforcement officer of the state, the county health inspector or sanitarian, or the county public works superintendent, then such person shall, upon conviction, be guilty of violating this article and punishable according to the provisions of section 1-11.
(Ord. of 9-8-87, § 2)
Sec. 50-30. - Maximum height of weeds; violation.
The growth of grass, weeds, wild bushes and underbrush to a height in excess of 18 inches above the ground shall be deemed a violation of this article and, upon conviction, punishable according to the provisions of section 1-11.
(Ord. of 9-8-87, § 3)
Sec. 50-31. - Determination of responsible party.
(a)
The owner of any property, lot, building or premises, occupied or vacant, shall be deemed to be the party responsible; provided, however, that if on the property, lot, building or premises there exists a building containing four or less than four living or business units or establishments, the occupants of such living or business units or establishments shall be deemed the responsible party provided, however, that the owner of any property, lot, building or premises, occupied or vacant, shall be deemed to be the party responsible for reimbursing the county for any expenses incurred in correcting conditions existing on the property in violation of this article. If the lease or rental agreement or contract between the owner and occupants specifically states or names the party responsible for clearing or cutting such grass, weeds, wild bushes or underbrush, whether he is the owner or occupant and regardless of the number of living or business units or establishments which the business or premises may contain, then such specified party shall be held responsible provided, however, that the owner of any property, lot, building or premises, occupied or vacant, shall be deemed to be the party responsible for reimbursing the county for any expenses incurred in correcting conditions existing on the property in violation of this article.
(b)
The owner of any property, lot, building or premises, occupied or vacant, shall be deemed the party responsible for reimbursing the county the expense of correcting any conditions existing on the property in violation of this article.
(c)
At its option and in addition to all other remedies provided for in this article, the county may correct conditions existing on property in violation of this article, keeping any account for the expenses of same, and charge the total cost against the owner to be collected by any lawful means including but not limited to the issuance of a fi. fa. against the owner personally and in rem against said property.
(Ord. of 9-8-87, § 5; Ord. of 9-13-05)
