ARTICLE XI. - SUSPENSION, REVOCATION, AND DENIAL OF OCCUPATION TAX CERTIFICATE, MASSAGE ESTABLISHMENT LICENSE, BUSINESS PERMIT, OR EMPLOYEE WORK PERMIT; PROCEDURE FOR APPEAL

Sec. 14-349. - Suspension or revocation of business permit.
A business permit may be suspended or revoked by the city or its designee or the county chief of police or his designee where a business or employee of a business furnished fraudulent or untruthful information in the application for a permit, fails to meet all qualifications set forth under the provisions of this chapter, or fails to comply with any requirements of this chapter or any other applicable law or regulation.
(Ord. of 7-1-2012, § 18-312)
Sec. 14-350. - Hearings for suspension or revocation of a business permit.
Unless otherwise stated elsewhere in this chapter, no permit shall be denied, suspended or revoked without the opportunity for a hearing as hereinafter provided.
(1)
The city or its designee or the county chief of police or his designee shall provide written notice to the business of his order to suspend or revoke the permit. Such written notification shall set forth in reasonable detail the reasons for such action and shall notify the business of the right to appeal under the provisions of this chapter. Any business that is aggrieved or adversely affected by a final action of the city manager or his designee or the county chief of police or his designee may have a review thereof by appeal to the city mayor and council established pursuant to the city alcoholic beverage ordinance. Such appeal shall be by written petition, filed in the office of the city within 15 days after the final order or action of the city manager or the county chief of police and, in order to defray administrative costs, must be accompanied by a filing fee of $50.00. The city mayor and council or the county chief of police, at their discretion, may waive or reduce the filing fee amount if it is determined the fee would create a hardship on the business filing such appeal.
(2)
A hearing shall be conducted on each appeal within 30 days of the date of filing with the city or the county chief of police or his designee unless a continuance of such date is agreed to by the appellant and the city manager or his designee or the county chief of police or his designee. The appellant at such hearing shall have the right to be represented by an attorney, at the expense of the appellant, and to present evidence and cross examine witnesses. Should the applicant desire an official transcript of the appeal proceedings, then such request must be made at least three days prior to such hearing. The appellant shall have the burden of proof on any such appeal. Before hearing an appeal, the city mayor and council shall sign an affidavit to be part of the record that they are not related to or personal friends with any owner of the establishment in question in the appeal. Should any member be unable to sign such an affidavit, that member of city council shall not serve on that appeal and the case shall be heard by the other members of city council.
(3)
The findings of the city mayor and council shall be forwarded to the county chief of police within 15 days after the conclusion of the hearing, and it shall be the duty of the county chief of police or his designee to notify the appellant of the action of the city mayor and council.
(4)
The findings of the city mayor and council shall not be set aside unless found to be:
a.
Contrary to law or ordinances;
b.
Unsupported by substantial evidence on the record as a whole; or
c.
Unreasonable.
(5)
The findings of the city mayor and council shall be final unless appealed within 30 days of the date of mailing of decision to appellant of such finding by certiorari to the superior court of the county.
(Ord. of 7-1-2012, § 18-313)
Sec. 14-351. - Suspension or revocation of occupation tax certificate or massage establishment license, procedure.
(a)
Unless otherwise stated elsewhere in this chapter, an occupation tax certificate or massage establishment license may be suspended or revoked by the city manager or his designee where the applicant furnished fraudulent or untruthful information in the application for a certificate or omits information required in the application for a certificate; for failure to pay all fees, taxes or other charges imposed under the provisions of this chapter; for conviction of any of the applicable crimes set forth in each article; or for violation of any of the provisions of this chapter.
(b)
Suspension or revocation of occupation tax certificate.
(1)
If any holder of a city occupation tax certificate or massage establishment license issued by the city is engaged in unlawful activities which violate laws of the state, appropriate county ordinances, applicable zoning regulations, applicable city ordinances or applicable heating, electrical, health or building codes, the occupation tax certificate shall be revoked in the manner provided herein.
(2)
Where it is reported to the city manager or his designee that the holder of a city occupation tax certificate or massage establishment license is engaged in unlawful activities as set forth in the applicable articles of this chapter, a preliminary hearing shall be conducted in order to determine whether there is a basis for revocation or suspension of the occupation tax certificate.
a.
The occupation tax certificate or massage establishment license holder will be notified to appear before the city manager and show cause on a date certain why his occupation tax certificate or massage establishment license should not be revoked or suspended. The certificate holder may appear in person at the hearing or be represented by counsel.
b.
At the conclusion of the hearing, the city manager or his designee, based upon evidence submitted at the hearing, shall enter a decision making a finding of fact and then:
1.
Find that the evidence does not authorize revocation or suspension;
2.
Issue a warning to the certificate or license holder;
3.
Suspend the certificate or license and probate suspension;
4.
Revoke the certificate or license and probate revocation;
5.
Suspend the certificate or license; or
6.
Revoke the certificate or license.
(Ord. of 7-1-2012, § 18-314)
Sec. 14-352. - Hearings for suspension or revocation of occupation tax certificate and massage establishment license, procedure.
(a)
Unless otherwise stated elsewhere in this chapter, no occupation tax certificate or massage establishment license shall be denied, suspended or revoked without the opportunity for hearing as hereinafter provided. This provision does apply to work permits for owners, managers, and employees.
(b)
It shall be the duty of the city manager or his designee to provide written notification to the individual of the decision to deny, suspend or revoke an occupation tax certificate. Such written notification shall set forth in reasonable detail the reasons for such actions and shall notify the individual of the right to appeal under the provision of this article. Any individual, who is aggrieved or adversely affected by the final actions of the city manager or his designee, may have a review thereof by appeal to the city mayor and council or its designee. Such appeal shall be by written petition, filed in the office of the city, within 15 days after the final decision or actions of the city hearing officer, and in order to defray administrative costs, must be accompanied by a filing fee for tax certificate appeals or $50.00 for work permit appeals. The city mayor or council, at its discretion, may waive or reduce the filing fee amount if it is determined the fee would create a hardship on the individual filing said appeal.
(c)
If any individual, firm or corporation subject to the payment of an occupation tax deems the tax to be unlawful, discriminatory or inequitable, it may pay the occupation tax imposed by the mayor and council under protest and then file a written request for review with the city. The request for review must be filed within 45 days from the date the tax is paid. The city manager shall, within 30 days from the date of receipt of the request for review from the occupation tax certificate holder, schedule a conference with the occupation tax certificate holder to review those matters set forth in the certificate holder's request for review. Within ten days from the date of the conference, a determination shall be made by the manager in writing and a copy of the determination shall be sent to the certificate holder by certified mail. In the event the certificate holder is dissatisfied with the determination made by the city manager it may, within 15 days from the date of receipt of the determination of the city manager, file its appeal to the city mayor and council in the manner outlined in subsection (b) of this section.
(d)
A hearing shall be conducted on each certificate or work permit appeal within 30 days of the date of filing with the city, unless a continuance of such date is agreed to by the appellant and the city manager or his designee. The appellant at such hearing shall have the right to be represented by an attorney, at the expense of the appellant, and to present evidence and cross examine witnesses. The appellant shall have the burden of proof on any such appeal. Should the appellant desire an official transcript of the appeal proceedings, then such request must be made at least three days prior to such hearing.
(e)
Before hearing an appeal, the city hearing officer shall sign an affidavit to be part of the record that they are not related to or personal friends with any member, owner, officer or stockholder of the appellant or the appellant's representative. No hearing officer hearing the appeal shall have a financial interest in the outcome of the appeal. Should the hearing officer be unable to sign such an affidavit, that hearing officer shall not serve on the appeal and the case shall be heard by another hearing officer.
(f)
The findings of the city hearing officer shall be forwarded to the city or its designee, within 15 days after the conclusion of the hearing, and it shall be the duty of the city or its designee to notify the certificate or permit holder of the action of the hearing officer.
(g)
The findings of the city hearing officer shall not be set aside unless found to be:
(1)
Contrary to law or ordinances;
(2)
Unsupported by substantial evidence on the records as a whole; or
(3)
Unreasonable.
(h)
The findings of the city hearing officer shall be final unless appealed within 30 days of the date of said finding by certiorari to the superior court of the county. An aggrieved party shall have all other remedies provided by law or at equity to all ordinances.
(Ord. of 7-1-2012, § 18-315)
Sec. 14-353. - Severability.
If any portion or subsection of this article or its application to any person or circumstance is held invalid by a court of competent jurisdiction, the remainder or application to other persons or circumstances shall not be affected.
(Ord. of 7-1-2012, § 18-316)
Secs. 14-354—14-379. - Reserved.
