Chapter 14 - ANIMALS AND FOWL[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Cross reference— Health and sanitation, ch. 42; AR agricultural reserve district, app. A, § 1010.
State Law reference— Georgia Animal Protection Act, O.C.G.A. § 4-11-1 et seq.; authority to exercise animal control, Ga. Const. art. IX, § II, ¶ III(a)(3).

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 14-1. - Vaccination; license tag required for dogs, cats.
Every owner of a dog or cat three months of age or older shall cause such dog or cat to be vaccinated against rabies. Dogs and cats will be revaccinated one year later. When dogs or cats one year of age or older are vaccinated with vaccines accepted by the state or county for providing a three-year duration of immunity, boosters will be required every three years.
(Code 1980, § 4-20)
Secs. 14-2—14-30. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - DOMESTIC ANIMAL CONTROL[2]

Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
State Law reference— Dogfighting, O.C.G.A. § 16-12-37; Dangerous Dog Control Law, O.C.G.A. § 4-8-20 et seq.; permitting dogs in heat to run at large, O.C.G.A. § 4-8-6.

Sec. 14-31. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Abandoned animal means any domesticated animal that has been placed upon public property or within a public building or upon or within the private property of another without the express permission of the owner, custodian or tenant of the private property and is unattended or uncared for. Any domesticated animal shall also be considered abandoned, when it has been unattended and without proper food and water for a period in excess of 36 hours, regardless of where the animal may be found or kept.
Animal at large means any animal not under restraint and off the property of its owner.
Animal control agency or animal control shall mean any agency or person, including an animal control officer, authorized by law to implement animal control laws and provide animal care on behalf of the city.
Animal shelter means the facility designated by the board of commissioners of the county for the detention of animals.
Animal shelter officer means any person so designated by the animal shelter director to perform the duties prescribed by this article.
Animal under restraint means any animal secured by a leash or lead; or enclosed by way of fence or other enclosure; or under the control of a responsible and competent person and obedient to that person's commands, and the person being present with the animal; or an animal confined within a vehicle, parked or in motion.
Animal welfare organization shall mean any organization or corporation whose purpose includes promotion of animal welfare and that has been granted 501(c)(3) nonprofit status by the Internal Revenue Service.
Community cat shall mean any feral or free roaming cat that has been sterilized, vaccinated for rabies, and distinguished from other cats by being ear-tipped.
Companion animal means a domesticated animal kept for pleasure rather than utility. Pets include but are not limited to birds, cats, dogs, hamsters, horses, mice, reptiles, domesticated wild animals, exotic animals and other animals associated with man's environment.
County shall mean Fayette County, Georgia.
Director means the animal shelter director.
Domesticated animals means animals that are accustomed to living in or about the habitation of humans, including but not limited to cats, cows, dogs, fowl, horses, swine, domesticated wild animals and/or exotic animals. This definition only applies to those animals mentioned and is only applicable to this article and in no way affects the meaning or application of a definition of the described animal, as may be found in any other city ordinance.
Ear tip shall mean a mark identifying a feral or free roaming cat as having been sterilized, specifically the removal of a quarter-inch off the tip of the cat's left ear in a straight line cut while the cat is anaesthetized by a veterinarian.
Feral cat shall mean a cat this is not socialized to humans, having been born in the wild or not socialized, and is not an owned cat, and that typically avoids human contact.
Free-roaming cat shall mean a cat that is not owned and is not cared for by a sole person that may or may not avoid human contact.
Guard dog means any dog which has been trained to attack persons or other animals independently or upon oral command and any dog which, while not so trained, is reasonably expected to perform as a guardian of the property upon and within which he is located.
Owned cat shall mean a cat that is a companion to a person, is regularly fed and sheltered in the same person's habitation, and displays signs of ownership, including a collar or tag or microchip.
Owner means any person who owns, keeps, harbors or acts as custodian of a domesticated animal.
Permit shall mean a certificate issued to a person or organization authorized to conduct TNVR activities.
Public nuisance means any animal which:
(1)
Is found at large in violation of section 14-32;
(2)
Is vicious; and for the purpose of this section an animal shall be considered vicious if it attacks without provocation any human being or other domesticated animals;
(3)
Produces, because of quantity, manner or method in which the animals are domesticated or maintained, unsanitary conditions in the city;
(4)
Attacks passersby or passing vehicles; and
(5)
Is inimical to the public health, welfare or safety according to the rules and regulations promulgated by the county health department, whose rules and regulations are incorporated in and made a part of this article as if fully set out.
Any person that knowingly keeps, owns, harbors or acts as custodian of an animal constituting a nuisance shall be guilty of an unlawful act and shall be punishable as provided in this article.
Sterilize shall mean to spay or neuter.
Tethering means using a rope, strap, chain, or cord to fasten, tie, or restrain an animal to a fixed or stationary single point in order to keep the animal within a certain area for a continuous time period.
Trap, neuter, vaccinate, and return or TNVR shall mean a program pursuant to which feral and free-roaming cats are trapped, sterilized, vaccinated against rabies, ear-tipped and returned to the location from where they were captured.
Trapper shall mean a person or organization that has been authorized by policy to conduct the humane trapping of program cats.
Vicious animal means any animal which constitutes a physical threat to human beings or other domesticated animals by virtue of one or more attacks of such severity as to cause property damage or physical injury. An animal shall also be considered vicious and not under restraint if it makes an unprovoked attack on other domesticated animals that are under restraint or on human beings or on physical property of another.
(Code 1980, § 4-41; Ord. No. 1182, § 1, 10-1-2020; Ord. No. 1203 , § 1, 10-20-2022)
Cross reference— Definitions generally, § 1-2.
Sec. 14-32. - Running at large prohibited.
It shall be unlawful for the owner of any animal to allow it to run at large unattended on or about the streets and highways of the incorporated limits of the city or upon the property of another without the property owner's consent. Any such animal at large shall be impounded by the director or his authorized representatives as provided in this article.
(Code 1980, § 4-42)
Sec. 14-33. - Duty to keep animal under restraint—While on property.
(a)
It shall be the duty of every owner of any animal to ensure that it is confined by way of a fence or other enclosure or is restrained by chain or leash or, in some other physical manner, under the control of a competent person so that it cannot wander off the real property limits of the owner, it being the intent of this article that all animals be prevented from leaving, while unattended, the real property limits of their owners.
(b)
Tethering.
(1)
No person shall tether, fasten, chain, tie or restrain an animal, or cause such restraining of an animal to a single point, tree, fence, post, doghouse, or other stationary object except as set forth in subsections (b)(2) and (b)(3) below.
(2)
Cable trolley system. No person shall tether, fasten, chain, tie or restrain an animal, or cause such restraining of an animal, except by cable trolley system that:
a.
Allows movement of the animal.
b.
The cable along which the trolley tethering device can move must have swivels installed at each end and be attached to stationary objects that cannot be moved by the animal.
c.
The length of the cable along which the trolley tethering device can move is at least ten feet long.
d.
The cable along which the trolley tethering device can move is a minimum of four feet high and a maximum of seven feet high.
e.
Tethers and cables attaching the animal to the running cable line trolley tethering device must be made of a substance which cannot be chewed by the animal, shall not weigh more than five percent of the of the body weight of the animal tethered and have swivels at both ends.
f.
The tethering line attached to the animals collar or harness is of such length that the animal is able to move ten feet away from the cable perpendicularly but; maintain a sufficient distance from any other objects to prohibit the tangling of the cable, from extending over an object or edge that could result in injury of strangulation of the animal, be of sufficient distance from any fence as to prohibit the animal access to the fence and to ensure the animal cannot move beyond the property limits of the owner.
g.
The tethering line attached to the animals collar or harness is of such length to allow access to food, water and shelter.
h.
The tethering line may not be directly wrapped around the animals neck, instead it must be attached with a swiveling clasp to a properly fitted harness or collar which allows at least two fingers between the collar and the animals throat. Choke collars and pinch collars are prohibited for the purposes of tethering and attaching an animal to a running cable line or trolley system.
i.
The area must be sufficient in size so as to allow the animal the ability to defecate or urinate in an area separate from the area where it must eat, drink, or lie down.
j.
Only one animal may be attached to the cable trolley system at a time.
k.
Unsterilized females may not be attached to a cable trolley system unless immediately supervised by a responsible and competent person.
l.
No animal may be attached to such a cable trolley system for more than four hours nor from 10:00 p.m. until 6:00 a.m. The owner/keeper must be present on the property or premises where the cable trolley system is located when the animal is attached thereto.
(3)
Exemptions.
a.
Animals that are in immediate attention of a responsible and competent person while still on their property and cannot come within ten feet of any street, multi-use path or sidewalk.
b.
Animals that are under the physical control of a professional who, for compensation, trains, conditions, shows, grooms or provides medical attention.
(c)
In addition, all male and female dogs and cats that have not been spayed or neutered must be securely confined in such a way that they not only cannot get out to run loose, but also cannot be reached by other dogs or cats.
(Code 1980, § 4-43; Ord. No. 1203 , § 2, 10-20-2022)
Sec. 14-34. - Duty to keep animal under restraint—While off property.
(a)
It shall be the duty of the owner of any animal to keep the animal under control at all times while the animal is off the real property limits of the owner. For the purposes of this section, an animal is deemed under control when it is confined within a vehicle, parked or in motion, is secured by a physical leash held by a competent person, or is properly confined within an enclosure with permission of the owner of the property where the enclosure is located.
(b)
Any animal kept in the back of an open pickup truck or convertible car must be restrained by a physical leash. Such leash must be of the size and length to restrict the animal within the confines of the car or bed of the truck and to prohibit the animal from jumping out or over the sides or back of such vehicle.
(Code 1980, § 4-44; Ord. No. 1009, § 1, 10-7-2010; Ord. No. 1167, § 1, 1-17-2019)
Sec. 14-35. - Enforcement.
(a)
Responsibility. The primary responsibility for the enforcement of this article shall be vested in the director of the county animal shelter and the city police department pursuant to a contract for enforcement entered into between the city and county on October 23, 1980. The director may, in the exercise of his authority as the director, delegate the enforcement responsibilities of this article to such county employees as he may select.
(b)
Complaints. If a violation of this article has not been personally witnessed by the director or his authorized representative or other employee of the county, a subpoena shall be issued to the person making the complaint to be and appear on the day and time set for trial, then and there to testify on behalf of the city. The director shall refuse to respond to anonymous complaints.
(c)
Impoundment of animal in certain cases; disposal in an humane manner after certain period of time. If the owner of any dog or animal is unknown and the dog or animal is upon the public streets, alleys, sidewalks, school grounds, or other public places or premises or the property of another without the property owner's permission, as prohibited by this article, upon complaint made to or information made known to the animal shelter, it shall be the duty of the director or his authorized representative to immediately take possession of such dog or animal and impound it in the animal shelter. Once impounded, an animal shall be kept for a period of time as defined in section 14-36; thereafter, if the animal is not claimed by anyone after a reasonable effort has been made to locate the owner of the animal as hereinafter provided, the animal may be disposed of in an humane fashion or in accordance with O.C.G.A. § 4-3-9 et seq. Where the director or his authorized representative is required in this section to take possession of any dog or animal and to impound it, he may use any and all means available.
(d)
Director may issue citation in lieu of impoundment. In all cases of violations of this article, the director shall have the authority to exercise his discretion and may in addition to or in lieu of impounding any animal, issue a citation to the owner of the animal. However, in all such instances where the owner of the animal is known or discovered, the director shall at least issue a citation to the owner. The citation shall state the violation, the name and address of the owner, and the name of the individual issuing the citation. All citations issued by the Fayette County Animal Control Department shall be prosecuted in state court.
(e)
Any organization or person desiring to conduct a city-wide or targeted TNVR program shall submit a proposal, consistent with the current policy for TNVR, for review by the director. The director or his or her designee shall have the authority to approve or deny such proposal. Upon approval of such proposal, the director may issue a permit to the person or organization to perform a TNVR program in the city for a period of two years. The permit must be renewed at the end of the two-year period and may be revoked at any time. Should the director revoke the permit, the holder will be notified by mail of the revocation at which time, they will no longer be protected from the violation of this chapter.
(f)
Any organization of person will be exempt from this Code pertaining to restraint of animals and/or abandonment of animals while participating in all activities consistent with the TNVR program.
(g)
The city adopts and incorporates herein Fayette County's Policies and Procedures for Operational Functions of Trap, Neuter, Vaccinate, and Return Policy 280.05 as approved and ordained by the Board of Commissioners of Fayette County, Georgia by Ordinance Number 2020-03, dated and adopted May 14, 2020; and in order to maintain consistence between unincorporated Fayette County and the city, the city hereby incorporates herein any further changes, amendments, additions, or deletions to Fayette County's Policy 280.05.
(Code 1980, § 4-45; Ord. No. 845, 4-21-2005; Ord. No. 1182, § 2, 10-1-2020)
Sec. 14-36. - Notice to owners of impounded animals.
(a)
Upon impounding any dog or other animal, the director or his authorized representative shall cause to be made a prompt and reasonable effort to locate the animal's owner and, upon location of the owner, shall send to the owner a certified letter, containing notification of impoundment. If the animal is not claimed by the owner within three days of the receipt of the certified letter giving notice of impoundment or if the letter is returned by the post office or if within five days of impoundment the owner cannot be located, it shall be the duty of the director or his authorized representative to dispose of the dog or other animal in an humane fashion.
(b)
For the first time a dog, cat or other animal is found by animal control in violation of the leash law provisions, regardless of whether or not the animal is picked up and impounded by animal control, a fine of up to $100.00 shall be imposed against the owner of such animal.
(c)
If a second offense occurs by the owner for the same animal within two years of a first offense, it is mandatory that the animal be spayed or neutered within one week after the owner claims the animal, whether it is a purebred or mixed breed. A sworn, notarized statement from a veterinarian, licensed to practice veterinary medicine in the state, must be received by animal control within ten working days following the animal's release from animal control. Such statement must state that the animal has been spayed, neutered or euthanized by the veterinarian, in compliance with this article, or must explain in detail that for health reasons, the animal can not be spayed or neutered. The owner of such animal will be considered in violation of this article for failure to submit a veterinarian's statement, and shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and subject to a fine of up to $500.00 and/or imprisonment and jail for a period not to exceed 60 days, or both. A $250.00 fine will be imposed for the second offense, and is in addition to the cost of any spaying or neutering.
(d)
Should the animal be impounded or the owner be cited for a third offense within two years of a first offense, or for any subsequent offenses within two years of two previous offenses, a $500.00 fine will be imposed against the owner.
(e)
In addition to the above provisions, any animal picked up and impounded by the animal shelter will receive a rabies shot, the cost of which will be set by schedule.
(f)
If for any reason an animal is impounded and not claimed after proper notification imposed by this section, and if the owner is identified by a rabies or license tag on the animal or can be identified by witnesses, the owner will be considered in violation of this article for the offense of abandoning the animal and shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and subject to a fine of up to $500.00 and/or imprisonment and jail for a period not to exceed 60 days, or both.
(g)
If an animal is impounded and not claimed, the owner shall be conclusively presumed to have given his consent to the adoption of the impounded animal or to have given his consent to the disposal of the animal in an humane fashion in accordance with O.C.G.A. § 4-11-5.1.
(h)
If any animal is not claimed as provided within this article, the director or his authorized representative, in his sole discretion, and after he has satisfied himself that such animal is in good health, may offer the animal for adoption. All animals offered for adoption must be spayed or neutered and must be given a rabies shot. A sworn, notarized statement from a veterinarian, licensed to practice veterinary medicine in the state, must be received by animal control within ten working days following the adoption. Such statement must state that the animal has been spayed or neutered by the veterinarian or must explain in detail that, for health reasons, the animal can not be spayed or neutered. The owner of such animal will be considered in violation of this article for failure to submit a veterinarian's statement, and shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and subject to a fine of up to $500.00 and/or imprisonment for a period not to exceed 60 days, or both.
(i)
In no event shall any animal be redeemed by its lawful possessor, owner or custodian unless those fees established for boarding the animal, as provided for in section 14-41, are paid.
(Code 1980, § 4-46)
Sec. 14-37. - Precautions to be taken by owners of vicious animals or fowl.
(a)
The term "vicious animal/fowl" means:
(1)
Any animal/fowl which attacks, bites or injures humans, other animals or fowl without provocation;
(2)
Which, because of temperament, conditioning or training, has a known propensity to attack, bite or injure other living creatures without provocation;
(3)
An animal/fowl which has on one or more occasions caused injury to other living creatures without provocation; or
(4)
Any animal which constitutes a physical threat to human beings or domesticated animals by one or more attacks without provocation of severity to cause physical injury.
The definition of "vicious animal/fowl" contained in this subsection shall be supplementary to the definitions contained in section 14-31.
(b)
An animal/fowl is not considered vicious if it attacks, bites or menaces anyone attacking the owner, unlawful trespassers on the property of the owner, or any person or animal that has tormented or abused it, or if it is defending its young or another animal.
(c)
No person owning or having custody or control of any dog or other animal/fowl known to be vicious shall permit it to run at large, or permit it to run loose on or within the premises of such person in such a manner as to endanger the life or limb of any person lawfully entering such premises.
(d)
It shall be the duty of every owner of any vicious animal/fowl, or anyone having any animal in his possession or custody, to ensure that the vicious animal/fowl is kept under restraint and that reasonable care and precautions are taken to prevent the vicious animal/fowl from leaving, while unattended, the real property limits of its owner, custodian or harborer, and it is securely and humanely enclosed within a house, building, fence, pen, or other enclosure out of which it cannot climb, dig, jump or otherwise escape on its own volition; and such enclosure must be securely locked at any time the animal is left unattended.
(e)
For owners of vicious animals/fowl who maintain their animal/fowl out-of-doors, a portion of their property shall be fenced with a perimeter or area fence. Within this perimeter fence the vicious animal/fowl must be humanely confined inside a pen or kennel of adequate size. The pen or kennel shall not share common fencing with the area or perimeter fence. The kennel or pen must have secure sides, with a secure top attached to all sides, and the sides must be securely set into the ground or onto a concrete pad or securely attached to a wire bottom. The gate to the kennel must be locked.
(f)
A vicious animal shall not be upon any street or public place except when securely restrained by a leash not more than six feet in length and humanely muzzled and in the charge of a competent person.
(g)
Whenever outside of its enclosure as provided for in subsections (d) and (e) of this section, but on the owner's property, a vicious animal must be attended by the owner and restrained by a secure collar and leash of sufficient strength to prevent escape.
(h)
No vicious animal/fowl shall be chained, tethered or otherwise tied to any inanimate object such as a tree, post or building, outside of its own enclosure.
(i)
A warning sign (e.g., BEWARE OF DOG) shall be conspicuously posted denoting a vicious animal/fowl is on the premises.
(j)
Failure to keep any animal/fowl confined or under restraint as provided for in subsection (e) shall be unlawful and shall be punishable as provided in this article.
(k)
Any vicious animal/fowl shall be deemed to be a nuisance and may be abated as a nuisance in accordance with the laws of the state.
(Code 1980, § 4-47)
Sec. 14-38. - Commercial guard/security dogs.
(a)
It shall be the duty of all persons who keep, use or maintain any guard/security dog to have signs conspicuously posted on the premises where the guard/security dog is located to warn of the presence of the dog. This warning shall consist of a warning sign placed at each entrance and exit to the premises and in a position to be legible from the sidewalk or ground level adjacent to the sign (eye level). If the premises are not enclosed by a wall or fence, a sign shall be placed at every entrance and exit to each structure on the premises in which a guard/security dog is located. Each sign shall measure at least ten inches by 14 inches and shall contain block lettering stating "Warning, Guard Dog on Duty." In addition, for dogs rented or leased, the sign shall set forth the name, address and phone number of the responsible person to be notified during any hour of the day or night.
(b)
It shall be the duty of all persons who keep, use or maintain a guard/security dog to ensure the dog is vaccinated against rabies and licensed as required by the laws and ordinances of the county and the state. The dog also must have the current vaccination tag affixed to a collar worn by the dog at all times as required by the laws and ordinances of the county and the state.
(c)
It shall be the duty of any person that sells, leases and/or rents any guard/security dog to be used within the county or the city to notify the county animal control office of the location and number of guard/security dogs in use, kept or maintained at a particular location. The animal control office shall maintain a record of the location, number of guard/security dogs, and current rabies vaccination and licensure of all guard/security dogs utilized within the county. The person that sells, leases and/or rents a guard/security dog to be used in the county or the city shall furnish the following information to the county animal control office:
(1)
Name, address and telephone number of the location where a guard dog is located.
(2)
Name, breed, sex and current license tag information of each guard dog at any location in the county or the city.
(d)
It shall be unlawful to transport any guard/security dog in an open bed truck, and the vehicle transporting guard dogs shall be identified as to the business owner. It shall be unlawful to transport any guard dog in the county or the city except under the following conditions:
(1)
Each dog shall be placed in separate holding bins.
(2)
Each holding bin shall be enclosed and measure 48 inches long by 18 inches wide by 30 inches high.
(3)
Each holding bin will be adequately ventilated.
(e)
No guard/security dog shall be chained, tethered or otherwise tied to any inanimate object such as a tree, post or building, outside of its own enclosure.
(f)
A guard/security dog shall be confined by the owner/custodian/harborer within a building or secure enclosure out of which it cannot climb, dig, jump or otherwise escape of its own volition.
(Code 1980, § 4-47.1)
Sec. 14-39. - Abandonment of animals.
It shall be unlawful for anyone to knowingly abandon any domesticated animal within the city. Each person who does abandon, knowingly or willingly permits such abandonment, or aids in the abandonment of any domesticated animal shall be in violation of the law and shall be punished as provided in this article.
(Code 1980, § 4-48)
Sec. 14-40. - Cruelty to animals.
No person shall, by act, omission or neglect, cause unjustifiable physical pain, suffering or death to any animal. This section shall not apply to the killing of animals raised for the purpose of providing food, nor does it apply to any person who shall hunt wild animals in compliance with the game and fish laws of the state. Furthermore, this section shall not apply to the killing or injuring of animals for humane purposes or in the furtherance of medical or scientific research.
(Code 1980, § 4-49)
Sec. 14-41. - Fees.
A schedule of fees to be collected pursuant to this article shall be adopted by the board of commissioners of the county and kept on file with the director.
(Code 1980, § 4-50)
Sec. 14-42. - Penalties for violation.
Any person who violates the terms of this article shall be punished as provided in section 1-11 except for penalties for violations specified in section 14-36.
(Code 1980, § 4-51)
