ARTICLE XIVA. - MODIFIED SINGLE-FAMILY DEVELOPMENT

Sec. 1400A.1. - Purpose.
The purpose of Modified single-family development is to permit a procedure for development which will result in improved living and working environments; which will promote more economic subdivision layout; which will encourage ingenuity and originality in total subdivision and individual site design; and which can preserve open space to serve recreational, scenic, and public service purposes, and other purposes related thereto. To achieve these goals:
1.
Variations in lot areas are permitted.
2.
Procedures are established to assure adequate maintenance and restricted use of open space areas for the benefit of the inhabitants of the subdivisions.
3.
Procedures are established to assure adequate protection of existing and potential developments adjoining the proposed Modified development.
(Ord. No. 2016-02-69, Exh. A, 2-28-2016)
Sec. 1400A.2. - Special Use Permit Required.
A Modified single-family development may be permitted in an R-100 or R-75 district provided the applicant for such a development is granted a Special Use Permit by the City Council after receiving recommendations from the Director of Planning and Development and Planning Commission and after a Public Haring. The City Council may reduce the individual lot size that would otherwise be required, up to 30 percent in an R-100 district and up to 25 percent in an R-75 district. Maximum density shall not exceed 2.3 units per acre for the R-100 Modified zoning designation and 3.0 units per acre for the R-75 Modified zoning designation.
(Ord. No. 2016-02-69, Exh. A, 2-28-2016)
Sec. 1400A.3. - Minimum Size of a Modified Development.
Modified developments shall consist of at least 16 dwelling units, except that Modified developments that are found by the City Council to be a logical extension of an existing or approved Modified development may contain fewer dwelling units.
(Ord. No. 2016-02-69, Exh. A, 2-28-2016)
Sec. 1400A.4. - Subdivision Approval Required.
No Modified development may be constructed except in accordance with the provisions of the City of Peachtree Corners Development Regulations.
(Ord. No. 2016-02-69, Exh. A, 2-28-2016)
_____
Sec. 1400A.5. - Modification of Yard and Lot Requirements.
Modification and variation of yard and lot requirements may be permitted subject to the following minimum standards (Table 1400A.5.1.).
The following table indicates the minimum setbacks, lot width and height requirements for modified developments:
EXPAND
Zoning District Lot Width 1 Front Yard Side Yard Rear Yard Height
R-100M 80' 25' from
right-of-way 1 yard: #5'
2 yards: 15' 30' 35'
R-75M 65' 25' from
right-of-way 1 yard: #5'
2 yards: 15' 25' 35'
  1 In all districts, stormwater facility lots shall maintain a minimum lot width of 30 feet at the minimum building setback line.
(Ord. No. 2016-02-69, Exh. A, 2-28-2016)
_____
Sec. 1400A.6. - Open Space Requirements; Ownership.
In each district allowing Modified development, the lot size may be reduced from the general lot size for that district to a specified minimum lot size for Modified development, in accordance with the percentage reduction limits and Section 1400A.5.1. Minimum Yard and Height Requirements for Modified Development. All such lot reductions shall be compensated for by an equivalent amount of land in open space to be preserved and maintained for its scenic values, recreation or conservation purposes. Up to one-half of such open space may be located in a 100-year floodplain or an existing lake, and up to 100 percent may be located within a permanent proposed lake which does not function solely as a detention facility or within delineated wetlands.
Open space shall not include areas devoted to public or private vehicular streets or any land which has been, or is to be, conveyed to a public agency, via a purchase agreement for such uses as parks, schools, or other public facilities, or which lies within any required recreation area, overhead power easement, or stormwater detention facility.
If open space is not dedicated to public use, it shall be protected by legal arrangements, satisfactory to the City Council, sufficient to assure its maintenance and preservation for whatever purpose it is intended. Covenants or other legal arrangements shall specify ownership of the open space; method of maintenance; responsibility for maintenance; maintenance taxes and insurance; compulsory membership and compulsory assessment provisions; guarantees that any association formed to own and maintain open space will not be dissolved without the consent of the City Council; and any other specifications deemed necessary by the City Council.
(Ord. No. 2016-02-69, Exh. A, 2-28-2016)
Sec. 1400A.7. - Criteria for Modified Development Concept Plan Review.
A proposal for a Modified development shall provide for a total environment better than that which could be achieved under standard regulations. If, in the opinion of the City Council, the proposed plan could be improved with respect to the criteria listed below by the reasonable modification of the location of open space or buildings or configurations of lots, streets and parking areas, the proposed plan shall be so modified or denied. In acting on a proposed plan, the City Council shall give particular consideration to the following criteria:
Required Exhibits
The following exhibits shall be prepared by design professionals, such as planners, engineers, architects or landscape architects and submitted to the Department of Planning and Development. No application for a Modified single family development shall be accepted for processing without these required exhibits.
A.
A location map indicating existing zoning on the site and the adjacent areas.
B.
A concept plan drawn no smaller than one (1) inch equals 100 feet, including the following information:
- Lot lines and setbacks;
- Location, shape, size and height of the existing and proposed decorative walls and elements and entrance features;
- Topography with contour intervals no greater than 2 feet;
- Lakes, ponds and floodplains and the source of floodplain data;
- Stormwater detention areas;
- Existing and proposed landscaping;
- Recreation facilities (if applicable);
- Stages of development, if any;
- Location of off-street parking.
C.
Floor plans and elevations of all typical units and any other structures such as recreation buildings.
D.
Information indicating the following:
- Gross and net acreage (see definition of net density);
- Lot sizes (dimensions and square footage);
- Building heights and stories;
- Building coverage for each lot;
- Amount of common open space in square feet (if applicable);
- All tree areas to be retained or added;
- Parking facilities; and
- Such other architectural and engineering data as may be required to evaluate the project.
(Ord. No. 2016-02-69, Exh. A, 2-28-2016)
Sec. 1400A.8. - All Modified Amendments to be Conditional Zoning Amendments.
All Modified Single Family zoning amendments to the Official Zoning Map shall be Conditional Amendments. In addition to any other conditions that may be imposed by the City Council pursuant to the provisions for conditional zoning in this Zoning Resolution, a Concept Plan showing the approximate location of all buildings, walls, fences, property lines, front and rear building lines, landscaping, parking areas and uses and any other features deemed appropriate by the City Council as a result of the concept plan review and public hearing shall be included as part of the amendment, and the use of the property for its zoned purposes shall be conditioned on said Concept Plan.
(Ord. No. 2016-02-69, Exh. A, 2-28-2016)
