ARTICLE III. - POOL ROOMS

Sec. 14-97. - Applicability of article.
Pursuant to the authority granted to cities under O.C.G.A. title 43, ch. 8, the city mayor and council hereby declares that such title and chapter, regulating operators of billiard rooms, shall not apply within the city and further declares that the provisions of this article shall govern the operation of pool rooms within the city.
(Ord. of 7-1-2012, § 18-81)
Sec. 14-98. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Pool or billiard includes any game played on a table surrounded by an elastic edge of cushions with balls which are impelled by a cue.
Poolroom means any public place where a person is permitted to play the game of pool or billiard.
(Ord. of 7-1-2012, § 18-82)
Sec. 14-99. - Occupation tax certificate required; application.
(a)
All persons, firms or corporations desiring to operate a poolroom shall, prior to commencing such business, trade or profession, comply with all rules and regulations adopted by the governing authority regulating the operation of poolrooms.
(b)
The application shall include, but shall not be limited to, the information required on all occupation tax returns, along with the following additional information:
(1)
Name and residence address of the owner-applicant.
(2)
If the owner-applicant is a corporation, the names of the officers; along with the name and address of the agent for service of process.
(3)
The name of the manager; and the name of all shareholders holding 20 or more percent of any class of corporate stock. If the manager changes, the owner-applicant must furnish to the city or its designee and the county police department, the name and address of the new manager and other information as requested within ten days of such change in management.
(4)
Failure to furnish required information, and in the form designated, shall automatically serve to dismiss the application.
(5)
All applications shall be sworn to by the applicant before a notary public or other officer authorized to administer oaths.
(6)
In all instances in which an application is denied under the provision of the article, and after lapse of the time for appeal, or upon the adjudication of the appeal with decision rendered in favor of the county, the applicant may not reapply for an occupation tax certificate for at least 120 days from the final date of denial.
(Ord. of 7-1-2012, § 18-83)
Sec. 14-100. - Work permits required.
Prior to the issuance of an occupation tax certificate, a work permit shall be required for the owners, managers and employees.
(Ord. of 7-1-2012, § 18-84)
Sec. 14-101. - Applicant disqualifications.
(a)
No occupation tax certificate shall be granted to any person who has had any occupation tax certificate or employee work permit issued under the police powers of the city or the county previously revoked within two years prior to filing the current application.
(b)
The city or its designee may decline to issue a certificate when any person having an ownership or management interest in the operation of such place of business or control over such place of business does not meet the same character requirements as herein set forth for the certificate holder.
(c)
All establishments must have and continuously maintain in the county a registered agent upon whom any process, notice or demand required or permitted by law or under this article to be served upon the certificate holder or owner may be served. This person shall be a resident of the county. The certificate holder shall file the name of such agent, along with the written consent of such agent, in the city or its designee in such form as may be prescribed.
(Ord. of 7-1-2012, § 18-85)
Sec. 14-102. - General operating provisions.
(a)
No gambling or other games of chance shall be permitted in a poolroom.
(b)
All establishments which have three or more pool tables shall have a manager or designated employee on duty during operating hours whose responsibility is the operation of the pool tables.
(Ord. of 7-1-2012, § 18-86)
Sec. 14-103. - Inspection of registered establishments.
Sworn officers of the county police department shall have the authority to inspect establishments registered under this article during the hours in which the premises are open for business. Such inspection shall be made for the purpose of verifying compliance with the requirements of this article. This section is not intended to limit the authority of the city or its designee or of any other county officer to conduct inspections authorized by other provisions of the Code.
(Ord. of 7-1-2012, § 18-87)
Sec. 14-104. - Unlawful or prohibited activities.
No occupation tax certificate shall be granted to any person under the age of 18 or who has been convicted, pled guilty or entered a plea of nolo contendere under any federal, state or local law of any crime involving moral turpitude, illegal gambling, any felony, criminal trespass, public indecency, misdemeanor involving any type of sexual related crime, any theft or violence against person or property, any crime of possession, sale, or distribution of illegal drugs, distribution of material depicting nudity or sexual conduct as defined under state law, criminal solicitation to commit any of these listed offenses, attempts to commit any of these listed offenses, for a period of ten years prior to the date of application for such certificate, and has been released from parole or probation.
(Ord. of 7-1-2012, § 18-88)
Secs. 14-105—14-121. - Reserved.
