ARTICLE III. - ORDINANCES AND RESOLUTIONS

Sec. 2-50. - Adoption of ordinances.
Except in cases of emergency, no ordinance shall be presented, read, and passed at one and the same meeting of council, then published with proceedings of council before being put on their final passage; all ordinances presented in cases of emergency as above excepted, shall only be valid after receiving a two-thirds vote of all members of council present and shall only be effective until the regular meeting of council. At such meeting, the council may ratify the emergency ordinance, and in such event the ordinance shall remain in effect according to the terms of the act of ratification. All ordinances shall be reduced to writing, and signed by at least two members of council before being offered for passage. The minutes of the clerk, as also his ordinance record, shall be made up by said clerk from such original ordinance. Any ordinance passed contrary to the above provisions shall be void and of no effect. Provided, however, that only the title need be read and published of any code of laws hereafter ordered compiled and published by the authorities of said city; all orders, rules, ordinances, regulations, sets of rules as embodied in such code or codes shall, from the date of the passage of an ordinance of adoption for that purpose, so reciting, become orders, rules, ordinances, regulations, and laws governing and applicable to said city, as fully and completely as though published and passed in the manner hereinabove provided.
(Code 1975, § 2-201)
Sec. 2-51. - Effective date.
Except as otherwise provided by any ordinance or state law:
(1)
All ordinances and resolutions approved in writing by the mayor shall be effective immediately after passage thereof.
(2)
All ordinances and resolutions vetoed by the mayor shall be effective upon the final passage thereof by the mayor and council.
(3)
All ordinances and resolutions which are neither vetoed nor approved in writing by the mayor shall be effective five days after the initial passage thereof, as provided by section 2.06 of the Charter.
(Code 1975, § 2-202)
Sec. 2-52. - Official copy.
A true copy of an ordinance which has been duly enacted by the mayor and council, signed by the mayor, and attested to by the city clerk shall be known as an official copy of any ordinance of the city.
(Code 1975, § 2-203)
Sec. 2-53. - Contracts; bonds.
The mayor shall sign contracts and bonds for the city.
(Code 1975, § 2-401)
Secs. 2-54—2-81. - Reserved.
