Chapter 10 - ANIMALS[1]

Sec. 10-1. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Livestock means all animals of the equine, bovine, or swine class, including goats, sheep, mules, horses, hogs, cattle, and other grazing animals, and all ratites, including, but not limited to, ostriches, emus, and rheas.
Running at large or straying means any livestock which is not under the manual control of a person and which is on any public roads of this state or on any property not belonging to the owner of the livestock, unless by permission of the owner of such property.
State Law reference— Similar provisions, O.C.G.A. § 4-3-2.
Sec. 10-2. - Keeping of livestock prohibited.
It shall be unlawful for any person to have or keep in a pen or lot or otherwise any hogs, horses, goats, cattle, or other livestock within the corporate limits of the city. Any hogs, horses, goats, cattle, or other livestock found therein shall be impounded by the chief of police and the owner shall be punished according to the general penalties described in section 1-9 of this Code.
(Code 1947, § 64; Code 1975, § 5-101; Ord. of 9-14-1993)
Sec. 10-3. - Animals running at large; dogs to be tagged; dogs declared nuisance.
(a)
It shall be unlawful for hogs, sheep, goats, cattle, horses, mules as well as other domesticated livestock and fowl, including, but not limited to, chickens, turkeys, and guineas to run at large upon the streets and sidewalks of the city, the same being declared a nuisance. Any of the abovementioned animals found at large upon the streets and sidewalks of said city shall be impounded, in a suitable pound or cage, by the chief of police or a police officer; and when so impounded, the chief of police shall serve written notice upon the owner, advising such owner of the location or place where the livestock is being held and impounded, the amount due as a result of such impounding, and that unless such livestock is redeemed within seven days, at the end of which time, if not redeemed by the owner, shall be sold pursuant to the law in effect on the date of the sale. In the event the owner of such livestock is unknown or cannot be found, service upon the owner shall be obtained by publishing a notice once in a newspaper of general circulation where the livestock is impounded, Sundays and holidays excluded. The owner of said animal so impounded shall pay all cost of feeding, and an additional impounding fee for each animal so impounded. The amount of the impounding fee shall be set by resolution of the mayor and council from time to time, and available for public examination in the fee and rate schedule in the office of the city clerk.
(b)
The owner of any dog shall comply with the applicable general laws, rules and regulations of the state and the county governing the inoculation of dogs, and any dog found within the city without a current tag indicating that it has been inoculated as required by such laws, rules and regulations shall be disposed of forthwith by a law enforcement officer of the city.
(c)
The owner of any dog that is declared a nuisance is guilty of disturbing the peace and will be subject to a fine. A dog will be declared a nuisance when the chief of police receives a written and signed complaint from at least two persons. The chief of police will have notice served on the dog owner and the owner shall have ten days to abate the nuisance from the date of notice. After ten days, if the nuisance is not abated, the chief of police shall have the dog removed and placed in a suitable pound. The dog owner shall be responsible for any charge or fee due to impoundment of the dog. The amount of the nuisance fine and impounding fee shall be set by resolution of the mayor and council from time to time, and available for public examination in the fee and rate schedule in the office of the city clerk.
(d)
No person who is the owner of any dog shall permit it to run at large on any public road, highway, sidewalk, street, lane or upon unenclosed land or permit it to go on any private yard, lot or enclosure without the consent of the owner of the yard, lot or enclosure. The owner of a dog who permits it to run at large in violation of this section is liable for all damages caused by such. Any person who violates any provision of this subsection shall be deemed guilty of a violation and shall be fined in an amount set by resolution of the mayor and council from time to time, and available for public examination in the fee and rate schedule in the office of the city clerk. Each day the violation exists shall constitute a separate offense.
(Code 1975, § 5-102; Ord. of 3-13-1979; Ord. of 9-14-1993; Ord. of 3-26-2001; Ord. of 5-11-2004)
State Law reference— Definition of a nuisance generally, O.C.G.A. § 41-1-1; classes of nuisances, O.C.G.A. § 41-1-2.
Sec. 10-4. - Taking or releasing animals from city pound illegal; penalties.
Any person who shall break into the city pound and take therefrom any hog or other animal, or shall break down the same so that any animal placed therein by the chief of police in compliance with city ordinances may escape therefrom, shall, on conviction before the municipal court be punished according to the general penalties described in section 1-9 of this Code.
(Code 1947, § 67; Code 1975, § 5-103; Ord. of 3-13-1979; Ord. of 9-14-1993)
Sec. 10-5. - Dogs running free.
The city does hereby enact the following policy regarding dogs running free in the city:
(1)
Upon the receipt of a complaint from a resident regarding an attack by a dog in the city, the city will serve the owner with written notice of the complaint and with an order to confine the dog on the owner's property.
(2)
Upon the failure of the owner to confine the dog as ordered, the city will, in the interest of protecting its residents and citizens, dispose of said dog in a humane manner.
(3)
Any owner who receives a notice and order as aforesaid and confines his dog shall and will have the right to appear before the mayor and council at its next regularly scheduled meeting for a hearing on the need to confine said animal. Any action taken by the mayor and council at this hearing shall be final and binding in said matter.
(Res. of 3-13-1979)
