PART I - CHARTER AND RELATED LAWS
Subpart A - CHARTER[1]
ARTICLE I. - CHARTER, CITY LIMITS, AND CORPORATE POWERS

Sec. 1.01. - Charter; corporate powers.
This act shall constitute the whole charter of the City of Pearson, Georgia, repealing and replacing the charter as provided by Georgia L. 1880-1, p. 647; Georgia L. 1906, p. 965; Georgia L. 1916, p. 1338; Georgia L. 1931, p. 916; Georgia L. 1939, p. 60; Georgia L. 1943, p. 1503, and Georgia L. 1965, p. 2284, as amended [1880 Ga. Laws (Act No. 420), p. 647; 1906 Ga. Laws (Act No. 655), p. 965; 1916 Ga. Laws (Act No. 450), p. 852; 1931 Ga. Laws (Act No. 53), p. 916; 1939 Ga. Laws (Act No. 302), p. 60; 1943 Ga. Laws (Act No. 76), p. 1504; 1965 Ga. Laws (Act No. 82), p. 2284]. The City of Pearson, Georgia, in the County of Atkinson, and the inhabitants thereof, shall continue to be a body politic and corporate under the name and style of the City of Pearson, Georgia, and by that name shall have perpetual succession, may contract and contract with, may sue and be sued, plead and be impleaded, in all the courts of law and equity, and in all actions whatsoever, and may have and use a common seal and change it at pleasure.
Sec. 1.02. - City boundaries.
The boundaries of the City of Pearson shall extend a distance of one mile in every direction from a common center. The intersection of the center line of King Street and the center line of the main line of the Atlantic Coast Line Railroad is hereby designated and established as said common center.
Sec. 1.03. - Additional corporate powers.
The corporate powers of the city, to be exercised by the Mayor and Council, may include the following:
(a)
To levy and to provide for the assessment, valuation, reevaluation and collection of taxes on all property subject to taxation.
(b)
To levy and to provide for the collection of license fees and taxes on privileges, occupations, trades and professions.
(c)
To appropriate and borrow money to provide for payment of debts of the city, and to authorize the expenditure of money for any municipal purpose, or for matters of national or state interest, and to issue bonds for the purpose of raising revenue to carry out any project, program or venture authorized under this charter of the general laws of the state. Such bonding authority shall be exercised in accordance with the laws governing bond issues by municipalities in effect at the time said issue is undertaken.
(d)
To acquire, dispose of, and hold in trust or otherwise, any real, personal or mixed property, inside or outside the city.
(e)
To condemn property, inside or outside the city, for present or future use, and for any corporate purpose deemed necessary by the Mayor and Council, under section 36-202 of the Code of Georgia 1933, or under other applicable public acts.
(f)
To acquire, construct, operate, distribute, sell and dispose of public utilities, including but not limited to a waterworks system, sewerage system, a natural gas system, an electrical power system, and a community antenna television system, both inside or outside the corporate limits, subject to the provisions of applicable general law. For water, gas, and electricity furnished, and for all sewerage and sanitary services rendered, said city may prescribe the charges, rates, fares, fees, regulations and standards and conditions of service to be provided and shall have a lien against any property of the persons served; said lien to be enforceable in the same manner and with the same remedies as a lien for city property taxes.
(g)
To grant franchises or make contracts for public utilities and public services including but not limited to those stated above, not to exceed periods of twenty years. The Mayor and Council may prescribe the rates, fares, regulations, and standards and conditions of service applicable to the service to be provided by the franchise grantee or contractor, insofar as not in conflict with such regulations by the Georgia Public Service Commission.
(h)
To provide for the acquisition, construction, building, operation and maintenance of public ways, parks, public grounds, cemeteries, markets and market houses, public buildings, libraries, sewers, drains, sewerage treatment, airports, hospitals, and charitable, educational, recreational, conservation, sport, curative, corrective, detentional, penal and medial institutions, agencies and facilities; and any other public improvements, inside or outside the city; and to regulate the use thereof, and for such purposes, property may be acquired by condemnation under Section 36-202 of the Code of Georgia 1933, or other applicable public acts.
(i)
To prescribe standards of health and sanitation and to provide for the enforcement of such standards.
(j)
To provide for the collection and disposal of garbage, rubbish and refuse. Charges or fees may be imposed to cover the costs of such services which, if unpaid, shall constitute a debt which shall be subject to a lien against any property of persons served, which lien shall be enforceable in the same manner, and under the same remedies, as a lien for city property taxes.
(k)
To define, regulate and prohibit any act, practice, conduct or use of property which is detrimental, or likely to be detrimental, to the health, morals, safety, security, peace, convenience, or general welfare of inhabitants of the city.
(l)
To define a nuisance in the city and to provide for its abatement. The recorder of the city shall have jurisdiction of all nuisance abatement proceedings in the city. The city may provide by ordinance for any building, structure, or condition maintained in violation of any valid law of this state or any valid ordinance of the city, to be adjudged a nuisance and for its abatement at the owner's expense upon his failure or refusal to abate the same within ten days after written notice from city to do so.
(m)
To provide that persons given jail sentences in the municipal court shall work out such sentences in any public works or on the public streets of the city as provided by ordinance; or the Mayor and Council may provide for the commitment of city prisoners to any county work camps, or jail, by agreement with the appropriate county officers.
(n)
To regulate and license, or prohibit, the keeping or running at large of animals and fowl and to provide for the impoundment of same, in violation of any ordinance or lawful orders, also to provide for their disposition, by sale, gift, or humane destruction, when not redeemed as provided by ordinance; to provide punishment for violation of ordinances enacted hereunder.
(o)
To regulate and license vehicles operated for hire in the city; to limit the number of such vehicles; to require the operators thereof to be licensed; to require public liability insurance on such vehicles in amounts prescribed by ordinance; and to regulate and rent parking spaces in public ways for the use of such vehicles.
(p)
To levy and provide for the collection of special assessments to cover the costs for any public improvements.
(q)
To provide that upon the conviction of the violation of any ordinance, rule, regulation, or order, the offender may be punished within limitations prescribed by the Mayor and Council in such ordinance, rule, regulation, or order but not exceeding the limitation prescribed by this charter.
(r)
To exercise and enjoy all other powers, functions, rights, privileges and immunities necessary, or desirable to promote or protect the safety, health, peace, security, good order, comfort, convenience, morals, and general welfare of the city and its inhabitants; and to exercise all implied powers necessary to carry into execution all powers granted in this Charter as fully and completely as if such powers were fully enumerated herein; and to exercise all powers now or in the future authorized to be exercised by other municipal governments under the Constitution or general laws of the State of Georgia. No enumeration of particular powers in this Act shall be held to be exclusive of others, nor restrictive of general words and phrases granting powers; but shall be held to be in addition to such powers unless expressly prohibited to cities under the Constitution or applicable public acts of the State.
(s)
To levy taxes and to make appropriations for the purpose of advertising said city and its advantages and resources so as to bring new capital and commercial and manufacturing and other enterprises into the city, and also to levy taxes and to make payment from the general revenues and funds of the city for the support of public hospitals, and libraries.
(t)
To regulate and control public streets, public alleys and ways; and in the discretion of the Mayor and Council by ordinance to alter, open or close public streets and public alleys and ways without notification.
Editor's note— Section 36-202 of the Code of Georgia 1933 was not codified as a section in the Code of Georgia 1981. Therefore, the editor was not able to provide reference to a current statute of similar applicability.
Sec. 1.04. - Ordinances.
All ordinances, bylaws, rules and regulations, now in force in said city, not inconsistent with this Act, are hereby declared valid and of force until amended or repealed by the Mayor and Council of said city.
ARTICLE II. - CITY GOVERNMENT

Sec. 2.01. - Establishment of city government.
The corporate governmental powers of the City of Pearson shall be vested in a Mayor and Council to be composed of a mayor and five councilmen. The Mayor and Council shall be elected at large by the qualified voters of the city and shall exercise their powers in such manner as prescribed by the duly established ordinances of the City of Pearson.
Sec. 2.02. - Qualifications for mayor and councilmen.
To be eligible for the office of mayor or councilman, elected or appointed, a person must be at least twenty-one years of age, must meet the requirements of a qualified elector for members of the General Assembly as prescribed by state law, must be a registered voter in the City of Pearson, and must be a bona fide resident of the City of Pearson for a least one year next preceding the election in which he offers as a candidate.
Sec. 2.03 - Election of mayor and councilmen.
Those persons presently elected to office shall continue to serve until their successors are duly elected and qualified as provided by law.
On the first Monday in December, 1973, and on said date every two years thereafter, a general election shall be held for the three councilmen whose terms of office are expiring. The three councilmen seats to be filled in elections in odd-numbered years shall be known as Post 1, Post 2, and Post 3, respectively. The three candidates for councilmen in said election who receive the majority of votes in their respective races shall be elected for terms of office of two years each and until their successors are duly elected and qualified.
On the first Monday in December, 1974, and on said date every two years thereafter, a general election shall be held for mayor and two councilmen whose terms of office are expiring. The two councilmen seats to be filled in elections in even-numbered years shall be known as Post 4, and Post 5, respectively. The candidate for mayor who receives the majority of votes cast in said election and the two candidates for councilmen who receive the majority of votes cast in their respective races shall be elected for terms of office of two years each and until their successors are duly elected and qualified.
In instances where no candidate for mayor or for any council post receives a majority of the votes cast at the election held on the first Monday in December, a run-off election shall be held between the two candidates receiving the highest number of votes in such election. Said run-off election shall be held on the third Monday in December. The candidate for mayor or for any council post receiving a majority of the votes cast in such run-off election shall be declared the winner.
(1973 Ga. Laws (Act. No. 157), p. 2529)
Editor's note— All general municipal elections are mandated to be held on the Tuesday next following the first Monday in November in each odd-numbered year pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 21-2-9. The City of Pearson follows the Georgia Municipal Election Code, O.C.G.A. § 21-2-1 et seq., and has, as a common practice, held general municipal elections on the first Tuesday in November. The Georgia Municipal Election Code (Title 34A, Code of Ga. 1933) has been repealed and replaced by the Georgia Municipal Election Code (O.C.G.A. § 21-2-1 et seq.).
Sec. 2.04. - Terms of office.
The terms of office for mayor and councilmen shall begin at the first regular meeting of the Mayor and Council in January next succeeding the election and shall continue for two years and until their successors are elected and qualified.
Sec. 2.05. - Mayor and council.
The governing body of said city shall be composed of a mayor and five councilmen, in which is vested all corporate, legislative and other powers of the city, except as otherwise provided in this Act. The Mayor and Council shall hold regular public meetings at a stated time and place as provided by ordinance. The Mayor and Council shall meet in special sessions on call of the mayor or call of the mayor pro-tem and two councilmen. Notice of such meeting must have been served on the other members personally or left at their residence, but such notice of a special meeting shall not be required if the mayor and all councilmen are present when the special meeting is called. Such notice of a special meeting shall be considered waived if the mayor and all councilmen are present when the special meeting is convened. Only the business stated in the call may be transacted at a special meeting, except by unanimous consent of all members of the Mayor and Council. The Mayor and Council shall exercise its powers in public meetings. A majority of the Mayor and Council shall constitute a quorum. The Mayor and Council may, by ordinance, adopt rules and bylaws to govern the conduct of its business, including procedures and penalties for compelling the attendance of absent members. The Mayor and Council may provide by ordinance for punishment for contemptuous behavior conducted in the presence of the Mayor and Council.
Sec. 2.06. - Mayor as presiding officer.
The mayor shall preside at meetings of the Mayor and Council, shall have a vote in the case of a tie vote by councilmen; shall have veto power, and the mayor shall have five days after meetings of the Mayor and Council in which to file with the clerk in writing his dissent, but the Mayor and Council may at the same meeting or at any subsequent meeting within thirty (30) days, pass any such ordinances, order or resolution, notwithstanding the veto, by a vote of four-fifths of the total number of councilmen, to be taken by ayes and nays, and entered upon the minutes; shall be the ceremonial head of the city; shall sign ordinances and resolutions on their final passage; may obtain short term loans in the name of the city when authorized by the council to do so; and shall perform such other duties imposed by this charter and duly adopted ordinances.
Sec. 2.07. - Mayor pro-tem.
The Mayor and Council at the first regular meeting in January, and after the newly elected councilmen have taken office following each regular election, shall elect from its membership a mayor pro-tem for a term of one year. Upon the failure to elect a mayor pro-tem at the first regular meeting in January of each year, the incumbent councilman who received the highest number of votes, when last elected, shall be declared the mayor pro-tem. The mayor pro-tem shall perform the duties of the mayor during his absence from the city or his disability.
Sec. 2.08. - Vacancy in office of mayor or councilmen.
A vacancy shall exist if the mayor or a councilman resigns, dies, moves his residence from the city, or is absent from four consecutive regular meetings of the governing authority, except if granted a leave of absence by the Mayor and Council, which leave shall be entered upon the minute books; or if he is adjudged incompetent or is convicted of malfeasance in office, or of a felony, or any violation of election laws.
The Mayor and Council shall appoint a qualified person to fill any such vacancy in the office of councilman for the remainder of the unexpired term.
At no time shall there be more than one councilmember so appointed holding office; and if a vacancy occurs on the council with one member so appointed on the council, a special election shall be held within a period of 45 days after the office becomes vacant pursuant to a call of a special election as provided by this charter; however, if a special election is called pursuant to this charter, the vacancy previously filled by appointment as well as the existing vacancy shall be filled for the unexpired terms in a special election. Provided, however, if a regular election for the city shall be held within three (3) months after the second vacancy occurs, the first vacancy previously filled by appointment and the second vacancy shall be filled for the unexpired terms at such regular election.
In the event a vacancy should occur in the office of the Mayor, a special election shall be called and held in the manner prescribed by the Georgia Municipal Election Code (Title 34A, Code of Ga. 1933) as it now exists or may hereafter be amended.
Editor's note— The Georgia Municipal Election Code (Title 34A, Code of Ga. 1933) was codified as Title 21, Chapter 3, in the Code of Georgia 1981. However, the sections appearing in Title 21, Chapter 3, were subsequently repealed by 1998 Ga. Laws (Act. No. 697), p. 295. According to Act 697, the statutory scheme comparable to the Georgia Municipal Election Code is the Georgia Election Code codified at Title 21, Chapter 2 in the Code of Georgia 1981.
Sec. 2.09. - Compensation of expenses.
The Mayor and Council may in its discretion determine the salary of the Mayor and Councilmen by Ordinance, provided, however, that no raise in salary shall be effective until the first regular Council meeting in January after the next succeeding election.
[The second paragraph of section 2.09 of the Charter has been deleted as obsolete.]
Each Councilman and the Mayor, when authorized by the Mayor and Council and upon presentation of itemized vouchers shall receive his actual and necessary expense incurred in performance of his duties of office.
(Ord. of 2-14-1978)
Editor's note— According to the city council minutes recorded on January 10, 1978, the council pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 69-1017 amended Art. II, § 2.09 of the city Charter with the intention, "to allow the City Council in its discretion to set the salary of the Mayor and Council without statutory limits." A unanimous vote of the city council on May 10, 2005, increased the mayor's salary to $400.00 per week and the councilmembers salary to $100.00 per month, to become effective January 2006.
Sec. 2.10. - City clerk.
The Mayor and Council shall appoint a city clerk who shall be ex-officio treasurer. He shall be responsible for keeping and preserving the city seal and all records of the Mayor and Council; attending meetings of the Mayor and Council and keeping a journal of its proceedings at such meetings, including the names of members present and absent, the ayes and nays on each motion considered, and the text of each resolution or ordinance considered; preparing and certifying copies of official records in this office, for which fees may be presented by ordinance; and performing such other duties as may be required by the Mayor and Council.
The Mayor and Council shall require the clerk, before entering upon discharge of his duties to give good and sufficient bond in the amount to be decided by the Mayor and Council, but not less than $5,000.00, said bond payable to the City of Pearson, for the faithful performance of his duties and to secure against corruption, malfeasance, misappropriations or unlawful expenditures. Said surety bond shall be obtained from a surety company licensed to do business in the State of Georgia and approved by the Mayor and Council, and the premium thereon shall be paid by the City.
Sec. 2.11. - City legislation.
Any action of the Mayor and Council, having a regulatory or penal effect or required to be done by ordinances under this act, shall be done only by ordinance. Each resolution and ordinance shall be in written form before being introduced. The affirmative vote of at least four members of the Mayor and Council shall be required to pass any resolution or ordinance. After adoption of ordinances, the city clerk shall number ordinances consecutively, in the order of their final adoption, and shall copy them into a permanent record book used solely for this purpose; and the city clerk shall do likewise for resolutions, using a separate series of numbers and a separate record book. The original copies of all ordinances, resolutions, and motions shall be filed and preserved by the city clerk.
ARTICLE III. - ORGANIZATION AND PERSONNEL

Sec. 3.01. - Organization.
The city government shall continue as presently organized unless and until otherwise provided by ordinance. The Mayor and Council, by such ordinance, may establish, abolish, merge or consolidate offices, positions of employment, departments and agencies of the city; may provide that the same person shall fill a number of offices and positions of employment; may transfer or change the functions and duties of offices, position of employment, departments and agencies of the city; and may prescribe the duties and compensations of any office or position of employment.
Sec. 3.02. - Administrative duties of mayor.
The Mayor shall be the executive head of the city government, responsible for the efficient and orderly administration of the city's affairs. He shall be responsible for the enforcement of laws, rules and regulations, ordinances and franchises in the city; and the city attorney shall take such legal action as the Mayor may direct for such purposes. He may conduct inquiries and investigations into the conduct of the city's affairs and shall have such powers and duties as may be provided by ordinance not inconsistent with this charter.
Sec. 3.03. - City attorney.
The Mayor and Council shall appoint a city attorney, together with such assistant city attorneys as may be authorized by ordinance, and shall provide for the payment of such attorney or attorneys for services rendered to the city. The city attorney shall be responsible for representing and defending the city in all litigation in which the city is a part; may be the prosecuting officer in the municipal court; shall attend the meetings of the Mayor and Council as directed; shall advise the Mayor and Council, and other officers and employees of the city, concerning legal aspects of the city's affairs.
Sec. 3.04. - City manager.
The Mayor and Council may appoint a city manager. The duties and authority of the city manager shall be established by ordinance of the Mayor and Council, and in so doing, the Mayor and Council may specifically delegate to the city manager any of the administrative or budgetary duties of the mayor.
Sec. 3.05. - Oath of office.
Before a person takes any office in the city government, he shall take before any officer authorized to administer oaths the following such oath or affirmation:
"I solemnly swear (or affirm) that I will support the Constitution of the United States and of the State of Georgia; that I will in all respects observe the provisions of the charter and ordinances of the City of Pearson, and I will faithfully discharge the duties of ____________ / ____________ / ____________ . So Help me God."
Said oaths with the officer's jurat attached shall be written or printed and when executed, filed with the city clerk.
Sec. 3.06. - Political activity prohibited.
No officer or employee of the city, other than the Mayor and Councilmen shall continue in the employment of the city after becoming a candidate for nomination or election to any city office.
Sec. 3.07. - Personal financial interest.
Any city officer or employee who has a financial interest, direct or indirect or by reason of ownership of stock in any corporation, in any contract with the city or in the sale of any land, material, supplies or services to the city or to a contractor supplying the city, shall make known that interest by announcement at a meeting of the Mayor and Council or in writing to the city clerk and shall refrain from voting upon or otherwise participating in this capacity as a city officer or employee in the making of such sale or in the making or performance of such contract. Any city officer or employee who willfully conceals such financial interest or willfully violates the requirements of this section shall upon conviction be guilty of malfeasance in office or position and shall forfeit his office or position. Violation of this section with the knowledge express or implied of the person or corporation contracting with or making a sale to the city shall render the contract or sale voidable by the Mayor and Council.
Sec. 3.08. - City planning and renewal.
The Mayor and Council may create and establish a planning commission pursuant to the provisions of general law as they now exist or as they may hereinafter be amended.
ARTICLE IV. - FISCAL ADMINISTRATION

Sec. 4.01. - Budget.
The city government of Pearson shall be operated on a budget. The Mayor and Council shall, by ordinance, set the fiscal year and set the procedures to be followed in adopting, changing and following the budget.
Sec. 4.02. - Sale of city property.
The Mayor and Council may sell any city property which is obsolete, surplus or unusable at public sale, with advertisement, and for such consideration as the Mayor and Council shall deem equitable and just to the city.
Sec. 4.03. - Annual audit.
The Mayor and Council shall employ a public accountant or certified public accountant to make an annual audit of all financial books and records of the city. The accountant shall file his report with the Mayor and Council and shall prepare a summary of the report which shall be furnished or made available to the Mayor and every Councilman.
Sec. 4.04. - Publication of financial statement.
As soon as practicable after the close of the fiscal year, but within three months after the close thereof, the Mayor and Council shall cause to be published in a local newspaper, a statement of financial condition which shall contain a statement of revenues and expenditures showing all municipal accounts as of the close of such preceding fiscal year. Such statement of financial condition shall be prepared so as to fairly represent the general financial condition of the city, as of the close of the preceding fiscal year. Each month the Mayor and Council shall cause to be published in a local newspaper, an itemized and detailed statement of the previous month's expenditures and receipts by the city.
Sec. 4.05. - Property taxes.
All property subject to taxation for state or county purposes, assessed as of January 1, in each year, shall be subject to a property tax levied by the city. All property subject to taxation in the city shall be returned for taxes each year on or before April 1. If such return is not made, the Mayor and Council is authorized to assess a penalty of not more that ten percent (10%) of the taxes due on said property. Taxes shall be due on October 1 of each year and shall become past due or delinquent if not paid on or before December 20, of each year. The Mayor and council by ordinance may elect to use the county assessment for the year in which city taxes are to be levied, or may provide for an independent city evaluation or assessment as provided by Georgia Law. If an independent city assessment is made, a board of equalization, consisting of three freeholders of the city appointed by the Mayor and Council, with compensation fixed by ordinance, shall hear appeals of taxpayers taken within ten days after the city clerk has sent notice, by ordinary mail, of a new or increased assessment; provided that such notice shall not be required, nor may appeals be taken, in the case of initial city assessments that are the same as county assessments. Except as otherwise provided in this section, appeals involving city property assessments may be taken as now or as may hereinafter by provided by general law.
Sec. 4.06. - Tax levy.
The Mayor and Council shall be authorized to levy an ad valorem tax on real and personal property within the corporate limits of the city for the purposes of raising revenues to defray the costs of operating the city government, providing governmental services, and for any other public purpose, in addition to a sufficient levy to pay principal and interest on general obligations. Said city is hereby exempted from the provisions on Georgia Code sections 92-4101 to 92-4104 inclusive.
Sec. 4.07. - Tax due date and tax bills.
The due date of property taxes shall be October 1, of each year. The city shall send tax bills to taxpayers, showing the assessed valuations, amount of taxes due, tax due dates and information as to delinquency dates and penalties. Failure to send tax bills shall not, however, invalidate any tax. Property taxes shall become delinquent if not paid on or before December 20, of each year, at which time a penalty of ten percent (10%) in addition to a fi. fa. charge shall be added and thereafter such taxes shall be subject to interest at the rate of nine percent (9%) per annum, from the due date until paid. On and after the date when such taxes become delinquent, the tax records of the city shall have the force and effect of a judgment of a court of record.
Said city shall have the right, power and authority to provide by ordinance for the return of all real and personal property for taxation, to provide for the compelling of such return, and to provide penalties for failure to do so; to double tax defaulters, after due notice and hearing to be prescribed by the Mayor and Council, for the current or any previous year, not in any conflict with any limitation prescribed by the laws of Georgia; to prescribe the time or times at which said returns are due; to provide the time or times when said taxes shall be due and payable.
Sec. 4.08. - Collection of delinquent taxes.
The Mayor and Council may provide by ordinance for the collection of delinquent taxes by fi. fa. issued by the City Clerk and executed by the Chief of Police or any other person or persons appointed by the Mayor and Council, under the same procedure provided by laws governing execution of such process from the superior court, or by the use of any other available legal process and remedies. A lien shall exist against all property on which city property taxes are levied, as of the assessment day of January 1 of each year, which shall be superior to all other liens except that it shall have equal dignity with those for federal, state or county taxes.
Sec. 4.09. - Transfer of executions.
The City Clerk of the City of Pearson shall be authorized to transfer and assign any fi. fa. or execution issued for street, sewer, or any other assessment in the same manner, upon the same terms, and to the same effect, and thereby vest the purchaser or transferee, with the same rights as in cases of sales or transfers of tax fi. fas. as now provided by law; and all sales of property hereafter made under execution in behalf of the city for the collection of street, sewer and other assessments, the owner or owners, as the case may be, are authorized to redeem same within the same time and on compliance with the same terms and payment of the premium, interest and costs, as in cases of redemption of property where sold under state or county ad valorem tax fi. fa. as the same now exists, or as may from time to time be provided by law.
Sec. 4.10. - Special assessments.
The Mayor and Council may assess all or part of the cost of constructing, reconstructing, widening, or improving any public way, street, sidewalk, curbing, gutters, sewers, or other utility mains and appurtenances, against the abutting property owners, under such terms and conditions as may be prescribed by ordinance. Such special assessments shall become delinquent thirty days after their due dates, and shall thereupon be subject, in addition to fi. fa. charges, to a penalty of ten percent (10%) and shall thereafter be subject to interest at the rate of nine percent (9%) per annum from due date until paid. A lien for such amount plus fi. fa. charges, interest and penalties, shall exist against the abutting property superior to all other liens, except that it shall be of equal dignity with liens for county and city property taxes, and said lien shall be enforceable by the same procedures and under the same remedies as provided in this article for city property taxes.
ARTICLE V. - ELECTIONS

Sec. 5.01. - Regular elections; time for holding and taking office.
The regular election for mayor and city council, or councilmen as the case may be, shall be held on the first Monday in December of each year. Run-off elections, if required, shall be on the third Monday in December. Officials elected at any regular election shall take office at the first regular meeting of the Mayor and Council in January next following such election.
(1973 Ga. Laws (Act. No. 157), p. 2530)
Editor's note— All general municipal elections are mandated to be held on the Tuesday next following the first Monday in November in each odd-numbered year pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 21-2-9. The City of Pearson follows the Georgia Municipal Election Code, O.C.G.A. § 21-2-1 et seq., and has, as a common practice, held general municipal elections on the first Tuesday in November. The Georgia Municipal Election Code (Title 34A, Code of Ga. 1933) has been repealed and replaced by the Georgia Municipal Election Code (O.C.G.A. § 21-2-1 et seq.).
Sec. 5.02. - Notice of candidacy.
Any person desiring to become a candidate in any regular election shall file written notice of his candidacy with the municipal superintendent not less than fifteen (15) nor more that [than] forty-five (45) days, as prescribed by ordinance, prior to the date fixed for the holding of any such election. Any person desiring to become a candidate in any special election shall file written notice of his candidacy with the municipal superintendent not less than ten (10) days nor more than thirty (30) days, as prescribed by ordinance, prior to the date fixed for the holding of any such election.
Sec. 5.03. - Qualification of electors.
Any person meeting the qualifications of an elector for members of the General Assembly under state law who has been a bona-fide resident of the City of Pearson for at least ninety days next preceding the election in which he desires to vote or for such period as may otherwise be provided by the Georgia Municipal Election Code, shall be qualified to register as an elector in any city election held under this charter.
Sec. 5.04. - Applicability of general laws.
Except as otherwise provided by this charter, the election of all officials of the City of Pearson where provision is made for election by the qualified voters thereof, shall be conducted as to special or general elections in conformity so far as applicable with the provisions of the Georgia Municipal Election Code and Title 34A of the code of Georgia of 1933 as it now exists or may hereafter be amended. Whenever any time period established by the Election Code is altered so as to change or supersede any time period provided herein, it shall be considered that the time periods provided herein will be correspondingly changed so as to avoid any conflict between this charter and the general law of the state.
Editor's note— The Georgia Municipal Election Code (Title 34A, Code of Ga. 1933) was codified as Title 21, Chapter 3, in the Code of Georgia 1981. However, the sections appearing in Title 21, Chapter 3, were subsequently repealed by 1998 Ga. Laws (Act. No. 697), p. 295. According to Act 697, the statutory scheme comparable to the Georgia Municipal Election Code is the Georgia Election Code codified at Title 21, Chapter 2 in the Code of Georgia 1981.
Sec. 5.05. - Time of election.
The polls shall be opened from 7 o'clock a.m. local time to 7 o'clock p.m. local time.
Sec. 5.06. - Place of elections.
The polling place or places for holding elections shall be prescribed by the Mayor and Council and shall be published in the election notice as required by law; provided, however, any change in a polling place shall be effected as provided by section 34A-604 of the Code of Georgia of 1933 as it now exists or may hereafter be amended.
Editor's note— Section 34A-604 of the Code of Ga. 1933 was codified as § 21-3-164 in the Code of Georgia 1981. However, this section in the 1981 Code was subsequently repealed by 1998 Ga. Laws (Act. No. 697), p. 295. According to Act 697, the statutory scheme comparable to the Georgia Municipal Election Code is the Georgia Election Code codified at Title 21, Chapter 2 in the Code of Georgia 1981.
Sec. 5.07. - Voter registration.
In all elections held in the City of Pearson, whether special or general elections, the voters, in addition to the qualifications already prescribed shall be registered as may be prescribed by ordinance.
ARTICLE VI. - MAYOR'S COURT [MUNICIPAL COURT]

Sec. 6.01. - Creation.
There is hereby established a court to be known as the "Mayor's Court, City of Pearson" ["Municipal Court, City of Pearson"], which shall have jurisdiction and authority to try offenses against ordinances of said city and to punish for a violation of the same. Such court shall have the power to enforce its judgments by imposition of such penalties as may be provided by law; to punish witnesses for non-attendance, and to punish also any person who may counsel or advise, aid, encourage, or to persuade another whose testimony is desired or material in any proceeding before said court, to go or move beyond the reach of the process of the court; to try all offenses within the territorial limits of the City of Pearson constituting traffic cases which under the laws of Georgia are placed within the jurisdiction of municipal or police courts to the extent of and in accordance with the provisions of such laws and all laws subsequently enacted amendatory thereof; to establish bail and recognizances to insure the presence of those charged with violations and may prescribe the conditions of forfeiture of the same; and to administer oaths and to perform all other acts necessary and proper to the conduct of said court. The presiding officer of such court shall be known as the recorder. Said court shall be convened at such times as designated by ordinance or at such times as deemed necessary to keep current the dockets thereof. The court shall sit at a place designated by the Mayor and Council.
Sec. 6.02. - Recorder.
(a)
No person shall be qualified or eligible to serve as recorder unless he shall have attained the age of 21 years, shall be qualified to vote in Pearson, and Atkinson County, and shall reside in the City of Pearson at least one year immediately preceding his election. The recorder shall be appointed by the Mayor and Council, and shall serve at the discretion of the Mayor and Council. The compensation of the recorder shall be fixed by the Mayor and Council. Nothing herein shall disqualify the Mayor or any councilman from serving as recorder or recorder pro-tem.
(b)
The recorder pro-tem shall serve in the absence of the recorder, shall have the same qualifications as the recorder, shall be appointed by the Mayor and Council, and shall take the same oath as the recorder.
(c)
Before entering on duties of his office, the recorder shall take an oath before an officer duly authorized to administer oaths in this state, that he will truly, honestly and faithfully discharge the duties of his office to the best of his ability without fear, favor or partiality. This oath shall be entered upon the minutes of the meeting of the Mayor and Council.
Sec. 6.03. - Jurisdiction.
The recorder shall have power to impose fines, costs and forfeitures for the violation of any ordinance of the City of Pearson passed in accordance with this charter, to an amount not to exceed two hundred dollars ($200.00), to imprison offenders for a period of not more than sixty (60) days, or at labor on the roads and streets or other public works of said city for not more than sixty (60) days; and the said recorder shall have the power and authority to impose any one or more of these punishments when he shall find that the facts of the case so justify. Said recorder shall not have the authority to inflict a greater punishment for contempt than to impose a fine of one hundred dollars ($100.00), or imprisonment not exceeding twenty days (20), or any combination of the two. He shall be to all intents and purposes a justice of the peace, so far as to enable him to issue warrants for offenses committed within the limits of the City of Pearson which warrants may be executed by any officer of said city, and to commit the offenders to jail or admit them to bail in bailable cases for their appearance at the next term of court of competent jurisdiction to be held in said city. The Mayor's Court [Municipal Court of the City of Pearson] shall also have concurrent jurisdiction with that of the justice of peace over offenses against the criminal laws of the state committed within the corporate limits. Except as may be herein otherwise specified, the recorder is vested with all of the jurisdiction and powers as to the entire area within the corporate limits of the City of Pearson. The Mayor's Court [Municipal Court of the City of Pearson] is specifically invested with all jurisdiction and powers throughout the entire area within the corporate limits granted by state laws generally to mayor's, recorder's, and police courts, and particularly such laws as authorize the abatement of nuisances. Said recorder is hereby authorized to administer oaths.
Sec. 6.04. - Right of appeal.
The right of appeal from any decision or order of the Mayor's Court [Municipal Court of the City of Pearson] shall lie first to the Mayor and Council at its next regular meeting; provided, however, that if the next regular meeting is within ten days of the date of such decision or order, then the defendant may choose to take his appeal to the second regular meeting of the Mayor and Council after such decision or order. No recorder who is also a member of the Mayor and Council shall participate in any appeal proceedings in which he acted as recorder at the trial. The Mayor and Council shall provide by ordinance for the rules of procedure and regulations to be followed in appealing to the Mayor and Council and such rules and regulations shall be filed with the City Clerk and shall be available for public inspection. The right of appeal from any decision or order by the Mayor and Council on an appeal, shall lie to the Superior Court of Atkinson County. Such appeal and any bond as may be required to secure the costs on appeal to the Superior Court of Atkinson County from the Mayor and Council shall lie in the same manner and under the same procedure as generally prescribed for appeals and appeal bonds from the Court of Ordinary. Provided, however, any person convicted of an offense shall have ten (10) days to file his appeal. All appeals to the Superior Court shall be a de novo proceeding.
Sec. 6.05. - Court costs.
In all cases in the Mayor's Court of the City of Pearson, [Municipal Court of the City of Pearson] the costs incurred and allowable herein may be computed under the provisions of the laws of the State of Georgia fixing costs in the justice of the peace courts of said state, or the Mayor and Council may establish a schedule of fees to defray the costs of operation and the city shall be entitled to reimbursement of the costs, meals, transportation, and caretaking of prisoners bound over to the Superior Court for violations of state law. The Mayor and Council may also provide a uniform scale of costs of the clerk and police officers of said city for all services in the arrest and prosecution of offenders in the Mayor's Court [Municipal Court of the City of Pearson] and in the issuance and collection of tax and other executions; and for their collections and payment into the city treasury. The recorder, or the city clerk in the recorder's name, is hereby authorized to issue subpoenas to compel the attendance of witnesses to said Mayor's Court [Municipal Court of the City of Pearson], and to issue such other processes as may be necessary to the proper administration of said court.
Sec. 6.06. - Rules for court.
With the approval of the Mayor and Council, the recorder shall have full power and authority to make reasonable rules and regulations necessary and proper to secure the efficient and successful administration of the business of said court; provided, however, that the Mayor and Council may adopt in part or in toto the rules and regulations relative to the procedures to the operation of the Superior Courts under the general laws of the State of Georgia. The rules and regulations made or adopted for said court shall be filed with the City Clerk and shall be available for public inspection.
Subpart B - RELATED LAWS
ARTICLE I. - INDUSTRIAL AUTHORITY ACT[1]

CHARTER AND RELATED LAWS COMPARATIVE TABLE
GEORGIA LAWS
This table shows the location of the sections of the Charter and Related Laws and any amendments thereto.
EXPAND
Ga. Laws
Year Act. No. Page Charter/Related Laws
Section
1969 336 2095 RL Art. I, §§ 1—10
1971 122 2266 Char. §§ 1.01—6.06
1973 157 2530 Char. § 2.03
Char. § 5.01
  Sec. 1. - Short Title.
This Act may be cited as the "City of Pearson, Georgia, Industrial Authority Act."
Sec. 2. - Created members.
There is hereby created a body corporate and politic to be known as the "City of Pearson, Georgia, Industrial Authority", which shall be deemed to be an instrumentality of the State of Georgia and a public corporation, and by the name, style and title said body may contract and be contracted with, sue and be sued, plead and be impleaded, and complain and defend in all courts of law and equity. The Authority shall consist of five (5) members, as follows: Each member shall be appointed by members of the City Council of the City of Pearson, Georgia. The terms of office of the members appointed by the members of the City Council of the City of Pearson, Georgia, shall be the same as and run currently with the terms of office of such members of the City Council of the City of Pearson, Georgia. In the event a vacancy occurs as to a member or members of said Authority, the members of the City Council of the City of Pearson, Georgia, shall fill by appointment such vacancy for the unexpired term. The members of the City Council of the City of Pearson, Georgia, may, in their discretion, request the citizens of the City of Pearson, Georgia, to submit additional names before making the appointment of any subsequent appointment to the membership of the Authority. If no recommendation is made within ten (10) days after such request, the appointment shall be made without any recommendation. The members of the Authority shall elect among themselves a president, vice-president and secretary-treasurer, except that by a majority vote of the entire membership, they may elect a person as secretary-treasurer who is not a member of the authority.
Sec. 3. - Definitions.
As used in this Act, the following words and terms shall have the following meanings, unless a different meaning clearly appears from the context:
(a)
The word "Authority" shall mean the "City of Pearson, Georgia, Industrial Authority" created by this Act and pursuant to the authority granted by Article VII of the Constitution of the State of Georgia.
(b)
The word "project" shall be deemed to mean and include the acquisition of lands, properties and improvements for development, expansion and promotion of industry, commerce, agriculture, natural resources and vocational training; the construction of buildings and plants for the purpose of selling, leasing or renting such structures to private persons, firms, or corporations.
(c)
The term "cost of project" shall embrace the cost of construction, the cost of all lands, properties, easements, rights and franchises acquired, the cost of machinery and equipment, financing charges, interest prior to and during construction and for one year after completion of construction, cost of engineering, architectural and legal expenses, and plans and specifications and other expenses necessary or incident to determining the feasibility or practicability of the project, administrative expenses, and such other expenses as may be necessary or incident to the financing herein authorized, the construction of any project and placing the same in operation.
Sec. 4. - Contracts.
The County of Atkinson and the City of Pearson, Georgia, are expressly authorized to enter into contracts with the Authority as a public corporation.
Sec. 5. - Quorum.
Any three members shall constitute a quorum of the transaction of the ordinary business of the Authority; however, any action with respect to any project of the Authority must be approved by not less than three affirmative votes.
Sec. 6. - Powers.
The Authority shall have powers:
(a)
To have a seal and alter the same purpose.
(b)
To acquire, hold and dispose of personal property, including the stock of other corporations, for its corporate purposes.
(c)
To enter into contract with the County of Atkinson and any city within the county.
(d)
To acquire in its own name by purchase, on such terms and conditions, and in such manner as it may deem proper, real property or liens or easements therein or franchise necessary or convenient for its corporate purposes, and to use the same, and to lease or make contracts with respect to the use of or dispose of same in any manner the Authority deems to its best advantage. If the Authority shall deem it expedient to construct any project or use any project already constructed on lands, the title to which shall then be in the County of Atkinson, or any city within the county, the governing authorities of Atkinson County and any city within the county are authorized on their discretion to convey title to such lands, including any improvements thereon, to the Authority.
(e)
To appoint and select officers, agents, and employees including engineers, architects, builders, and attorneys, and to fix their compensation.
(f)
To make contracts, and to execute all instruments necessary or convenient, including contracts for construction of projects and leases and rentals and sale of projects, or contracts with respect to the use of projects which it erects or acquires. The County of Atkinson and the City of Pearson, Georgia, are hereby expressly authorized and empowered to enter into agreements with the Authority for use by the Authority of funds collected by special tax levies by the county and City of Pearson, Georgia, for development purposes.
(g)
To construct, erect, acquire, own, repair, remodel, maintain, extend, improve, equip, operate and manager projects, self-liquidating or otherwise, located on property owned or leased by the Authority, and to pay the cost of any such project from the proceeds of revenue bonds of the Authority or from any grant from the County of Atkinson or City of Pearson, Georgia, or from any contribution or loans by persons, firms or corporations, all of which the Authority is hereby authorized to receive and accept and use.
(h)
To borrow money for any of its corporate purposes and to execute notes, mortgages, deeds to secure debt, trust deeds and such other instruments as may be necessary or convenient to evidence and secure such borrowing.
(i)
To exercise any power granted by the laws of the State of Georgia to public or private corporations, performing similar functions, which is not in conflict with the Constitution and laws of the State of Georgia.
(j)
To do all things necessary or convenient to carry out the powers expressly conferred by this Act.
(k)
To adopt, alter or repeal its own bylaws, rules and regulations governing the manner in which its business may be transacted and in which the power granted it may be enjoyed, as the Authority may deem necessary or expedient in facilitating its business.
(l)
To issue revenue bonds for the purpose of paying all or any part of the cost of any project of the Authority, and validate under and in accordance with the applicable provisions.
(m)
To issue general obligation bonds for the purpose of paying all or any part of the cost of any project of the Authority, such obligation bonds shall be issued and validated under and in accordance with the applicable provisions of Code Chapter 87-3 of the Georgia Code, relating to validation of bonds, as amended.
State Law reference— Municipality bonds generally, O.C.G.A. § 36-82-1 et seq.
Sec. 7. - Taxes.
All lands and improvements and personal property, the title to which is vested in the Authority, and all debentures, notes, bonds and revenue bonds issued by the Authority shall be exempt from State and local taxation. The tax exemption herein provided shall not include any exemption from sales and use tax on property purchased by the Authority or for use by the Authority.
Sec. 8. - Debts.
The Authority shall not be empowered or authorized in any manner to create a debt against the State of Georgia, County of Atkinson or the City of Pearson, Georgia.
Sec. 9. - Audits.
The books and records of the Authority shall be audited at least annually, at the expense of the Authority, by a competent auditor. The Authority shall furnish copies of said audit to the City of Pearson, Georgia.
Sec. 10. - Intent.
This Act being for the purpose of developing and promoting the public good and the welfare of the City of Pearson, Georgia, and its inhabitants, shall be liberally constructed to effect the purposes hereof.
