ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL
DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Sec. 25-1. - Application for water, gas or sewer service.
All applications for water, gas or sewer service shall be made at the city's utility business office, and the location of the premises shall be stated.
(Ord. No. 98-01, § 2, 4-21-98; Ord. No. 2019-17, § 1, 9-24-19)
Sec. 25-2. - Bills; penalties; accessibility of meters.
(a)
Bills to customers for utility services shall be mailed out on such day or days of each month as may be determined to be desirable and the amount due shall be payable in fifteen (15) days from the date thereof. Failure to receive a bill does not entitle delayed payment. If a bill is not paid by 5:00 p.m. on the due date, a ten (10) percent penalty will be added to the past due balance.
(b)
If the account is not paid within seven (7) days after the due date, all utility services shall be subject to disconnection without further notice. In addition, the city clerk may record an execution on the general execution docket of Houston County for the delinquent bill or bills. Such execution shall be a lien on the property where the bill was incurred until such bill is paid and shall be enforced in the same manner as a lien for city taxes.
(c)
The utility service customer shall maintain the area immediately surrounding utility meters free of debris, shrubbery, weeds or tall grass to make such meter readily accessible to utility service personnel. Customers who do not meet the above requirements shall be subject to an administrative charge as now or hereafter established by the mayor and council and on file in the office of the city clerk for each meter reading where utility service personnel find a violation, said administrative charge to compensate for additional efforts made to read the meter. The customer shall be notified by certified mail of the utility department's findings that the requirements of this section have not been met, and said notice shall provide a minimum of twenty (20) days' notice to the customer of the utility department's intention to impose the administrative charge at the next subsequent meter reading if the obstruction has not been removed.
(Ord. No. 98-01, § 2, 4-21-98; Ord. No. 2001-20, §§ 1, 2, 6-19-01; Ord. No. 2003-23, §§ 2, 3, 4-15-03; Ord. No. 2015-27, §§ 1, 2, 12-15-15; Ord. No. 2019-17, § 1, 9-24-19)
Editor's note— Ord. No. 2015-27, § 1, adopted Dec. 15, 2015, changed the title of § 25-2 from "Bills; penalties; accessibility of meters" to "Bills, penalties; accessibility of meters; discontinuance or disallowance for unpaid bills." This historic notation has been preserved for reference purposes.
Sec. 25-3. - Schedule of charges, etc.
All fees and charges for water, gas and sewer service, and regulations incidental thereto shall be determined by the mayor and council and kept on file in the office of the city clerk and the utility business office. Such fees, charges, and incidental regulations are hereby incorporated in this section as if set out in length herein and shall include, but shall not be limited to, fees, charges and incidental regulations for:
(a)
Connection and reconnection.
(b)
Cut-on and cutoff.
(c)
Deposits.
(d)
Temporary cut-in fees.
(e)
Water, sewer and gas taps and service line.
(f)
Sewer facilities and service.
(g)
Storm drains.
(h)
Water service: Inside city limits, outside city limits and industrial.
(i)
Gas service: Residential, high load factor, commercial, industrial, and interruptible.
(j)
Returned checks.
(k)
Meter rereads.
(l)
Tampering penalties.
(Ord. No. 98-01, § 2, 4-21-98; Ord. No. 2019-17, § 1, 9-24-19)
Sec. 25-4. - Water and sewer service outside the city; conditions.
(a)
No water or sewer service shall be furnished to property outside the city that is to be subdivided until the following items have been complied with and approved by the mayor and council:
(1)
Approval of preliminary plans for subdivision by the appropriate governmental authority which plan shall include the following:
a.
Water system including size of main;
b.
Sanitary sewer system including all trunk lines and lateral lines;
c.
Proposed street names;
d.
Type of street paving;
e.
Provision for adequate curbs and gutters;
f.
Installation of storm sewers where needed; and
g.
Proposed playground or park area, if any.
(2)
Before any water or sewerage utilities will be furnished to such properties outside the city, it will be necessary that the city and contractor enter into a contract relative to the accomplishment of the items heretofore outlined and for the property owner to meet the requirements contained in subsection (b) below.
(b)
When a property owner requests utility services to any property not within the corporate limits of the city, at the discretion of the city, the owner will be required to:
(1)
Petition for annexation (if the property is contiguous to the existing limits of the city) prior to commencement of construction of utility lines; or
(2)
Execute a restrictive covenant consenting to annexation of said property into the city when the property becomes contiguous.
When property is not contiguous and execution of the covenant is required, the owner will also be required to submit a certificate of title to the city attorney's office to verify ownership of the property. The covenant will be recorded in the property records at the Houston County courthouse and will stipulate that, if said property becomes contiguous in the future and the property owner refuses to petition for annexation, the city will have the authority to terminate utility services. Construction of utility lines will not begin until the requirements of this policy are met which shall be indicated by authorization of the city clerk.
(Ord. No. 98-01, § 2, 4-21-98; Ord. No. 2019-17, § 1, 9-24-19)
Sec. 25-5. - Expansion, design, construction, and acceptance of water and wastewater connections and facilities.
(a)
Design and construction of all water and wastewater facilities shall conform to the latest edition of the City of Perry Water and Sanitary Sewer Standard Specifications, as adopted by the mayor and council.
(b)
The developer shall pay the entire cost of connection to the city's systems. All materials, labor, and easements shall be furnished, acquired, and paid for by the developer.
(c)
The developer must execute a dedication agreement with the city in a form acceptable to the city prior to beginning construction.
(d)
The city shall review and approve all plans before acceptance.
(e)
Installation of utilities shall be performed by a certified utility contractor licensed by the State of Georgia, unless performed by city staff.
(f)
Utilities to be dedicated to the city shall become property of the city upon completion and final acceptance of such facilities.
(g)
The developer shall furnish "as-built" records of all utilities constructed in the formats described in the latest edition of the City of Perry Water and Sanitary Sewer Standard Specifications.
(h)
Developer shall warrant all utilities constructed for a period of one (1) year.
(i)
The city will not accept utility facilities, issue a final plat for subdivision, or issue a certificate of occupancy for any structure until the provisions of this section 25-5 have been satisfied.
(j)
The city may extend, connect to, or modify a utility line dedicated to the city without compensation to the parties responsible for their original construction.
(Ord. No. 2019-17, § 1, 9-24-19)
Sec. 25-6. - Maintenance of utility lines and service lines.
(a)
The city owns and maintains water service lines and gas service lines from the main through the meter inclusive. The city owns and maintains sewer service connections at the main. Sewer service lines from the connection to the service address are owned and maintained by the property owner.
(b)
All water and natural gas service lines running from the meter to the customer's property shall be the responsibility of the customer. All sewer service lines running from the street right-of-way to the customer's property shall be the responsibility of the customer.
(c)
All water service lines shall have a backflow preventer installed on the customer's side of the water meter. The customer will own and maintain the backflow preventer along with all piping and valves on the customer side of the meter.
(d)
All sewer service lines shall have a cleanout installed at the right-of-way. The city will own and maintain the cleanout located at the right-of-way.
(Ord. No. 98-01, § 2, 4-21-98; Ord. No. 2019-17, § 1, 9-24-19)
Editor's note— Ord. No. 2019-17, § 1, adopted Sept. 24, 2019, added a new § 25-5, renumbered former §§ 25-5—25-10 as §§ 25-6—25-11, changed the title of former § 25-5 from maintenance of utility lines in city's rights-of-way to maintenance of utility lines and service lines, and repealed § 25-11. The historical notes of former §§ 25-5—25-10 have been preserved for reference purposes. Former § 25-11 pertained to water supply and derived from Ord. No. 98-02, adopted May 19, 1998.
Sec. 25-7. - Unlawful use of or tampering with utility property.
(a)
It shall be unlawful for any person to tap, connect with, disturb, damage, turn on or off any main, service connection or meter of any public utility in the city, whether such device is within the public ways, or on private premises, unless such person is acting by the consent of or under direction of the utility owner.
(b)
It shall be unlawful for any person to reconnect to the public utility system of the city when the city has disconnected the utilities for nonpayment for services or utilities rendered. Violators of this policy will be charged a fee in the amount established by the mayor and council.
(c)
It shall be unlawful for any person to throw or deposit any substance in any reservoir or other portion of the waterworks plants of the city, or in any manner pollute the water supply or any part of the waterworks system of the city.
(d)
It shall be unlawful for any person to break, damage, destroy, uncover, deface or tamper with any structure, appurtenance or equipment which is a part of the municipal water system, sewer system or natural gas system.
(e)
Where there is no evidence to the contrary, the person performing any of the illegal acts sets forth in this section and the person who with knowledge of such violation receives the benefit of such service without proper charge as a result of the improper action shall be presumed to be responsible for the act of tampering or diversion. A violation of the above shall constitute a continuing daily crime against the city and shall be punishable in accordance with section 4.13 of the City Charter.
(f)
The city will assess against anyone who is convicted of violating this article the actual cost of any repairs or remediation required as a result of violating the provisions of this chapter. The cost may include but is not limited to equipment and facility repairs, additional operational expenses, labor cost, materials used for repairs, equipment used in making repairs, fuel costs, chemicals needed, legal expenses, professional services fees and other expenses.
(Ord. No. 98-01, § 2, 4-21-98; Ord. No. 2009-16, §§ 1, 2, 6-16-09; Ord. No. 2019-17, § 1, 9-24-19)
Note— See editor's note at § 25-6.
State Law reference— Similar provisions, O.C.G.A. § 16-7-25.
Sec. 25-8. - Meter tests and rereadings.
(a)
Customers obtaining utilities from the city utility system are authorized one (1) reread without charge during a twelve-month period. Rereads in excess of this number and any meter tests will be charged a fee in the amount established by the mayor and council.
(b)
No charge will be made when it is found that an error has been made by representatives of the city.
(Ord. No. 98-01, § 2, 4-21-98; Ord. No. 2019-17, § 1, 9-24-19)
Note— See editor's note at § 25-6.
Sec. 25-9. - Returned checks.
The city will not run a returned check through the bank a second time. When a returned check is received in the utilities business office, the customer will be called that day and informed that they have until the next working day to pick up the returned check and pay the fee established by the mayor and council for said returned check or service will be cut off. If the customer cannot be contacted by telephone, a notice stating the same information will be mailed to the customer's residence. If the service is cut off, there will be a reconnection fee in addition to the check and service charge fee. Payment for the returned check and service charge must be paid in cash or money order.
(Ord. No. 98-01, § 2, 4-21-98; Ord. No. 2019-17, § 1, 9-24-19)
Note— See editor's note at § 25-6.
Sec. 25-10. - Meter relocation.
The city will, upon request, schedule and move a meter from one (1) location on a lot to another location on the same lot. The fee for said move shall be as now or hereafter established by the mayor and council.
(Ord. No. 98-01, § 2, 4-21-98; Ord. No. 2019-17, § 1, 9-24-19)
Note— See editor's note at § 25-6.
Sec. 25-11. - Emergency authority of city manager and/or the mayor during water and gas shortages.
(a)
The city manager and/or the mayor are authorized at all times when because of drought or low water from any cause, or because of accident or any other cause that becomes necessary for the public welfare to conserve the city water supply, to put into effect such reasonable limitations and regulations of the use of water as may in their judgment be necessary under the circumstances. Either may prohibit the use of water for sprinkling streets, yards or gardens or washing of cars, and may establish such other and further regulations and limitations as they may deem necessary. It shall be unlawful for any person to violate any such regulations during the time they are in effect.
(b)
The city manager and/or the mayor are hereby given power and authorization at all times during which the city is under a curtailment by the city's natural gas supplier with regards to a gas shortage or when any other emergency exists with regards to a shortage of natural gas, as a result of which the city is required to limit the use of natural gas by its customers, to limit, restrict, or terminate if necessary the use of natural gas by industrial and commercial customers of the gas department of the city. In addition:
(1)
If the city council finds that an emergency exists with respect to the quantities of natural gas available to the city and the city manager and/or the mayor find it necessary to limit, restrict or terminate the service of any natural gas customer, reasonable notice shall be afforded to such customer as soon as practicable. Such notice shall be given in the local newspaper and on the local radio station and by personal notice when possible.
(2)
It shall be the responsibility of a gas customer whose service is limited, restricted or terminated to protect his property from the elements by other means.
(3)
Any violation of this subsection shall result in a penalty amount set by the mayor and council.
(Ord. No. 2019-17, § 1, 9-24-19)
Note— See editor's note at § 25-6.
Sec. 25-12. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning.
(1)
Air gap: The unobstructed vertical distance (twice the pipe diameter or a minimum of one (1) inch) through the free atmosphere between the flood level rim and the lowest opening from any pipe or faucet supplying water to a tank, plumbing fixture or other device.
(2)
Aspirator: A fitting or device supplied with water or other fluid under positive pressure that passes through an integral orifice or "constriction" causing a partial vacuum.
(3)
Auxiliary intake: Any piping connection or other device whereby water may be secured from a source other than the city water system.
(4)
Backflow: A reversal of flow in a pipe from the normal or designated direction of flow.
(5)
Backflow preventer (BFP): A device to prevent backflow.
a.
Double check valve type (BFP-DCV): A back pressure, backflow preventer designed to operate under intermittent or continuous pressure, including back pressure, where pollutants are involved.
b.
Double detector check type (BFP-DDC): A line-size double check valve assembly with a metered bypass into which has been incorporated an approved smaller-than-line-size double check valve assembly.
c.
Dual check type (BFP-DUC): A backflow preventer designed to contain a small water supply system from the public system, or isolate cross-connections where pollutants are involved.
d.
Backflow preventer with intermediate atmospheric vent (BFP-IAV): A back-siphonage and back pressure, back-flow preventer designed to operate under continuous pressure, including back pressure, where contaminants are involved.
e.
Reduced pressure zone type (BFP-RPZ): A back-siphonage and back pressure, backflow preventer designed to operate under continuous pressure, including back pressure, where contaminants are involved.
(6)
Backpressure: Pressure in a pipe greater than the supply pressure or in the case of a drain pipe, greater than atmospheric pressure.
(7)
Back-siphonage: Backflow due to a negative pressure in a water pipe.
(8)
Back-siphonage preventer: A device to prevent back-siphonage.
(9)
Back water valve: A device to prevent backflow in a drain.
(10)
By-pass: Any system of piping or other arrangement whereby the water may be diverted around any part or portion of a customer's water system.
(11)
BOD: the quantity of oxygen utilized in the biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory procedure in five (5) days at twenty (20) degrees centigrade, expressed in milligrams per liter.
(12)
Building drain: that part of the lowest horizontal piping of a drainage system which receives the discharge from soil, waste, and other drainage pipes inside the walls of the building and conveys it to the building sewer, beginning five (5) feet outside the inner face of the building wall.
(13)
Building sewer: the extension from the building drain to the public sewer or other place of disposal.
(14)
City: The City of Perry, Georgia.
(15)
Contaminant: A toxic substance that, if introduced into the potable water supply system, would create a health hazard.
(16)
Critical level: A mark on a backflow prevention device or vacuum breaker established and stamped on the device by the manufacturer that determines the minimum elevation above the flood level rim of the fixture or receptacle served at which the device may be installed. In the absence of a critical level mark, the bottom of the vacuum breaker, combination valve or any approved device shall constitute the critical level.
(17)
Cross-connection: Any connection or arrangement between two (2) otherwise separate piping systems, one (1) of which contains potable water and other fluid of questionable safety whereby there may be a flow from one (1) system to the other (see backflow and back-siphonage).
(18)
Cross-connection control by containment: The installation of a backflow preventer at the service-connection to a premises to protect the water main (secondary protection).
(19)
Cross-connection control by isolation: The installation of a backflow preventer or a vacuum breaker at each cross-connection on a premises to protect both the premises and the main (primary protection).
(20)
Cross-connection, non-pressure type: A low inlet installation where the potable water supply line is connected or extended below the overflow rim of a receptacle or an environment that contains a non-potable fluid, and is at atmospheric pressure.
(21)
Cross-connection, pressure type: An installation where the potable water supply line is connected to a piping system, or a closed vessel that contains a non-potable fluid above atmospheric pressure.
(22)
Domestic sewage: The water-borne wastes derived from ordinary living processes.
(23)
Garbage: Solid wastes from the preparation, cooking, and disposing of food, and from the handling, storage, and sale of produce.
(24)
Inter-connection: Any system of piping or other arrangement whereby the public water supply is connected directly with a sewer, drain, conduit, pool, storage reservoir, or other device which does or may contain sewage or other waste or liquid, which would be capable of imparting contamination to the public water supply.
(25)
Industrial wastes: Liquid or liquid-borne waste resulting from the processes employed in industrial and commercial establishments.
(26)
Liquid waste: The discharge from any fixture, appliance, area or appurtenance which does not contain human or animal waste water.
(27)
Natural outlet: Any outlet into a watercourse, pond, ditch, lake, or other body of surface or ground water.
(28)
Non-potable water: Water that is not safe for drinking, personal or culinary use.
(29)
pH: The logarithm of the reciprocal of the hydrogen ion concentration in moles per liter.
(30)
Person: A natural person, his heirs, executors, administrators or assigns; and includes a firm, partnership or corporation, it's or their successors or assigns. Singular includes plural; male includes female.
(31)
Pollutant: A non-toxic substance that, if introduced into the potable water supply system, would be objectionable but would not create a health hazard.
(32)
Private sewerage disposal system: Any sewage disposal system not maintained, operated, and owned by the City of Perry, like septic tanks, grinder pumps, etc.
(33)
Properly shredded garbage: The wastes from the preparation, cooking, and dispensing of food that have been shredded to such degree that all particles will be carried freely under the flow conditions normally prevailing in public sewers, with no particle greater than one-half (½) inch in any dimension.
(34)
Public sewer: A sewer in which all owners of abutting properties have equal rights, and is controlled by public authority.
(35)
Public water supply: The waterworks system furnishing water to the city for general use and which supply is recognized as the public water supply by the Georgia Department of Natural Resources/Environmental Protection division.
(36)
Potable water: In compliance with O.C.G.A. § 12-5-170 et seq., "The Safe Drinking Water Act"; Rules and Regulations of the State of Georgia, § 391-3-5-.13, which pertains to safe drinking water standards.
(37)
Rated: Capacities, loads and/or working pressures assigned to devices, equipment, or materials by a nationally recognized testing laboratory, inspection agency, or other qualified organization concerned with produce evaluation, that maintains periodic inspection of rates item and by whose rating attests to compliance with applicable nationally recognized standards of tests to determine usage in a specified manner.
(38)
Sanitary sewer: A sewer which carries sewage and to which storm, surface and ground waters are not intentionally admitted.
(39)
Sewage: Any liquid waste containing animal or vegetable matter in suspension of solution and may include liquids containing chemicals in solution.
(40)
Sewage treatment plant: Any arrangement of devices and structures or lagoons used for treating sewage presently owned or afterward acquired by the city.
(41)
Sewer: Pipe or conduit for carrying sewage.
(42)
Sewerage works: All facilities for collecting, pumping, treating and disposing of sewage.
(43)
Slug: Any discharge of water, sewage, or industrial waste of a non-routine, episodic nature, including but not limited to an accidental spill or a non-customary batch discharge.
(44)
Storm sewer or storm drain: A sewer which carries storm and surface waters and drainage, but excludes sewage and polluted industrial wastes.
(45)
Superintendent: Utilities superintendent or his authorized deputy, agent, or representative.
(46)
Suspended solids: Solids that either float on the surface of, or are in suspension in water, sewage, or other liquids, and which are removable by laboratory filtering.
(47)
Vacuum: Any pressure less than that exerted by the atmosphere.
(48)
Vacuum breaker: A back-siphonage prevention device that introduces air into the potable water system when the system pressure approaches zero and designed for use when the equipment or environment being served is subjected to atmospheric pressure only.
(49)
Vacuum breaker, atmospheric type (VG-AT): A back-siphonage prevention device designed for use under flow conditions only, where it will be subjected to no static or back pressure.
(50)
Vacuum breaker, pressure type (VB-PT): A back-siphonage prevention device designed to operate under continuous pressure; flowing, static or both, but no back pressure.
(51)
Vacuum breaker hose type (VB-HT): A back-siphonage prevention device designed for hose connections, but not designed for continuous pressure, flowing or static.
(52)
Vacuum relief valve: A device to limit the degree of vacuum in a vessel, but not designed for cross-connection control.
(53)
Water distribution pipe: A pipe within the building or on the premises which conveys water from the water-service pipe to the point of usage.
(54)
Water main: A water supply pipe for public use.
(55)
Water supply system: The water service pipe, water-distributing pipes, fixture supply pipes and necessary connecting pipes, fittings, control valves and all appurtenances in or adjacent to the building or premises.
(56)
Watercourse: A channel in which a flow of water occurs, either continuously or intermittently.
(Ord. No. 2019-17, § 1, 9-24-19)
Sec. 25-13. - Abbreviations.
When used in this chapter, the following abbreviations shall have the designated meanings:
EXPAND
BOD Biochemical Oxygen Demand
CFR Code of Federal Regulations
COD Chemical Oxygen Demand
FOG Fats, Oil, & Grease
l Liter
mg Milligrams
mg/l Milligrams Per Liter
NPDES National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System
POTW Publicly Owned Treatment Works
TSS Total Suspended Solids
  (Ord. No. 2019-17, § 1, 9-24-19)
Sec. 25-14. - Easement acquisition.
(a)
All easement acquisition will adhere to latest edition the city's easement acquisition policy, as adopted by the mayor and council.
(b)
The minimum easement width is twenty (20) feet.
(c)
All easements will be drainage utility easements.
(Ord. No. 2019-17, § 1, 9-24-19)
Secs. 25-15—25-20. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - POWERS AND AUTHORITY OF CITY EMPLOYEES

Sec. 25-21. - Right to enter premises.
Subject to constitutional limitations, duly authorized employees and representatives of the city and authorized representatives of applicable federal and state regulatory agencies bearing proper credentials and identification shall be allowed to enter all properties for the purposes of inspection, observation, measurement, sampling, and testing in accordance with the provisions of this article.
(Ord. No. 2019-17, § 1, 9-24-19)
Sec. 25-22. - Right to obtain information.
Duly authorized employees and representatives of the city are authorized to obtain information concerning character, strength, and quantity of nondomestic wastewater which may have a direct bearing on the kind and source of discharge to the city's sewer system.
(Ord. No. 2019-17, § 1, 9-24-19)
Sec. 25-23. - Permitted activities on utility easements.
Duly authorized employees and representatives of the city bearing proper credentials and identification shall be permitted at reasonable times to enter all private properties through which the city holds a utility easement for the purposes of, but not limited to, inspection, observation, measurement, sampling, repair, and maintenance of any portion of the water, natural gas, or wastewater facilities lying within such easement. All entry of subsequent work on such easement shall be done in full accord with the terms of the utility easement pertaining to the private property involved.
(Ord. No. 2019-17, § 1, 9-24-19)
Secs. 25-24, 25-25. - Reserved.
