Chapter 16 - MASS GATHERINGS[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
State Law reference— Municipal home rule, Ga. Const. art. IX, § II; state regulation of certain mass gatherings, O.C.G.A. § 31-27-1 et seq.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 16-1. - Definitions.
Unless a different meaning is required by the context, the following terms, as used in this chapter, shall have the meanings hereinafter respectively ascribed to them:
Mass gathering means any event likely to attract one thousand (1,000) or more persons and to continue for six (6) consecutive or more hours.
Permit means written authorization to a person by the city to operate a mass gathering.
(Code 1966, § 5½-1)
Sec. 16-2. - Exemption.
This chapter shall not apply to any mass gathering which is to be held in any regularly established permanent place of worship, athletic field, auditorium, coliseum or other similar permanently established building within the maximum seating capacity. The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to fairs and similar industrial-agricultural exhibitions which have been in existence for at least one (1) year prior to June 3, 1975. The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to recognized religious gatherings which have been in existence for at least one (1) year prior to June 3, 1975.
(Code 1966, § 5½-9)
Sec. 16-3. - Violations.
Any person who violates any provision of this chapter shall be punished as set forth in section 1-10. In addition to the penalties set forth therein, any violation of this chapter shall be deemed a public nuisance and may be, by the city, abated as provided by law.
(Code 1966, § 5½-7)
Secs. 16-4—16-20. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - PERMIT

Sec. 16-21. - Generally.
No person shall hold or promote, by advertising or otherwise, a mass gathering, unless a permit has been issued for the gathering. Such permits shall be issued by the city and shall be in writing and shall specify the conditions under which issued, and shall remain in effect until suspended, revoked or until the mass gathering is terminated. The permit shall not be transferable or assignable, and a separate permit shall be required for each mass gathering.
(Code 1966, § 5½-2)
Sec. 16-22. - Application.
Application for a permit to promote or hold a mass gathering shall be made to the city on a form and in a manner prescribed by the city by the person who will promote or hold the mass gathering. Application for a permit to promote or hold a mass gathering shall be made at least five (5) days before the first day of advertising and at least fifteen (15) days before the first day of the gathering. Water and sewage facilities shall be constructed and operational not later than twenty-four (24) hours before the beginning of the mass gathering. The application shall be accompanied by such plans, reports and specifications as the city shall deem necessary. The plans, reports and specifications shall provide for adequate and satisfactory water supply and sewage facilities, adequate toilet and lavatory facilities, adequate refuse storage and disposal facilities, adequate traffic-control plans and facilities, and such other matters as may be appropriate for security of life or health. The application shall disclose the names and addresses of all of the persons providing financial backing to the mass gathering, and the amounts of such backing.
(Code 1966, § 5½-3)
Sec. 16-23. - Plans and statements to be filed.
Prior to the issuance of a permit, the applicant must:
(1)
Provide a plan for limiting attendance, including methods of entering the area, number and location of ticket booths and entrances, and provisions for keeping nonticket holders out of the area;
(2)
Provide a statement verifying that all construction and installation of facilities as required in section 16-22 will be completed at least twenty-four (24) hours prior to the commencement of the event;
(3)
Provide a statement from local fire and police authorities having jurisdiction over the area acknowledging that they can supply adequate security, traffic control and law enforcement for the proposed gathering.
(Code 1966, § 5½-4)
Sec. 16-24. - Denial, suspension or revocation.
If it appears necessary and proper that such application for a permit be denied or that a permit previously granted be suspended or revoked, the applicant or holder of the permit shall be notified thereof in writing and shall be afforded an opportunity for hearing before the council within at least ten (10) days from suspension, revocation or denial of the permit.
(Code 1966, § 5½-5)
Sec. 16-25. - Bond.
The person holding or promoting a mass gathering shall provide a bond of ten thousand dollars ($10,000.00) issued by a surety company authorized to transact business in the state. The bond shall be to guarantee full compliance with this chapter as well as other applicable provisions of the Georgia Health Code and rules and regulations promulgated thereunder. The bond shall also cover cleanup of the site. This bond shall be in favor of the city for the benefit of any person who is damaged as a result of the activity of a mass gathering. Any person claiming against the bond may maintain an action at law against the person holding or promoting the mass gathering and the surety.
(Code 1966, § 5½-6)
Sec. 16-26. - Fee.
An applicant for a permit shall pay the fee as set forth in section 15-38 before any permit is issued.
(Code 1966, § 5½-8)
