ARTICLE VII. - PAWNBROKERS AND SECONDHAND DEALERS[7]

Footnotes:
--- (7) ---
State Law reference— Pawnbrokers generally and municipal supervision of same, O.C.G.A. § 44-12-130 et seq.

Sec. 15-135. - Definitions.
Unless a different meaning is required by the context, the following terms, as used in this article shall have the meanings hereinafter respectively ascribed to them:
Pawnbroker. Any person engaged in whole or in part in the business of lending money on the security of pledged goods, or in the business of purchasing tangible personal property on the condition that it may be redeemed or repurchased by the seller for a fixed price within a fixed period of time or in the business of purchasing tangible personal property from persons or sources other than manufacturers or licensed dealers as a part of or in connection with the business activities described in this paragraph.
Precious or semiprecious metals or stones. Metals such as, but not limited to, gold, silver, platinum, and pewter; and stones such as, but not limited to, alexandrite, diamonds, emeralds, garnets, opals, rubies, sapphires, and topaz. For the purpose of this section, ivory, coral, pearls, jade, and such other minerals, stones or gems as are customarily regarded as precious or semiprecious are deemed to be precious or semiprecious.
Secondhand dealer. Any person whose business is that of engaging in the sale or trade of secondhand property, or whose business is selling new goods, but who buys or sells secondhand articles, goods, wares or merchandise of the same type or class as the new goods, sold. The term does not include: (i) a person selling or trading secondhand property at a "garbage sale/yard sale" as defined in the zoning regulations for the city; (ii) a person or organization selling or trading secondhand property at an exhibit or show which is intended to display a particular commodity or class of products, including, but not limited to, antique exhibitions, firearm exhibitions, home and garden shows, and recreational vehicle shows; excluding, however, precious or semiprecious metals, stones, gold or silver shows; (iii) a person or organization which is charitable, nonprofit, recreational, fraternal, or political in nature or which is exempt from taxation under the Internal Revenue Code of 1954, as amended.
Secondhand property means the following items of tangible personal property sold or traded by secondhand dealer:
(1)
Cameras, camera lenses, slide or movie projector screens, flashguns, enlargers, tripods, binoculars, telescopes, and microscopes;
(2)
Televisions, phonographs, tape recorders, video recorders, compact disc players, radios, tuners, speakers, turntables, amplifiers, record changers, citizens band broadcasting units and receivers, and video games;
(3)
Golf clubs, guns, jewelry, precious or semiprecious metals or stones, coins, luggage, boots, furs, clothing, and rugs;
(4)
Typewriters, adding machines, calculators, computers, portable air conditioners, cash registers, copying machines, dictating machines, automatic telephone answering machines, and sewing machines;
(5)
Bicycles, bicycle frames, bicycle derailleur assemblies, bicycle hand-brake assemblies, and other bicycle components;
(6)
Ranges, stoves, dishwashers, refrigerators, garbage disposals, boats, airplanes, clothes washers, clothes driers, freezers, furniture, as well as any other restaurant and household items or appliances;
(7)
Auto accessories, including, but not limited to, wheels and hub caps, but not including core charges for automobiles parts which are not rebuilt on premises; and
(8)
Any item of tangible personal property which is marked with a serial or identification number.
(Ord. No. 88-10, 6-21-88)
Sec. 15-136. - License required.
It shall be unlawful for any person to be a pawnbroker or secondhand dealer without having first obtained a business license from the city.
(Ord. No. 88-10, 6-21-88)
Sec. 15-137. - Records to be kept; information to be shown; inspection by police.
(a)
Every pawnbroker and secondhand dealer will deliver to the city police department, on a weekly basis, by 6:00 p.m. on Mondays, daily reports on forms provided by the city police department of all tangible property accepted during the previous week, whether such purchases were unconditional or with the privilege of redeeming the property on the part of the seller. Said report shall give the date of the transaction, the full description of all articles, including any trademark, identification number, serial number, model number, brand name or other identifying marks, and the name of the pawner, vendor or person from whom such goods were obtained, and his address.
(b)
Any police officer who exhibits a written order from the chief of police or his designee shall be authorized to inspect all records required to be retained under state law, as well as all goods on the premises. The proprietors of all such establishments shall give all assistance in their power to enable the police to identify stolen goods.
(Ord. No. 88-10, 6-21-88; Ord. No. 89-3, §§ 1, 2, 2-7-89)
Sec. 15-138. - Persons under seventeen years of age.
No pawnbroker or secondhand dealer shall receive any article in pawn, or purchase any article for resale, from any person under seventeen (17) years of age.
(Ord. No. 88-10, 6-21-88)
Sec. 15-139. - Penalties.
Any person violating any of the provisions of this article shall be subject to the maximum punishment as provided in the city charter. In addition, any person violating any of the provisions of this article who holds a city business license shall be subject to a revocation of the license for a violation of any provisions contained herein.
(Ord. No. 88-10, 6-21-88)
Sec. 15-140. - Severability.
If any provisions of this article shall be held invalid, such invalidity shall not affect any of the other provisions which can be given effect without the invalid provision, and, to this end, the provisions of this article are declared to be severable.
(Ord. No. 88-10, 6-21-88)
