APPENDIX A - LAND MANAGEMENT ORDINANCE[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Editor's note— Ord. No. 2017-25, §§ 1, 2(Exh. A), adopted December 19, 2017, repealed and reenacted Appendix A in its entirety to read as herein set out. Formerly, Appendix A, articles I—XXII, pertained to the land development ordinance. See the Code Comparative Table for a complete derivation. For stylistic purposes, headings and catchlines have been made uniform and the same system of capitalization, citation to state statutes, and expression of numbers in text as appears in the Code of Ordinances has been used. Additions made for clarity are indicated by brackets.
Cross reference— Alcoholic beverages, ch. 3; buildings and building regulations, ch. 5; "Transient merchant" defined, § 15-126; planning and development, ch. 21.

ARTICLE 1. - GENERAL PROVISIONS

Sec. 1-1. - Title.
These regulations shall be officially known as the "Land Management Ordinance of the City of Perry," and may be referred to as "LMO," "zoning ordinance," or "this chapter."
(Ord. No. 2017-25, § 2, 12-19-17)
Sec. 1-2. - Authority.
1-2.1. General. The city council is authorized to adopt this chapter pursuant to the enabling authority contained in the Constitution of the State of Georgia and O.C.G.A. (Georgia Code) Title 36.
1-2.2. Reference to Georgia General Statutes. Whenever any provision of this chapter refers to or cites a section of O.C.G.A. and that section is later amended or superseded, this chapter shall be deemed amended to refer to the amended section or the section that most nearly corresponds to the superseded section.
(Ord. No. 2017-25, § 2, 12-19-17)
Sec. 1-3. - Purpose and intent.
The purpose and intent of this chapter is to guide development in accordance with the existing and future needs of the city and to promote the public health, safety, morals, convenience, order, appearance, prosperity, and general welfare of the property owners and residents of the city, and other members of the public. The purpose and intent of this chapter is more specifically to:
(A)
Light, air, open space. Provide for adequate light, air, and open space.
(B)
Prevent overcrowding, congestion. Prevent the overcrowding of land, to avoid undue concentration of population, and to lessen congestion in the streets.
(C)
Safety from fire, flood. Secure safety from fire, flood, and other dangers.
(D)
Promote diverse quality housing, protect neighborhoods. Promote quality housing, preserve neighborhoods, and encourage a diversity of housing options.
(E)
Downtown. Promote the downtown as a center of commerce, government, arts, entertainment, and residential life.
(F)
Commercial development along corridors. Ensure appropriate commercial development patterns along corridors.
(G)
Appropriate urban development and redevelopment. Encourage appropriate urban development and redevelopment.
(H)
Quality new development to blend with existing. Encourage quality development to blend with existing development.
(I)
Eliminate blight. Eliminate slums and blight citywide.
(J)
Create harmonious community. Facilitate the creation of a convenient, attractive, and harmonious community.
(K)
Protect scenic, historic and ecologically sensitive areas. Protect and preserve scenic, historic, or ecologically sensitive areas.
(L)
Open space. Protect and provide for open space.
(M)
Promote connectivity. Promote an inter-connected, walkable community.
(N)
Tree preservation. Provide standards and incentives for tree preservation and protection of existing trees.
(O)
Regulate the use, density, distribution, and character of land. Regulate the density and distribution of populations and the uses of buildings, structures and land for trade, industry, residence, recreation, agriculture, forestry, conservation, airports and approaches thereto, water supply, sanitation, protection against floods, public activities, and other purposes.
(P)
Facilitate adequate provision of public facilities and services. Facilitate the adequate provision or availability of transportation, police and fire protection, water, sewerage, schools, parks and recreation facilities, affordable housing, disaster evacuation, and other facilities and services that the city may provide to enhance the health, safety and welfare of its citizens.
(Ord. No. 2017-25, § 2, 12-19-17)
Sec. 1-4. - Official zoning district map.
1-4.1. Official zoning district map. The official zoning district map designates the location and boundaries of the various zoning districts established in this chapter within the city. The official zoning district map shall be kept on file in the office of the administrator and is available for public inspection during normal business hours.
1-4.2. Incorporated by reference. The official zoning district map and all the notations thereon are hereby incorporated by reference and made part of this chapter.
1-4.3. Zoning district boundaries. Unless otherwise specified, zoning district boundaries are lot lines or the centerline of streets, alleys, railroad rights-of-way, streams and rivers, or such lines extended. Where a zoning district boundary divides a land parcel under a single ownership into two (2) districts, then the entire parcel shall be zoned for the more restrictive use by the adjustment of the boundaries by the administrator, provided that the boundary adjustment is a distance of less than five hundred (500) feet.
1-4.4. Changes to zoning district map. Changes made in zoning district boundaries by the administrator or other matters portrayed on the official zoning district map shall be made in accordance with the provisions of this chapter. Changes shall be entered on the official zoning district map by the administrator promptly after the amendment has been approved by the city council.
1-4.5. Mapping disputes. The administrator shall have the authority to interpret the official zoning district map and determine where the boundaries of the different zoning districts fall, if in dispute.
1-4.6. Downtown development overlay district boundaries. The boundaries of the downtown development district shall be identical to the boundaries of the geographical area as depicted in Exhibit "A" dated November 2020, attached to the ordinance from which this section is derived and incorporated herein by reference, a copy of said exhibit to be attached to and replace the exhibit on the resolution activating the Downtown Development Authority of the City of Perry which resolution was adopted by the mayor and council on the 17th day of November, 1981. Said exhibit is incorporated into said resolution, as may be hereafter amended by reference.
The portion of said property designated as "Proposed Downtown Development District Parcels" on Exhibit "A" shall be considered an overlay district and as such an overlay district shall consist of the zoning, land use and regulatory controls in effect for said property as of December 15, 2020.
(Ord. No. 2017-25, § 2, 12-19-17; Ord No. 2020-35, § 1, 12-15-20)
Sec. 1-5. - Official street classification map.
The official street classification map designates all streets in the city as one of the classifications listed below. The official street map is adopted by city council and shall be kept on file in the office of the administrator and is available for public inspection during normal business hours.
(A)
Freeways are roadways which are used primarily for fast or heavy through traffic; and which are divided with full control of access and with grade separation at intersections.
(B)
Expressways are roadways which are used primarily for fast or heavy traffic; and which are divided with full or partial control of access and generally with.
(C)
Major arterial streets are roadways which are used primarily for fast or heavy through traffic.
(D)
Minor arterial streets are roadways which are used primarily to move traffic from one district of the city to another and which are not designed to serve individual residences.
(E)
Collector streets are roadways which carry traffic from minor streets to the major system of freeways, expressways, and arterial streets.
(F)
Minor residential streets are roadways which are used primarily for access to the abutting residential properties.
(G)
Minor commercial and industrial streets are roadways which are primarily for access to the abutting commercial and industrial properties.
(H)
Alleys are roadways which are used primarily for vehicular service access to the rear or side of properties otherwise abutting on a street.
(Ord. No. 2017-25, § 2, 12-19-17)
Sec. 1-6. - Applicability and jurisdiction.
1-6.1. General. The provisions of this chapter shall apply to all land, all land development, and the use of all structures on all lands and waters within the corporate limits of the city. The provisions of this chapter shall be considered the minimum standards necessary to promote and protect the public health, safety, morals, and general welfare.
1-6.2. Application to governmental units. Except as stated herein, the provisions of this chapter shall apply to all land, all land development, and the use of all structures and land owned or held in tenancy by the city or its agencies or departments; by the state its agencies, departments or political subdivisions; and to the full extent permitted by law, the government of the United States, its agencies, departments or corporate services.
1-6.3. No development until compliance with this chapter.
(A)
General. Except as specifically provided in this chapter, no structure, land or water shall hereafter be used and no structure or part thereof shall hereafter be located, erected, moved, reconstructed, extended, converted (change of use) or structurally altered without full compliance with the provisions of this chapter and all other applicable city, state and federal regulations.
(B)
Effect of permits. Development authorized by a permit shall not be carried out until the applicant has secured all other permits required by this chapter or any other applicable provisions of this chapter and O.C.G.A. Further, the issuance of a permit does not ensure the subsequent approval of other applications for development approval unless the relevant and applicable portions of this chapter and other provisions are met.
1-6.4. Exemptions.
(A)
Acquisition of interest in land by state for public purposes. The provisions of this chapter shall not require formal subdivision of land as a result of actions taken by the state and its political subdivisions to acquire land or interests in land for public rights-of-way and easements.
(B)
Emergency action by city. The city or city agencies or departments may be exempt from the provisions of this chapter when an emergency exists such that it is impossible to submit to the normal procedures and requirements of this chapter and quick and instant action is necessary to secure the public health, safety, or welfare. The city council shall ratify such exemption after the fact at its next regularly scheduled meeting, and shall base its ratification on specified findings of fact related to the emergency involved.
(Ord. No. 2017-25, § 2, 12-19-17)
Sec. 1-7. - Relationship to other codes, ordinances, and laws.
1-7.1. Conflicts with other city codes or laws. If the provisions of this chapter are inconsistent with one another or if the provisions of this chapter conflict with provisions found in other adopted codes or ordinances of the city, the more restrictive provision shall govern unless the terms of the provisions specify otherwise.
1-7.2. Conflicts with private agreements. If the provisions of this chapter conflict with the provisions of private easements, covenants or restrictions, the stricter of the requirements shall apply. The city shall not be responsible for monitoring or enforcing private covenants and restrictions, although the city may inquire as to whether land is subject to covenants and restrictions during the review of development applications.
1-7.3. Conflicts with state or federal law. If the provisions of this chapter are inconsistent with the law or regulations of the state or federal government, the more restrictive provision shall control to the extent permitted by law.
1-7.4. Relationship to comprehensive plan and land use policies. It is the intention of the city council that this chapter implement the planning policies and comprehensive plan adopted pursuant to the provisions of O.C.G.A. tit. 36, ch. 70.
(Ord. No. 2017-25, § 2, 12-19-17)
Sec. 1-8. - Reserved.
Sec. 1-9. - Severability.
It is the legislative intent of the city council in adopting this chapter that all provisions shall be liberally construed to guide development in accordance with the existing and future needs of the city as established in this chapter and to promote the public health, safety, morals, convenience, order, appearance, prosperity, and general welfare of the property owners and residents of the city. If any section, subsection, sentence, clause, or phrase of this chapter is for any reason held by a court of competent jurisdiction to be invalid, such decision shall not affect the validity of the remaining portions of this chapter. The city council hereby declares that it would have passed this chapter and any section, subsection, sentence, clause and phrase, thereof, irrespective of the fact that any one or more sections, subsections, sentences, clauses or phrases be declared invalid.
(Ord. No. 2017-25, § 2, 12-19-17)
Sec. 1-10. - Transitional provisions.
1-10.1. Effective date. The effective date of this chapter is January 1, 2018.
1-10.2. Violations continue. Any violation of the previous Perry Land Development Ordinance shall continue to be a violation under this chapter pursuant to section 1-10 of the City Code and shall be subject to the penalties and enforcement set forth in article 10, enforcement, and section 1-10 of the City Code, unless the use, development, construction, or other activity complies with the express terms of this chapter.
1-10.3. Completion of development plans commenced or approved under previous ordinances.
(A)
Completed applications.
(1)
Any complete application that has been submitted for approval, but upon which no final action has been taken by the appropriate decision-making body or person prior to the effective date of the ordinance from which this chapter is derived, shall be reviewed and considered in accordance with either the provisions of the ordinance in place on the date of submittal or this chapter, at the applicant's option.
(2)
If the applicant elects to have the complete application reviewed under the provisions of the ordinance in place on the date of submittal, the application shall be processed in good faith and shall comply with any time frames for review. If the application fails to comply with the required time frames, it shall expire and future development shall be subject to the requirements of this chapter.
(B)
Preliminary or final approval.
(1)
A development for which approval of a minor subdivision final plat, major subdivision preliminary plat, site plan permit, stormwater permit, planned development district, special exception permit, or variance permit was granted prior to the effective date of the ordinance from which this chapter is derived may be completed in accordance with the approved plat or development approval and any other approved permits and conditions, even if the development does not comply with one or more general development standards set forth in this chapter.
(2)
If the development for which preliminary or final approval was granted prior to the effective date of the ordinance from which this chapter is derived fails to comply with any time frames for development, the preliminary or final approval shall expire and future development shall be subject to the requirements of this chapter, consistent with the provisions of subsection 2-3.11.
(C)
Buildings or developments with previously issued building permits.
(1)
Any building or development for which a building permit was granted prior to the effective date of the ordinance from which this chapter is derived shall be permitted to proceed to construction even if such building or development does not conform to the provisions of this chapter.
(2)
If the development for which the building permit is issued prior to the effective date of the ordinance from which this chapter is derived fails to comply with the time frames for development established for the building permit, the building permit shall expire and future development shall be subject to the requirements of this chapter.
(Ord. No. 2017-25, § 2, 12-19-17)
Sec. 1-11. - Annexations.
1-11.1. Annexed property to be zoned. All land to be annexed into the corporate limits of the City of Perry shall be zoned in accordance with the procedures set forth in O.C.G.A. § 36-66-4(d).
1-11.2. Annexation required.
(A)
The entirety of a development shall be located within the corporate limits of the City of Perry prior to any permits being issued and/or any land disturbing activities. The entirety of the development shall include those areas with stormwater facilities and/or utilities designed specifically to serve the development and which will be privately maintained. The property required to be in the city shall be subdivided from the remainder of property remaining outside the corporate limits of the City of Perry.
(B)
Any development utilizing a City of Perry utility, prior to connection of said utility, shall be annexed into the corporate limits of the City of Perry unless granted a waiver by city council.
(Ord. No. 2017-25, § 2, 12-19-17)
Sec. 1-12. - Rules of interpretation.
The following rules shall apply for construing or interpreting the terms and provisions of this chapter:
1-12.1. Meanings and intent. All provisions, terms, phrases, and expressions contained in this chapter shall be construed according to the general purposes set forth in section 1-1.3 and the specific purpose statements set forth throughout this chapter. When a specific section of this chapter gives a different meaning than the general definition provided in this article, the specific section's meaning and application of the term shall control.
1-12.2. Headings, illustrations, and text. In the event of a conflict or inconsistency between the text of this chapter and any heading, caption, figure, illustration, table, or map, the text shall control.
1-12.3. Lists and examples. Unless otherwise specifically indicated, lists of items or examples that use terms such as "for example," "including," and "such as," or similar language, are intended to provide examples and are not exhaustive lists of all possibilities.
1-12.4. Computation of time. The time in which an act is to be done shall be computed by excluding the first day and including the last day. If a deadline or required date of action falls on a Saturday, Sunday, or holiday observed by the city, the deadline or required date of action shall be the next day that is not a Saturday, Sunday or holiday observed by the city. References to days are calendar days unless otherwise stated.
1-12.5. References to other regulations/publications. Whenever reference is made to a resolution, ordinance, statute, regulation, or document, it shall be construed as a reference to the most recent edition of such regulation, resolution, ordinance, statute, regulation, or document, unless otherwise specifically stated.
1-12.6. Delegation of authority. Any act authorized by this chapter to be carried out by the administrator may be carried out by a designee of the administrator.
1-12.7. Technical and nontechnical terms. Words and phrases shall be construed according to the common and approved usage of the language, but technical words and phrases that may have acquired a peculiar and appropriate meaning in law shall be construed and understood according to such meaning.
1-12.8. Public officials and agencies. All public officials, bodies, and agencies to which references are made are those of the city, unless otherwise indicated.
1-12.9. Mandatory and discretionary terms. The words "shall," "must," and "will" are mandatory in nature, establishing an obligation or duty to comply with the particular provision. The words "may" and "should" are permissive in nature.
1-12.10. Conjunctions. Unless the context clearly suggests the contrary, conjunctions shall be interpreted as follows:
(A)
The term "and" indicates that all connected items, conditions, provisions or events apply; and
(B)
The term "or" indicates that one or more of the connected items, conditions, provisions or events apply.
1-12.11. Tenses, plurals, and gender. Words used in the present tense include the future tense. Words used in the singular number include the plural number and the plural number includes the singular number, unless the context of the particular usage clearly indicates otherwise. Words used in the masculine gender include the feminine gender, and vice versa.
(Ord. No. 2017-25, § 2, 12-19-17)
Sec. 1-13. - Definitions.
modified
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning. Additional definitions of words, terms, and phrases may be included in specific sections of this chapter when the words, terms and phrases are specific to the content of such sections.
Agriculture means the cultivation or growth of a field or horticultural crop, including dairying, livestock and poultry-raising, bees and apiary products, aquiculture, forestry and other similar enterprises or uses. The process of producing food, feed, fiber, fuel and other goods by the systematic raising of plants and animals. This does not include the commercial slaughter of poultry, livestock, or other animals. Hobby beekeeping, home gardens and fruit trees, and animals in residential districts as described in subsections 4-4.3(L) and (M) and/or for the use of the homeowner and not for sale are specifically excluded from this definition.
Abut means to share a common boundary, or to be contiguous, with an adjoining parcel of land.
Accessory structure means a detached subordinate structure, the use of which is incidental to, and customarily associated with, the principal structure and located on the same lot as the principal structure.
Accessory use means a use of land or building (or a portion thereof) that is subordinate to, and customarily associated with, the principal use.
Addition means a new structure on a site with an existing structure, or a new component to an existing structure, which causes an extension or increase in floor area or height of a building or structure.
Adjacent. See Abut.
Administrative manual means the manual approved by the city manager outlining the procedures and criteria by which designers and the administrator design and evaluate utilities, streets, storm drainage and other improvements required by this chapter.
Administrator means the person or persons designated by the city manager to interpret, implement, and enforce all or portions of this chapter.
Airport means the Perry-Houston County Airport in Perry, Georgia, located northwest of the city in a quadrant formed by Walton Road on the west, Airport Road on the south, Todd Road on the east, and Buckeye Road on the north.
Airport elevation means the highest point of an airport's useable landing area, measured in feet from mean sea level.
Airport hazard means any structure or object of natural growth located on or in the vicinity of a public airport, or any use of land near such airport, which obstructs the airspace required for the flight of aircraft in landing or takeoff at such airport or is otherwise hazardous to such landing or takeoff of aircraft.
Airport landing area means the area of an airport used for landing, taking off or taxiing the aircraft.
Airport/landing strip means any area of land or water designed and set aside for the landing and takeoff of aircraft, including all necessary facilities for the housing and maintenance of aircraft. This use type is regulated under the "transportation terminals" use category in article 4, use regulations.
Alley means a low volume secondary route providing rear or side access to properties otherwise abutting a street.
Alteration means any horizontal or vertical enlargement of a building or structure or a change to the exterior architectural features of a structure.
Appeal means a request for review of an administrative official's or decision-making body's interpretation or decision made under this chapter.
Applicant means the landowner of record or a person, business or organization having rights in contract in a subject property or their designated representative.
Artisan production establishment means the use of land, confined within an enclosed building, engaged in the design and production by carving, painting, casting, or assembling of component parts of finished products which are:
(A)
Customarily used in residences, offices, restaurants, or retail establishments;
(B)
Intended to have an aesthetic and artistic appeal in addition to a functional use; and
(C)
Produced either one-at-a-time or in small lots. The use may include a show room and retail sales of the products.
The use does not emit vibrations, noises, odors, or dangerous gases.
Automobile parts store means the use of any land area for the display and sale of new or used parts for automobiles, panel trucks or vans, trailers, or recreation vehicles. This use type is regulated under the "retail sales and service" use category in article 4, use regulations.
Automobile rental and sales means premises on which new or used passenger automobiles, trailers, or trucks in operating condition are displayed for sale, lease, or rental. This use type is regulated under the "vehicle sales and service" use category in article 4, use regulations.
Automobile repair means general repair, rebuilding, or reconditioning of engines, motor vehicles, or trailers, including body and fender work, framework, welding, and painting service. This use type is regulated under the "vehicle sales and service" use category in article 4, use regulations.
Automobile service station means any area of land including structures thereon, used for the retail sale of gasoline or oil, automobile accessories, and incidental services including facilities for lubricating, hand cleaning and washing, or otherwise servicing automobiles, but excluding painting, major repair, or automatic washing.
Automobile servicing means the replacement of any part or repair of any part that does not require removal of the engine head or pan, engine transmission, or differential; and oil change and lubrication. This use type is regulated under the "vehicle sales and service" use category in article 4, use regulations.
Automobile tire store means the use of any land area for the display, sale, and installation of new or used tires for automobiles, trailers, or trucks.
Automobile wash and detailing means the use of a site for washing, cleaning, and detailing of passenger vehicles, recreational vehicles, or other light-duty equipment. This use type is regulated under the "vehicle sales and service" use category in article 4, use regulations.
Bank or financial institution means an establishment that provides retail banking services, mortgage lending, or similar financial services to individuals and businesses. This classification includes automated teller machines (ATMs) but does not include check-cashing facilities and bail bond brokers. This use type is regulated under the "retail sales and service" use category in article 4, use regulations.
Bar means an establishment having as its principal use the serving of beer, wine, or liquor for consumption on the premises. Sandwiches, light meals, snacks, and/or full service meals are available for consumption on the premises but are not the principal use of the establishment. This use type is regulated under the "retail sales and service" use category in article 4, use regulations.
Basement means a story having not less than one-half (½) its height below grade. A basement is counted as a story for the purpose of height regulation if subdivided and used for business or dwelling purposes.
Berm means an earthen mound formed to shield undesirable views, decrease noise, or add topographical interest.
Block means a parcel or group of parcels of land entirely surrounded by public or private streets or alleys.
Boardinghouse means a building other than a use classified as "visitor accommodations" where, for compensation and by prearrangement for definite periods, lodging or lodging and meals are provided for three (3) but not more than twenty (20) persons. This use type is regulated under the "group living" use category in article 4, use regulations.
Brewery means an establishment that manufactures beer and malt beverages. This use type is regulated under the "manufacturing and production" use category in article 4, use regulations.
Brewpub means any eating establishment in which malt beverages are manufactured, as further defined in section 3-1 of this Code. This use type is regulated under the "eating establishments" use category in article 4, use regulations.
Buffer means open spaces, landscaped areas, fences, walls, berms, or any combination thereof used to physically separate or screen one use or property from another.
Buffer yard means the designated area used to soften the impact of dissimilar land uses and provide screening to satisfy the requirements of this chapter.
Building means any structure having a roof supported by columns or walls and which is designed for shelter, storage, or enclosure of persons, animals, or property of any kind.
Building, height of means the vertical distance measured from the average elevation of the proposed finished grade at the front of the height level between the eaves and ridge for gable, hip, and gambrel roofs and to the deck line of a mansard roof.
Building setback line means a line establishing the minimum allowable distance between the nearest portion of any building and the property line when measured parallel thereto.
Business school means a specialized instructional establishment that provides on-site training of business, commercial, or trade skills, such as accounting, cosmetology, culinary arts, data processing, and computer repair. Activities associated with business schools are conducted wholly within a building and do not include on-site outdoor activities or storage. Incidental instructional services in conjunction with another primary use shall not be considered a business school. This use type is regulated under the "educational facilities" use category in article 4, use regulations.
Caretaker's residence means an accessory use which, due to the nature and operating characteristics of the principal use, may be authorized for residential occupancy to provide security and safekeeping of the principal use.
Carport, private means an accessory building used as shelter for an automobile vehicle with at least two (2) open sides, usually formed by a roof projecting from the side of a building, or supported by posts. A porte cochere would be considered as a private carport.
Cemetery, columbarium, mausoleum means a place used for the internment of human or animal remains or cremated remains, including a cemetery for earth internments, a columbarium for cinerary internments, a mausoleum for vault internments, or a combination thereof. This use type is regulated under the "parks and open areas" use category in article 4, use regulations.
Certificate of appropriateness means a document issued by the administrator, following a prescribed review procedure, certifying that the proposed actions by the applicant are found to be acceptable in terms of design criteria relating to the individual property and the applicable overlay district.
City means the City of Perry, Georgia.
Civic club means a membership organization that holds regular meetings and that may, subject to other regulations controlling such uses, maintain dining facilities, serve alcohol, or engage professional entertainment for the enjoyment of dues paying members and their guests. There are no sleeping facilities and they are also called a "lodge." This definition shall not include fraternities or sororities. This use type is regulated under the "retail sales and service" use category in article 4, use regulations.
Clinic means an establishment where patients, who are not lodged overnight, are admitted for examination and treatment.
Club means building and facilities owned or operated by a corporation, association, person or persons for social, educational or recreational purposes, but not primarily for profit or to render a service to the general public.
College or university means an institution other than a business/vocational school that provides full-time or part-time education beyond high school. This use type is regulated under the "educational facilities" use category in article 4, use regulations.
Columbarium. See Cemetery, columbarium, mausoleum.
Commercial vehicle means any propelled or nonpropelled vehicle designed or used for commercial purposes.
Commission means the Perry Planning Commission.
Communication tower, freestanding means a structure erected on the ground and used primarily for the support of broadcast and/or receiving equipment and utilized by commercial, governmental, or other public or quasi-public users. A communication tower includes structures supporting equipment used in the provision of personal wireless services, but does not include private home use of satellite dishes and television antennas or amateur radio operators as licensed by the Federal Communications Commission. This use type is regulated under the "utilities" use category in article 4, use regulations.
Communication tower, roof-mounted means a structure placed on a building used primarily for the support of broadcast and/or receiving equipment and utilized by commercial, governmental, or other public or quasi-public users. A communication tower includes structures supporting equipment used in the provision of personal wireless services, but does not include private home use of satellite dishes and television antennas or amateur radio operators as licensed by the Federal Communications Commission. This use type is regulated under the "utilities" use category in article 4, use regulations.
Community center means a building to be used as a place of meeting, recreation, or social activity and not operated for profit and in that neither alcoholic beverages nor meals are normally dispensed or consumed. This use type is regulated under the "community service" use category in article 4, use regulations.
Community garden means a private or public facility for cultivation of fruits, flowers, vegetables, or ornamental plants by more than one person or family. This use type is regulated under the "parks and open areas" use category in article 4, use regulations.
Comprehensive plan means the plan, developed by the planning commission and adopted by the city council intended to guide the physical development of the city, including any unit or part of such plan separately adopted and any amendment to such plan or parts thereof.
Condominium means a form of individual ownership of a unit, combined with joint ownership of common areas of the building and grounds in a development. ("Georgia Condominium Act," O.C.G.A. § 85-16E).
Construction means any preparation, building, or erection of a structure.
Contractor's materials means wholesaling, retailing, or rental of building supplies or equipment. This use type includes lumberyards, tool and equipment sales or rental establishments, and building contractor's yards. This use type is regulated under the "wholesale sales" use category in article 4, use regulations.
Contractor's office with on-site storage means a room or group of rooms used for conducting the affairs of business for a builder, contractor, subcontractor, or similar, that includes storage facilities on the premises. This use type is regulated under the "industrial services" use category in article 4, use regulations.
Convenience store means a general retail store that sells goods and services and that may include the sale of ready-to-eat food products (not intended for on-premises consumption), gasoline, groceries, and sundries. This use type is regulated under the "retail sales and service" use category in article 4, use regulations.
Convention center means a facility designed and used to accommodate three hundred (300) or more persons for conventions, conferences, seminars, product displays, recreation activities, entertainment functions, and similar activities. Accessory functions include temporary outdoor displays and food/beverage preparation and service for on-premises consumption.
Conventional construction means a building constructed on the building site from basic materials delivered to the site. A conventional building is subject to local codes and ordinances.
Council means the mayor and council for the City of Perry, Georgia.
County means Houston County, Georgia or Peach County, Georgia, as appropriate.
Critical root zone means the minimum area beneath a tree that must be left undisturbed in order to preserve a sufficient root mass to give a tree a reasonable chance of survival. The critical root zone is typically represented by a concentric circle centering on the tree trunk with a radius equal in feet to one times the number of inches of the trunk diameter: (CRZ in ft = 1 x diameter inches).
Cul-de-sac means a local street having one end open to traffic and being permanently terminated by a vehicular turnaround.
Curb lawn means the vegetated portion of a street section between the outside edge of the curb and the inside edge of the sidewalk.
Custodial care means assistance with day-to-day living tasks such as assistance with cooking, taking medications, bathing, using toilet facilities and other tasks of daily living. Custodial care includes persons receiving care who evacuate at a slower rate and/or who have mental or psychiatric complications.
Cut means a portion of land surface or area from which earth has been removed or will be removed by excavation; the depth below original ground surface to excavated surface. Also known as "excavation."
Day-care center means any place operated by a person, society, agency, corporation, or institution, or any other group wherein are received for pay seven (7) or more children under seventeen (17) years of age for group care, without transfer of custody, for more than four (4) hours and less than twenty-four (24) hours per day.
Day-care home means any place operated by any person who received for pay three (3) to six (6) children under seventeen (17) years of age for group care, without transfer of custody, for more than four (4) hours and less than twenty-four (24) hours per day.
Demolition means the razing of any structure, in whole or in part, including its ruin by neglect of maintenance or repairs.
Department means the Department of Natural Resources.
Department of transportation means the Georgia Department of Transportation.
Department or discount store means a business that is conducted under a single owner's name in which a variety of unrelated merchandise and services are housed, enclosed, exhibited, and sold directly to the consumer. This use type is regulated under the "retail sales and services" use category in article 4, use regulations.
Design and specification manual means the manual approved by the planning commission outlining the procedures and criteria by which designers and the administrator design and evaluate utilities, streets, storm drainage and other improvements required by this chapter.
Designer means a person permitted to prepare plans and studies required by this chapter.
Detention center means a facility for the judicially required detention or incarceration of people, where inmates and detainees are under 24-hour supervision by sworn officers, except when on an approved leave. Provided that the use otherwise complies with this definition, a detention center may include, by way of illustration, a prison, jail, probation center, or juvenile detention home. Detention centers do not qualify as group living facilities. This use type is regulated under the "government facilities" use category in article 4, use regulations.
Developable land area means that portion of a lot which does not consist of hydric soils (as identified by the Hydric Soil Map Unit List for Houston and Peach Counties developed by the Soil Conservation Service), slopes in excess of twenty-five (25) percent, areas reserved for storm water retention or detention, or special flood hazard areas (as identified by the National Flood Insurance Program).
Developer means any person who acts on his own behalf, or as an owner or as an agent for an owner of property, and who makes application for the permit necessary to disturb land or vegetation.
Development means any manmade change to improved or unimproved real estate, including, but not limited to, subdivision of land; construction or alteration of structures, roads, utilities, and other facilities; installation of septic systems; mining, dredging, grading, paving, excavation or drilling operations; deposit of refuse, debris, or fill materials; and, clearing of natural vegetative cover.
Diameter at breast height (DBH) means the diameter of a tree measured to the outside bark four and one-half (4.5) feet above the ground on the uphill side of the tree.
Director means the director of the Environmental Protection Division.
Distillery means an establishment where alcoholic beverages are produced by the distillation. This use type is regulated under the "manufacturing and production" use category in article 4, use regulations.
District means one of any number of continuous and contiguous geographic areas within which the provisions and regulations of this chapter apply uniformly to each class or kind of structure or land.
Dormer means a roof-mounted structural element with a gable roof and a window at its outer end that projects from a sloping roof of a building.
Dormitory means a building intended or used principally for sleeping accommodations where such building is related to an educational or public institution, including religious institutions. This use type is regulated under the "group living" use category in article 4, use regulations.
Drainage is a general term applied to the removal of surface or subsurface water from a given area either by gravity, natural means, or by systems constructed to remove water.
Dwelling, multiple-family means a residential building containing three (3) or more dwelling units located on a single lot. This use type is regulated under the "household living" use category in article 4, use regulations.
Dwelling, single-family means a building used exclusively as a place of residence for one family. This use type is regulated under the "household living" use category in article 4, use regulations.
Dwelling, single-family attached (townhouse) means a group of three (3) or more attached dwelling units each located on a separate lot in which each unit extends from foundation to roof and with a yard or public way on not less than two (2) sides. This use type is regulated under the "household living" use category in article 4, use regulations.
Dwelling, single-family detached means a residential building containing not more than one dwelling unit and not physically attached to any other principal structure, specifically excluding manufactured homes. This use type is regulated under the "household living" use category in article 4, use regulations.
Dwelling, two-family (duplex) means a residential building containing two (2) dwelling units located on a single lot. This use type is regulated under the "household living" use category in article 4, use regulations.
Dwelling unit means a building or portion of a building designed and used as independent living facilities for a single household and that includes permanent provisions for living, sleeping, cooking, eating, and sanitation.
Dwelling, upper story means a dwelling unit located on the second floor or higher of a building and usually located above a ground floor commercial use. This use type is regulated under the "household living" use category in article 4, use regulations.
Easement means a grant or reservation of one or more property rights by the owner of land for the use of such land by others.
Elevated building means a building without a basement built to have its lowest floor elevated above the ground level by means of fill, solid foundation perimeter walls, pilings, columns (posts or piers), shear walls, or breakaway walls.
Emergency response facility means a building or portion of a building used for police, fire, and/or medical equipment and personnel. This use type is regulated under the "government facilities" use category in article 4, use regulations.
Employee, as used in the context of a sexually oriented business, means a person who works for or performs in and/or for a sexually oriented business, regardless of whether or not the person is paid a salary, wage, or other compensation by the operator of the business.
Erosion means the process by which land surface is worn away by the action of wind, water, ice or gravity.
Establishment means, as used in the context of a sexually oriented business, any of the following:
(A)
The opening or commencement of any such business as a new business;
(B)
The conversion of an existing business, whether or not a sexually oriented business, to any of the sexually oriented businesses defined in this article;
(C)
The addition of any of the sexually oriented businesses to any other existing sexually oriented business; or
(D)
The relocation of any such sexually oriented business.
Event venue means a facility designed and used to accommodate fewer than three hundred (300) persons for conventions, conferences, seminars, product displays, recreation activities, entertainment functions, and similar activities. Accessory functions include temporary outdoor displays and food/beverage preparation and service for on-premises consumption.
Existing grade means the vertical location of the existing ground surface prior to cutting or filling.
Fall-out shelter means a structure or portion of a structure intended to provide protection to human life during periods of danger to human life from nuclear fall-out, air raids, storms or other emergencies.
Family means a person living alone, or a group of people, including domestic employees, living together as a single nonprofit housekeeping unit and sharing common living, sleeping, cooking, eating and sanitary facilities as distinguished from a group occupying a boardinghouse or other group living facility or visitor accommodations.
Farm winery means a winery which makes at least forty (40) percent of its annual production from agricultural produce grown in the state and:
(1)
Is located on premises, a substantial portion of which is used for agricultural purposes, including the cultivation of grapes, berries, or fruits to be utilized in the manufacture or production of wine by the winery; or
(2)
Is owned and operated by persons who are engaged in the production of a substantial portion of the agricultural produce used in its annual production.
Fee, generally, means the monetary amount charged by the city for processing and review of an application for development under this chapter.
Fence means an enclosure or barrier, composed of wood, masonry, stone, wire, iron or other materials approved by the department used as a boundary, means of protection, privacy screening, or confinement, including brick or concrete walls but not including hedges, shrubs, trees or other natural growth.
Fence, privacy means a fence that is impermeable to light and views through when viewed perpendicular to the plane of the fence.
Filling means the placement of any soil or other solid material either organic or inorganic on a natural ground surface or an excavation.
Fire apparatus access road means a road that provides fire apparatus access from a fire station to a facility, building or portion thereof. This is a general term inclusive of all other terms such as fire lane, public street, private street, parking lot lane and access roadway.
Flood means a general and temporary condition of partial or complete inundation of normally dry land areas from the unusual and rapid accumulation of runoff or surface waters from any source.
Flood hazard boundary map (FHBM) means an official map of a community on which the Federal Emergency Management Agency has delineated the boundaries of the special flood hazard areas.
Flood insurance rate map (FIRM) means an official map of a community on which the Federal Emergency Management Agency has delineated both the special flood hazard areas and the risk premium zones applicable to the community.
Flood insurance study means the official report provided by the Federal Emergency Management Agency. The report contains flood profiles, as well as the flood hazard boundary-floodway map and the water surface elevation of the base flood.
Flood light means any light fixture or lamp that incorporates a reflector or a refractor to concentrate the light output into a directed beam in a particular direction.
Floodway means the channel of a river or other watercourse and the adjacent land areas that must be reserved in order to discharge the base flood without cumulatively increasing the water surface elevation more than one foot during the 100-year flood.
Floodway fringe means the area between the floodway and the boundary of the 100-year flood.
Footcandle (FC) means a quantitative unit measuring the amount of light cast onto a given point, measured as one lumen per square foot.
Footprint means the area of land surface on the site that will be covered by the planned building. It shall equal the outside dimensions of the structures depicted on the plans used by the builder or contractor.
Fortune telling means a use involving the foretelling of the future in exchange for financial or other valuable consideration. Fortune telling shall be limited to uses where the fortune is told through astrology, augury, card or tea reading, cartomancy, clairvoyance, clairaudience, crystal gazing, divination, magic medium ship, necromancy, palmistry, psychometry, phrenology, prophecy, spiritual reading or any similar means. Fortune telling does not include forecasting based on historical trends or patterns, religious dogma, or any of the previously listed arts when presented in an assembly of people who purchase tickets or means in exchange for the presentation at a site licensed for such purpose.
Frontage means the distance between the side lot lines measured at the street right-of-way.
Full cutoff fixture means an outdoor light fixture shielded or constructed in such a manner that it emits no light above the horizontal plane of the fixture.
GDOT means the Georgia Department of Transportation.
Golf course means a large unobstructed acreage with at least nine (9) holes for playing a game of golf which is available for public use and may be improved with tees, greens, fairways, and hazards. This use type is regulated under the "parks and open areas" use category in article 4, use regulations.
Grade means a reference plane representing the average of finished ground level adjoining the building at all exterior walls. When the finished ground level slopes away from the exterior walls, the reference plane shall be established by the lowest points within the area between the building and the lot lines or between the building and a point six (6) feet from the building, whichever is closer to the building.
Grading means altering surfaces to specified elevations, dimensions, and/or slopes; includes stripping, cutting, filling, stockpiling, and shaping, or any combination thereof.
Grocery store means a retail establishment that primarily sells food, but may also sell other convenience and household goods. This use type is regulated under the "retail sales and service" use category in article 19-4, use regulations.
Gross floor area means the total horizontal area of all floors of a building, including interior balconies and mezzanines, measured from the interior faces of the exterior walls of a building.
Garage, parking means a building or portion thereof designed or used for storage of motor driven vehicles, and at which motor fuels and oils may be sold, and in connection with may be performed general automotive servicing as distinguished from automotive repair.
Garage, private means an accessory building or a portion of a main building used for the parking or storage of automobiles of the occupants of the main building.
Garage, repair means a building or portion thereof, other than a private or parking garage, designed or used for the storage, servicing, repairing, equipping or hiring of motor driven vehicles.
Health club or spa means a building or portion of a building designed and equipped for the conduct of sports, exercise, leisure time activities, or other customary and usual recreational activities. It may be operated for profit or not-for-profit and may be open only to bona fide members and guests of the organization or open to the public for a fee. This use type is regulated under the "retail sales and services" use category in article 4, use regulations.
Heavy equipment sales or rental means the display, sales, or rental of products and services outside of a building or structure, including, but not limited to, farm and construction equipment. This use type is regulated under the "industrial services" use category in article 4, use regulations.
Heavy manufacturing. See Manufacturing, heavy.
Height of building means the vertical distance from the grade to either the highest point of the coping of a flat roof; the deck line of a mansard roof; or the midpoint of the roof between the ridge line and the eave line.
Heliport means an area used or intended to be used for the landing and takeoff of helicopters, including operations facilities such as maintenance, loading and unloading, storage, fueling, or terminal facilities. This use type is regulated under the "transportation terminals" use category in article 4, use regulations.
Heritage tree means any tree having a DBH of twenty (20) inches or more that is located on either public or private property and within a required setback, and any understory or ornamental tree having a DBH of ten (10) inches or more in diameter that is located on either public or private property and within a required setback.
Historic tree means any tree having a DBH of thirty (30) inches or more that is located on either public or private property and within a required setback, and any understory or ornamental tree having a DBH of twenty (20) inches or more in diameter that is located on either public or private property and within a required setback.
Home occupation means an occupation, profession, or trade customarily and commonly carried out by an occupant in a dwelling unit as an accessory use which is clearly incidental and subordinate to the principal residential use.
Homeowners' association means a private nonprofit association which is organized by the developer or land owners of a residential development in which individual owners share common interests in open space and/or facilities and are responsible for preserving, managing, and maintaining the common property and enforcing certain covenants and restrictions.
Hospital means an establishment providing physical or mental health services with overnight accommodations for the sick and injured, including as an integral part of the establishment-related facilities such as laboratories, outpatient facilities, training facilities, and medical offices. This use type is regulated under the "health care facilities" use category in article 4, use regulations.
Hotel or motel means a building or group of buildings containing individual sleeping or living units designed for temporary occupancy of persons who, for compensation, are lodged with or without meals. This use type is regulated under the "visitor accommodations" use category in article 4, use regulations.
Household means a family living together in a single dwelling unit with common access to and common use of all living and eating areas and facilities for the preparation and serving of food within the dwelling unit.
IESNA means the Illuminating Engineering Society of North America, a nonprofit professional organization of lighting specialists that has established recommended design standards for various lighting applications.
Impervious surface means a natural or manmade substance covering a lot or site that is not porous and does not accept rain or surface water.
Indoor entertainment facility means an establishment having as its principal or predominant use the offering of participatory or spectator entertainment and which may sell alcohol for consumption on the premises. Sandwiches, light meals, snacks, and/or full service meals are available for consumption on the premises but are not the principal or predominant use of the establishment. Examples include, without limitation, cinemas, theaters, arcades, coliseums, and bowling alleys. This use type is regulated under the "retail sales and service" use category in article 4, use regulations.
Industrialized building (also modular building unit) means a building or building component manufactured in accordance with the Georgia Industrialized Building Act and the Rules of the Commissioner of Community Affairs issued pursuant thereto.
Internal refractive lens means a glass or plastic lens installed between the lamp and the sections of the outer fixture globe or enclosure. Refractive refers to the redirection (bending) of the light as it goes through the lens, softening and spreading the light being distributed from the light source thereby reducing direct glare.
Irrigation system means a device or combination of devices having a hose, pipe, or other conduit installed in the landscape which transmits city water, through which device or combination of devices city water or a mixture of city water and chemicals is drawn and applied to residential or commercial lawns, landscapes or greenspace.
Junk and salvage yard means any use involving storage and/or sale of disused, dismantled, or wrecked vehicles, equipment or machinery or the storage or processing of scrap metal, wastepaper, rags, wastes, construction wastes, industrial wastes or other scrap, salvage, waste or junk materials. This use type is regulated under the "waste-related services" use category in article 4, use regulations.
Kennel means a facility where four (4) or more dogs, cats, or other animals over three (3) months of age are kept, raised, sold, boarded, bred, shown, treated, or groomed. Such facilities may be entirely indoors or may have both indoor and outdoor components. This use type is regulated under the "retail sales and service" use category in article 4, use regulations.
Lamp means the component of a luminaire that produces the light.
Land means any ground, soil or earth, including marshes, swamps, drainageways and areas not permanently covered by water within the city.
Land-disturbing activity means any activity involving the clearing, cutting, excavating, filling, or grading of land or any other activity that alters land topography or vegetative cover.
Landing strip. See Airport/landing strip.
Landscape nursery means the growing, storage, and sale of garden plants, shrubs, trees, or vines for resale, including incidental retail sales conducted from within a building not exceeding twenty (20) percent of the combined wholesale and retail sales volume during any year. This use type is regulated under the "retail sales and service" use category in article 4, use regulations.
Landscape plan means a site plan depicting planned locations of trees, shrubs, lawns, and other landscaping that will be established on the site.
Landscaping means that aspect of property which is used to support the growth and maintenance of vegetation, whether of woody or herbaceous species, and which can include any variety of natural or artificially propagated species of plants. Such aspect shall not be unkempt or abandoned property that is predominantly covered with noxious weeds, but may contain fences, walls, or berms.
Laundromat means a business that provides home type washing, drying and/or ironing machines for hire.
Laundry and dry cleaning, pick up means a business that provides only for the convenience of taking and picking up of laundry, such as establishments not having any equipment for processing of the laundry.
Library means a public facility for the use, but not sale, of literary, musical, artistic, or reference materials. This use type is regulated under the "community service" use category in article 19-4, use regulations.
Light manufacturing. See Manufacturing, light.
Light source means the element of a lighting fixture that is the point of origin of the lumens emitted by the fixture.
Light trespass means effects of light that stray from the intended purpose and becomes an annoyance, a nuisance, or a determent to visual performance. As such, light trespass should always be considered negative, unlike spill light, which can have positive or negative attributes. Light trespass is the encroachment of light causing annoyance, loss of privacy, or other nuisance.
Liquor store means a place of business licensed by the state alcoholic beverage commission exclusively for the retail sale of alcoholic beverages, excluding beer and wine, in original packages for consumption off the premises where sold. This use type is regulated under the "retail sales and service" use category in article 4, use regulations.
Loading space means a space within the main building or on the same lot, providing for the standing, loading or unloading of trucks, and other carriers.
Lot means a parcel of land defined by plat or by metes and bounds description that has been legally recorded in the office of the county register of means conveyance. The term "lot" includes the term "plot."
Lot, corner means a lot located at the intersection of two (2) or more streets. A lot abutting on a curved street or streets shall be considered a corner lot if straight lines drawn from the foremost point of the side lot lines to the foremost points of the lot (or an extension of the lot where it has been rounded by a street radius) meet an interior angle of less than one hundred thirty-five (135) degrees.
Lot, double frontage means a lot that extends through a block having frontage on two (2) streets that do not intersect at the boundary of the lot. A corner lot shall be considered having double frontage if it has access on three (3) or more sides.
Lot flag means a lot in which the bulk of, or buildable portion of the lot does not front on a public right-of-way but includes access with minimal frontage on a public right-of-way via only a narrow strip of land. A flag lot generally has the shape of an outstretched flag at the top of a flagpole in which the "flag" is the buildable portion of the lot, and the "pole" provides access to a public street.
Lot, interior means a lot other than a corner lot.
Lot of record means a lot that exists as shown or described on a recorded plat or deed in the records of the clerk of the superior court of Houston County.
Lot remnant means lots below minimum area and width left over after subdividing tracts of land.
Lot width means the distance between the side lot lines at the front setback line as measured along a line parallel to the front lot line or parallel to the chord thereof.
Lowest finished floor means the lowest finished floor of the lowest enclosed area, including basement. An unfinished or flood-resistant enclosure usable solely for parking of vehicles, building access, or storage located in an area other than a basement is not considered a building's lowest floor provided that such enclosure is not built to render the structure in violation of the applicable non-elevation design requirements of this section.
Lumen means a unit of luminous flux.
Luminaire means a complete lighting system, including a lamp and a fixture.
Maintenance, storage, and distribution facility means a use conducted by the city or another governmental entity to provide for the operation and maintenance of public facilities and infrastructure. This use type is regulated under the "government facilities" use category in article 4, use regulations.
Manufactured home means a structure that is transportable in one or more sections built on a permanent chassis and designed to be used with or without a permanent foundation when attached to the required utilities, and constructed to the Federal Mobile Home Construction and Safety Standards and rules and regulations promulgated by the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development. This use type is regulated under the "household living" use category in article 4, use regulations.
Manufactured home park or subdivision means a parcel or contiguous parcels of land divided into two (2) or more manufactured home lots for rent or sale. Sales or storage lots for unoccupied manufactured homes are not considered to be manufactured home parks. This use type is regulated under the "household living" use category in article 4, use regulations.
Manufacturing, heavy means a use engaged in the in the mechanical or chemical transformation of materials or substances into new products, including the assemblage of component parts, the creation of products, and the blending of materials. Heavy manufacturing includes those uses that produce noise, odor, vibration, dust, or hazard discernible beyond the property. Examples include, but are not limited to, refining or initial processing of raw materials, rolling, drawing, or extruding of metals; and log decking, storage, and ponding. This use type is regulated under the "manufacturing and production" use category in article 4, use regulations.
Manufacturing, light means manufacturing uses that do not produce odor, vibration, dust, or hazard discernible beyond the property. Examples include, but are not limited to, assembly of pre-fabricated parts, manufacture of electric, electronic, or optical instruments or devices; manufacture and assembly of artificial limbs, dentures, hearing aids, and surgical instruments; manufacture, processing, and packing of food products, cosmetics, and manufacturing of components, jewelry, clothing, trimming decorations, and any similar item. This use type is regulated under the "manufacturing and production" use category in article 4, use regulations.
Mausoleum. See Cemetery, columbarium, mausoleum.
Mean sea level means the average height of the sea for all stages of the tide.
Medical facility means a facility providing medical, psychiatric, or surgical service for sick or injured persons exclusively on an outpatient basis, including emergency treatment, diagnostic services, training, administration, and services to outpatients, employees, and visitors. This use type is regulated under the "health care facilities" use category in article 4, use regulations.
Modular building unit. See Industrialized building.
Mortuary means an establishment engaged in undertaking services such as preparing the dead for burial or cremation and arranging and managing funerals. This use type is regulated under the "retail sales and service" use category in article 4, use regulations.
Motel. See Hotel or motel.
Mulch means a protective covering, such as pine straw, shredded bark, or other materials, spread evenly around trees, shrubs and ground covers to reduce evaporation, maintain even root temperatures, prevent erosion, and control weeds.
Multiple-family dwelling. See Dwelling, multiple-family.
Multiple-family dwelling (high-rise). See Dwelling, multiple-family (high-rise).
Multi-stem tree means where three (3) or more main stems arise from the ground from a single root crown or at a point just above the root crown and a tree whose mature height can be expected to exceed fifteen (15) feet and whose crown spread can be expected to exceed ten (10) feet.
Mural means a painting, mosaic, fresco, or other permanent artwork attached to or applied directly to the outside of a structure.
Museum means a building having public significance by reason of its architecture or former use or occupancy, or a building serving as a repository for a collection of natural, scientific, cultural, or literary curiosities or objects of interest or works of art and designed to be used by members of the public for loaning or viewing, with or without an admission charge. This use type is regulated under the "community service" use category in article 4, use regulations.
Nearly nude means a state of dress in which clothing covers no more than the genitals, pubic region, and areola of the female breast, as well as portions of the body covered by supporting belts, strips of cloth, straps or like devices, or a state of dress which leaves exposed a substantial portion of the buttocks so that the effect of achieved by such appearance is approximately the same as viewing nudity.
Nonconforming is a term applied to lots, structures, and uses of land which were lawful before the adoption of this chapter, or before the passage of an amendment to this chapter, but which are prohibited by, or which are not in compliance with, the requirements of this chapter.
Nude, nudity, and state of nudity.
(A)
The appearance of the human bare buttock, anus, male genitals, female genitals or the areola or nipple of the female breast; or
(B)
A state of dress which fails to opaquely and fully cover the human buttocks, anus, male or female genitals, pubic region or areola or nipple of the female breast.
Nursing home (rest home, convalescent) means an establishment which provides full-time convalescent or chronic care or both for three (3) or more individuals who are not related by blood or marriage to the operator and who, by reason of chronic illness or infirmity, are unable to care for themselves. No care for the acutely ill, or surgical or obstetrical services, shall be provided in such a home; a hospital or sanitarium shall not be construed to be included in this definition.
Office means a room or group of rooms used for conducting the affairs of a business, profession, or service industry. Examples include professional services such as lawyers, accountants, engineers, architects, or real estate agents; data processing; and sales offices.
Operator means the owner, permit holder, custodian, manager, operator, or person in charge of any permitted or licensed premises.
Ordinary repair and maintenance means any work, the purpose and effect of which is to correct or prevent any deterioration or decay of, or damage to, a structure or any part thereof and to restore the structure, as nearly as may be practicable, to its condition prior to such deterioration, decay or damage using materials which are of a design, color and outer appearance as close as practicable to the original.
Ornamental and understory street trees means any evergreen or deciduous tree whose mature height can be expected to exceed fifteen (15) feet and whose crown spread can be expected to exceed ten (10) feet.
Outdoor lighting means the nighttime illumination of an outside area or object by any manmade device located outdoors that produces light by any means.
Outdoor entertainment facility means an establishment having as its principal or predominant use the offering of outdoor participatory or spectator entertainment and which may sell alcohol for consumption on the premises. Sandwiches, light meals, snacks, and/or full service meals are available for consumption on the premises but are not the principal or predominant use of the establishment. Examples include, without limitation, stadiums and amphitheaters. This use type is regulated under the "retail sales and service" use category in article 4, use regulations.
Outdoor storage lot means any portion of a site where items are regularly stored, including, but not limited to, items such as pipe, building materials, lumber, plumbing supplies, damaged vehicles, or salvaged construction equipment. Not included in this definition is the short-term storage for sale of seasonal items such as grass seed, fertilizer, and plants. This use type is regulated under the "warehouse and freight movement" use category in article 4, use regulations.
Outparcel means a separate lot, site, parcel, or tract of land located within a larger development. An outparcel is typically associated with a retail shopping center or similar use.
Open space means a yard area which is not used for or occupied by a driveway, off-street parking, loading space, drying yard or refuse storage space.
Oversized vehicle means any vehicle that exceeds twenty-three (23) feet in length, eighty (80) inches in width, or eighty-five (85) inches in height, excluding recreational vehicles.
Owner means the individual, partnership, firm, association, joint venture, public or private corporation, trust, estate, commission, board, public or private institution, utility, cooperative, state agency, municipality or other political subdivision, any interstate body, or any legal entity, who owns a legal interest in the property or the person in control of the property.
Parking lot means any area not within a structure used to maneuver and park vehicles. Areas used for the display or storage of farm and lawn equipment, golf carts, ATVs, utility trailers, and similar equipment for sale or rent are not considered parking lots. A parking lot may be an accessory use or a principal use. As a principal use, this use type is regulated under the "parking, commercial" use category in article 4, use regulations.
Parking structure means a multi-level structure designed to accommodate vehicular parking spaces that are fully or partially enclosed or located on the deck surface of a building. This definition includes parking garages, deck parking, and underground or underbuilding parking areas. This use type is regulated under the "parking, commercial" use category in article 4, use regulations.
Parking space, off-street means an area not located within a street right-of-way adequate for parking a motor vehicle with room for opening doors on both sides, together with properly-related access to a public street arranged so that no maneuvering incidental to parking shall occur on any public street and so that a vehicle may be parked or unparked without moving any other automobile.
Passenger terminal (surface transportation) means a facility or location that receives and discharges passengers and at which facilities and equipment required for their operation are provided. Examples include terminals for bus, trolley, taxi, light rail, railroad, shuttle van, or other similar vehicular services. This use type is regulated under the "transportation terminals" use category in article 4, use regulations.
Pawn shop means a business or use that regularly loans money on the security of pledged tangible goods such as jewelry, cameras, or like personality or that purchases such goods on the condition that they may be redeemed or repurchased by the seller for a fixed price within a fixed period of time. This use type is regulated under the "retail sales and services" use category in article 4, use regulations.
Permanent sign means any sign attached securely to a building, roof, wall or a canopy or the ground by means of concrete, bolts, metal braces, treated wood or cedar and continuing in the same state or without essential change to the sign structure.
Permit means the authorization necessary to begin a land use activity under the provisions of this chapter.
Permitted or licensed premises means any premises that requires a license and/or permit and that is classified as a sexually oriented business.
Permittee and licensee means a person in whose name a permit and/or license to operate a sexually oriented business has been issued, as well as the individual listed as an applicant on the application for a permit and/or license.
Person means any individual, partnership, firm, association, joint venture, public or private corporation, trust, estate, commission, board, public or private institution, utility, cooperative, state agency, municipality or other political subdivision of this state, any interstate body, or any legal entity.
Personal care home means buildings, structures, or portions thereof for persons who reside on a 24-hour basis in a supervised environment and who receive custodial care.
Personal care home, congregate means a personal care home which provides care to six (6) or more persons. This use type is regulated under the "institutional" use category in article 4, use regulations.
Personal care home, family means a personal care home in a single-family detached residence, which provides care to up to five (5) persons. This use type is regulated under the "household living" use category in article 4, use regulations.
Personal care homes, group means a personal care home in a residence or other type building or buildings, non-institutional in character, which offers care to seven (7) through fifteen (15) persons. This use type is regulated under the "group living" use category in article 4, use regulations.
Personal services, general means an establishment primarily engaged in the provision of frequent or recurrent needed services of a personal nature. Examples include, without limitation, beauty and barbershops, shoe repair shops, and tailor shops. This use type is regulated under the "retail sales and service" use category in article 4, use regulations.
Planned unit development (PUD) means a parcel of land which is developed as an integrated unit under single ownership or control, which includes two (2) or more main buildings and where the specific requirements of a given district may be modified and where the minimum area is fixed.
Planning commission means the City of Perry Planning Commission.
Plat means a map, plan or layout of a county, city, town, section or subdivision indicating the location and boundaries of properties.
Playschool means a school for pre-kindergarten children ranging in age from three (3) to four (4) years and which operates for less than four (4) hours a day.
Post office means a use which provides service windows for mailing packages and letters, post office boxes, offices, vehicle storage areas, and sorting and distribution facilities for mail. This use type is regulated under the "government facilities" use category in article 4, use regulations.
Prefabricated building display and sales means a retail sales and service use in which prefabricated buildings (fabricated off-site and transported to the use location) are displayed and sold. This use type is regulated under the "retail sales and service" use category in article 4, use regulations.
Preliminary plat means the preliminary plat of a subdivision submitted pursuant to the subdivision regulations (subsection 2-3.11).
Preschool means a school for children primarily between birth and five (5) years of age. This use type is regulated under the "day care" use category in article 4, use regulations.
Principal structure means a structure or building having significant or primary use and justifying its own utilization, such as a dwelling or office building, as contrasted to accessory structures which are incidental or subordinate to primary structures and do not alone justify their utilization, such as a tool shed or auto garage used in conjunction with a dwelling. Certain structures may be either principal or accessory depending upon utilization, such as a parking garage as an accessory structure to an apartment or as a principal structure when operated commercially in a business area.
Principal use means the significant or primary activity carried out within a structure or upon land.
Primary lot frontage means the primary lot frontage is the portion of a lot that abuts the street from which the lot derives its street address.
Privacy wall means a continuous visual screen not less than six (6) feet in height. The screen shall be a windowless wall, fence or other type of impenetrable and opaque material that is aesthetically compatible with existing development.
Private street/private access way means a means of vehicular access conveyed to property owner's association or condominium regime incorporated pursuant to O.C.G.A. and designed and constructed to the standards of the design and specifications manual.
Property owner of record means the person identified as owner by county tax records.
Public building means any building owned, leased or held by the United States, the state, the county, the city, any special purpose district, any school district, or any other agency or political subdivision of the state or the United States, which building is used for governmental or other public purposes.
Public park or recreation area means public premises which have been designated for park or recreational activities, including, but not limited to, a park, playground, nature trail, swimming pool, gymnasium, recreational center, reservoir, athletic field, basketball or tennis court, pedestrian/bicycle path, open space, wilderness area or similar public premises within the city which are under the control, operation or management of the city park and recreation authorities or the equivalent state, county or recreation district authorities. This use type is regulated under the "parks and open space" use category in article 4, use regulations.
Public property includes that property of the city or a city agency, including that owned entirely by such public body, or over which it holds a right-of-way or easement on any streets, roads, parks, malls, or other public land. Private property that is subject to ad valorem property taxes and all easements and rights-of-way across such property are excluded from this definition.
Rain sensor means an automatic device that will override the irrigation cycle of an irrigation system, thus turning it off, when a predetermined amount of rain has fallen.
Recreational vehicle means any vehicle designed and/or used for temporary living and sleeping or recreational purposes, including pick-up coaches (cab-over camper), motorized homes, boats, travel trailers, camping trailers, jet skis, and snowmobiles, and which does not meet the specifications required for a manufactured home. This definition includes trailers used to transport such vehicles.
Recreational vehicle park means a parcel of land which is used solely for the rental or lease of lots for transient campers, trailers, motor homes, or temporary parking of any recreational vehicle that is not a manufactured home. This use type is regulated under the "visitor accommodations" use category in article 4, use regulations.
Recreational vehicle rental and sales means the display and sales or rental of recreational vehicles. This use type is regulated under the "vehicle sales and services" use category in article 4, use regulations.
Recycling drop-off center means a parcel of land on which wastes or used and secondhand materials are bought, sold, exchanged, stored, processed, or handled. Materials include, but are not limited to, scrap iron, paper, rags, rubber tires, bottles, discarded goods, machinery, or two (2) or more inoperable motor vehicles. This use type is regulated under the "waste-related services" use category in article 4, use regulations.
Registered civil engineer means a civil engineer properly registered and licensed in the state by the state board of engineering examiners.
Registered land surveyor means a land surveyor properly registered and licensed in the state by the state board of land surveyors.
Registered landscape architect means a landscape architect properly registered and licensed in state by the board of licensing examiners.
Religious institution means a structure or place in which worship, ceremonies, rituals, and education pertaining to a particular system of beliefs are conducted, together with its accessory buildings and uses (including buildings used for educational and recreational activities), and which are operated, maintained, and controlled under the direction of a religious group. Accessory uses may include school facilities, parking, day care, cemeteries, columbaria, mausoleums, caretaker's housing, pastor's housing, and group living facilities such as convents. This use type is regulated under the "institutions" use category in article 4, use regulations.
Regulatory flood elevation, for purposes of this chapter, means the crest elevation in relation to mean sea level expected to be reached by the one percent flood (base flood elevation) plus two (2) feet.
Restaurant, drive-in means an eating and/or drinking establishment which caters to motor driven vehicle business where the person being served consumes his food and/or drink while sitting in a motor-driven vehicle, as opposed to a restaurant serving exclusively inside an enclosed building.
Retail sales and services, general means a commercial enterprise that provides goods and/or services directly to the consumer where such goods are available for immediate purchase and removal from the premises by the purchaser. Examples include, without limitation, stores selling, leasing, or renting consumer, home, and business goods such as art, art supplies, bicycles, cameras, clothing, dry goods, electronic equipment, fabric, furniture, gifts, hardware, home improvements, household products, jewelry, pet food, pharmaceuticals, indoor plants, printed material, stationary and videos; wineries; and, auction services. This use type is regulated under the "retail sales and service" use category in article 4, use regulations.
Right-of-way means an interest in land to the city or GDOT which provides for the perpetual right and privilege of the city or GDOT, its agents, franchise holders, successors, and assigns to construct, install, improve, reconstruct, remove, replace, inspect, repair, maintain, and use a public street, including related and customary uses of street rights-of-way such as sidewalks, bike paths, landscaping, mass transit facilities, traffic control, traffic control devices and signage, sanitary sewer, storm water drainage, water supply, cable television, electric power, gas, and telephone transmission and related purposes in, upon, over, below, and across the rights-of-way.
Right-of-way line means the dividing line between a lot, tract or parcel of land and a continuous street, railroad, or other public utility right-of-way.
Roadway means that portion of a street intended for the use by vehicular traffic.
Roadway drainage structure means bridges, culverts and ditches associated with roadway construction, which allow stream flows to move freely under a stream crossing or to convey stormwater runoff from a roadway to a stream.
Roof plane means one or more portions of a pitched roof that maintain the same pitch or cover the same portion of a building.
Roominghouse. See Boardinghouse.
Runoff means that portion of precipitation falling within a watershed basin that is not evaporated into the atmosphere; captured by vegetation; collected in depressions; or infiltrated into the soil that results in the flowing over the surface of the ground or collecting in channels or storm sewers.
Runway means a defined area on an airport prepared for landing and takeoff of aircraft along its length.
School, public or private means an institution at the elementary, middle, or high school level that provides educational instruction to students. This definition does not include business schools or colleges. This use type is regulated under the "educational facilities" use category in article 19-4, use regulations.
Screening means any constructed wall, fence, building or living plant material used for the purpose of visually or functionally separating adjacent land uses as required by this chapter.
Sediment means solid material, both mineral and organic, that is in suspension; is being transported; or has been moved from its site of origin by air, water, ice, or gravity as a product of erosion.
Sediment control plan means a plan for the control of soil erosion and sedimentation resulting from land-disturbing activity.
Sedimentation means the processes which operate at or near the surface of the ground that deposit soils, debris, and other materials either on other ground surfaces or in stream channels.
Self-service storage facility means a building or group of buildings divided into sections for use for storage of items, either temporary or long-term, and not to be used for any other purpose (such as small offices, garages, etc.). A self-service storage facility is also called a "mini-warehouse." This use type is regulated under the "self-service storage" use category in article 4, use regulations.
Self-service vending unit means a freestanding vending machine larger than five (5) feet in width by three (3) feet in depth by seven (7) feet in height that may operate without full-time personnel (e.g., bulk ice vending machines). These units are activated by the insertion of money or electronic payment; the product is automatically dispensed individually or in bulk outside to the consumer.
Semi-cutoff fixture means an outdoor light fixture shielded or constructed in such a manner that it emits no more than five (5) percent of its light above the horizontal plane of the fixture and no more than twenty (20) percent of its light ten (10) degrees below the horizontal plane of the fixture.
Service and repair establishment means establishments primarily engaged in the provision of repair services to individuals and households, rather than businesses, but excluding automotive and equipment repair types. Typical uses include appliance repair shops, shoe repair, watch, or jewelry repair shops or repair of musical instruments. This use type is regulated under the "retail sales and service" use category in article 4, use regulations.
Setback means the minimum distance by which any building or structure must be separated from a street right-of-way or lot line.
Sexually oriented business means an adult bookstore or adult video store, an adult cabaret, an adult motion picture theater, a semi-nude model studio, or a sex paraphernalia store as defined in chapter 15, article VIII of the City Code.
Shade tree means any evergreen or deciduous tree whose mature height can be expected to exceed thirty-five (35) feet and whose crown spread can be expected to exceed thirty (30) feet.
Shielding means a design feature or a device that is applied to a luminaire to prevent its luminous output from being visible from selected locations or horizontal and/or vertical angles.
Shopping center means a group of stores planned and designed for the site on which it is built, functioning as a unit, with off-street parking, landscaped areas, and pedestrian malls or plazas provided on the property as an integral part of the unit. This use type is regulated under the "retail sales and service" use category in article 19-4, use regulations.
Short-term rental unit means a privately owned residential dwelling or any separable portion of such dwelling, rented for occupancy for lodging or sleeping purposes for a period of less than thirty (30) consecutive days, counting portions of calendar days as full days. This term is not applicable to other types of visitor accommodations, health care, or institutions. This use type is regulated under the visitor accommodations use category in article 4, use regulations.
Shrubs means self-supporting woody plants, either deciduous or evergreen, with several stems and a normal mature height of three (3) to twenty (20) feet.
Low-growing shrub means any shrub easily maintained at thirty (30) to forty (40) inches in height.
Intermediate shrub means any shrub easily maintained at four (4) to six (6) feet in height.
Major screening shrub means any shrub easily maintained at six (6) to twenty (20) feet in height.
Sight triangle means measured from the curb or edge of the pavement, the sight triangle is the triangular area created by a line connecting points on the front and side for lines at a distance as indicated in the design and specifications manual.
Site plan means a drawing which puts forth the pattern in the dimensions of the activity, circulation and visual form to take place on a particular piece of land.
Sky glow means the brightening of the night sky that results from the reflection of radiation (visible and nonvisible) scattered from the constituents of the atmosphere (gaseous molecules, aerosols, and particulate matter), in the direction of the observer. It is comprised of two (2) separate components: natural sky glow, that part of the sky glow attributable to radiation from celestial sources and luminescent processes in the earth's upper atmosphere; and artificial sky glow, that part of the sky glow attributable to manmade sources of radiation (e.g., outdoor electric lighting), including radiation emitted directly upwards and radiation reflected from the earth's surface.
Slope means an incline from the horizontal expressed in an arithmetic ratio of horizontal magnitude to vertical magnitude. (Example: Slope = 3:1 means three (3) feet horizontal to one foot vertical.)
Start of construction means the first placement of permanent construction of a structure (other than a manufactured home) on a site such as the pouring of slabs or footings or any work beyond the stage of excavation, including the relocation of a structure. Permanent construction does not include installation of streets and/or walkways; excavation for a basement, footings, piers or foundations; or erection of temporary forms. For a structure (other than a manufactured home) without a basement or poured footings, the start of construction includes the first permanent framing or assembly of the structure, or any part thereof, on its piling or foundation.
State means the State of Georgia.
Stormwater management means the collection, conveyance, storage, treatment, and disposal of stormwater runoff in a manner designed to minimize the following: channel erosion; flood damage; runoff rates; and water quality degradation.
Stormwater management facilities or systems means structures that are designed for the collection, conveyance, storage, treatment, and disposal of stormwater runoff.
Stormwater management plan means a plan for the control of stormwater runoff resulting from land-disturbing activity.
Stormwater master plan means a plan developed for a watershed, or part thereof, that has been approved by city council to guide the design and development of the drainage system addressed by the plan.
Story means that portion of a building included between the surface of any floor and the surface of the floor next above it, or if there is no floor above it, then the space between the floor and the ceiling next above it.
Story, half means a space under a sloping roof that has the line of intersection of roof decking and wall face not more than three (3) feet above the top floor level and in which space not more than two-thirds (⅔) of the floor area is finished for occupancy. A half story containing independent living quarters shall be counted as a full story.
Street means a public or private thoroughfare which affords the principal means of access to abutting property.
Street, half means a street which does not meet the minimum right-of-way widths as set forth in this chapter.
Street line means the dividing line between a lot, tract or parcel of land and a contiguous street.
Street width means the shortest distance between the lines delineating the rights-of-way of a street.
Structural alterations means any change to the supporting members of a building, such as foundation, bearing walls, columns, beams, girders, rafters, etc.
Structure means anything constructed or erected that requires permanent location on the surface of the land. The term "structure" does not include features such as ornamental pools, planting boxes, sculpture or bird baths, open terraces, walkways, driveways, walls or fences, recreational equipment, flagpoles, light standards, underground fallout shelters, mailboxes, gatehouses, burial vaults or bus shelters.
Subdivider means any person, individual, firm, partnership, association, corporation, estate or trust or any other group, agent, or combination thereof acting as a unit, dividing or proposing to divide land so as to constitute a subdivision as defined in this section.
Subdivision means the division of a tract or parcel of land into two (2) or more lots, building sites, or other divisions for the purpose, whether immediate or future, of sale, lease, or building development, and includes all divisions of land involving a new street or change in existing streets, and includes re-subdivision which would involve the further division or relocation of lot lines of any lot or lots within a subdivision previously made and approved or recorded according to law; or the alteration of any streets or the establishment of any new streets within any subdivision previously made and approved or recorded according to law, and includes combinations of lots of record.
Substantial damage means damage of any origin including fire, flood, lateral earth movement, war, or wind sustained by a structure where the cost of restoring the structure to its before-damaged condition would equal or exceed fifty (50) percent of its before-damaged market value. For purposes of this chapter, any structure flooded four (4) or more feet above its lowest finished floor shall be considered "substantially damaged."
Substantial enlargement of a sexually oriented business means the increase in floor areas occupied by the business by more than twenty-five (25) percent, as the floor areas exist on the effective date of the ordinance from which this article is derived.
Substantial improvement means for a structure built prior to the enactment of the ordinance from which this section is derived, any reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition, or other improvement of a structure the cost of which equals or exceeds fifty (50) percent of the market value of the structure before the start of construction of the improvement. This term "substantial improvement" includes structures that have incurred repetitive loss or substantial damage, regardless of the actual repair work performed. For the purpose of this definition, the term "substantial improvement" is considered to occur when the first alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor or other structural part of the building commences whether or not that alteration affects the external dimensions of the structure. The term "substantial improvement" does not, however, include either any project for improvement of a structure to comply with state or local health, sanitary or safety code specifications which are solely necessary to ensure safe living conditions; or any alteration of a structure listed on the National Register of Historic Places or a state inventory of historic places.
Suggested plant list means the list of trees, shrubs, and ground covers approved for use in the city for compliance with this chapter as reflected in the design and specification manual.
Tattoo/tattooing means to indelibly mark or color the skin by subcutaneous introduction of nontoxic dyes or pigments. The practice of tattooing does not include the removal of tattoos, nor the practice of micropigmentation, branding, cutting, scarification, skin braiding, or the mutilation of any part of the body.
Temporary means a specified period of time for which an activity or use is authorized.
Temporary sign means any sign that is not a permanent or portable sign.
Temporary vehicular turnaround means a designated surface area as specified by the administrator located within a right-of-way or easement that provides sufficient turning capacity for emergency vehicles.
Townhouse means a single-family dwelling unit which is erected in a row as part of a single building, on adjoined lots, each being separated from the adjoining unit or units by an approved fire resistant party wall or walls extending from the basement or cellar floor to the roof along the dividing lot line.
Towing service means a business that specializes in the removal of a motor vehicle by towing, carrying, hauling, or pushing from public or private property. This shall not include an automobile servicing use that has a tow truck and repair vehicles on site. This use type is regulated under the "vehicle sales and service" use category in article 4, use regulations.
Tract means an area, parcel, site, piece of land, or property that is the subject of a development proposal and application.
Trade school means a school conducted as a commercial enterprise for teaching skills in which machinery and outdoor activities are employed as a means of instruction. Trade schools may employ both indoor and outdoor classroom activities, such as truck driving, construction and carpentry, and vehicle repair. Incidental instructional services in conjunction with another primary use shall not be considered a trade school. This use type is regulated under the "educational facilities" use category in article 4, use regulations.
Transfer of ownership or control of a sexually oriented business means:
(A)
The sale, lease, or sublease of the business.
(B)
The transfer of securities that constitute a controlling interest in the business, whether by sale, exchange, or similar means.
(C)
The establishment of a trust, gift or other similar legal devise which transfers ownership or control of the business, except for transfer by bequest or other operation of law upon the death of a person possessing the ownership or control.
Tree means self-supporting woody plants of species that normally grow to an overall height of at least fifteen (15) feet.
Small tree means any tree normally maturing at a height of less than thirty (30) feet.
Intermediate deciduous tree means any deciduous tree normally maturing at a height between thirty (30) and fifty (50) feet.
Major deciduous tree means any deciduous tree normally maturing at a height of at least fifty (50) feet.
Small evergreen tree means any evergreen tree with a mature height of at least fifteen (15) feet.
Major evergreen tree means any evergreen tree with a mature height of at least thirty (30) feet.
Tree density standard means a minimum number of tree density units per acre that must be achieved on a property after development.
Tree density unit means a credit assigned to a tree, based on the diameter of the tree, in accordance with tables contained in this article.
Tree form shrub means a large deciduous or evergreen shrub that has been pruned of its lower limbs and other foliage, to a minimum height of four (4) feet, to reveal the main vertical supporting branches.
Tree protection zone (TPZ) means a designated area around a tree or group of trees to be saved usually set off from construction activity by the use of a fence or other protective barrier thereby keeping the critical root zone of the tree protected and free from unwanted harmful activities. The area of the TPZ should be equal to or greater than the critical root zone.
Trout streams means all streams or portions of streams within the watershed as designated by the Game and Fish Division of the Georgia Department of Natural Resources under the provisions of the Georgia Water Quality Control Act, O.C.G.A. § 12-5-20 et seq. Streams designated as primary trout waters are defined as water supporting a self-sustaining population of rainbow, brown or brook trout. Streams designated as secondary trout waters are those in which there is no evidence of natural trout reproduction, but are capable of supporting trout throughout the year.
Truck or freight terminal means an area and building where buses, trucks, and cargo are stored, where loading and unloading is carried on regularly, and where minor maintenance of these types of vehicles is performed. This use type is regulated under the "warehouse and freight movement" use category in article 4, use regulations.
Truck or trailer rental means the rental of truck or trailer equipment primarily intended for individual use and minor residential gardening and construction projects. This use does not include the rental, storage, or maintenance of large construction equipment. This use type is regulated under the "vehicle sales and service" use category in article 4, use regulations.
Truck stop or travel plaza means an establishment primarily engaged in the maintenance, servicing, storage, parking or repair of over-the-road trucks and similar commercial vehicles, including the sale of motor fuels or other petroleum products, and the sale of accessories or equipment for such vehicles. A truck stop or travel plaza may also include overnight accommodations, showers, vehicle scales, restaurant facilities, and/or other services intended mainly for use by truck drivers and interregional travelers. This use type is regulated under the "industrial services" use category in article 4, use regulations.
Unacceptable species means plant species which will not be counted toward the total tree requirements of this chapter.
Utility, major means services of a regional nature that normally entail the construction of new buildings or structures such as generating plants and sources; electrical switching facilities, stations and substations; water and wastewater treatment plants; and, similar facilities. This use type is regulated under the "utilities" use category in article 4, use regulations.
Utility, minor means services that are necessary to support development within the immediate vicinity and that involve only minor structures. Included in this use type are small facilities such as transformers, relay and booster devices; and well water and sewer pump stations. This use type is regulated under the "utilities" use category in article 4, use regulations.
Utility service area means that portion of a site occupied by items such as garbage dumpsters and compactors; large air-conditioning units; aboveground storage or fuel tanks; major electrical transformers; and similar equipment.
Variance means a grant of relief to a person from the requirements of this section which permits construction in a manner otherwise prohibited by this section where specific enforcement would result in unnecessary hardship.
Vehicular use area means any area which is not located within an enclosed structure, and which is devoted to a use by and for motor vehicles, including parking (accessory or non-accessory) or storage of automobiles, trucks or other vehicles, service areas and driveways. Areas designated solely for the display of new and used vehicles for sale or lease, and any area designed to be used solely for access between a street and a vehicular use area is not considered part of the vehicular use area.
Veterinary clinic means a facility for the care and treatment of small animals, including household pets. Such facilities may be entirely indoors or may have both indoor and outdoor components. This use type is regulated under the "retail sales and service" use category in article 4, use regulations.
Wall means an erection of stone, brick, or other material raised to some height and intended for purposes of security or enclosure.
Wall, bearing means a wall supporting imposed weight (live load) in addition to its own weight (dead load).
Wall pack means a type of light fixture typically surface-mounted on a vertical wall surface.
Wall, retaining means a wall designed to prevent the lateral displacement of soil or any other material.
Warehouse means a use engaged in storage and distribution of manufactured products, supplies, and equipment, excluding bulk storage of materials that are flammable or explosive or that present hazards or conditions commonly recognized as offensive. This use type is regulated under the "warehouse and freight movement" use category in article 19-4, use regulations.
Waste disposal or treatment operation means a facility or group of units used for the disposal or treatment of industrial or domestic wastes and for the reduction and handling of solids and gases removed from such wastes. This use type is regulated under the "waste-related services" use category in article 19-4, use regulations.
Watercourse means any natural or artificial watercourse, stream, river, creek, channel, ditch, canal, in which water flows either continuously or intermittently and which has a definite channel, bed and banks, and including any area adjacent thereto, subject to inundation by reason of overflow or floodwater.
Wholesale establishment means an establishment primarily engaged in selling and distributing merchandise to retailers, industrial, commercial, institutional, or professional business users, or to other wholesalers; and acting as agents or brokers by buying merchandise for, or selling merchandise to, such individuals or companies. Examples include, without limitation, feed mills, granaries, and elevators; household moving and general freight storage; cold storage plants, including frozen food lockers; major wholesale distribution centers; truck, or air freight terminals; bus barns; parcel services; major post offices; grain terminals; and the stockpiling of sand, gravel, or other aggregate materials. This use type is regulated under the "wholesale sales" use category in article 19-4, use regulations.
Yard means an open space at grade between a building and the adjoining lot lines.
Yard, front means an open space at grade between the front of a building and the front lot line, generally adjacent to a street, and extending the full width of the lot.
Yard, rear means an open space at grade between the rear of a building and the rear lot line and extending the full width of the lot.
Yard, side means an open space at grade between the side of a building and the side lot line extending from the front yard to the rear yard or from the front lot line to the rear lot line when a front and rear setback is not required.
Yard, special means an open space at grade between the side of a building and the side lot line adjacent to a street right-of-way extending from the front yard to the rear yard or from the front lot line to the rear lot line when a front and rear setback is not required.
Youth activity center means a boys club, a girls club or any other facility that is not a school but which provides entertainment, recreation, crafts, tutorials or other quality of life enhancements for minors, whether a nonprofit facility or otherwise. This use type is regulated under the "community service" use category in article 4, use regulations.
Zoning district map means a map that graphically delineates the boundaries of all mapped districts within the corporate boundary of the city.
Zoning ordinance means this chapter and any other adopted regulations of the city pertaining to the development and use of land.
(Ord. No. 2017-25, § 2, 12-19-17; Ord. No. 2018-08, §§ 1, 2, 6-19-18; Ord. No. 2019-18, § 1, 10-1-19; Ord. No. 2020-10, § 1, 7-21-20; Ord. No. 2021-16, §§ 1, 2, 8-17-21; Ord. No. 2021-17, § 1, 8-17-21; Ord. No. 2021-26, § 1, 12-7-21; Ord. No. 2022-20, § 1, 6-21-22; Ord. No. 2022-27, § 1, 8-2-22; Ord. No. 2022-32, §§ 1, 2, 9-20-22; Ord. No. 2022-39, §§ 1, 2, 10-18-22; Ord. No. 2023-26, §§ 1, 2, 8-1-23; Ord. No. 2023-28, § 1, 8-15-23)
ARTICLE 2. - ADMINISTRATION

Sec. 2-1. - Administrative and decision-making bodies.
modified
2-1.1. City council. Reserved.
2-1.2. Planning commission. The city planning commission, herein referred to as the planning commission or commission, is created and established to be organized and empowered as provided herein.
2-1.2.1. Membership; compensation.
(A)
The planning commission shall consist of seven (7) members who shall be residents of the City of Perry, Georgia. The mayor and each councilperson shall appoint one member to the planning commission at the first meeting in January at the beginning of the mayor or councilperson's term of office.
(B)
The term of office of the member of the planning commission shall run concurrently with the term of office of the mayor or councilperson by whom the planning commission member was appointed.
(C)
Any vacancy in membership shall be filled for the unexpired term by the mayor or council member who appointed the vacating member. The mayor or council shall have the authority to remove any member for cause, on written charges, after a public hearing.
(D)
All members may receive compensation as determined by mayor and council.
2-1.2.2. Officers.
(A)
Chair. The planning commission shall elect its chairperson from among its members. The term of the chairperson shall be one year with eligibility for re-election. The planning commission shall also elect a vice-chairperson from among its members.
(B)
Vice-chair. The planning commission shall elect a vice-chair from among its members. The term for the vice-chairperson shall be one year with eligibility for re-election. The vice-chairperson shall serve as chair in absence of the chairperson.
(C)
The planning commission shall appoint a secretary, who may be an officer or an employee of the City of Perry.
2-1.2.3. Meetings; rules of procedure; records; finances.
(A)
Prior to the beginning of each calendar year, the planning commission shall establish its meeting schedule for the coming calendar year, which shall include the date, time, and place of the meetings. Meetings are not required to be conducted if there is no business to transact.
(B)
The planning commission shall adopt rules of procedure governing its procedures and policies governing the conduct of meetings, calling special meetings, presentation of evidence, and other policies as necessary.
(C)
All meetings of the planning commission shall be open to the public, except as allowed by law, and all records of the planning commission shall be public records.
(D)
The planning commission may appoint such city employees as it may deem necessary for its work and may contract with the state planning agencies and other consultants for services as it may require.
(E)
Expenditures of the planning commission, exclusive of gifts, shall be within the amounts appropriated for such purposes by the city council.
2-1.2.4. Duties and responsibilities. It shall be the function and duty of the planning commission to make such careful and comprehensive surveys and studies of existing conditions and probable future developments and to prepare such plans for physical, social, and economic growth as will best promote public health, safety, morals, convenience, prosperity, or the general welfare as well as efficiency and economy in the development of its political jurisdiction. In particular, the commission shall have the power and the duty to:
(A)
Prepare and recommend for adoption a comprehensive plan of the City of Perry, and or parts thereof, including any updates to the comprehensive plan as may be necessary from time to time;
(B)
Prepare and recommend for adoption a unified development code, which shall include a zoning ordinance and land development regulations, including any modifications to such unified development code as may be necessary;
(C)
Prepare and recommend for adoption an official zoning map, including any modifications to such official zoning map as may be necessary;
(D)
Prepare and recommend for adoption an official street map, including any modifications to such official street map as may be necessary;
(E)
Initiate, review and make recommendations to the city council to approve, approve with conditions, or disapprove applications for rezoning, and text amendment;
(F)
Review and make recommendations to the city council to approve, approve with conditions, or disapprove applications for annexation, and special exception;
(G)
Hear and decide appeals where it is alleged there is error in any order, requirement, decision, or interpretation made by the administrator in the enforcement of this chapter;
(H)
Hear and approve, approve with conditions, or disapprove applications for variance;
(I)
Prepare and approve a design and specifications manual;
(J)
Study, consider and recommend to city council any matter referred to the commission by city council;
(K)
Unincorporated areas adjacent to municipalities may be added to and included in the area under the jurisdiction of the planning commission for general planning and for master plan preparation and for the preparation and administration of zoning ordinances or resolutions, land subdivision regulations, and official maps, provided that the governing bodies of the county and municipality shall agree to the boundaries of such additional areas, procedures for the adoption and administration of ordinances and resolutions, and regulations applying to the area, and the manner of obtaining equitable representation on the planning commission. Such agreement shall be formally established by appropriate official action by the governing authorities involved; and
(L)
The planning commission may make, publish, and distribute maps, plans and reports and recommendations relating to the plan and development of its political jurisdiction to public officials and agencies, public utility companies, civic, education, professional and other organizations and citizens. It may recommend to the executive or legislative officials of its political jurisdiction programs for public improvements and the financing thereof. All public officials shall, upon request, furnish, to the planning commission, within a reasonable time, such available information as it requires for its work. The planning commission, its members and employees, in the performance of its functions, may enter upon any land, make examinations and surveys and place and maintain necessary monuments and marks thereon, provided, however, that the planning commission shall be liable for any injury or damage to property resulting therefrom. In general, the planning commission shall have powers as may be necessary to enable it to perform its functions and promote the planning of its political jurisdiction, including the authority to enter into agreements with political subdivisions and planning commissions, by whatever name known, in adjacent states.
2-1.3. Main street advisory board. In addition to the provisions of chapter 2, article V, division 5, of the Code of the City of Perry, Georgia, within the downtown development overlay district, the main street advisory board is authorized to:
(A)
Review and act on applications for mural permits;
(B)
Provide recommendations on certificates of appropriateness to the administrator. When a property is located in the downtown development overlay district and a historic district or is a historic property, the main street advisory board shall yield its review authority to the preservation commission; and
(C)
Adopt design guidelines for reconstruction, alteration, renovation, relocation, or demolition of existing buildings, construction of new buildings, and site improvements.
2-1.3.1Jurisdiction. The board's jurisdiction shall be limited to the downtown development district. The board shall be concerned with those elements of development, redevelopment, rehabilitation, and preservation that affect visual quality of the downtown development district. They shall not consider detailed design, interior arrangement, or building features not subject to public view.
2-1.3.2. Development standards. A sign, building or structure in the downtown development district shall only be established, constructed, reconstructed, altered, demolished, moved or maintained in a manner that will preserve the historical and architectural character of the downtown development district.
2-1.3.3. Quorum and meetings. A majority of the members of the board shall constitute a quorum and the board shall meet as necessary.
2-1.4. Historic preservation commission. The City of Perry Historic Preservation Commission, hereinafter referred to as the preservation commission, is created and established to be organized and empowered as provided herein. The preservation commission shall be part of the planning functions of the City of Perry.
2-1.4.1. Membership; compensation.
(A)
The preservation commission shall consist of five (5) members appointed by the mayor and ratified by the city council. All members shall be residents of the City of Perry, Georgia, and shall be persons who have demonstrated special interest, experience or education in history, architecture, or the preservation of historic resources. To the extent available in the city, at least one member shall be appointed from among professionals in the disciplines of architecture, history, architectural history, planning, archaeology, or related professions.
(B)
Members shall serve three-year terms. There is no limit on the number of terms members may serve. To achieve staggered terms, initial appointments shall be: One member for one year; two (2) members for two (2) years; and two (2) members for three (3) years.
(C)
Members shall not receive a salary, although they may be reimbursed for expenses.
2-1.4.2. Meetings; rules of procedure; records; finances.
(A)
The preservation commission shall adopt rules and standards for the transaction of its business and for consideration of application for designation and certificates of appropriateness, such as by-laws, removal of membership provision, and design guidelines and criteria. The preservation commission shall have the flexibility to adopt rules and standards without amendment to this section. The preservation commission shall provide for the time and place of regular meetings and a method for the calling of special meetings. The preservation commission shall select such officers as it deems appropriate from among its members. A quorum shall consist of a majority of the members.
(B)
The preservation commission shall be subject to all conflict-of-interest laws set forth in Georgia Statutes and in the City of Perry Charter.
(C)
The preservation commission shall have the authority to accept donations and shall ensure that these funds do not displace appropriated governmental funds.
(D)
A public record shall be kept of the preservation commission's resolutions, proceedings, and actions.
2-1.4.3. Duties and responsibilities. The preservation commission shall be authorized to:
(A)
Prepare and maintain an inventory of all property within the City of Perry having the potential for designation as historic property;
(B)
Recommend to the city council specific districts, sites, buildings, structures, or objects to be designated by ordinance as historic properties or historic districts;
(C)
Review application for certificates of appropriateness, and grant or deny same in accordance with the provisions of this section;
(D)
Recommend to the city council that the designation of any district, site, building, structure or object as a historic property or as a historic district be revoked or removed;
(E)
Restore or preserve any historic properties acquired by the City of Perry;
(F)
Promote the acquisition by the City of Perry of facade easements and conservation easements, as appropriate, in accordance with the provisions of the Georgia Uniform Conservation Easement Act (O.C.G.A. § 44-10-1 et seq.);
(G)
Conduct educational programs on historic properties located within the city and on general historic preservation activities;
(H)
Make such investigation and studies of matters relating to historic preservation, including consultation with historic preservation experts, the city council, or the preservation commission itself may, from time to time, deem necessary or appropriate for the purposes of preserving historic resources;
(I)
Seek out local, state, federal or private funds for historic preservation, and make recommendations to the city council concerning the most appropriate uses of any funds acquired;
(J)
Submit to the historic preservation division of the department of community affairs a list of historic properties and historic districts designated;
(K)
Perform historic preservation activities as the official agency of the Perry historic preservation program;
(L)
Receive donations, grants, funds, or gifts of historic property and acquire and sell historic properties. The preservation commission shall not obligate the City of Perry without prior consent;
(M)
Review and make comments to the historic preservation division of the department of community affairs concerning the nomination of properties within its jurisdiction to the National Register of Historic Places; and
(N)
Participate in private, state, and federal historic preservation programs and with the consent of the city council, enter into agreements to do the same.
2-1.5. Duties and powers of the administrator. The administrator shall have the responsibility of interpreting, administering, and enforcing the provisions of this section unless specifically provided otherwise. In particular, the administrator shall have the following powers and duties under this section:
(A)
Authorization. The administrator is authorized to review and make final decisions regarding permits and other development requests as authorized in this section. The administrator is further authorized to approve or issue any form or certificate necessary to perfect a petition described in Title 5 of the Georgia Code for the planning commission and historic preservation commission and to accept service of such petition on behalf of these commissions during normal business hours at the community development department office.
(B)
Duty. It shall be the duty of the administrator to administer and enforce the provisions of this section.
(C)
Records. The administrator shall keep records of actions on comprehensive plan amendments, official zoning map or text amendments, variances, special exceptions, appeals, preliminary and final plats, permits, licenses, certificates of appropriateness, and certificates of occupancy along with notation of all special conditions involved. The administrator shall file and safely keep these records along with copies of all related applications, reviews, opinions, public hearings, sketches, and plans submitted and other related documents that are to be made a part of the public record.
(D)
Review. All applications and plans for which action by the administrator is authorized shall be reviewed and acted upon within thirty (30) days of receipt of a complete application, except where another time limit is specified for the type of action under review.
2-1.6. Duties and powers of the city manager. In addition to other duties and powers authorized by other provisions of the city Code, the city manager shall have the authority to accept service and upon whom service of an appeal of a quasi-judicial decision may be perfected on behalf of the city council during normal business hours at the city manager's office.
(Ord. No. 2017-25, § 2, 12-19-17; Ord. No. 2020-10, § 2, 7-21-20; Ord. No. 2022-28, §§ 1, 2, 8-16-22; Ord. No. 2022-50, § 1, 12-20-22; Ord. No. 2023-28, §§ 2, 3, 8-15-23)
Editor's note— Ord. No. 2022-28, § 2, adopted Aug. 16, 2022, added a new § 2-1.4 as set out herein and renumbered former § 2-1.4 as § 2-1.5.
Sec. 2-2. - Procedures.
Sec. 2-2.1. Variances and appeals of administrative decisions. Applications for variances and appeals of administrative decisions shall be considered at a public hearing held by the planning commission for such purposes, following the adopted policies and procedures governing zoning hearings.
(A)
Initiation of application. An application for variance or appeal of an administrative decision may be initiated by the owner(s) of the subject property or their authorized agent(s). Any person aggrieved or affected by a decision or interpretation of the administrator may also initiate an appeal.
(B)
Application requirements.
(1)
An application for variance or appeal of an administrative decision must be submitted in writing to the administrator on the form provided by the administrator.
(2)
The application shall be accompanied by plans, plats, photographs, or other documents as may be required by the administrator to fully understand the extent of the proposed variance or the grounds of the appeal.
(3)
An application for appeal shall be filed within ten (10) business days of the date of the decision/interpretation being appealed.
(4)
No application shall be scheduled for a public hearing until it is deemed complete by the administrator, including payment of any required fees established by council.
(C)
Notice of planning commission public hearings. The administrator shall cause to have posted in a conspicuous place on the property in question a minimum of one "public hearing" sign for every one thousand (1,000) feet of road frontage, each of which shall not be less than six (6) square feet in area, and which shall state the date, time, place, and purpose of the public hearing. Such signs shall be placed on the subject property at least thirty (30) days prior to, but not greater than, forty-five (45) days before the public hearing. Notice of the hearing shall be mailed to the owner of the property that is the subject of the application at least thirty (30) days prior to the public hearing.
(D)
Planning commission public hearings.
(1)
The commission shall fix a reasonable time for the hearing of appeals or variances and shall decide the same within forty-five (45) days from the date of such public hearing at which the application was first heard.
(2)
The applicant bears the burden of proof to demonstrate that an application complies with applicable approval standards of this chapter.
(3)
Any person may appear at a hearing and submit testimony, either individually, or as a representative of a person or an organization.
(4)
When considering a variance, the commission shall approve, approve with conditions, approve with modifications, or deny the application,
(5)
When considering an appeal of an administrative decision, the commission shall, in conformity with the provisions of this section, reverse or affirm, wholly or in part, or may modify the order, requirements, decisions or determination of the administrator, and to that end, shall have all the powers of the administrator and may issue or direct the issuance of a zoning compliance permit.
(6)
The planning commission may continue a hearing to a fixed date, time and place, subject to the time restriction for deciding an application listed above in subsection (D)(1).
(E)
Stay of legal proceedings. An appeal of an administrative decision stays all legal proceedings in furtherance of the action appealed from, unless the administrator certifies to the commission after the notice of appeal shall have been filed with him that, by reason of facts stated in the certificate a stay would, in his opinion, cause imminent peril to life and/or property. In such case, a proceeding shall not be stayed other than by a restraining order which may be granted by said commission or by a court of record, on application, on notice to the official from whom the appeal is taken and on due cause.
(F)
Withdrawal of application. Any petition for a hearing before the planning commission may be withdrawn prior to action thereon by said commission at the discretion of the person, firm or corporation initiating such a request upon written notice to the administrator. The fee for a withdrawn application shall not be refunded once public notice of the application has been initiated.
(G)
Time for reconsideration following denial. When an application for variance is denied by the commission, another application for variance on the same property shall not be considered for six (6) months from the date of the denied application.
(H)
Appeal to superior court. Any person or persons severally or jointly aggrieved by any decision of the planning commission may take an appeal to the superior court.
Sec. 2-2.2 Amendments to the official zoning map, annexation and zoning of land, de-annexation of land, text amendments, and special exceptions. Applications for amendments to the official zoning map, annexation and zoning of land, de-annexation of land, text amendments, and special exceptions shall be considered by the planning commission at an informational hearing to provide a recommendation to city council. City council shall conduct a public hearing on each application. Informational hearings and public hearings shall follow the adopted policies and procedures governing zoning hearings.
(A)
initiation of application.
(1)
Amendments to the official zoning map and special exceptions may be initiated by the owners of the subject property, the authorized agent(s) of the owners of the property, by the city council, by the administrator, or by recommendation of the planning commission.
(2)
Annexation and zoning of land may be initiated by the owners of the subject property, their authorized agent(s), or by the city council through resolution and referendum or pursuant to a local act passed by the General Assembly.
(3)
De-annexation of land may be initiated by the owners of the subject property or their authorized agent(s).
(4)
Amendments to the text of the ordinance may be initiated by city council, by the administrator, or by recommendation of the planning commission.
(B)
Application requirements.
(1)
An application must be submitted in writing to the administrator on the form provided by the administrator.
(2)
An application shall be accompanied by plans, plats, photographs, or other documents as may be required by the administrator to fully understand the extent of the proposal.
(3)
All applications shall be submitted to the administrator pursuant to established application submittal schedules included in the administrative manual.
(4)
No application shall be scheduled for an informational or public hearing until it is deemed complete by the administrator, including payment of any required fees established by council.
(C)
Notice of planning commission informational hearings.
(1)
For an informational hearing, except for amendments to the official zoning map initiated by the city, the administrator shall cause to have posted in a conspicuous place on the property involved in an application a minimum of one "informational hearing" sign for every one thousand (1,000) feet of road frontage, each of which shall be not less than six (6) square feet in area and shall include the date, time, place and purpose of the informational hearing. Such signs shall be posted on the subject property at least thirty (30) days prior to but not greater than forty-five (45) days before the informational hearing.
(2)
Notice of the informational hearing shall be mailed to the owner of the property that is the subject of the application at least thirty (30) days prior to the informational hearing.
(3)
For amendments to the official zoning map initiated by the city, the administrator shall send written notice by first-class mail to the property owners of record affected by the amendment at least thirty (30) days prior to the informational hearing. The notice shall include the date, time, place, and purpose of the informational hearing. A copy of the mailed notice shall be maintained in the office of the administrator for public inspection during normal business hours.
(4)
Informational hearings for a text amendment to the ordinance are not subject to the sign posting requirements outlined in subsection (C)(1) above.
(5)
Map amendments and text amendments affecting single-family residential zoning districts may be subject to additional notice requirements per O.C.G.A. § 36-66-4(h).
(D)
Planning commission informational hearings.
(1)
The planning commission shall hold an informational hearing and shall make a recommendation to city council. A report of the planning commission's recommendation accompanying a summary of the proceedings of the hearing shall be submitted to the mayor and council.
(2)
The applicant bears the burden of proof to demonstrate that an application complies with applicable approval standards of this chapter.
(3)
Any person may appear at a hearing and submit testimony, either individually, or as a representative of a person or an organization.
(4)
The planning commission's recommendation shall be for approval, approval with conditions, approval with modifications, or denial of the application. For zoning amendments, the commission may include recommendations for conditions or limitations on uses appropriate to ameliorate the impact on the surrounding area and may recommend a less intense use or intermediate zoning classification. Where the applicant does not agree to such conditions or limitations on uses. The recommendation shall be interpreted as a recommendation for denial.
(5)
The commission shall have forty-five (45) days from the date of the informational hearing at which the application was first heard within which to submit a report to the council. If the commission fails to submit a report within the forty-five-day period, it shall be deemed to have recommended approval of the application.
(6)
The planning commission may continue a hearing to a fixed date, time, and place, subject to the time restriction for submitting a report on an application to city council as listed above in subsection (D)(5).
(E)
Notice of city council public hearings.
(1)
Notice of a public hearing shall be published in a newspaper of general circulation in the city no less than fifteen (15) days and no more than forty-five (45) days prior to the public hearing. Such published notice shall comply with the provisions of O.C.G.A. § 36-66-4.
(2)
For a public hearing, except for amendments to the official zoning map initiated by the city, the administrator shall cause to have posted in a conspicuous place on the property involved in an application, a minimum of one "public hearing" sign for every one thousand (1,000) feet of road frontage, each of which shall be not less than six (6) square feet in area and shall include the date, time, place and purpose of the public hearing. Such signs shall be posted on the subject property at least fifteen (15) days prior to, but not greater than, forty-five (45) days before the public hearing.
(3)
For amendments to the official zoning map initiated by the city, the administrator shall send written notice by first-class mail to the property owner(s) of record affected by the amendment at least fifteen (15) days prior to the public hearing. The notice shall include the date, time, place, and purpose of the public hearing. A copy of the mailed notice shall be maintained in the office of the administrator for public inspection during normal business hours. Upon final action taken by city council, the administrator shall provide written notification, by first-class mail or email, if available, to the affected property owner(s) of the action taken by council.
(4)
Map amendments and text amendments affecting single-family residential zoning districts may be subject to additional notice requirements per O.C.G.A. § 36-66-4(h).
(F)
City council public hearings.
(1)
The council shall hold a public hearing at the earliest possible time under the time limits provided herein to consider the application.
(2)
The recommendations of the commission shall be read aloud into the minutes at the public hearing.
(3)
The applicant bears the burden of proof to demonstrate that an application complies with applicable approval standards of this chapter.
(4)
Any person may appear at a hearing and submit testimony, either individually, or as a representative of a person or an organization.
(5)
The council shall act on the application within forty-five (45) days from the date of the public hearing by approving or disapproving the recommendation, by approving it with conditions, by approving it with modifications, by approving a less intense use or intermediate zoning classification, or by remanding the matter with instructions to the planning commission. For zoning amendments, the council may include conditions or limitations on uses appropriate to ameliorate the impact on the surrounding area and may approve a less intense use or intermediate zoning classification. Where the applicant does not agree to such conditions or limitations on uses, the application will be denied.
(6)
Map amendments and text amendments affecting single-family residential zoning districts may be subject to additional public hearing and actions by council per O.C.G.A. § 36-66-4(h).
(7)
Following remand, upon resubmission by the commission, the council shall hold a public hearing as described above and take final action on the request.
(8)
City council may continue any hearing to a fixed date, time, and place, subject to the time restriction for acting on an application as listed above in subsection (F)(5).
(G)
Modification of application by applicant.
(1)
Prior to public hearing. An application may be modified by the applicant any time prior to the administrator submitting the required notice for the public hearing for publication to the newspaper of general circulation. Such modification request must be in writing from the applicant and submitted to the administrator.
(2)
During the public hearing. In response to questions or comments by persons appearing at the public hearing, or in response to suggestions or recommendations from the reviewing body, the applicant may agree to modify his application, including the plans and specifications submitted. Unless such modifications are so substantial or material that the reviewing body cannot reasonably perceive the nature and impact of the proposed modifications without having revised plans before it, the reviewing body may approve the application contingent upon receiving plans reflecting the agreed-upon changes. Any required permit will not be issued until the plans reflecting the agreed-upon modifications are verified by the administrator.
(H)
Withdrawal of application. Any application may be withdrawn prior to final action at the discretion of the person, firm or corporation initiating such request upon written notice to the administrator. The fee for a withdrawn application shall not be refunded once public notice of the application has been initiated.
(I)
Time for reconsideration following denial When an application is denied by city council, the same type of application on the same property shall not be considered for six (6) months from the date of the denied application.
(Ord. No. 2017-25, § 2, 12-19-17; Ord. No. 2018-17, § 1, 8-21-18; Ord. No. 2021-12, § 1, 7-6-21; Ord. No. 2022-18, §§ 1, 2, 6-7-22; Ord. No. 2023-22, §§ 1, 2, 6-20-23)
Sec. 2-3. - Specific application requirements.
modified
2-3.1. Official zoning district map amendments; annexation and zoning of land.
(A)
In reviewing a proposed amendment to the official zoning district map and taking action on said proposed amendment, the planning commission and city council shall consider the following standards governing the exercise of the zoning power as adopted in accordance with O.C.G.A. § 36-66-5(b):
(1)
The existing land uses and zoning classification of nearby property;
(2)
The suitability of the subject property for the zoned purposes;
(3)
The extent to which the property values of the subject property are diminished by the particular zoning restrictions;
(4)
The extent to which the destruction of property values of the subject property promotes the health, safety, morals or general welfare of the public;
(5)
The relative gain to the public as compared to the hardship imposed upon the individual property owner;
(6)
Whether the subject property has a reasonable economic use as currently zoned;
(7)
The length of time the property has been vacant as zoned considered in the context of land development in the area in the vicinity of the property;
(8)
Whether the proposed zoning will allow uses that are suitable in view of the uses and development of adjacent and nearby property;
(9)
Whether the proposed zoning will adversely affect the existing use or usability of adjacent or nearby property;
(10)
Whether the zoning proposal is in conformity with the policies and intent of the comprehensive plan;
(11)
Whether the zoning proposal will result in a use which will cause an excessive burden upon existing streets, transportation facilities, utilities, or schools; and
(12)
Whether there are other existing or changing conditions affecting the use and development of the property which give supporting grounds for either approval or disapproval of the zoning proposal.
(B)
In reviewing an application for annexation and zoning of land and taking action on said application, the planning commission and city council shall consider the following standards:
(1)
The existing land uses and zoning classification of nearby property;
(2)
Whether the proposed zoning will allow uses that are suitable in view of the uses and development of adjacent and nearby property;
(3)
Whether the proposed zoning will adversely affect the existing use or usability of adjacent or nearby property;
(4)
Whether the zoning proposal is in conformity with the policies and intent of the comprehensive plan;
(5)
Whether the zoning proposal will result in a use which will cause an excessive burden upon existing streets, transportation facilities, utilities, or schools; and
(6)
Whether there are other existing or changing conditions affecting the use and development of the property which give supporting grounds for either approval or disapproval of the zoning proposal.
2-3.2. Amendments to the text of the ordinance.
(A)
In reviewing an application for an amendment to the text of the ordinance and acting on said application, the planning commission and city council may consider the following standards:
(1)
Whether, and the extent to which, the proposed amendment is consistent with the comprehensive plan;
(2)
Whether, and the extent to which, the proposed amendment is consistent with the provisions of this chapter and related city regulations;
(3)
Whether, and the extent to which, there are changed conditions from the conditions prevailing at the time that the original text was adopted;
(4)
Whether, and the extent to which, the proposed amendment addresses a demonstrated community need;
(5)
Whether, and the extent to which, the proposed amendment is consistent with the purpose and intent of the zoning districts in this chapter, will promote compatibility among uses, and will promote efficient and responsible development within the city;
(6)
Whether, and the extent to which, the proposed amendment will result in logical and orderly development pattern;
(7)
Whether, and the extent to which, the proposed amendment will result in beneficial impacts on the natural environment and its ecology, including, but not limited to, water, air, noise, stormwater management, wildlife, vegetation, and wetlands; and
(8) Whether, and the extent to which, the proposed amendment will result in development that is adequately served by public facilities and services (roads, potable water, sewerage, schools, parks, police, fire, and emergency medical facilities).
2-3.3. Planned unit development (PUD). Permitted uses for planned unit development districts are established in subsection 4-1.3 of this chapter. Use, area, bulk, and height requirements shall be determined by the procedures set forth in this section.
(A)
Specific requirements. In order to qualify for a planned unit development district zoning classification a proposed development area shall be in one ownership or management, or if in several ownerships, the application for amendment to this section shall be filed jointly by all of the owners of the properties included in the plan. Applications for planned unit development shall be submitted to the administrator pursuant to established application submittal schedules included in the administrative manual.
(B)
Procedure for approval of a planned unit development (PUD) district. The filing of a plan for a planned unit development shall follow the procedures for amendment to the official zoning map in section 2-2.2 and shall meet the requirements specified in this section. In addition, the following regulations shall apply:
(1)
Two (2) copies of a preliminary site plan shall be submitted to the commission.
(2)
The commission shall review the proposals prior to submitting a recommendation to the council. The commission may make reasonable additional requirements including but not limited to utilities, drainage, landscaping, and maintenance thereof, lighting, signs and advertising devices, screening, access ways, curb cuts, traffic control, height and setback of buildings, to protect adjoining uses, or to protect the PUD from adjacent uses.
(3)
Approval by the council subsequent to a public hearing constitutes creation of the planned unit development (PUD) district.
(C)
Preliminary site plan required. The preliminary site plan which accompanies an application for approval of PUD shall show the following:
(1)
The proposed title of the project and the name of the engineer, architect, designer, or landscape architect, and the development.
(2)
The north point, scale, and date; the scale of the site plan shall be as follows:
(a)
For projects containing fifty (50) acres or more, not more than one hundred (100) feet to one inch.
(b)
For projects containing less than fifty (50) acres, not more than fifty (50) feet to one inch.
(3)
Existing zoning and zoning district boundaries and proposed changes in zoning.
(4)
The boundaries of the property involved, the location of all existing easements, section lines, and property lines, existing streets, buildings and other existing physical features in or adjoining the project.
(5)
The location and size of existing and proposed streets, alleys, driveways, curb cuts, entrances and exits, loading areas (including number of parking and loading spaces), and outdoor lighting systems.
(6)
The location of proposed lots, setback lines, and easements, and proposed reservations for parks, parkways, playgrounds, school sites, and open spaces.
(7)
The location and height of all proposed main and accessory buildings for all structures except single- and two-family dwellings.
(8)
Location, height and material of all fences, walls, screens, plants and landscaping.
(9)
Proposed location, intended use, and character of all buildings. For residential structures, show type and number of dwellings, and minimum square footage of single-family detached dwellings.
(10)
Location, character, size and height and orientation or proposed signs.
(11)
A location map showing the position of the proposed development in relationship to the surrounding area.
(12)
A tabulation of the total number of acres in the project, gross and net, and the percentage thereof proposed to be devoted to different dwelling types, commercial uses, other nonresidential uses, off-street parking, streets, parks, schools, and other public and private reservations.
(13)
A tabulation of the total number of dwelling units of various types in the project and the overall project density in dwelling units per acre, gross and net, as required by district regulations.
(14)
A detailed legal description of the location of the site.
(15)
A discussion of the proposed standards for development including restrictions on the use of the property, density standards and yard requirements restrictive covenants. The commission may establish additional requirements for the preliminary site plan and in special cases, may waive a particular requirement if, in its opinion, the inclusion of that requirement is not essential to a proper decision on the project.
(D)
Final plat required. A final plat shall be recorded prior to submission of an application for a building permit. The plat shall comply with all laws, regulations, and resolutions governing the approval of subdivisions and, in addition, shall show all the features required on the preliminary site plan. A plat of development shall be recorded regardless of whether a subdivision is proposed. At least one of the final site plan maps shall include topographical contour lines at intervals no less than five (5) feet.
(E)
Review standards. The commission shall review plans for proposed planned unit developments for conformity with the comprehensive plan. Specifically, the proposed plan shall meet the following conditions:
(1)
The plan shall conform to the purpose and intent of this chapter as stated in section 1-3.
(2)
Access to all developed property shall be sufficient to provide for an acceptable level of fire protection.
(F)
Miscellaneous provisions.
(1)
Amendments and additions. Amendments or additions to an approved plan or to the boundaries of the PUD shall be accomplished subject to the same regulations and procedures applicable to a new application.
(2)
Deed restrictions. The commission may require filing of deed restrictions to help carry out the intent of this chapter.
(G)
Site design requirements.
(1)
Location of district. A PUD district may be established anywhere within the City of Perry, Georgia.
(2)
Site design, general. The proposed development must be designed so as to produce an environment of stable and desirable character not out of harmony with its surrounding neighborhoods. The review by the commission shall consider the following design elements:
(a)
Privacy. Personal and individual privacy shall be maintained and balanced with the provision of public and common areas.
(b)
Variety. Interest and variety shall be sought by means of street design and changes in mixtures of building types, heights, facades, uses, setbacks, plants, or size of open space. The design should be harmonious as a whole and not simply from street-to-street.
(c)
Traffic and parking No through or commercial traffic should be permitted; streets should not be straight for long distances, but should curve so as to discourage fast movement of traffic; group parking areas should be screened as defined in section 6-3 so that the vehicles are substantially hidden from the street.
(d)
Lot area and lot width, general. The commission will establish lot area and lot width. However, the minimum lot or width may not be reduced if the Houston County/Peach County Health Department determines that an increased area or width is necessary for health reasons.
(e)
Setbacks The commission will establish setback requirements for all structures.
(f)
Open space. Open space should be incorporated into the PUD plan. It can be common areas, parks, recreational facilities, greenspace, landscape buffers, pedestrian trails, etc. The open space can be suitably improved or unimproved if containing natural features worth of preservation.
(g)
Street standards. All streets in the PUD plan should be standard streets.
(h)
Other building requirements. The commission shall determine other development standards.
2-3.4. Historic preservation.
2-3.4.1. Purpose.
In support and furtherance of its findings and determination that the historical, cultural, and aesthetic heritage of the City of Perry is among its most valued and important assets and that the preservation of this heritage is essential to the promotion of the health, prosperity, and general welfare of the people;
To stimulate revitalization of the business districts and historic neighborhoods and to protect and enhance local historic and aesthetic attractions to tourists and thereby promote and stimulate business;
To enhance the opportunities for federal or state tax benefits under relevant provisions of federal or state law; and
To provide for the designation, protection, preservation and rehabilitation of historic properties and historic districts and to participate in federal or state programs to do the same;
The city council hereby declares it to be the purpose and intent of this section to establish a uniform procedure for use in providing for the protection, enhancement, perpetuation and use of places, districts, sites, buildings, structures, objects, and landscape features having a special historical, cultural, or aesthetic interest or value, in accordance with the provisions of this section.
2-3.4.2. Definitions.
The following words, terms, and phrases, when used in section 2-3.4 shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this subsection.
(A)
Building means a structure created to shelter any form of human activity, such as a house, barn, church, hotel, or similar structure. Building may refer to a historically related complex such as a courthouse and jail or a house and barn.
(B)
Certificate of appropriateness means a document evidencing approval by the historic preservation commission of an application to make a material change in the appearance of a designated historic property or of a property located within a designated historic district.
(C)
Exterior architectural features means the architectural style, general design, and general arrangement of the exterior of a building, structure, or work of art, including, but not limited to, the kind or texture of the building material and the type and style of all windows, doors, signs and other appurtenant architectural fixtures, features, details, or elements relative to the forgoing.
(D)
Exterior environmental features means all those aspects of the landscape which affect the historic character of the property or the development of a site, including, but not limited to, parking areas, driveways, walkways, fences, walls, landscaping, signs, or other permanent landscape elements, and other appurtenant environmental fixtures, features, details, or elements relative to the forgoing.
(E)
Historic district means a geographically definable area, possessing a significant concentration, linkage, or continuity of sites, buildings, structures, or works of art united by past events or aesthetically by plan or physical development. A district may also comprise individual elements separated geographically but linked by association or history. A historic district shall further mean an area designated by the city council as a historic district pursuant to the criteria established in subsection 2-3.4.3(B).
(F)
Historic property means an individual building, structure, site, or work of art, including the adjacent area necessary for the proper appreciation or use thereof designated by the city council as a historic property pursuant to the criteria established in subsection 2-3.4.3(C).
(G)
Material change in appearance means a change that will affect either the exterior architectural or environmental features of a historic property or of any place, district, site, building, structure, or work of art within a historic district, such as:
(1)
A reconstruction or alteration of the size, shape, or facade of a historic property, including relocation of any doors or windows or removal or alteration of any architectural features, details or elements;
(2)
Demolition or relocation of a historic building or structure;
(3)
Commencement of excavation for construction purposes;
(4)
A change in the location of advertising visible from the public right-of-way; or
(5)
The erection, alteration, restoration or removal or any buildings or other structure within a historic property or district, including walls, fences, steps and pavements, or other appurtenant features, except exterior paint alterations.
(H)
Site means the location of a significant event, a prehistoric or historical occupation or activity, or a building or structure, whether standing, ruined, or vanished, where the location itself maintains historical or archaeological value regardless of the value of any existing structure.
2-3.4.3. Recommendation and designation of historic districts and properties.
(A)
Preliminary research by the preservation commission.
(1)
The preservation commission shall compile and collect information and conduct surveys of historic resources within the City of Perry.
(2)
The preservation commission shall present to the city council recommendations for historic districts and properties.
(3)
Prior to the preservation commission's recommendation of a historic district or historic property to the city council for designation, the preservation commission shall prepare a report for nomination consisting of:
(a)
A physical description;
(b)
A statement of the historical, cultural, architectural and/or aesthetic significance;
(c)
A map showing district boundaries and classification (i.e., contributing, or non-contributing) of individual properties therein, or showing boundaries of individual historic properties; and
(d)
Representative photographs.
(B)
Designation of a historic district.
(1)
Criteria for selection of historic districts. A historic district is a geographically definable area, which contains buildings, structures, sites, objects, and landscape features or a combination thereof, which:
(a)
Has special character or special historic, aesthetic value or interest;
(b)
Represents one or more periods, styles, or types of architecture typical of one or more eras in the history of the municipality, county, state, or region; and
(c)
Causes such area, by reason of such factors, to constitute a visibly perceptible section of the municipality or county.
(2)
Boundaries of a historic district. Boundaries of a historic district shall be included in the separate ordinances designating such districts and shall be shown on the official zoning map of the City of Perry, or in the absence of zoning, on an official map designated as a public record.
(3)
Evaluation of properties within historic districts. Individual properties within historic districts shall be classified as:
(a)
Contributing (contributes to the district).
(b)
Non-contributing (does not contribute to the district, as provided for in subsection (B)(1) above.)
(C)
Designation of a historic property.
(1)
Criteria for selection of historic properties. A historic property is a building, structure, site, or object; including the adjacent area necessary for the proper appreciation or use thereof, deemed worthy of preservation by reason of value to the City of Perry, the region, or the State of Georgia for one of the following reasons:
(a)
It is an outstanding example of a structure representative of its era;
(b)
It is one of the few remaining examples of a past architectural style;
(c)
It is a place or structure associated with an event or persons of historic or cultural significance to the City of Perry, State of Georgia, or the region; or
(d)
It is the site of natural or aesthetic interest that is continuing to contribute to the cultural or historical development and heritage of the municipality, county, state, or region.
(D)
Requirements for adopting an ordinance for the designation of historic districts and historic properties.
(1)
Application for designation of historic districts or property. Designations may be proposed by the city council, the preservation commission, or:
(a)
For historic districts—A historical society, neighborhood association or group of property owners may apply to the preservation commission for designation;
(b)
For historic properties—A historical society, neighborhood association or property owner may apply to the preservation commission for designation.
(2)
Required components of a designation ordinance. Any ordinance designating any property or district as historic shall:
(a)
List each property in a proposed historic district or describe the proposed individual historic property;
(b)
Set forth the name(s) of the owner(s) of the designated property or properties;
(c)
Require that a certificate of appropriateness be obtained from the preservation commission prior to any material change in appearance of the designated property; and
(d)
Require that the property or district be shown on the official zoning map of the City of Perry and be kept as a public record to provide notice of such designation.
(3)
Required public hearings. The preservation commission and the city council shall each hold a public hearing on any proposed ordinance for the designation of any historic district or property. Notice of the hearing shall be published in at least three (3) consecutive issues in the principal newspaper of local circulation, and written notice of the hearing shall be mailed by the administrator to all owners and occupants of such properties. All such notices shall be published or mailed not less than ten (10), nor more than twenty (20), days prior to the date set for the public hearings. A notice sent via the United States mail to the last known owner of the property shown on the city tax digest and a notice sent via attention of the occupant shall constitute legal notification to the owner and occupant under this section.
(4)
Notification to DCA. No less than thirty (30) days prior to making a recommendation on any ordinance designating a property or district as historic, the preservation commission must submit the report required in subsection 2-3.4.3(A)(3) to the historic preservation division of the department of community affairs.
(5)
Recommendations on proposed designations. A recommendation to affirm, modify or withdraw the proposed ordinance for designation shall be made by the preservation commission within forty-five (45) days following the public hearing and shall be in the form of a resolution to the city council.
(6)
City council actions on the preservation commission's recommendation. Following receipt of the preservation commission recommendation, the city council may adopt the ordinance as proposed, may adopt the ordinance with any amendments they deem necessary, or reject the ordinance.
(7)
Notification of adoption of ordinance for designation. Within thirty (30) days following the adoption of the ordinance for designation by the city council, the owners and occupants of each designated historic property, and the owners and occupants of each structure, site or work of art located within a designated historic district, shall be given written notification of such designation by the city council, which notice shall apprise said owners and occupants of the necessity of obtaining a certificate of appropriateness prior to undertaking any material change in appearance of the historic property designated or within the historic district designated. A notice sent via the United States mail to the last known owner of the property shown on the city tax digest and a notice sent via attention of the occupant shall constitute legal notification to the owner and occupant under this section.
(8)
Notification of other agencies regarding designation. The administrator shall notify all necessary agencies within the City of Perry of the ordinance for designation.
(9)
Moratorium on applications for alteration or demolition while ordinance for designation is pending. If an ordinance for designation is being considered, the city council shall have the power to freeze the status of the involved property.
2-3.4.4. Application for certificate of appropriateness.
(A)
Exemptions.
(1)
The Georgia Department of Transportation and any contractors, including cities and counties, performing work funded by the Department of Transportation are exempt from this section.
(2)
Local governments are exempt from the requirement of obtaining certificates of appropriateness; provided, however, that local governments shall notify the preservation commission forty-five (45) days prior to beginning an undertaking that would otherwise require a certificate of appropriateness and allow the preservation commission an opportunity to comment.
(B)
Approval of material change in appearance in historic districts or involving historic properties. After the designation by ordinance of a historic property or of a historic district, no material change in the appearance of such historic property, or of a contributing or non-contributing building, structure, site, or object within such historic district, shall be made or be permitted to be made by the owner or occupant thereof, unless or until the application for a certificate of appropriateness has been submitted to and approved by the preservation commission. A building permit shall not be issued without a certificate of appropriateness.
(C)
Submission of plans. An application for a certificate of appropriateness shall be accompanied by such drawings, photographs, plans and documentation as may be required by the preservation commission.
(D)
Interior alterations. In its review of applications for certificates of appropriateness, the preservation commission shall not consider interior arrangement or use having no effect on exterior architectural features.
(E)
Technical advice. The preservation commission shall have the power to seek technical advice from outside its members on any application.
(F)
Public hearings on applications for certificates of appropriateness, notices, and right to be heard. The preservation commission shall hold a public hearing for each proposed certificate of appropriateness. The preservation commission shall cause to have posted in a conspicuous place on the property in question a minimum of one "public hearing" sign for every one thousand (1,000) feet of road frontage, each of which shall not be less than six (6) square feet in area, and which shall state the date, time, place, and purpose of the public hearing. Such signs shall be posted on the subject property at least fifteen (15) days prior to, but not greater than, forty-five (45) days prior to the public hearing. The preservation commission shall give the property owner, applicant, and others wishing to speak an opportunity to be heard at the certificate of appropriateness hearing.
(G)
Acceptable preservation commission reaction to applications for certificate of appropriateness. The preservation commission may approve the certificate of appropriateness as proposed, approve the certificate of appropriateness with any modifications it deems necessary, or reject it. The preservation commission shall approve the application and issue a certificate of appropriateness if it finds that the proposed material change(s) in the appearance would not have a substantial adverse effect on the aesthetic, historic, or architectural significance and value of the historic property or the historic district. In making this determination, the preservation commission shall consider, in addition to any other pertinent factors, the following criteria for each of the following acts:
(1)
Reconstruction, alteration, new construction or renovation. The preservation commission shall issue certificates of appropriateness for the above proposed actions if those actions conform in design, scale, building materials, setback, and site features, to the Secretary of Interior's Standards for Rehabilitation, Guidelines for Rehabilitating Historic Buildings, and any other design guidelines adopted by the preservation commission.
(2)
Relocation. A decision by the preservation commission approving or denying a certificate of appropriateness for the relocation of a building, structure, or object shall be guided by:
(a)
The historic character and aesthetic interest the building, structure or object contributes to its present setting.
(b)
Whether there are definite plans for the area to be vacated and what the effect of those plans on the character of the surrounding area will be.
(c)
Whether the building, structure or object can be moved without significant damage to its physical integrity.
(d)
Whether the proposed relocation area is compatible with the historical and architectural character of the building, structure, site, or object.
(3)
Demolition. A decision by the preservation commission approving or denying a certificate of appropriateness for the demolition of buildings, structures, or sites judged to be fifty (50) years old or older, or works of art shall be guided by:
(a)
The historic, scenic, or architectural significance of the building, structure, site, or work of art.
(b)
The importance of the building, structure, site, or work of art to the ambiance of a district.
(c)
The difficulty or the impossibility of reproducing such a building, structure, site, or work of art because of its design, texture, material, detail, or unique location.
(d)
Whether the building, structure, site, or work of art is one of the last remaining examples of its kind in the neighborhood or the city.
(e)
Whether there are definite plans for use of the property if the proposed demolition is carried out, and what the effect of those plans on the character of the surrounding area would be.
(f)
Whether reasonable measures can be taken to save the building, structure, site, or work of art from collapse.
(g)
Whether the building, structure, site, or work of art can earn reasonable economic return on its value.
(H)
Undue hardship. When, by reason of unusual circumstances, the strict application of any provision of this section would result in exceptional practical difficulty or undue hardship upon any owner of a specific property, the preservation commission, in passing upon applications, shall have the power to vary or modify strict adherence to the provisions or to interpret the meaning of the provision so as to relieve such difficulty or hardship; provided such variances, modifications or interpretations shall remain in harmony with the general purpose and intent of said provisions, so that the architectural or historical integrity, or character of the property, shall be conserved and substantial justice done. In granting variances, the commission may impose such reasonable and additional stipulations and conditions as will, in its judgment, best fulfill the purpose of this section. An undue hardship shall not be a situation of the owner's or occupant's own making.
(I)
Deadline for approval or rejection of application for certificate of appropriateness.
(1)
The preservation commission shall approve or reject an application for a certificate of appropriateness within forty-five (45) days after the filing thereof by the owner or occupant of a historic property, or of a building structure, site, or object located within a historic district. Evidence of approval shall be by a certificate of appropriateness issued by the preservation commission. Notice of the issuance or denial of a certificate of appropriateness shall be sent in writing to the applicant and all other persons who have requested such notice in writing filed with the preservation commission.
(2)
Failure of the preservation commission to act within said forty-five (45) days shall constitute approval, and no other evidence of approval shall be needed.
(J)
Necessary action to be taken by the preservation commission upon rejection of application for certificate of appropriateness.
(1)
In the event the preservation commission rejects an application, it shall state its reasons for doing so, and shall transmit a record of such actions and reasons, in writing, to the applicant. The preservation commission may suggest alternative courses of action it thinks proper if it disapproves of the application submitted. The applicant, if he or she so desires, may make modifications to the plans and may resubmit the application at any time after doing so.
(2)
In cases where the application covers a material change in the appearance of a structure which would require the issuance of a building permit, the rejection of the application for a certificate of appropriateness by the preservation commission shall be binding upon the building inspector or other administrative officer charged with issuing building permits and, in such a case, no building permit shall be issued.
(K)
Requirement of conformance with certificate of appropriateness.
(1)
All work performed pursuant to an issued certificate of appropriateness shall conform to the requirements of such certificate, in the event work is performed not in accordance with such certificate, the preservation commission shall issue a cease-and-desist order and all work shall cease.
(2)
The preservation commission and the city council shall be authorized to institute any appropriate action or proceeding in a court of competent jurisdiction to prevent any material change in appearance of a designated historic property or historic district, except those changes made in compliance with the provisions of this section or to prevent any illegal act or conduct with respect to such historic property or historic district.
(L)
Expiration of certificate of appropriateness. A certificate of appropriateness shall become void unless construction is commenced within six (6) months of date of issuance. A certificate of appropriateness shall be issued for a period of eighteen (18) months and may be renewed.
(M)
Record of applications for certificate of appropriateness. The preservation commission shall keep a public record of all applications for certificates of appropriateness, and of all the preservation commission's proceedings in connection with said application.
(N)
Acquisition of property. The preservation commission may, where such action is authorized by the city council and is reasonably necessary or appropriate for the preservation of a unique historic property, enter into negotiations with the owner for the acquisition by gift, purchase, exchange, or otherwise, of the property or any interest therein.
(O)
Appeals. Any person adversely affected by any determination made by the preservation commission relative to the issuance or denial of a certificate of appropriateness may appeal such determination to the city council. Any such appeal must be filed with the city council within fifteen (15) calendar days after the issuance of the determination pursuant to subsection 2-3.4.4(I)(l) or, in the case of a failure of the preservation commission to act, within fifteen (15) calendar days of the expiration of the forty-five-day period allowed for the preservation commission action pursuant to subsection 2-3.4.4(I)(2). The appeal shall be in writing and state the grounds for the appeal. The city council may approve, modify, or reject the determination made by the preservation commission, if the governing body finds that the preservation commission abused its discretion in reaching its decision. Appeals from decisions of the city council may be taken to the superior court of Houston County or Peach County, whichever is appropriate, in the manner provided by law.
2-3.4.5. Maintenance of historic properties and building and zoning code provisions.
(A)
Affirmation of existing building and zoning codes. Nothing in this section shall be construed as to exempt property owners from complying with existing city building and zoning codes, nor prevent any property owner from making any use of this property not prohibited by other statutes, ordinances, or regulations.
(B)
Ordinary maintenance or repair. Ordinary maintenance or repair of any exterior architectural or environmental feature in or on a historic property to correct deterioration, decay, or to sustain the existing form, and that does not involve a material change in design, material, or outer appearance thereof, does not require a certificate of appropriateness.
Editor's note— Ord. No. 2022-28, § 3, adopted Aug. 16, 2022, amended the title of § 2-3.4 to read as herein set out. The former § 2-3.4 title pertained to designation of historic overlay districts.
2-3.5. Special exceptions.
(A)
In reviewing a proposed application for a special exception, the planning commission and the city council shall consider the following standards, where applicable:
(1)
The existing land use pattern.
(2)
Whether the proposed use is consistent with the comprehensive plan.
(3)
Whether all proposed structures, equipment or material will be readily accessible for fire and police protection.
(4)
Whether the proposed use will be of such location, size, and character that, in general, it will be in harmony with the appropriate and orderly development of the area in which it is proposed to be situated and will not be detrimental to the orderly development of adjacent properties or a deterrent to the improvement of adjacent properties in accordance with the zoning classification of such properties, the existing land use pattern or the comprehensive plan.
(5)
Whether, in the case of any use located in, or directly adjacent to, a residential district or area:
(a)
The nature and intensity of operations will be such that both pedestrian and vehicular traffic to and from the use and the assembly of persons in connection therewith will not be hazardous or inconvenient to, or incongruous with, said residential district or area, or conflict with the normal traffic of the neighborhood; and
(b)
The location and height of buildings, and other structures, and the nature and extent of screening, buffering or landscaping on the site will be such that the use will not hinder or discourage the appropriate development and use of adjacent land and buildings in conformance with existing zoning districts and development pattern.
(6)
Whether the proposed use will increase the population density resulting in the increase or overtaxing of the load on public facilities such as schools, utilities, streets, etc.; or approval of the use would encourage adjacent areas to develop at higher densities than provided in the comprehensive plan resulting in the overtaxing of such public facilities.
(7)
Whether the proposed use will cause a health hazard, a public safety problem, or create a nuisance or cause excessively increasing traffic and associated congestion; create a drainage problem; generate unnecessary disturbance due to noise; the emission of smoke or other contaminants, odor, electrical interference, or cause pollution to land, air and/or water.
(8)
Whether the proposed change will adversely affect property values in adjacent areas.
(9)
Whether there are substantial reasons why the property cannot be used for a permitted use in the district where the property is located.
2-3.6. Short-term rental permit.
(A)
Purpose. The purpose of a short-term rental permit is to safeguard the life, health, safety, welfare, and property of the occupants of residential dwelling units, the neighbors of said occupants, and the general public, through the regulation of short-term rental property. The intent of a short-term rental permit is to preserve the neighborhood character of residential subdivisions within the City of Perry, to minimize adverse impacts to the housing supply caused by the conversion of residential units to visitor accommodation use, and to minimize adverse impacts on surrounding properties.
(B)
Applicability. An owner who desires to use its property as a short-term rental shall obtain a short-term rental permit prior to using, allowing the use of, or advertising the use of said property as a short-term rental unit.
(C)
Procedure.
(1)
Initial application.
a.
Application for short-term rental permit in a residential zoning district shall require a special exception pursuant to section 2-2.2. The owner shall demonstrate compliance with the standards in sections 2-3.5 and 4-3.5.
b.
The administrator is authorized to issue a short-term rental permit located in a nonresidential zoning district pursuant to section 2-1.5. The owner shall comply with the standards in section 4-3.5.
(2)
Renewal of permit. The administrator is authorized to issue a renewal permit for short-term rental pursuant to the provisions of this section.
(3)
Inspection required. No permit or renewal permit shall be approved for a short-term rental until the city has inspected the premises and found the premises to comply with minimum health and safety requirements for use and occupancy. If a premises fails to pass an inspection, a reinspection fee may be charged for each subsequent inspection.
(D)
Standards. A short-term rental permit shall be issued only upon a finding that the owner has demonstrated compliance with all of the goals, policies, and standards of this section and, in particular, with the standards in section 4-3, standards for specific uses.
(E)
Conditions of approval. In approving a short-term rental permit or renewal permit, city council or the administrator may impose restrictions and conditions on the approval, the proposed use, and the premises to be used, as are required to ensure compliance with the general goals and policies of this chapter or with particular standards of this section to prevent or minimize adverse effects from the proposed short-term rental on surrounding lands. The restrictions and conditions imposed must be related in both type and scale to the impact that the short-term rental would have on the public and surrounding properties. All conditions imposed shall be expressly set forth in the permit.
(F)
Effect. A short-term rental permit shall authorize the owner to operate only the particular short-term rental approved in the permit. A short-term rental permit shall not be transferred to another property or owner.
(G)
Expiration. A short-term rental permit shall expire on the last day of the month one year after the date of issuance. No short-term rental permit may be renewed without a completed renewal application submitted by the owner.
(H)
Renewal of permit. An application for a short-term renewal permit may be filed beginning thirty (30) days prior to expiration of a current permit. Every complete application for a short-term rental renewal permit shall include updates, if any, to the information contained in the original permit application or any subsequent renewals. The permit holder shall sign a statement affirming that there is either no change to such information, or that any updated information is accurate and complete. The administrator may require such certifications deemed necessary and proper to ensure continuing compliance with this chapter.
(1)
An application for a short-term rental renewal permit submitted after the expiration of the most immediate permit for the premises shall be treated as an application for a new permit as described in subsection (C)(1) of this section.
(2)
If a complete application for a short-term renewal permit is submitted less than fifteen (15) days prior to expiration of the current permit, the administrator in his or her sole discretion may grant a one-time extension of the current permit not to exceed ten (10) days.
(I)
Revocation of permit.
(1)
Grounds. Any permit issued hereunder may be revoked by the administrator if the permit holder has:
a.
Received more than two (2) citations for violations of this chapter or any other provision of the Code of the City of Perry within the preceding twelve-month time period; or
b.
Failed or refused to comply with an express condition of the permit and remains in noncompliance ten (10) days after being notified in writing of such noncompliance; or
c.
Knowingly made a false statement in the application; or
d.
Otherwise become disqualified for the issuance of a permit under the terms of this chapter.
(2)
Notice. Notice of the revocation shall be given to the permit holder in writing, with the reasons for the revocation specified in the notice, served either by personal service or by certified United States mail to their last known address. The revocation shall become effective the day following personal service or if mailed, three (3) days from the date of mailing.
(3)
Appeal. The permit holder shall have ten (10) days from the date of such revocation in which to file notice with the administrator of their appeal from the order revoking said permit. The appeal shall follow the procedures of section 2-2.1. An appeal shall not stay the denial or revocation of a permit unless otherwise directed by the administrator.
(4)
One year waiting period. In the event an owner's short-term rental permit is revoked by the administrator, a renewal permit shall not be issued for a short-term rental on the premises for one year of the date such permit was revoked. During the waiting period, a short-term rental permit may be issued to the owner of property located within one thousand (1,000) feet of the premises of the revoked permit.
(J)
Discontinuance.
(1)
The owner of a short-term rental unit legally established prior to August 1, 2023, shall obtain a renewal permit pursuant to this section or discontinue the short-term rental use no later than December 29, 2023. The owner shall demonstrate compliance with the standards in section 4-3.5.
(2)
If the short-term rental permit is not renewed, the owner shall discontinue the use no later than the date on which the existing permit or any extension thereof expires.
2-3.7. Variances.
(A)
In reviewing a proposed application for variance, the planning commission shall find that the application meets all the following standards:
(1)
By reason of exceptional narrowness, shallowness, shape, topographical conditions, or other extraordinary situations or conditions peculiar to a specific parcel of property, the strict application of these regulations would result in peculiar or unusual, practical, difficulties to or exceptional or undue hardship upon the owner of such property;
(2)
Such variance is the minimum reasonably necessary to overcome the aforesaid exceptional conditions;
(3)
Such variance can be granted without substantial impairment to the intent, purpose, and integrity of this chapter and/or the comprehensive plan or other master plan adopted for the property;
(4)
Such variance will not be detrimental to the use and enjoyment of adjoining or neighboring properties.
(B)
Nothing herein shall permit the commission to grant a variance to any setback or yard requirements for property zoned for commercial or industrial purposes when such property abuts or immediately adjoins any property zoned for residential purposes unless such residential property is proposed for commercial or industrial use in the comprehensive plan.
(C)
Variances cannot be granted for use of land or structures not permitted or prohibited, or to increase the density of development for a tract beyond that permitted by the zoning district.
(D)
If the hardship invoking the provisions of this section was the result of the applicant's intentional disregard or willful failure to comply with the terms of this ordinance, the commission may refuse to grant a variance.
2-3.8. Certificate of appropriateness.
2-3.8.1. Downtown development overlay district.
(A)
Application. Application for a downtown development overlay district certificate of appropriateness shall be made to the office of the administrator on forms provided therefore, obtainable from the office of the administrator. Each application shall be accompanied by sketches, drawings, photographs, descriptions, or other information showing the proposed sign, exterior alterations, additions, changes, or new construction as are reasonably required for the administrator.
(B)
Action on application for certificate of appropriateness. The administrator shall receive the application, together with the supporting information and materials, and act upon the application within forty-five (45) days after filing thereof; otherwise, the application shall be deemed to be approved and a certificate of appropriateness shall be issued. Nothing herein shall prohibit an extension of time where mutual agreement has been made. The administrator shall present the application for a certificate of appropriateness to the main street advisory board and the board may advise the administrator and make recommendations in regard to the appropriateness. If the administrator approves the application, a certificate of appropriateness shall be issued. If the certificate of appropriateness is issued, the application shall be processed in the same manner as applications for building permits. If the administrator disapproves the application, a certificate of appropriateness shall not be issued. The administrator shall provide the reasons in writing to the applicant.
(C)
Appeal provision. Any person adversely affected by any determination made by the administrator relative to the issuance or denial of a downtown development overlay district certificate of appropriateness may appeal such determination to the planning commission.
2-3.8.2. Historic properties and historic overlay districts.
See section 2-3.4.4.
Editor's note— Ord. No. 2022-28, § 4, adopted Aug. 16, 2022, amended § 2-3.8.2. in its entirety to read as herein set out. Former § 2-3.8.2. pertained to the historic overlay district.
2-3.9. Sign permit.
(A)
Purpose. The purpose of this subsection is to provide a mechanism for reviewing applications for sign permits to ensure all signs within the city comply with the standards of section 6-9, signs.
(B)
Applicability. No sign, except those exempted pursuant to subsection 6-9.13, shall be erected, installed, displayed, structurally altered, or otherwise changed without the sign installer/owner having first obtained a sign permit from the administrator pursuant to this section and the standards of section 6-9, sign standards.
(C)
Procedure.
(1)
Application for sign permit shall be submitted in the form established by the administrator.
(2)
The administrator shall review and act on an application for sign permit consistent with the procedures and requirements of subsection 2-1.5, duties and powers of the administrator.
(D)
Standards. A sign permit shall be approved upon a finding that the application complies with the standards of section 6-9, signs.
(E)
Conditions. In approving a sign permit, the administrator may impose conditions on the permit as may be necessary to ensure compliance with the standards of section 6-9, signs.
(F)
Appeal. An applicant may appeal the decision of the administrator with respect to the issuance of a sign permit pursuant to the provisions of subsection 2-2.1.
(G)
Inspection. Upon completion of the sign authorized by the permit, the applicant shall contact the administrator to inspect and verify compliance with the provisions of this chapter and the conditions of the permit.
(H)
Expiration. If the activity authorized by a sign permit has not begun within six (6) months from the date of issuance, the sign permit shall automatically and immediately be rendered invalid.
(I)
Amendments. A sign permit may be amended, extended, or modified only in accordance with the procedures established for its original approval.
2-3.10. Mural permit.
(A)
Purpose. Because murals on exterior walls become de facto public art, the purpose of a mural permit is to provide a reasonable process of review that safeguards both the interests of the community and those of the individual building/property owner. The standards for evaluating murals are designed to assure that murals within the City of Perry enhance the community's appearance, promote its history, economic development, and agri-tourism, without confusing drivers and pedestrians or causing any other negative impact on public safety or welfare.
(B)
Authority.
(1)
Main street advisory board. The main street advisory board is authorized to review and decide on an application for a mural permit pursuant to this section when the mural is to be in the downtown development overlay district.
(2)
Administrator. The administrator is authorized to review and decide on an application for a mural permit pursuant to this section when the mural is to be located outside the downtown development overlay district.
(C)
Procedures.
(1)
Initial submission of application. Application for mural permit shall be submitted to the administrator in the form established by the administrator.
(2)
Review and action by the main street advisory board. The main street advisory board shall consider an application for mural permit at a regularly scheduled meeting of the board, or a meeting called for such purpose. The main street advisory board shall consider the application, the relevant support materials, the staff report, and information presented at the meeting. The main street advisory board shall approve, approve with modifications, approve with conditions, or disapprove the application based on the standards in subsection 2-3.14(D), standards.
(3)
Review and action by the administrator. The administrator shall review and act on the application for mural permit consistent with the procedures and requirements of subsection 2-1.4, duties and powers of the administrator, and on the standards in subsection 2-3.14(D), standards. The administrator may solicit advice from individuals, boards, or other organizations as he deems necessary to carry out the provisions of this section.
(D)
Standards. A mural permit shall be approved only upon a finding that the applicant has demonstrated all the following standards are met:
(1)
Content, design, and location.
(a)
A mural shall not be a sign which includes words, letters, figures, symbols, or logos which advertise, identify, direct, or attract attention to a business, institution, organization, person, idea, product, or service. Directional elements, such as super graphics, signage and color-coding shall not be allowed, except where these elements are an integral part of the work of art. Work that portrays school, team, corporate or organizational mascots, and art that has singularly religious or sectarian purposes shall not be allowed. The mural artist's signature may appear, if it is not so prominent as to detract from the mural display.
(b)
Murals shall have relevance to the building, the neighborhood or to Perry, its values, culture, and people, and contribute to the fabric of the city. Murals should be based on the natural beauty of Perry and its surroundings, Perry's history or historic figures, local agriculture, or other relevant themes.
(c)
Murals must be of appropriate scale. Mural size shall be determined by the wall surface to be covered. Smaller walls may be completely covered. On large walls, murals should be large enough to dominate the wall surface, but not so large as to overwhelm the local streetscape.
(d)
A mural must be composed of one cohesive design, not disparate elements. Generally, only one mural will be permitted per structure.
(e)
Colors, though vibrant, should be complimentary and harmonious with the exterior colors of the building structure, as well as consistent with the chosen theme. Neon, fluorescent, or reflective-type paints or materials are discouraged. In the downtown development overlay district, colors should complement the approved color palette for this district.
(f)
A mural shall be an original work of art. If the artwork is a multiple, it will only be accepted if it is a limited edition. Reproductions, unlimited editions, decorative, ornamental, and functional elements of architecture shall not be allowed.
(g)
Relationship to the building on which a mural is proposed. A mural, by its design, construction, and location, shall not obscure or detract from the significant architectural features of the building structure, nor should the building's architecture be altered to accommodate the mural. A mural should not obscure windows or entranceways.
(h)
A mural may be painted on an appropriate substrate and attached to the building. A mural should not be painted on a brick or stone wall that has not been previously painted.
(i)
A mural, by its design, construction, and location, shall not have an adverse impact on adjacent properties or permitted uses. It should not be so large as to overwhelm adjacent architecture or become a visual distraction.
(j)
A mural shall not be in a residential zoning district.
(k)
A mural should be in a site where it will enhance and activate the pedestrian and the streetscape experience. The proposed site should be one with high levels of pedestrian traffic and is part of the city's circulation paths or should help to create a place of congregation and activity. A map of appropriate locations for murals may be provided by the city.
(l)
A mural should not cause distraction for pedestrians or drivers, nor should it cause any other negative impact on public safety and welfare.
(2)
Construction and maintenance.
(a)
The mural shall be designed and painted by a qualified artist/muralist with a successful track record of construction and installation of murals.
(b)
Murals shall be well designed and incorporate high-quality materials that enhance the overall appearance of the site. Materials may include paint or other media appropriate for exterior use, such as tile or mosaic. Materials shall be long-lasting and graffiti-resistant to the greatest extent possible.
(c)
Consideration of the structural and surface soundness, operational costs, and inherent resistance to nuisance, vandalism, weathering, and excessive maintenance of the artwork.
(d)
If a substrate material is proposed, the material shall be appropriately weather resistant, and the method of attachment shall not permanently damage the building.
(e)
An acceptable plan for routine maintenance shall be submitted. Routine maintenance of an artwork becomes the responsibility of the owner of the building on which the artwork is located. The artist should develop a maintenance program in coordination with the building owner for the proper long-term care of the artwork.
(E)
Conditions of approval. In approving a mural permit, the decision-making body may impose restrictions and conditions on the approval and the premises to be altered pursuant to such approval as are required to ensure compliance with the general goals and policies of this chapter or with standards of this chapter to prevent or minimize adverse effects from the mural on surrounding lands. The restrictions and conditions imposed must be related in both type and scale to the impact that the proposed mural would have on the public, the structure, and surrounding lands. All conditions imposed shall be expressly set forth in the permit approval.
(F)
Inspection. Upon completion of the mural authorized by the permit, the applicant shall contact the administrator to inspect and verify compliance with the provisions of the ordinance and the conditions of the permit.
(G)
Effect. Issuance of a mural permit shall authorize only the mural that is approved in the permit. The mural permit shall authorize the approved mural for three (3) years from the permit approval date. The decision-making body may extend the permit in increments not exceeding three (3) years based on condition and maintenance of the mural.
(H)
Expiration. The decision-making body may prescribe a time limit within which the mural authorized by the permit shall begin or be completed, or both. If a time limit is not prescribed by the decision-making body, the mural authorized by the permit shall be completed within ninety (90) days of the permit approval date.
(I)
Appeal. An applicant, or other aggrieved party, may appeal the decision of the decision-making body with respect to the issuance of a mural permit to city council. A written statement documenting the basis of the appeal shall be submitted to the administrator within thirty (30) calendar days of the date of the decision.
(J)
Maintenance. If, for whatever reason, the mural falls into disrepair, including, but not limited to, graffiti, peeling paint, or fading, the building owner shall be notified of the violation in writing and required to make necessary repairs within thirty (30) days. If the repairs are not made within the specified time, the city reserves the right to repair or remove the mural at the building owner's expense. The process found in subsection 10-6.4 will be followed.
(K)
Amendment. A mural permit may be amended, extended, or modified only in accordance with the procedures and standards established for its original approval.
2-3.11. Site plan permit.
(A)
Purpose. Site plan review is required to ensure that the layout and general design of proposed development is compatible with surrounding land uses and complies with:
(1)
Article 5, measurements and dimensional standards;
(2)
Article 6, development and design standards;
(3)
Article 7, stormwater management requirements and controls;
(4)
The design and specification manual; and
(5)
Other applicable provisions of this chapter.
(B)
Applicability. All development, unless exempted pursuant to subsection 2-3.11(C). Exemptions: Shall be required to obtain a site plan permit pursuant to this section prior to issuance of a building permit.
(C)
Exemptions. Internal construction that does not increase gross floor area, increase the intensity of use, affect parking requirements, or require correction of nonconforming landscaping, buffering/screening, or parking shall be exempt from the requirements of this section.
(D)
Procedures.
(1)
Submission and review of application. Site plans shall be submitted digitally for review by the administrator.
(2)
Action by administrator. The administrator shall review and act on the application for site plan permit consistent with the procedures and requirements of subsection 2-1.4. If a land disturbance permit (subsection 2-3.12) is required for the development, submission and review shall occur concurrently with the site plan permit. Both the site plan permit and the land disturbance permit, whenever required, must be approved, or approved with comments, prior to issuing a building permit, as applicable to the scope of the work.
(E)
Standards. A site plan permit shall be approved only upon a finding that the applicant demonstrates all the following standards are met:
(1)
Compatibility. The development and uses proposed in the site plan are allowed by right in the zoning district in which it is proposed, or the applicant has obtained a special exception permit or conditional use permit.
(2)
Zoning district supplemental standards. The development and uses in the site plan comply with section 4-3, standards for specific uses.
(3)
Development and design standards. The development proposed in the site plan and its layout and design comply with all standards in articles 5, 6, 7, and the design and specification manual, or the applicant has obtained a variance.
(F)
Expiration. The site plan permit shall expire twelve (12) months from the date of issuance, unless the work authorized by the site plan permit has commenced and continues at a reasonable time schedule to completion, as determined by the administrator.
(G)
Amendments. A site plan permit may be amended, extended, or modified only in accordance with the procedures and standards established for its original approval.
2-3.12. Land disturbance permit.
(A)
General.
(1)
Purpose. The purpose of this subsection is to ensure that no development or development activity disturbs or alters the surface of land in the city without a land disturbance permit approved pursuant to this section.
(2)
Authority. The administrator is authorized to approve, approve with conditions, or disapprove an application for a land disturbance permit. Conditions imposed by the administrator shall be reasonable to ensure compliance with the requirements of applicable regulations.
(3)
Applicability. No development activity, unless exempted pursuant to subsections 7-1.4(A)(3), 7-2.2 and or 7-3.4(E), shall disturb or alter, for any purpose, the surface of land in the city without a land disturbance permit.
(4)
Action by administrator. The administrator shall review and act on the application for a land disturbance permit.
(5)
Pre-construction meeting. After issuance of the site plan permit and land disturbance permit, the applicant's contractor and civil engineer shall attend a pre-construction meeting with the city prior to beginning any work authorized by such permits.
(6)
Responsibilities of the applicant.
(a)
During any land-disturbing operation the applicant shall be responsible for carrying out the proposed work in accordance with the permit, approved plan, specifications, and time schedule in compliance with all the requirements of this chapter and any other state or federal permit.
(b)
The applicant shall always maintain on-site the stamped and approved set of plans from the city for the permitted land-disturbing activity.
(7)
Inspection.
(a)
Representatives of the city are authorized to enter upon any land or water to inspect development activity, to verify the existing conditions of a development site, and to verify compliance with this chapter whenever the city deems necessary.
(b)
The applicant shall contact the administrator to inspect and verify compliance with the provisions of this chapter and the conditions of the permit prior to initiating any activity, once construction is complete, and any other time as determined by the administrator, design and specifications manual city specifications, or the regulations of this chapter.
(c)
All public infrastructure or work within the right-of-way must be approved by the administrator or be replaced to the standards of the design and specifications manual, city specifications, or the regulations of this chapter.
2-3.13. Subdivisions. The commission shall be the official platting authority.
(A)
Pre-application review. Whenever the subdivision of a tract of land within the jurisdiction of the commission is proposed, the subdivider should consult early and informally with the administrator for advice and assistance. The subdivider may submit sketch plans and data showing existing conditions within the site and in its vicinity and the proposed layout and development of the subdivision. The administrator shall return within fifteen (15) days the submitted sketch to the subdivider and shall inform the subdivider where the plans do not comply with the regulations set forth in the ordinance. No fee shall be charged for the pre-application review and no formal application shall be required.
(B)
Modification of subdivision requirements. Modifications of the provisions set forth in the subdivision regulations may be authorized by the commission in specific cases when, in its opinion, undue hardship may result from strict compliance; provided only such determination shall be based fundamentally on the fact that unusual topographical and other exceptional conditions require such modifications will not adversely affect the general public or nullify the intent of these regulations; provided further that any such modifications granted by the commission shall be made in writing to the subdivider and also made a part of the commission's records and the plat. Application for any modifications must be filed in writing with necessary supporting documents with the reasons and facts supporting the application.
2-3.13.1. Minor subdivisions. Notwithstanding the provisions stated elsewhere in this ordinance, the administrator is hereby delegated the authority to give preliminary and final approval in the name and on behalf of the commission to applications for approval of a subdivision not exceeding five (5) lots in size provided no new street is involved; the required certifications have been approved by the appropriate agent; no variances are involved; and all the requirements set forth in this ordinance are met. Final approval may be given by the administrator on a plat that was preliminarily approved by the commission.
2-3.13.2. Preliminary plats. Prior to issuance of a site plan permit and land disturbance permit for construction of subdivision improvements, the subdivider shall submit to the commission a preliminary plat of the proposed subdivision in accordance with the following:
(A)
Application for preliminary plat approval. Applications for preliminary plat shall be submitted digitally to the administrator pursuant to established application submittal schedules included in the administrative manual.
(B)
Review of preliminary plat. The administrator shall check the plat for conformance to the rules and regulations of this ordinance and report his findings and recommendations to the commission, which shall afford a hearing on the preliminary plat.
(C)
Preliminary approval. Following the hearing of the preliminary plat and other related material, the commission may express preliminary approval noting the conditions of such approval on three (3) copies of the preliminary plat with one copy being returned to the subdivider, one copy to the administrator for the council and one copy to be added to the records of the commission. Approval of a preliminary plat does not constitute approval of a final plat. It indicates only approval of the layout as a guide to the preparation of the final plat.
(D)
Automatic approval. Failure of the commission to act on the preliminary plat within thirty (30) days after submission thereof, without due cause, shall be deemed to be approval of the plat and a certificate of preliminary approval shall be issued by the commission on demand, provided, however, that the subdivider may waive this requirement and consent to an extension of time.
(E)
Disapproval. Following the hearing of the preliminary plat and other related material, the commission may find reasons detrimental to the public safety, health, and general welfare, or in conflict with adopted plans of the commission which required the disapproval of the preliminary plat. A statement of the reasons for disapproval shall be made on two (2) copies of the preliminary plat with one copy being added to the records of the commission. The applicant may reapply for preliminary plat approval in accordance with subsection 2-3.13(A) herein.
(F)
Expiration time. Preliminary approval shall expire and be of no further effect twelve (12) months from the date of the preliminary approval unless a site plan permit and land disturbance permit have been issued to construct at least one phase of the subdivision.
2-3.13.3. Final plats.
(A)
When construction of the subdivision or a recordable portion of the subdivision has been completed (except for items for which a performance guarantee can be accepted), the subdivider may apply to the administrator for final plat approval, using an application form provided by the administrator.
(B)
A final plat shall be submitted digitally, along with as-built drawings of streets, water, sewer, gas (if any) and stormwater facilities. If any streets, lands, or easements are shown on the final plat for dedication to the city, a warranty deed or deeds transferring title to said streets, lands, or easements in fee simple, in a form acceptable to the city, shall be submitted with the final plat application.
(C)
The administrator shall indicate on a review copy of the plat or in a written memorandum all comments related to compliance of the final plat with this ordinance, conditions of zoning approval, and the regulations of other city departments and state agencies as appropriate. The administrator shall have final staff authority to determine the applicability of any and all comments under this ordinance or conditions of zoning approval.
(D)
The administrator may not approve any final plat whereon is shown or by which is otherwise created a lot that would present particularly severe and unusual difficulties for construction of a building, which would clearly require a variance to be reasonably usable, or which is otherwise "unbuildable" due to the presence of floodplain, unusual configuration, lack of public utilities, or for any other reason.
(E)
The subdivider shall be responsible for compliance with all codes, regulations, zoning requirements and for the satisfaction of all the comments of the administrator.
(F)
Final approval by the administrator shall not be shown on the final plat until all requirements of these and other applicable regulations have been met, and the administrator has received a completed request for approval of development conformance and an executed development performance and maintenance agreement, prepared in accordance with the requirements of subsections 2-3.14 and 2-3.15.
(G)
The administrator shall further determine that either:
(1)
All improvements to the subdivision required for approval of the final plat under the rules and regulations of the City of Perry have been completed in accordance with the appropriate specifications; or
(2)
All the required improvements have been completed except final grassing, pavement topping, required landscaping, or sidewalks, in which case, a performance guarantee meeting the requirements of subsection 2-3.17 shall have been filed by the subdivider with the development performance and maintenance agreement.
(H)
Payment of the required plat recording fee shall be made to the city prior to approval of the final plat.
(I)
Once the administrator has approved the final plat and all other affected departments and agencies of government, as required, have certified compliance in writing or have stamped the plans as approved, the administrator shall sign the final plat, certifying that all the requirements of this ordinance and the conditions of zoning approval have been met, and that all other affected departments and agencies having jurisdiction have, if required, approved the plat. The final plat shall not be deemed approved until it has been signed by the administrator.
(J)
Recordation of approved final plat.
(1)
The administrator will forward the executed deeds for the streets, lands, and easements as well as the development performance and maintenance agreement and documents required under subsection 2-3.15 to the city council for approval.
(2)
Once the final subdivision plat has been certified and the city council approvals have been granted, it shall be recorded by the administrator, or by the applicant with the administrator's approval, with the clerk of the superior court.
(3)
If recorded by the applicant, one copy of the recorded plat shall be filed by the applicant with the records of the community development department, showing the map book and page numbers where the plat is recorded.
2-3.14. Certificate of development conformance.
(A)
Pre-requisite to final plat or certificate of occupancy approval.
(1)
Approval of a certificate of development conformance for any part of a project included in a site plan permit shall be a prerequisite to the approval of a final plat for a subdivision or issuance of a certificate of occupancy for any part of a project included in a site plan permit, except for single-family and two-family residential structures.
(2)
The approval shall reflect the owner's certification that all site work and construction has been accomplished according to the terms of approved plans and permits, and that all facilities or improvements required by this ordinance comply with appropriate standards, regulations, codes, and ordinances. Such approval shall be revoked in cases of fraud or whenever unauthorized changes are made to the site without the benefit of required permits.
(B)
Submission requirements.
(1)
Upon completion of the project or a phase of the project as authorized for construction by the site plan permit, the owner shall file a certificate of development conformance with the administrator along with record "as-built" drawings of the water system, sanitary sewer improvements, natural gas facilities, if any, all stormwater facilities and modifications to the limits of the one hundred-year floodplain (if any), along with deeds for all streets, stormwater ponds, easements, and other lands intended for dedication to the public.
(2)
The certificate of development conformance shall be accompanied by a development performance and maintenance agreement completed in draft form. If the owner is a corporation, the documents shall be signed by the president or other authorized officer, and either the corporate secretary shall attest to the signature and affix the corporate seal, or a certificate of corporate resolution shall also be submitted. See administrative manual for examples of such instruments.
(C)
Approval. Following final inspection and approval of all record "as-built" drawings, the administrator shall approve the certificate of development conformance.
2-3.15. Project closeout and continuing maintenance.
(A)
Development performance and maintenance agreement. Based upon the approved certificate of development conformance, the owner shall file a final development performance and maintenance agreement with the administrator, along with any required certificate of corporate resolution and performance or maintenance surety, as a prerequisite to the approval of a final plat for a subdivision or issuance of a certificate of occupancy for any part of a project included in the site plan permit, except for single-family and two-family residential structures. The development performance and maintenance agreement (see administrative manual for an example) shall include the following:
(1)
Performance. If applicable, agreement to complete required improvements yet to be completed (e.g., grassing, topping, sidewalks, required landscaping) by a date certain, and to provide performance surety to guarantee such completion in accordance with subsection 2-3.17. Final landscaping shall be provided in accordance with a schedule acceptable to the administrator. The developer may be allowed up to nine (9) months in which to finish the other designated improvements, after the date of approval of the certificate of development conformance.
(2)
Maintenance. Agreement to maintain and repair or restore as necessary all street, water system, sanitary sewer, drainage, and landscaping improvements as required by this ordinance, whether public or private, and to provide maintenance surety to guarantee such maintenance in accordance with subsection 2-3.16. Repairs shall be made for any deficiencies identified within the maintenance period or the maintenance surety shall be called to complete same.
(3)
Indemnification of the city against all liability for damages arising as a result of errors or omissions in the design or construction of the development for a period of twenty (20) years. If liability is subsequently assigned or transferred to a successor in title or other person, a copy of such legal instrument shall be filed with the Superior Court of Houston County or Peach County, as applicable. Failure to record such instrument shall not affect the assignment of responsibility for liability indemnification.
2-3.16. Maintenance warranty. The owner shall be responsible for the full cost of maintenance after completion of all improvements required by this ordinance, whether public or private, in accordance with the development performance and maintenance agreement for the project and the provisions of this section.
(A)
Maintenance surety required.
(1)
Prior to approval of a final subdivision plat, or issuance of a certificate of occupancy for a multifamily or nonresidential development project, a maintenance warranty in a form of surety as described in this section is required for all stormwater facilities, water system improvements, sanitary sewer facilities, and for all street and stormwater drainage improvements shown on the record "as-built" surveys, and for all landscaping specifically required by this ordinance.
(2)
The provision of such surety shall not limit the owner's responsibility for the full cost of maintenance, repair, or restoration during the maintenance period of all improvements required by this ordinance and included in the pertinent development performance and maintenance agreement.
(B)
Maintenance period.
(1)
Start date. For a subdivision, the start of the maintenance period shall be the date of final subdivision plat approval. For a multi-family or nonresidential development project, the start of the maintenance period shall be the date of issuance of the certificate of occupancy.
(2)
The maintenance period shall extend for twenty-four (24) calendar months from the start date, above, or from the date of completion and city approval of the last deferred improvement covered by a performance guarantee, whichever occurs later.
(3)
The maintenance period will be extended for staged or phased developments in those cases that meet the provisions of subsection 2-3.16(E).
(C)
Maintenance surety standards.
(1)
For continuing maintenance of the water system improvements, sanitary sewer facilities, stormwater facilities and for maintenance of the street and stormwater drainage improvements, the following shall apply:
a.
The maintenance surety shall be in the form of a valid irrevocable letter of credit issued by a bank or other reputable financial institution chartered to do business in the State of Georgia. Such letter of credit must comply with the requirements of subsection 2-3.16(D).
b.
The value of the maintenance surety shall be equal to thirty-three (33) percent of the cost of construction of the water, sanitary sewer, stormwater facilities, street and stormwater drainage improvements shown on the as-built surveys and as estimated for deferred improvements under subsection 2-3.17(B). Copies of contractor agreements or actual invoices paid, or as otherwise determined by the administrator, shall evidence the cost of construction.
c.
The maintenance surety shall include the estimated cost for maintenance of continuing operations of the stormwater drainage and detention pond facilities during the maintenance period. Maintenance shall include repair of erosion controls, removal of silt from detention ponds and other items pertinent to the continuing operation of the stormwater drainage system for the development.
(2)
A maintenance surety for continued compliance with the buffer and landscaping requirements of this ordinance, as applicable, shall be in the form of a landscaping warranty. The landscaping warranty shall provide for the replacement or restoration of any or all plantings and landscape material for a period of twelve (12) calendar months from the date of city approval following installation of such plantings and landscape material. Such warranty shall be in a form acceptable to the city (see administrative manual for an example).
(3)
Repairs shall be made for any deficiencies identified in the covered improvements within the maintenance period or the surety shall be called by the city to complete same.
(D)
Letter of credit for maintenance surety. The letter of credit shall be in a form acceptable to the city (see administrative manual for an example). The executed letter of credit shall be submitted with the final development performance and maintenance agreement and shall certify the following:
(1)
That the issuer guarantees funds as an assignment in an amount no less than the total amount determined in accordance with subsection 2-3.16(C).
(2)
That the issuer guarantees that any liens or encumbrances that exist or may be placed on the improvements will not become the responsibility of the city under any circumstances.
(3)
That if the owner fails to maintain, repair, replace or restore each of the specified improvements within the maintenance period, upon written demand of the administrator the issuer will pay to the city immediately, and without further action, the full amount of the total assignment stated in the letter of credit (less the actual cost of covered improvements expended as of the date of demand and accepted by the city as to reasonableness).
(4)
That the letter of credit shall not be terminated less than sixty (60) calendar days after the date of the end of the maintenance period as contained in the pertinent development performance and maintenance agreement, may not be withdrawn, or reduced in amount, and will be automatically renewed on a month-to-month basis until released in writing by the administrator.
(E)
Phased developments.
(1)
In cases where a second phase or any other later stage of a subdivision or site development project will utilize the streets, water system improvements, sanitary sewer facilities, or drainage facilities provided in the original or an earlier phase of the project, the maintenance surety for the second or later phase of the project shall include the streets, water system improvements, sanitary sewer facilities, or drainage facilities located in the original or earlier phase of the project for the duration of the maintenance period of the second or later phase of the project.
(2)
In cases where a second phase or any other later stage of a subdivision or site development project will utilize the same streets, water system improvements, sanitary sewer facilities, or drainage facilities as those covered by an active maintenance surety for the original or earlier phase of the project, said maintenance surety for the original or earlier phase of the project shall be extended in amount and duration to continue coverage of the original or earlier phase throughout the maintenance period of the second or later phase of the project.
(F)
Release of maintenance warranty.
(1)
Prior to the end of the maintenance period, the administrator will have the improvements covered by the maintenance warranty inspected and identify any repairs, replacement, or restoration needed to maintain or return the improvements to full compliance with the "as-built" standards and requirements for such improvements required by this ordinance.
(2)
The developer shall undertake and complete all maintenance, repairs, replacement, or restoration identified in paragraph (1) of this subsection in a timely manner.
(3)
When the warranty work identified in paragraph (1) of this subsection has been completed by the developer and approved by the administrator for conformity with this ordinance, the maintenance warranty shall be released by the administrator, and written notice of such release shall be provided to the issuer of the letter of credit.
(4)
The maintenance surety shall be automatically extended by the issuer beyond the expiration date stated in such surety on a month-to-month basis if all inspections of warranty work required by paragraph (1) of this subsection have not been completed to the satisfaction of the administrator, prior to said expiration date stated in the maintenance surety, unless written demand for nonperformance is received by the issuer in accordance with subsection 2-3.17(D).
2-3.17. Performance guarantee. As a prerequisite to approval of a final plat for a subdivision or a certificate of occupancy for a multifamily or nonresidential development project, completion of certain improvements required under this ordinance may be deferred in accordance with the development performance and maintenance agreement for the project and the provisions of this section.
(A)
Posting performance guarantee.
(1)
The applicant may post a performance guarantee for the construction of certain deferred improvements required under this ordinance as an attachment to the development performance and maintenance agreement and of a type acceptable to the city council.
(2)
Improvements eligible for deferral under performance surety are limited to final topping of streets, installation of sidewalks, installation of plantings and landscape materials, and grassing of street shoulders and easements, as applicable to the project. All other improvements required by this ordinance shall have been completed by the developer, inspected, and approved by the administrator, and covered by the certificate of development conformance for the project.
(3)
Such performance guarantee shall comply with all statutory requirements and shall be satisfactory to the city as to form, sufficiency, and manner of execution. (See administrative manual for examples.) The period within which required improvements must be completed shall be specified in the development performance and maintenance agreement and shall not exceed nine (9) months from the date of approval of the certificate of development conformance unless an extension of an additional three (3) calendar months has been granted by the administrator.
(4)
The expiration date of the performance guarantee shall be no less than sixty (60) days following the date established in the development performance and maintenance agreement for completion of the deferred improvements. "Completion of the improvements" shall mean the final inspection and approval by the administrator, or his designee, of the improvements in accordance with the design and construction standards of this ordinance.
(5)
Such guarantee shall be approved by the administrator as to amount and type of surety and conditions satisfactory to the administrator. The administrator may subsequently, upon proof of difficulty, approve extension of the completion date set forth in such guarantee for a maximum period of up to three (3) additional months.
(B)
Cost of improvements. The cost of the improvements to be completed shall be established based on a properly executed and binding contract between the developer and the contractor selected to perform the work and shall be supported by detailed cost estimates prepared by the contractor or a qualified design professional. Said contract and cost estimates shall be determined by the administrator to be sufficient to cover the full cost of design, surveying, construction, inspection, and preparation of as-built surveys, construction management and all other costs of the improvements.
(C)
Restrictions pending completion of improvements.
(1)
No building permit shall be issued on any lot until continuous paved road access to the lot from the public road system has been established in accordance with the provisions of this ordinance. "Established" means having received final inspection and approval by the administrator of the road in accordance with the design and construction standards of this ordinance.
(2)
For subdivisions and development projects that are staged in multiple phases, each phase must have continuous paved road access from the public road system to the boundary of the phase in accordance with the provisions of this ordinance. No phase can be approved for final plat recordation if its access depends on improvements that have not been completed in an earlier phase.
(D)
Failure to complete improvements.
(1)
In those cases where a performance guarantee has been posted and required improvements have either not been installed within the terms of such performance guarantee or have not progressed in a timely manner such that completion within the period of the guarantee can be achieved, the administrator may thereupon declare the guarantee to be in default and require that the issuer of the performance guarantee turn over to the city such funds that are due and payable under the terms of the guarantee.
(2)
A default also shall be deemed to have occurred on the part of the owner if, in the sole judgment of the administrator, the owner has:
a.
Abandoned or unnecessarily delayed the performance of its obligations under the pertinent development performance and maintenance agreement; or
b.
Renounced or repudiated its obligations under the said agreement; or
c.
Clearly demonstrated through insolvency, delay or otherwise, that its obligations under the said agreement cannot be completed within the time allotted under the said agreement; or
d.
Has not complied with or is not in compliance with the minimum standards of this ordinance for any one or more of the subject improvements; or
e.
Transferred ownership of any portion of the project to a third party without assignment of the remaining responsibilities hereunder; or
f.
Caused or experienced any damage to new or previously existing improvements creating an emergency situation.
(E)
Return of guarantee. When the improvements have been completed and inspected and approved by the administrator for conformity with this ordinance, the performance guarantee shall be released by the administrator.
(F)
Types of acceptable performance guarantees.
(1)
Letter of credit. The developer shall provide a valid irrevocable letter of credit from a bank or other reputable financial institution chartered to do business in the State of Georgia, for approval by the administrator. The letter of credit shall be in a form acceptable to the city (see administrative manual for an example). The letter of credit shall certify the following:
a.
That the issuer guarantees funds in an amount equal to one hundred ten (110) percent of the cost, as established under subsection 2-3.17(B), of completing all required improvements.
b.
That the issuer guarantees that any liens or encumbrances that exist or may be placed on the improvements will not become the responsibility of the city under any circumstances.
c.
That if the developer fails to satisfactorily complete the specified improvements within the required period or is otherwise in default under subsection 2-3.17(D), upon written demand of the administrator the issuer will pay to the city immediately, and without further action, the full amount of the total assignment stated in the letter of credit, less the actual cost of covered improvements expended as of the date of demand. Such expenditures shall be evidenced by invoices and proof of payments and shall be subject to review and acceptance by the city as to reasonableness.
d.
That the letter of credit shall not be terminated less than sixty (60) calendar days after the date of performance completion as contained in the pertinent development performance and maintenance agreement, may not be withdrawn, or reduced in amount, and will be automatically renewed on a month-to-month basis until released in writing by the administrator.
(2)
Performance or surety bond. If a developer prefers not to post an irrevocable letter of credit, the city manager may allow the developer to post a performance bond as follows:
a.
A performance bond must be provided by a construction bonding or insurance company authorized to do business in the State of Georgia.
b.
The performance bond shall be in a form acceptable to the city (see administrative manual for an example).
c.
A performance bond shall certify the following:
i.
That the bonding or insurance company guarantees funds in an amount equal to one hundred fifty (150) percent of the cost, as established under subsection 2-3.17(B), of completing all required improvements.
ii.
That the bonding or insurance company guarantees that any liens or encumbrances that exist or may be placed on the improvements will not become the responsibility of the city under any circumstances.
iii.
That if the developer fails to complete the specified improvements within the required period or is otherwise in default under subsection 2-3.17(D), upon written demand of the administrator, the bonding or insurance company will pay to the city immediately, and without further action, the full amount of the limit of insurance stated in the bond, less the actual cost of covered improvements expended as of the date of demand. Such expenditures shall be evidenced by invoices and proof of payments and shall be subject to review and acceptance by the city as to reasonableness.
iv.
That the bond shall not be terminated less than sixty (60) calendar days after the date of performance completion as contained in the pertinent development performance and maintenance agreement, may not be withdrawn, or reduced in amount, and will be automatically renewed on a month-to-month basis until released in writing by the administrator.
(3)
Cashier's check or cash. In lieu of a letter of credit or bond the developer may provide cash or a cashier's check drawn from a bank chartered to do business in the State of Georgia. The amount of cash or cashier's check shall be in an amount equal to one hundred ten (110) percent of the cost, established under subsection 2-3.17(B), of completing all required improvements.
2-3.18. Certificate of occupancy. A certificate of occupancy shall be required in advance of occupancy or use of a building hereafter erected; for a building hereafter altered to affect height, or setbacks; and for a change of type of occupancy or use of any building on premises. A certificate of occupancy shall not be issued until the administrator has issued a certificate of development conformance.
2-3.19. Interpretations by the administrator.
(A)
Authority. Interpretations of this chapter shall be made by the administrator, including interpretations of the text of this chapter, interpretations of the zoning district boundaries, interpretations of whether an unspecified use falls within a use classification, use category, or use type allowed in a zoning district, and interpretations of procedures and application requirements for permits.
(B)
Initiation. A written interpretation may be requested by the city council, the planning commission, the historic preservation commission, any resident, any landowner, or any person having rights in contract in land in the city, or their authorized agent. The request shall be in writing and provide sufficient information and detail necessary to make an interpretation.
(C)
Rendering of interpretation. After the request for interpretation has been determined [to] provide sufficient information and detail to make an interpretation, the administrator shall review and evaluate the request in light of the comprehensive plan, this chapter, the zoning district map, and other relevant codes and statutes, and the[n] render an interpretation. The administrator may consult with the city attorney and other city staff before rendering an interpretation.
(D)
Form. The interpretation shall be in writing and sent to the requestor by regular mail or e-mail.
(E)
Appeal. Any person aggrieved by a written interpretation by the administrator may appeal the interpretation pursuant to subsection 2-2.1, variances and appeals of administrative decisions.
(F)
Official record. The administrator shall maintain a record of written interpretations that shall be available for public inspection during normal business hours.
(Ord. No. 2017-25, § 2, 12-19-17; Ord. No. 2019-03, § 1, 2-5-19; Ord. No. 2020-10, § 3, 7-21-20; Ord. No. 2021-12, §§ 2—7, 7-6-21; Ord. No. 2021-15, § 1, 8-17-21; Ord. No. 2022-28, §§ 3, 4, 8-16-22; Ord. No. 2022-33, § 1, 9-20-22; Ord. No. 2022-50, § 2, 12-20-22; Ord. No. 2023-22, § 3, 6-20-23; Ord. No. 2023-26, §§ 3, 4, 8-1-23; Ord. No. 2023-28, § 4, 8-15-23)
ARTICLE 3. - ESTABLISHMENT OF ZONING DISTRICTS

Sec. 3-1. - General provisions.
3-1.1. Compliance with district standards. No building or structure shall be erected, converted, enlarged, reconstructed, or altered for use, nor shall any land, building, or structure be used or changed, except in accordance with the district regulations of this article, the use regulations of article 4, the dimensional standards of article 5, and all other applicable regulations of this chapter.
3-1.2. Relationship of base districts to overlay districts. Lands within the city are classified into one of the base zoning districts and may also be classified into one or more of the overlay districts set forth in section 3-2, district descriptions. Where the property is classified into an overlay district as well as a base zoning district, the regulations governing development in the overlay district shall apply in addition to the regulations governing development in the underlying base district. In the event of an express conflict between the standards governing a base district and those governing an overlay district, the standards governing the overlay district shall control.
(Ord. No. 2017-25, § 2, 12-19-17)
Sec. 3-2. - District descriptions.
3-2.1. General purposes. The zoning districts contained in this section are established and intended to provide a comfortable, healthy, safe, and pleasant environment in which to live and work and, more specifically:
(A)
To provide appropriately located areas for all types of development that are consistent with the comprehensive plan and with standards of public health, safety, and welfare established by this chapter;
(B)
To ensure adequate light, air, privacy, and open space for each dwelling, and to protect residents from the harmful effects of noise, traffic congestion, and other significant adverse environmental effects;
(C)
To strengthen the city's economic base, and provide employment opportunities close to home for residents of the city and surrounding communities;
(D)
To provide land to accommodate planned population densities;
(E)
To create suitable environments for various types of commercial and industrial uses, and protect them from the adverse effects of incompatible uses; and
(F)
To minimize the impact of commercial and industrial development on abutting residential districts and uses.
3-2.2. Establishment of zoning districts and specific purposes.
(A)
Residential base zoning districts.
(1)
R-Ag, Residential-agricultural district. The R-Ag district is intended to be used for agricultural purposes and the lowest density detached single-family residential development.
(2)
R-1, Single-family residential district. The R-1 district is intended to be used for detached single-family residential development with low population density. Complementary uses customarily found in residential districts, such as community recreation facilities, places of worship, and schools, may be allowed.
(3)
R-2, Single-family residential district. This district is intended to be used for detached single-family residential developments with medium-low population density. Complementary uses customarily found in residential districts, such as community recreation facilities, places of worship, and schools, may be allowed. The R-2 district is intended to create a transition between R-1 districts and higher density residential districts.
(4)
R-2A, Single-family residential district. This district is a residual zoning district that shall only apply to properties that are zoned R-2A as of July 1, 2022. No parcels may be rezoned to the R-2A zoning classification after July 1, 2022. The regulations for development in the R-2A zoning district shall be those regulations set forth in this ordinance for the R-2 zoning district.
(5)
R-3, Single-family residential district. The R-3 district is intended to be used for detached single-family residential development with medium population density. Complementary uses customarily found in residential districts, such as community recreation facilities, places of worship, and schools, may be allowed. This district may be used as a transition between R-2 districts and higher density residential and commercial districts.
(6)
R-TH, Townhouse residential district. The R-TH district is intended to be used for attached single-family residential development with a medium-high population density. Community recreation facilities may be allowed. This district may be used as a transition between lower density residential districts and commercial districts.
(7)
RM-1, Multi-family residential district. The RM-1 district is intended to be used for two-family residential and small multi-family residential development with medium-high population density. Permitted residential uses include detached single-family, duplexes, triplexes, quadplexes, and apartments with six (6) units or less. Complementary uses customarily found in residential districts, such as community recreation facilities, places of worship, and schools, may be allowed. This district may be used as a transition between lower density residential districts and commercial districts.
(8)
RM-2, Multi-family residential district. The RM-2 district is intended to be used for multi-family residential development with high population density. Complementary uses customarily found in residential districts, such as community recreation facilities, places of worship, and schools, may be allowed. This district may be used as a transition between residential districts and commercial districts.
(9)
R-MH, Residential manufactured home district. The R-MH district is intended to be used for manufactured home subdivisions, manufactured home parks, individual manufactured homes and detached single-family residential development with medium population density. Complementary uses customarily found in residential districts, such as community recreation facilities, places of worship, and schools, may be allowed.
(B)
Commercial and industrial base zoning districts.
(1)
OI, office and institutional district. The OI district is intended as a district exclusively for office, institutional, and other low-intensity commercial uses which do not materially impact nearby residential areas. Medium to medium-high residential uses may also be allowed. The district may be used as a transition between residential districts and more intensive commercial districts.
(2)
LC, limited commercial district. The LC district is intended for small-scale, neighborhood businesses with a market orientation serving the surrounding neighborhood and community with convenience goods, limited retail sales, and personal services. These regulations are intended to reduce traffic congestion, provide adequate off-street parking, and discourage encroachment by other uses capable of adversely affecting the limited neighborhood commercial character of the district.
(3)
C-1, highway commercial district. Within a C-1 highway commercial district, uses are restricted to those which are designed to serve the automobile, its passengers and highway users rather than individuals who use an automobile as a convenience to perform necessary daily and weekly personal needs. The district is intended to be restricted to state and federal highways which may also have other business districts located on them.
(4)
C-2, general commercial district. The C-2 district is intended to provide a commercial district designed to serve the automobile, its passengers, and highway users and to provide community shopping facilities consisting of a wide variety of sales and service facilities and locations that will be accessible to all shoppers and highway users or both.
(5)
C-3, central business district (CBD). The C-3 district is intended to preserve downtown Perry as the city's center accommodating a unique mix of retail, entertainment, office, service, cultural, government, civic, and residential uses. The intent of the district is to preserve and encourage pedestrian-oriented development, including specialty and neighborhood-oriented retail and higher density residential options. District uses and standards are also intended to encourage future development in a manner compatible with the traditional character of the downtown and with nearby residential areas.
(6)
M-1, wholesale and light industrial district. The M-1 district is intended for wholesale and light industrial uses where resultant noise, odors, pollution, and congestion are minimized. Residential development is prohibited. This district is not suitable for heavy industrial uses.
(7)
M-2, general industrial district The M-2 district is intended to create and protect areas for industrial uses.
(C)
Special base zoning districts.
(1)
GU, Governmental use district. The purpose of GU district is to acknowledge and designate properties owned by the United States of America, State of Georgia, Houston County Board of Commissioners, Houston County Board of Education, Peach County Board of Commissioners, Peach County Board of Education, or the City of Perry.
(2)
PUD, Planned unit development district. The purpose of a planned unit development district is to offer developers the benefits of efficiency, economy, and flexibility by encouraging unified development of sites, while deriving for the city the advantages of improved appearance, compatibility of uses, optimum service by community facilities, better handling of vehicular access and circulation, and full definition of the proposed development. A PUD shall be consistent with the objectives of the comprehensive plan.
(3)
FBC, Form based code. The form based code is comprised of the IMU, interstate mixed use district; the MUC, mixed-use center district; the NMU, neighborhood mixed-use district; the FBR, form based residential district; and the OS, open space district. The intent and purpose of the form based code is to enable and support the implementation of the following policies:
a.
Within the boundaries of the Perry form based code, ordinary activities of daily life should be able to occur within walking or bicycling distance of most dwellings;
b.
Perry should serve people of all ages and allow residents to remain in the community as they age;
c.
Interconnected networks of streets should be designed to disperse traffic and reduce the length and number of automobile trips;
d.
A range of high-quality and aesthetically compatible housing options should be provided to accommodate different needs in the community;
e.
The quality-of-life in existing neighborhoods should be preserved and protected;
f.
Development patterns should make walking and bicycling safer and more pleasant;
g.
A range of useable open spaces including parks, squares, playgrounds, and preserved environmentally sensitive areas should be distributed throughout Perry;
h.
Buildings and landscaping should be coordinated to contribute to Perry's physical design and sense of place;
i.
Development should adequately accommodate automobiles while respecting the pedestrian and the design of public areas;
j.
Public buildings, gathering places, and areas for community events should be provided as locations that reinforce community identity;
k.
Public buildings should be distinctive and appropriate to a role more important than the other buildings that constitute the fabric of the area;
l.
The harmonious and orderly development and redevelopment of Perry should be secured through these regulations.
(D)
Overlay zoning districts. Overlay zoning districts provide additional regulations or restrictions on the based zoning districts over which they may be laid.
(1)
AH, Airport overlay district.
a.
Short title; jurisdiction. This ordinance shall be known and may be cited as Perry-Houston County Airport Zoning Ordinance. The description of airport zones is comprehensive for the Perry-Houston County Airport airspace requirements, but enforcement of this ordinance applies only to the incorporated areas of the City of Perry.
b.
Authority; findings; policy. This ordinance is adopted pursuant to the authority conferred by article 9, section 2, paragraph 4 of the Constitution of the State (Ga. Const, art. IX, § II, ¶ IV). It is hereby found that an obstruction has the potential for endangering the lives and property of users of the Perry-Houston County Airport and property or occupants of land in its vicinity; that an obstruction may affect existing and future instrument approach minimums of Perry-Houston County Airport; and that an obstruction may reduce the size of areas available for the landing, takeoff, and maneuvering of aircraft, thus tending to destroy or impair the utility of Perry-Houston County Airport and the public investment therein. Accordingly, it is declared:
i.
That the creation or establishment of an obstruction has the potential of being a public nuisance and may injure the region served by Perry-Houston County Airport;
ii.
That it is necessary in the interest of the public health, public safety, and general welfare that the creation or establishment of obstructions that are a hazard to air navigation be prevented; and
iii.
That the prevention of these obstructions should be accomplished, to the extent legally possible, by the exercise of the police power. It is further declared that the prevention of the creation or establishment of hazards to air navigation; the elimination, removal, alteration, or mitigation of hazards to air navigation; and the marking and lighting of obstructions are public purposes for which a political subdivision may raise and expend public funds and acquire land or interests in land.
(2)
DD, Downtown development overlay district. The intent of the downtown development overlay district is to preserve the historical and architectural character of the downtown development area within the jurisdiction of the downtown development authority.
(3)
HP, Historic preservation overlay district. The purpose of this district is to promote the educational, cultural, economic, and general welfare of the community through the preservation and restoration of its historic properties, spaces, neighborhoods, and other elements which serve as visible reminders of the cultural and architectural heritage of the City of Perry and the State of Georgia. Regulations are intended to ensure the construction, reconstruction, alteration, restoration, demolition or moving of buildings and appurtenant fixtures are consistent with the historic or architectural character of the area.
(4)
IC, Interstate corridor overlay district. This district is composed of lands adjacent to Interstate 75 (I-75). The new requirements are intended to regulate the placement of outdoor advertising signs along 1-75.
(5)
NC, Neighborhood commercial corridor overlay district. This district is composed of lands adjacent to the Macon Road, Swift Street/Houston Lake Road, Main Street, and Kings Chapel Road. The new regulations are intended to afford some protection to nearby properties from the negative aspects of commercial development.
(6)
PC, Parkway corridor overlay district. The district is composed of lands adjacent to the Perry Parkway and Larry Walker Parkway. It is expected that the new development along the parkway will be commercial in nature. The new regulations are intended to protect the visual character of the parkway by preventing the encroachment of unsightly development along the parkway.
(Ord. No. 2017-25, § 2, 12-19-17; Ord. No. 2022-20, § 2, 6-21-22; Ord. No. 2022-32, § 3, 9-20-22; Ord. No. 2022-39, § 3, 10-18-22)
ARTICLE 4. - USE REGULATIONS

Sec. 4-1. - Table of uses.
modified
Table 4-1-1 sets forth the uses allowed within the general use zoning districts.
4-1.1. Explanation of table.
(A)
P—Permitted uses. A "P" in a cell indicates that a use category is allowed by right in the respective district, subject to compliance with the use-specific regulations set forth in the final column of the table. Permitted uses are subject to all other applicable regulations of this chapter, including those set forth in article 6, development and design standards.
(B)
Reserved.
(C)
S—Special exception uses. An "S" in a cell indicates that a use category is allowed only if reviewed and approved as a special exception in accordance with the review procedures for special exception permits in article 2, administration.
(D)
Prohibited uses.
(1)
General. A blank cell indicates that the use type is prohibited in the district.
(2)
Prohibited uses. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, the following uses are specifically prohibited in all districts:
(a)
Any use that involves the manufacture, handling, sale, distribution, or storage of any highly combustible, toxic, or explosive materials in violation of the state fire code.
(b)
Rendering plants.
(c)
Production of chemical, leather, rubber, or similar products.
(d)
The display and sale of motor vehicles except for approved auto/truck/recreational vehicle sales establishments.
(e)
The repair of more than one motor vehicle owned by a person living at a residence.
(f)
Storage outside of a substantially enclosed structure of any motor vehicle that is neither licensed nor operational.
(g)
The use of a motor vehicle, trailer, or shipping container in which, out of which, or from which any goods are sold, stored, services performed, or other business conducted except pursuant to subsection 4.5.3(F).
(h)
Freestanding self-service vending units.
(E)
Additional regulations. Regardless of whether a use category is permitted by right or permitted as a special exception, there may be additional regulations that are applicable to a specific use. The existence of these use-specific regulations is noted through a section reference in the last column of the table entitled "additional regulations." References refer to section 4.3, use-specific standards. These regulations apply to all districts unless otherwise specified.
(F)
Uses not listed. The administrator shall determine whether or not an unlisted use is part of an existing use category defined in section 4.2, use classifications, or is substantially similar to an already defined use, using the criteria in subsection 4.2.1(D)(2).
4-1.2. Table of uses.
Table 4-1-1: Table of Uses
EXPAND
Key: "P" = Permitted Use; "S" = Special Exception Use; "C" = Conditional Use; Blank Cell = Prohibited Use
Use Category Use Type Zoning Districts Additional Regulations (Sections)
Residential Nonresidential Form Based Code 2
RAg
R1
R2
R3
RTH
RM1
RM2
RMH
OI
C1
C2
C3
LC
M1
M2
GU
IMU
MUC
NMU
FBR
Residential Uses
Household Living Single-family dwelling, detached P P P P P P P P P S P P
Single-family dwelling, attached P 4 P 4 P 4 P P 4 P P P P P 4-3.1(A)
Two-family dwelling P P P P P P P P P
Multi-family dwelling <7 units P P P P P P P P P P P
Multi-family dwelling >6 units S S S S P S S
Manufactured home P P
Manufactured home park P 4-3.1(B)
Manufactured home subdivision P
Dwelling in a commercial building P P P P P P P P P P 4-3.1(C)
Group Living Family personal care home P P P P P P P P P P P P
Boarding house P P 1
All other uses S S P P P P P P 4-4.3(D)
Accessory Use Residential business S S S S S S S S P P P P P P P P S 4-4.3(D)
Public and Institutional Uses
Community Service 1 All Uses S S S S S S S P P P P P P P P P S
Day Care Child learning center (19+ persons) S S S S P P P P P
Group daycare home (7—18 persons) S S S S P P P P P P
Preschool S S S S P P P P S P P P P
Education Business school S P P P P P
College or university P P P P P P P
School, public or private S S S S S S S P P P P P P P
Trade school P P P P P P P
Government Detention facility P
Emergency response facility P P P P P P P
Maintenance, storage, and distribution facility P P P
Police substation P P P P P P P P P
Post office P P P
Health Care Hospital P
Medical facility other than hospital P P P P P P P P
Institutions Religious institution S S S S S S S P P P P S P P P S
Congregate personal care home P P
Alternative/post incarceration facility S P
Rehabilitation facility P P 1 P P
All other uses P P P P P
Parks and Open Space Cemetery, columbarium, mausoleum S P P P P P P P 4-3.2(A)
Community garden P S S S S S S S P P P S P P P P P P P
Golf course S S P P P P
Park P P P P P P P P P P P P P P P P P P
Transportation Terminals Airport/heliport/landing strip P P
All other uses P P P P
Utilities Communication tower, freestanding S S P S P P P P 4-3.2(B)
Communication tower on existing structure P P P P P P P P P P P 4-3.2(B)
Utility, major S S S S S S S S P P P P P P P S
Utility, minor S S S S S S S S P P P P P P P P S
Commercial Uses
Eating
Establishments Brewpub P P P P P P
Drive-in restaurant P
Restaurant with drive-through window P P P P S
Restaurant with indoor and outdoor seating and/or food service areas P P P S P P P
Restaurant with indoor seating only S P P P S P P P
Restaurant with no seating P P P P P P
Offices All uses P P P P S P P P P
Outdoor Entertainment All uses P S 1 P P
Parking, Commercial Parking lot P P P P P P S
Parking structure S P P P P P P S
Retail Sales and Service Animal shelter and adoption service P P
Automobile parts store P P P P P
Bank, financial institution, ATM S P P P S P P P P
Bar, nightclub P P P P P P
Barber shop, beauty shop P P P P P P P P
Casino or gambling establishment S 4-3.3(C)
Civic club P P P P P
Convenience store P P P P S 4-3.3(A)
Convention and exhibition facility P P P
Event venue S P P P P P P
Farmers' market S P P P S P P S
Flea market P P
Fortune telling P
Funeral home, mortuary P P P P P
Retail Sales and Service (Cont'd.) Grocery store P P P P P
Health club, spa P P P P P P P
Indoor entertainment facility, general S P P S P P P
Kennel, pet boarding P P P
Landscape nursery P P
Liquor store P P 1 P P
Photography, art, dance studio or gallery P P P S P P P S
Personal services, all other S P P 1 P 3 S 1 P 3 P 3 P 3
Pet grooming, indoor only S P S P P
Prefabricated building display and sales P P P S
Retail sales and services, all other P P 1 P 3 S 3 P P P 3 P 3 P 3
Retail tenant exceeding 35,000 square feet P S P P 6-6.2
Sexually oriented business P P P 4-3.3(E)
Shopping center exceeding 50,000 square feet P P P P 6-6.2
Tattoo and body piercing establishment P
Veterinary clinic or hospital P P P P
Self-Service
Storage All Uses P S P P P 6-6.2
Vehicle Sales and Services Automobile rental P P 1 P P S 4-3.3(F)
Automobile sales P P 1 P P S 4-3.3(F)
Automobile repair P S 1 P P S 4-3.3(A&F)
Automobile service P P 1 P P S 4-3.3(A&F)
Automobile wash and detailing P P 1 P S S
Boat/recreational vehicle rental and sales P P P S
Taxicab service P P
Tire sales and installation P P 1 P P P P
Towing service P P
Truck and trailer rental and sales P P P S
Visitor
Accommodations Campground S
Hotel or motel S P P P P P S
Recreational vehicle park S 4-3.3(D)
Short-term rental unit S S S S S S S S P P P P P P P S
Service and Industrial Uses
Agricultural Operations Farm winery S S S 1 P P S S
Riding stable academy P S P 1 P P 4-3.4(A)
All other uses P S S S S S S 1 P P 4-3.4(A)
Industrial
Services Contractor's office with on-site storage/fabrication S P P P P P S
Truckstop or travel plaza P P P
All other uses P P P
Manufacturing and Production Artisan production establishment S P P P P
Brewery, distillery P S P P
Heavy manufacturing P
Light manufacturing, general P P P P
Mining
Operations All uses S
Research and Development R & D with outdoor storage P P
R & D with no outdoor storage P P P P P P
Testing Laboratory Testing lab with outdoor storage P P
Testing lab with no outdoor storage P P P P P P
Warehouse and
Freight Movement Outdoor storage lot P P P P S 6-3.7(A)
Truck or freight terminal P P P P
Warehouse P P
Waste Services Junk yard S 6-3.7(A)
Recycling drop-off center P P P
Waste disposal or treatment operation S S P
Wholesale Sales All uses P P P
1 - These uses are not permitted in the downtown development overlay district. For "Personal services, all other" and "Retail sales and services, all other," the limitation applies only to massage parlors that are not part of a "health club/spa" or "medical facility other than hospital" and tattoo establishments.
2 - Uses in the form based code districts are subject to standards of the form based code in appendix A of this chapter.
3 - Massage parlors that are not part of a "health club/spa" or "medical facility other than hospital" and tattoo establishments are not permitted.
4 - Townhouses are permitted only within the downtown development overlay district within these base zoning districts.
  4-1.3. Uses permitted in PUD. Within the PUD planned unit development district, any use is permitted with council approval.
(A)
Any use permitted in the R-1 residential district except that any public uses shall serve only the residents of the PUD District.
(B)
Two-family dwellings (duplex).
(C)
Townhouses, provided that such uses comply with the requirements for townhouses as set forth in subsection 4-3.1(A).
(D)
Multifamily dwellings.
(E)
Retail and service uses limited to the following: grocery, confectionery, bakery, newspaper, drug or hardware stores, barber, beauty, radio-TV repair, laundry pickup or laundromat, watch repair or shoe repair establishment, or dentist, or similar professional office, provided that:
(1)
Only business signs are to be used. No neon or directly illuminated sign shall be used either on the exterior or in windows. All signs shall be attached flat to the face of the building;
(2)
Off-street parking and loading requirements as indicated in section 6-1 are met;
(3)
Retail and service users are designed for the service and convenience of the population living within the PUD. No more than five (5) percent of the total floor space of the project shall be used for retail or service establishments.
(Ord. No. 2017-25, § 2, 12-19-17; Ord. No. 2018-08, §§ 3, 4, 6-19-18; Ord. No. 2018-17, § 2(Exh. A), 8-21-18; Ord. No. 2019-18, § 2(Exh. A), 10-1-19; Ord. No. 2020-36, § 1(Exh. A), 12-15-20; Ord. No. 2021-03, § 1, 1-19-21; Ord. No. 2021-16, § 3, 8-17-21; Ord. No. 2021-26, § 2, 12-7-21; Ord. No. 2022-20, § 3(Exh. A), 6-21-22; Ord. No. 2022-32, § 4(Exh. A), 9-20-22; Ord. No. 2022-39, § 4(Exh. A), 10-18-22; Ord. No. 2023-21, § 1, 5-16-23; Ord. No. 2023-22, § 4, 6-20-23; Ord. No. 2023-26, § 5, 8-1-23)
Sec. 4-2. - Use classifications.
4-2.1. General.
(A)
Purpose. Use classifications organize land uses and activities into general "use categories" and specific "use types" based on common functional, product, or physical characteristics, such as the type and amount of activity, the type of customers or residents, how goods or services are sold or delivered, and site conditions. The use classifications provide a systematic basis for assigning present and future land uses into appropriate districts. Use classifications describe one or more uses having similar characteristics, but do not list every use or activity that may appropriately be within the classification.
(B)
Structure of this section.
(1)
Principal use characteristics and accessory uses. The "characteristics" subsection describes common characteristics of each use category. Principal uses are assigned to the category that most closely describes the nature of the principal use. Also listed are examples of common accessory uses, which, unless otherwise stated in this chapter, are allowed in conjunction with a principal use and are subject to the same regulations as the principal use.
(2)
Examples. The "examples" subsection lists common examples of uses included in the respective use category. The names of these sample uses are generic. They are based on common meanings and not on what a specific use may call itself. For example, a use that calls itself "wholesale sales," but sells mostly to consumers, is included in the retail sales and service category rather than the wholesale sales category. This is because the activity on the site matches the characteristics of the retail sales and service category.
(C)
Developments with multiple principal uses. When all principal uses of a development fall within one use category, the entire development is assigned to that use category. A development that contains a coffee shop, bookstore, and bakery, for example, would be classified in the retail sales and service category because all of the development's principal uses are in that category. When the principal uses of a development fall within different use categories, each principal use is classified in the applicable category and each use is subject to applicable regulations within that category. Developments with multiple principal uses, such as shopping centers, shall incorporate only those uses allowed in the underlying district.
(D)
Unlisted uses.
(1)
Procedure for approving unlisted uses. Where a particular use category or use type is not specifically listed in Table 4-1-1, the administrator may permit the use category or type upon a finding that the criteria of subsection 4-2.1(D)(2) are met. The administrator shall give due consideration to the intent of this chapter concerning the districts involved, the character of the uses specifically identified, and the character of the use in question.
(2)
Criteria for approving unlisted uses. In order to determine that the proposed use has an impact that is similar in nature, function, and duration to the other uses allowed in a specific district, the administrator shall assess all relevant characteristics of the proposed use, including, but not limited to, the following:
(a)
The volume and type of sales, retail, wholesale; size and type of items sold and nature of inventory on the premises;
(b)
Any processing done on the premises, including assembly, manufacturing, warehousing, shipping, distribution;
(c)
The nature and location of storage and outdoor display of merchandise; enclosed, open, inside or outside the principal building; and predominant types of items stored (such as business vehicles, works-in-process, inventory, and merchandise, construction materials, scrap and junk, and raw materials including liquids and powders);
(d)
The type, size and nature of buildings and structures;
(e)
The number and density of employees and customers per unit area of site in relation to business hours and employment shifts;
(f)
Transportation requirements, including the modal split for people and freight, by volume type and characteristic of traffic generation to and from the site, trip purposes and whether trip purposes can be shared by other uses on the site;
(g)
Parking requirements, turnover and generation, ratio of the number of spaces required per unit area or activity, and the potential for shared parking with other uses;
(h)
The amount and nature of any nuisances generated on the premises, including, but not limited to, noise, smoke, odor, glare, vibration, radiation and fumes;
(i)
Any special public utility requirements for serving the proposed use, including, but not limited to, water supply, wastewater output, pre-treatment of wastes and emissions required or recommended, and any significant power structures and communications towers or facilities; and
(j)
The impact on adjacent properties created by the proposed use will not be greater than that of other uses in the district.
(3)
Prohibited uses. Notwithstanding subsection 4-2.1(D)(2), all uses that are not listed in Table 4-1-1, table of uses, even given the liberal interpretation of subsection 4-2.1(D)(2), are prohibited.
(4)
Effects of finding by the administrator.
(a)
Typical uses: Added to this chapter. In making the determination described in subsection 4-2.1(D)(1), the administrator shall initiate an amendment to this chapter if he finds that the particular use category or use type is likely to be common or to recur frequently, or that omission of specific inclusion and reference to this chapter is likely to lead to public uncertainty and confusion. Until final action has been taken on such a proposed amendment, the determination of the administrator shall be binding on all officers and departments of the city.
(b)
Atypical uses: Determination binding. In making a determination whether to approve an unlisted use, the administrator's determination shall thereafter be binding on all officers and departments of the city without further action or amendment of this chapter provided the administrator finds the particular use or class of uses is of an unusual or transitory nature, or is unlikely to recur frequently.
4-2.2. Residential use categories.
(A)
Household living.
(1)
Characteristics. Household living is characterized by the residential occupancy of a dwelling unit by a family. Tenancy is arranged on a month-to-month or longer basis. Accessory uses commonly associated with household living are garages, storage buildings, carports, swimming pools, basketball goals, etc. Home occupations are accessory uses that are subject to additional regulations (see subsections 4-4.3(C) and (D)).
(2)
Examples. Examples include occupancy of single-family dwellings, duplexes, and multiple dwelling structures, retirement center apartments, family personal care homes, manufactured homes, and other structures with self-contained dwelling units.
(3)
Exceptions. Lodging in a dwelling unit or where units are rented on a less than monthly basis is classified in the visitor accommodations category.
(B)
Group living.
(1)
Characteristics. Group living is characterized by the residential occupancy of a structure by a group of people who do not meet the definition of "household." The size of the group may be larger than the average size of a household. Tenancy is arranged on a monthly or longer basis. Generally, group living structures have a common eating area for residents. The residents may receive care, training, or treatment, as long as the caregivers also reside at the site. Common accessory uses include garages, storage buildings, etc.
(2)
Examples. Examples include dormitories, fraternities and sororities, monasteries and convents, group personal care homes, and boardinghouses.
(3)
Exceptions.
(a)
Lodging where tenancy may be arranged for periods of less than thirty (30) days is classified as visitor accommodations.
(b)
Lodging where the residents meet the definition of "household" and where tenancy is arranged on a month-to-month basis or for a longer period is classified as household living.
(c)
Most group home facilities are classified as institutions. However, group home facilities where individual units meet the definition of a "dwelling unit" in section 19-1.11, definitions, are classified as household living.
4-2.3. Public and institutional use categories.
(A)
Community service.
(1)
Characteristics. The community services category includes uses of a public, nonprofit, or charitable nature providing a local service to people of the community. Generally, they provide the service on-site or have employees at the site on a regular basis. The service is ongoing, not just for special events. Community centers or facilities that have membership provisions are open to the general public to join at any time (for instance, any senior citizen could join a senior center). The use may provide special counseling, education, or training of a public, nonprofit, or charitable nature.
(2)
Examples. Examples include libraries, museums, senior centers, community centers, youth club facilities, and social service facilities.
(3)
Exceptions.
(a)
Civic clubs and private or commercial health clubs are classified as retail sales and service.
(b)
Parks are classified as parks and open space.
(c)
Uses where tenancy is arranged on a month-to-month basis or for a longer period are residential and are classified as household or group living.
(B)
Day care.
(1)
Characteristics. Day care uses provide care, protection, and supervision for more than six (6) children or adults on a regular basis away from their primary residence for less than twenty-four (24) hours per day.
(2)
Examples. Examples include child learning centers (nineteen (19) or more people); group day care homes (seven (7) to eighteen (18) people); and preschools.
(3)
Exceptions. Day care does not include public or private schools or facilities operated in connection with an employment use, shopping center, or other principal use where children are cared for while parents or guardians are occupied on the premises or in the immediate vicinity. In-home care for six (6) or fewer individuals is considered a home occupation (accessory use) and subject to the standards of subsection 4-4.3(C).
(C)
Educational facilities.
(1)
Characteristics. This category includes public and private schools at the primary, elementary, middle, junior high, or high school level that provide state-mandated basic education. This category also includes colleges and other institutions of higher learning that offer courses of general or specialized study leading to a degree. Colleges tend to be in campus-like settings or on multiple blocks. This category also includes business or trade schools. Accessory uses at schools include play areas, cafeterias, recreational and sport facilities, auditoriums, and before-school or after-school day care.
(2)
Examples. Examples include public and private daytime schools, boarding schools, military academies, universities, colleges, community colleges, nursing and medical schools not accessory to a hospital, seminaries, and business or trade schools.
(3)
Exceptions. Preschools are classified as day care uses.
(D)
Government facilities.
(1)
Characteristics. Government facilities include emergency response facilities (police, fire, and medical); detention centers; maintenance, storage, and distribution facilities; and other facilities for the operation of local, state, or federal government.
(2)
Examples. Examples include emergency response facilities (police, fire, and medical); maintenance facilities, detention centers; and post offices.
(3)
Exceptions.
(a)
Offices and courthouses are classified as offices.
(b)
Passenger terminals for airports and surface transportation are classified as transportation terminals.
(c)
City, county, or state parks are classified as parks and open space.
(d)
Water, wastewater, gas, electric, and other infrastructure services, whether public or private, are classified as utilities.
(e)
Waste and recycling services are classified as waste-related services.
(E)
Health care facilities.
(1)
Characteristics. Health care facilities include uses providing medical or surgical care to patients. Hospitals offer overnight care, while other medical facilities provide outpatient care only.
(2)
Examples. Examples include hospitals; medical centers; emergency medical care establishments; medical and dental clinics; and medical and dental labs.
(3)
Exceptions. Uses that provide exclusive care and planned treatment or training for psychiatric, alcohol, or drug problems, where patients are residents of the program, are classified as institutions.
(F)
Institutions.
(1)
Characteristics. Institutions provide a variety of facilities, including buildings that primarily provide meeting areas for religious activities; housing and care for the elderly or disabled; and housing related to treatment programs, including post-treatment recovery programs. Accessory uses include school facilities, food preparation, meeting rooms, parking, and staff residences.
(2)
Examples. Examples include churches, temples, synagogues, and mosques; nursing, convalescent, and assisted living homes; hospices; rehabilitation centers; congregate personal care homes; some residential programs for drug and alcohol treatment; and alternative or post-incarceration facilities (halfway houses).
(3)
Exceptions. Group home facilities or residential programs where individual units meet the definition of a dwelling unit are classified as household living.
(G)
Parks and open areas.
(1)
Characteristics. Parks and open areas are uses of land focusing on natural areas consisting mostly of vegetative landscaping or outdoor recreation, community gardens, or public squares. Lands tend to have few structures. Accessory uses may include club houses, maintenance facilities, concessions, and parking.
(2)
Examples. Examples include parks; accesses to public water bodies; golf courses; public squares and plazas; recreational trails; greenways; botanical gardens and nature preserves; and cemeteries, columbaria, and mausoleums.
(H)
Transportation terminals.
(1)
Characteristics. This category includes facilities for the landing and takeoff of airplanes and helicopters, including loading and unloading areas. Aviation facilities may be improved or unimproved. This category also includes passenger terminals for bus or train service.
(2)
Examples. Examples include airports, helicopter landing facilities, bus passenger terminals, and train depots.
(3)
Exceptions.
(a)
Bus passenger stations for local service such as mass transit stops and park-and-ride facilities are classified as utilities.
(b)
Private helicopter landing facilities that are accessory to another use may be considered accessory uses subject to all the regulations and approval criteria for helicopter landing facilities.
(I)
Utilities.
(1)
Characteristics. This category includes both major utilities, which are infrastructure services providing regional or community-wide service, and minor utilities, which are infrastructure services that need to be located in or near the neighborhood where the service is provided. Communication towers also are a type of utility. Services may be publicly or privately provided.
(2)
Examples.
(a)
Examples of major utilities include water towers, water and wastewater treatment plants, public transit park and ride facilities, and electrical substations.
(b)
Examples of minor utilities include water and sewage pump stations, stormwater retention and detention facilities, telephone exchanges, and surface transportation stops.
(c)
Examples of communication towers include facilities for transmitting wireless phone and data services, and television and radio broadcasting equipment.
(3)
Exceptions.
(a)
Maintenance yards and buildings are classified as industrial services.
(b)
Utility offices are classified as offices.
4-2.4. Commercial use categories.
(A)
Eating establishments.
(1)
Characteristics. This category includes establishments that sell food for on-premises or off-premises consumption.
(2)
Examples. Examples include restaurants, drive-ins, fast food establishments, yogurt or ice cream shops, and pizza delivery.
(3)
Exceptions. Nightclubs and bars are classified as retail sales and service uses.
(B)
Office.
(1)
Characteristics. This category includes activities that are conducted in an office setting and that generally focus on business, government, professional, or financial services.
(2)
Examples. Examples include business services establishments; professional services such as lawyers, accountants, engineers, or architects; financial businesses such as lenders, brokerage houses or real estate agents; data processing; sales offices; government and public utility offices; and TV and radio studios.
(3)
Exceptions.
(a)
Offices that are part of and located with a principal use in another category are considered accessory to the firm's primary activity. Headquarter offices, when in conjunction with or adjacent to a principal use in another category, are considered part of the other category.
(b)
Contractors and others who perform services off-site are included in the office category if equipment and materials are not stored outside and fabrication, services, or similar work is not carried on at the site.
(c)
Medical and dental clinics, medical and dental labs, and blood-collection facilities are classified as health care facilities.
(d)
Check cashing establishments and day labor service agencies are classified as retail sales and service.
(C)
Outdoor entertainment.
(1)
Characteristics. This category includes large, generally commercial uses that provide continuous recreation or entertainment-oriented activities. They may take place in a number of structures that are arranged together in an outdoor setting.
(2)
Examples. Examples include golf driving ranges, miniature golf facilities, water parks, tennis facilities, ball fields, basketball courts, and stadiums.
(3)
Exceptions.
(a)
Banquet halls that are part of hotels or restaurants are accessory to those uses, which are included in the visitor accommodations or retail sales and service categories, respectively.
(b)
Indoor continuous entertainment activities such as theaters, bowling alleys, game arcades, pool halls, dance halls or indoor firing ranges are classified as "indoor entertainment" under retail sales and service.
(D)
Parking, commercial.
(1)
Characteristics. Commercial parking facilities provide parking that is not accessory to a specific use. A fee may or may not be charged. A facility that provides both accessory parking for a specific use and regular fee parking for people not connected to the use is also classified as a commercial parking facility. Accessory uses may include small structures intended to shield parking attendants from the weather.
(2)
Examples. Examples include short-term and long-term fee parking facilities (both lots and structures) and mixed parking facilities (partially accessory to a specific use, partially for rent to others).
(3)
Exceptions.
(a)
Parking facilities that are accessory to a principal use, but that charge the public to park for occasional events nearby, are not considered commercial parking facilities.
(b)
Parking facilities that are accessory to a principal use are not considered commercial parking uses, even if the operator leases the facility to the principal use or charges a fee to the individuals who park in the facility.
(c)
Park-and-ride facilities are classified as utilities.
(d)
Sales or servicing of vehicles is classified as vehicle sales and service.
(E)
Retail sales and service.
(1)
Characteristics. Retail sales and service firms are involved in the sale, lease, or rent of new or used products to the general public. They may also provide personal services or entertainment or provide product repair or services for consumer and business goods. Accessory uses may include offices, storage of goods, manufacture or repackaging of goods for on-site sale and parking.
(2)
Examples. Examples include uses from the four (4) following groups:
(a)
Sales-oriented. Stores selling, leasing, or renting consumer, home and business goods, including art, art supplies, auto parts, bicycles, clothing, convenience items, dry goods, electronic equipment, fabric, furniture, garden supplies, gifts, groceries, hardware, home improvements, household products, jewelry, landscaping products, liquor, pets, pet food, pharmaceuticals, plants, pre-fabricated buildings, printed material, stationary, videos, and food sales.
(b)
Personal service-oriented. Banks, check-cashing establishments, day labor service agencies, laundromats, laundry and dry-cleaning establishments, tailors, art/photographic studios, photo services, photocopy and blueprint services, hair salons, tanning and personal care services, tattoo and body piercing establishments, martial arts schools, dance or music classes, health clubs and gyms, taxidermists, mortuaries, kennels and veterinary clinics, and animal grooming.
(c)
Entertainment-oriented. Bars and nightclubs, casinos or gambling establishments, indoor continuous entertainment activities such as bowling alleys, game arcades, pool halls, indoor firing ranges, cinemas, concert halls, and theaters, sexually oriented businesses, sports and concert arenas, convention and exhibition hall, lodges, civic clubs, and event venues.
(d)
Repair-oriented. Repair of household appliances, bicycles, clocks, watches, shoes, guns, canvas products, office equipment, locksmith, and upholstery.
(3)
Exceptions.
(a)
Laundry and dry-cleaning plants are considered industrial services.
(b)
Lumberyards and other building material sales that sell primarily to contractors and do not have a retail orientation are classified as wholesale sales.
(c)
Repair and service of consumer motor vehicles, motorcycles, and light and medium trucks is classified as vehicle sales and service.
(d)
Repair and service of agricultural, industrial, business, or consumer machinery, equipment, products, or byproducts is classified as industrial services.
(e)
Stockpiling and sales of sand, gravel, mulch, stone, or other aggregate material is classified as warehouse and freight movement.
(F)
Self-service storage.
(1)
Characteristics. Self-service storage uses provide separate storage areas for individual or business uses. The storage areas are designed to allow private access by the tenant for storing or removing personal property.
(2)
Accessory uses. Accessory uses may include living quarters for a resident manager, security and leasing offices, and outside storage of recreational vehicles. Use of the storage areas for sales, service, repair, or manufacturing operations is not considered accessory to the use. The rental of trucks or equipment is also not considered accessory to the use.
(3)
Examples. Examples include facilities that provide individual storage areas for rent. These uses are also called "mini-warehouses."
(4)
Exceptions. A transfer and storage business where there are no individual storage areas or where employees are the primary movers of the goods to be stored or transferred is classified as warehouse and freight movement.
(G)
Vehicle sales and service.
(1)
Characteristics. Vehicle sales and service uses provide direct sales of and services to passenger vehicles, light and medium trucks, and other consumer motor vehicles such as motorcycles and golf carts.
(2)
Examples. Examples include rental and sales of automobiles or recreational vehicles, auto repair, auto servicing, auto wash and detail shops, car washes, transmission or muffler shops, towing services, auto upholstery shops, tire sales and mounting, taxicab services, or truck or trailer rental.
(3)
Exceptions. Refueling facilities for vehicles that belong to a specific use (fleet vehicles) are considered accessory uses if they are located on the site of the principal use.
(H)
Visitor accommodations.
(1)
Characteristics. This category includes dwelling units arranged for short-term stays of less than thirty (30) days for rent, lease, or interval occupancy. Accessory uses may include pools and other recreational facilities, limited storage, restaurants, bars, meeting facilities, and offices.
(2)
Examples. Examples include bed and breakfast inns, hotels, motels, and short-term residential rentals.
4-2.5. Service and industrial use categories.
(A)
Agricultural operations.
(1)
Characteristics. Agricultural operations are commercial enterprises involved in raising, harvesting or storing of crops; feeding, breeding or managing livestock, poultry or fish; producing or storing feed for use in the production of livestock. Accessory uses may include barns, stables, silos and other storage structures, packing sheds, corrals and paddocks.
(2)
Examples. Examples include crop farms, orchards, tree farms, sod farms, fisheries and dairy farms.
(3)
Exceptions. Slaughter houses and meat/game/poultry/fish processing facilities are classified as manufacturing and production.
(B)
Industrial services.
(1)
Characteristics. Industrial services firms are engaged in the repair or servicing of agricultural, industrial, business, or consumer machinery, equipment, products, or byproducts. Firms that service consumer goods do so by mainly providing centralized services for separate retail outlets. Contractors and building maintenance services and similar uses perform services off-site. Few customers, especially the general public, come to the site.
(2)
Examples. Examples include welding shops; machine shops; tool repair; electric motor repair; repair of scientific or professional instruments; heavy equipment sales, rental, repair, or storage; heavy truck servicing and repair; tire retreading or recapping; truck stops; building, trades contractors with on-site storage/fabrication; printing, publishing and lithography; exterminators; janitorial and building maintenance services; fuel oil distributors; solid fuel yards; laundry, dry-cleaning and carpet cleaning plants; and photo-finishing laboratories.
(3)
Exceptions. Contractors and others who perform services off-site are included in the offices category if major equipment and materials are not stored at the site and fabrication or similar work is not performed at the site. However, if major equipment and materials are stored at the site or fabrication or similar work is performed at the site, then such uses are categorized as industrial services.
(C)
Manufacturing and production.
(1)
Characteristics. This category includes firms involved in the manufacturing, processing, fabrication, packaging, or assembly of goods. Products may be finished or semi-finished and are generally made for the wholesale market, for transfer to other plants, or to-order for firms or consumers. Custom industry is included (i.e., establishments primarily engaged in the on-site production of goods by hand manufacturing involving the use of hand tools and small-scale equipment). Goods are generally not displayed or sold on-site, but, if so, they are a subordinate part of sales. Relatively few customers come to the manufacturing site. Accessory uses may include caretaker's quarters.
(a)
Heavy manufacturing is the manufacture or compounding process of raw materials. These activities may involve outdoor operations as part of their manufacturing process.
(b)
Light manufacturing is the mechanical transformation of predominantly previously prepared materials into new products, including assembly of component parts and the creation, packaging, and processing of products for sale to the wholesale or retail markets or directly to consumers. Such uses are wholly confined within an enclosed building and do not emit noxious noise, smoke, vapors, fumes, dust, glare, odor, or vibration.
(2)
Examples.
(a)
Examples of heavy manufacturing include processing of food and related products; weaving or production of textiles; lumber mills and other wood products manufacturing; production of clay, bone, plastic, stone, or glass materials or products; concrete batching and asphalt mixing; electric power generation plants; production or fabrication of metals or metal products, including enameling and galvanizing; manufacture or assembly of machinery, equipment, instruments, including musical instruments, vehicles, appliances, precision items and other electrical items; and production of prefabricated structures, including mobile homes.
(b)
Examples of light manufacturing include production or repair of technology products, small machines or electronic parts and equipment; woodworking and cabinet building; computer design and development; research, development, and testing facilities and laboratories; apparel and high-tech fabric and textile production; and sign making.
(3)
Exceptions.
(a)
Manufacturing of goods to be sold primarily on-site and to the general public is classified as retail sales and service.
(b)
Manufacture and production of goods from composting organic material is classified as waste-related uses.
(D)
Mining operations.
(1)
Characteristics. Mining operations involve the mechanical extraction of minerals, metals, or fossils from below the earth's surface.
(2)
Examples. Examples include mines for the extraction of minerals, metals, jewels; gas and oil rigs, and strip mines.
(3)
Exceptions. Water wells are classified as utilities.
(E)
Research and development.
(1)
Characteristics. This category includes establishments engaged in conducting original investigation undertaken on a systematic basis to gain new knowledge (research) and/or the application of research findings or other scientific knowledge for the creation of new or significantly improved products or processes (experimental development). Techniques may include modeling and simulation.
(2)
Examples. Research and development in nanotechnology; biotechnology; physical, engineering, and life sciences; and social sciences and humanities.
(3)
Exceptions.
(a)
Analytical testing services are classified as laboratory testing.
(b)
Manufacturing of products resulting from research and development is classified as manufacturing and production.
(F)
Testing laboratory.
(1)
Characteristics. This category includes establishments primarily engaged in performing physical, chemical, and other analytical testing services. Testing may occur in a laboratory or on-site.
(2)
Examples. Examples include acoustics or vibration testing, assaying, biological testing, calibration testing, electrical and electronic testing, geotechnical testing, mechanical testing, nondestructive testing, and thermal testing.
(3)
Exceptions.
(a)
Medical testing and diagnostics establishments are classified as health care.
(b)
Veterinary testing facilities are classified as retail sales and services.
(G)
Warehouse and freight movement.
(1)
Characteristics. This category includes firms that are involved in the storage or movement of goods for themselves or other firms. Goods are generally delivered to other firms or the final consumer, except for some will-call pickups. There is little on-site sales activity with the customer present.
(2)
Examples. Examples include separate warehouses used by retail stores or other businesses; household moving and general freight storage; cold storage plants, including frozen food lockers; parcel services; and the stockpiling of sand, gravel, mulch, stone, or other aggregate materials.
(3)
Exceptions. Uses that involve the transfer or storage of solid or liquid wastes are classified as waste-related uses.
(H)
Waste-related services.
(1)
Characteristics. Waste-related services includes uses that receive solid or liquid wastes from others for disposal on the site or for transfer to another location, uses that collect sanitary wastes, or uses that manufacture or produce goods or energy from the composting of organic material or processing of scrap or waste material. This category also includes uses that receive hazardous wastes from others. Accessory uses may include recycling of materials and repackaging and transshipment of byproducts.
(2)
Examples. Examples include recycling and salvage centers, land-spreading of waste, sanitary landfills, tire disposal or recycling, waste composting, recycling processing facilities, incinerators, energy recovery plants, salvage and junk yards, recycling drop-off centers, and hazardous-waste collection sites.
(3)
Exceptions. Waste treatment plants are classified as utilities.
(I)
Wholesale sales.
(1)
Characteristics. Wholesale sales firms are involved in the sale, lease, or rent of products primarily intended for industrial, institutional, or commercial businesses. The uses emphasize on-site sales or taking of orders and often include display areas. Businesses may or may not be open to the general public, but sales to the general public are limited. Products may be picked up on-site or delivered to the customer.
(2)
Examples. Examples include sale or rental of machinery, equipment, heavy trucks, building materials, special trade tools, welding supplies, machine parts, electrical supplies, janitorial supplies, restaurant equipment and store fixtures; mail order houses; and wholesalers of food, clothing, auto parts, and building materials.
(3)
Exceptions.
(a)
Firms that engage primarily in sales to the general public or on a membership basis are classified as retail sales and service.
(b)
Firms that are primarily storing goods with little on-site business activity are classified as warehouse and freight movement.
(Ord. No. 2017-25, § 2, 12-19-17; Ord. No. 2021-16, § 4, 8-17-21; Ord. No. 2022-39, §§ 5, 6, 10-18-22)
Sec. 4-3. - Standards for specific uses.
modified
4-3.1. Residential uses.
(A)
Townhouse Within the districts permitting townhouses. the following requirements shall apply:
(1)
Minimum lot area. For fee-simple townhouses, each lot shall have a minimum area of two thousand (2,000) square feet.
(2)
Minimum lot width. Each individual townhouse lot shall have a minimum width of twenty (20) feet. The minimum lot width for a townhouse development is one hundred ten (110) feet.
(3)
Maximum building coverage. Building coverage shall not exceed eighty (80) percent of any individual townhouse lot. Maximum building coverage of an overall townhouse development is forty (40) percent.
(4)
Minimum townhouse square footage. The minimum heated floor area for a townhouse unit shall be one thousand two hundred (1,200) square feet.
(5)
Units per building. There shall be at least three (3) units and no more than eight (8) units per building of attached townhouse units.
(6)
Building separation. Townhouse buildings shall be separated by a minimum of twenty (20) feet. Architectural features, such as chimneys, eaves, sills, cornices, and corbels, may be allowed to extend up to two (2) feet into the building separation requirement.
(7)
Building orientation. The front of a townhouse shall not face the rear of another dwelling structure within the development or on adjoining properties unless differences in terrain and elevation would provide effective visual separation.
(8)
Common open space.
a.
A minimum of thirty (30) percent of the overall townhouse development land area shall be provided as common open space. The open space shall include pocket greenspaces such as parks, squares, courtyards, community gardens or similar usable common areas.
b.
At least sixty (60) percent of all townhouse units shall face or be located within two hundred (200) feet of a pocket greenspace.
c.
The minimum size of an individual pocket greenspace shall be eight thousand (8,000) square feet with a minimum dimension of forty (40) feet.
d.
The average size of all pocket greenspace within a townhouse development shall be one thousand (1,000) square feet per townhouse unit in the development.
e.
Surface stormwater facilities shall not be placed in a pocket greenspace.
f.
Common open space shall be owned and maintained by a homeowners' association.
g.
The required common open space and pocket greenspace may be reduced or waived by the planning commission if the townhouse development is in the Downtown Development Overlay District and is located within one-quarter (¼) mile walking distance of a public park.
(9)
Parking.
a.
The minimum number of parking spaces for each townhouse unit shall be two (2) primary spaces, excluding garages, plus one-quarter (¼) space per townhouse for guest parking. Primary parking spaces shall be located within one hundred (100) feet of the townhouse they are intended to serve. Guest parking spaces shall be located no more than four hundred (400) feet from any townhouse unit.
b.
All townhouses shall be designed with a rear entry garage and driveway accessed via a street, alley, or private common driveway. Garages and driveways shall not be located on the front elevation or accessed from the front of the lot.
c.
Except for tapered aprons, driveway widths shall not be expanded beyond the width of the garage face.
d.
Parking of boats, RVs, trailers, and utility trailers shall be prohibited in a townhouse development unless an area specially designated for such parking is provided. Such parking area shall be in addition to the minimum number of parking spaces required.
(10)
Sidewalks. ADA compliant sidewalks shall be provided within the public right-of-way on both sides of all streets in a townhouse development. Pocket greenspaces shall be accessible via ADA compliant sidewalks.
(11)
Architectural standards.
a.
There shall be a minimum of three (3) different exterior elevations in a townhouse development.
b.
No more than two (2) contiguous dwellings that form a part of a single building shall have the same setback or roof line. Said setback and roofline shall be varied by a minimum of two (2) feet.
c.
Required exterior building materials shall be brick, stone, and/or natural wood or fiber cement siding. Split-faced concrete block, stucco, or granite block may be used on no more than twenty (20) percent of any elevation.
d.
Material or color changes should occur at a change of plane.
e.
Private, usable open space, such as balconies, decks, patios, etc., shall be provided contiguous to each dwelling unit. The area of such open space provided for each unit shall not be less than ten (10) percent of the floor area of the unit served. The location and number of square feet shall be clearly indicated on the site plan. Private open space shall not count toward the required common open space.
f.
Windows shall be provided on the side elevation of end units in a townhouse building.
(B)
Manufactured home park. In any district where manufactured home parks are permitted, the applicant shall submit a lay-out of the park subject to the following conditions:
(1)
The following minimum standards shall apply to each manufactured home space or stand:
(a)
Minimum size: Four thousand (4,000) feet.
(b)
Minimum width of space: Forty (40) feet.
(c)
Minimum depth of space: Eighty (80) feet.
(d)
Minimum side yard required: Ten (10) feet.
(e)
Minimum front yard: Fifteen (15) feet.
(f)
Minimum rear yard: Ten (10) feet.
(g)
Minimum lot area per park: Five (5) acres.
(h)
Minimum lot width for portion used for entrance and exit shall be fifty (50) feet.
(i)
No manufactured home shall be located closer than thirty-five (35) feet to the centerline of any roadway within the park.
(2)
The minimum number of spaces completed and ready for occupancy before the first occupancy is permitted shall be ten (10) spaces.
(3)
No manufactured home shall be admitted to any park unless it can be demonstrated that it meets the requirements of any additional laws and ordinances of the council.
(4)
Convenience establishments of a commercial nature, including stores, laundry and dry cleaning agencies, and beauty shops and barber shops may be permitted in mobile home parks provided that such establishments and the parking areas primarily related to their operations:
(a)
Shall not occupy more than ten (10) percent of the area of the park;
(b)
Shall be subordinate to the residential use and character of the park;
(c)
Shall be located, designed and intended to serve frequent trade or service needs of persons residing in the park;
(d)
Shall present no visible evidence to their commercial character from any portion of any residential district outside the park.
(e)
In addition to meeting the above requirements the mobile home park site plan shall be accompanied by a certificate of approval from the Houston County Health Department.
(C)
Dwelling in commercial building.
(1)
In the C-3, central business district, dwellings shall not be established on the ground level of a building originally designed for commercial use.
(2)
In all districts, establishing a dwelling in a commercial building shall comply with all applicable local and state codes.
4-3.2. Public and institutional uses.
(A)
Cemetery. Within the districts permitting cemeteries, the following requirements shall apply:
(1)
The site proposed for a cemetery shall not interfere with the development of a system of collector or large streets in the vicinity of such a site. In addition such site shall have direct access to a thoroughfare.
(2)
Any new cemetery shall be located on a site containing not less than twenty (20) acres.
(3)
All structures shall be set back no less than twenty-five (25) feet from any property line or street right-of-way line.
(4)
All graves or burial lots shall be set back not less than twenty-five (25) feet from any property line or minor street right-of-way lines, and not less than fifty (50) feet from any collector, arterial, expressway, or freeway right-of-way lines.
(5)
The entire cemetery property shall be landscaped and maintained.
(B)
Communication tower, freestanding or structure-mounted.
(1)
General requirements. All towers shall comply with the following general requirements:
(a)
Removal of abandoned facilities. A tower that has not been operated for a continuous period of one year shall be considered abandoned. The city may require an abandoned tower to be removed. The owner of such tower shall remove the tower within thirty (30) days of receipt of written notice from the city. If the tower is not removed within thirty (30) days, the city may remove it at the owner's expense and any permit for the tower shall be deemed to have expired.
(2)
Freestanding communication towers.
(a)
Design. Any freestanding communication towers, associated facilities and any wireless facilities installed upon other structures in the rights-of-way and associated facilities shall be subject to terms and conditions that minimize the impact upon private and public property (including, where applicable, the public right-of-way), ensure consistency with the surrounding area and employ concealment elements appropriate to the location being proposed.
(b)
Setbacks. All freestanding towers shall be located at least fifty (50) feet from a residential zoning district or the property line of a lot containing a residential use.
(c)
Co-location. All freestanding towers shall be designed and constructed to permit the facility to accommodate the attachment of at least two (2) additional providers on the same facility. No telecommunication operator shall exclude a competitor from using the same facility or location. A special exception shall not be required for co-location on existing towers which were originally approved as a special exception or on other structures, and which do not increase the height of the existing tower or structure.
(d)
Public right-of-way. No freestanding communication tower or any associated facilities shall be erected within the public right-of-way, nor shall wireless equipment or associated facilities be placed on other existing structures within the rights-of-way, including but not limited to light poles, utility poles, or traffic lights unless permitted by site license pursuant to a franchise or other written consent issued by the city authorizing the occupancy of the public right-of-way to install and operate wireless facilities. In no event shall a freestanding communications tower in excess of the average height of existing utility distribution structures on the public right-of-way in the immediate area be permitted within the public right-of-way unless a showing can be made that this provision would prohibit or have the effect of prohibiting the provision of personal wireless services within the meaning of 47 U.S.C. § 332(c)(7), as interpreted by binding precedent of the United States Court of Appeals for the Fourth Circuit.
(e)
Availability of other suitable locations. In addition to the previous subsection pertaining to the public right-of-way, new towers shall not be permitted unless the applicant demonstrates that no existing freestanding communication tower or other structure can accommodate the applicant's needs. Evidence submitted to demonstrate that no existing tower or structure can accommodate the applicant's needs shall be signed by a registered engineer and shall demonstrate at least one of the following:
(i)
No existing communication towers or structures at a suitable height are located within the geographic area required to meet the applicant's engineering requirements;
(ii)
Existing freestanding communication towers or structures do not have sufficient structural strength to support the applicant's proposed antenna and related equipment;
(iii)
The applicant's proposed antenna would cause electromagnetic interference with the antennae on the existing towers or structures, or the antennae on the existing towers or structures would cause interference with the applicant's proposed antenna; or
(iv)
The applicant demonstrates that there are other limiting factors that render existing towers and structures unusable.
(3)
Roof-mounted communication tower.
(a)
Location. A proposed structure-mounted communication tower may be permitted as an accessory or secondary use in any district. In the C-3 district, towers may be permitted only on structures at least fifty (50) feet in height.
(b)
Height. A structure-mounted tower shall not exceed ten (10) feet in height.
4-3.3. Commercial uses.
(A)
Automobile service station. Within the districts permitting automobile service stations, the following requirements shall apply:
(1)
Location. The property on which an automobile service station is located shall not be one hundred (100) feet of any residential district, or any property containing a school, public playground, church, hospital, public library, institution for children or dependents.
(2)
Site requirements. An automobile service station shall have a minimum frontage on the primary street of one hundred twenty (120) feet and a minimum area of twelve thousand (12,000) square feet. All buildings shall be set back forty (40) feet from all street right-of-way lines and all canopies shall be set back fifteen (15) feet from all street right-of-way lines.
(3)
Access to site. Vehicular entrances or exits at an automobile service station:
(a)
Shall not be provided with more than two (2) curb cuts for the first one hundred twenty (120) feet of street frontage or fraction thereof.
(b)
Shall contain an access width along the curb line of the street of not more than forty (40) feet as measured parallel to the street at its narrowest point and shall not be located closer than twenty (20) feet to a street intersection or closer than ten (10) feet to the adjoining property.
(c)
Shall not have any two (2) driveways, or curb cuts, any closer than twenty (20) feet at both the right-of-way line and the curb or edge of the pavement along a single street.
(4)
Gasoline pump island. All gasoline pump islands shall be setback at least fifteen (15) feet from the right-of-way line, or where a future widening line has been established, the setback line shall be measured from such line; and where pump islands are constructed perpendicular to the right-of-way line, the pump island shall be located not less than thirty (30) feet back of the right-of-way line; however, the pumps shall be at least sixty (60) feet from the centerline of an arterial street, fifty-five (55) feet from the centerline of a collector street and forty-five (45) feet from the centerline of other streets.
(5)
Off-street parking. A minimum of two (2) off-street parking spaces required with an additional off-street parking space for each lubrication and wash bay.
(6)
Other site improvements. In addition to the above requirements, the following additional site improvements shall be adhered to:
(a)
A raised curb of at least six (6) inches in height shall be erected along the street property lines, except for driveway openings.
(b)
A solid fence or wall six (6) feet in height shall be erected along all adjacent property lines facing any adjacent residential lot.
(c)
Exterior lighting shall be arranged so that it is deflected away from adjacent properties.
(d)
Signs, whether permanent or temporary, shall not be placed within the public right-of-way and shall not obstruct visibility for drivers or pedestrians.
(e)
All drivers, parking, storage, and service areas shall be paved and curbed and a good stand of grass shall be maintained on the remainder of the lot.
(7)
Storage of flammable products. Outside aboveground tanks for the storage of gasoline, liquefied petroleum gas, oil or other flammable liquids or gasses shall be prohibited at any automobile service station in all zoning districts.
(8)
Signs. The following regulations shall apply to automobile service station signs:
(a)
All requirements of Section 106 shall apply unless noted in Section 105.8.2 below.
(b)
All types of signs shall be permitted under the gas pump island canopy provided they do not constitute a public nuisance or safety hazard. For gas pump island canopies attached to the main building, the above signs are allowed to a point midway between the gas pumps and the main building wall. These signs do not count against the sign area requirements listed in section 6-7.
(B)
Reserved.
Editor's note— Ord. No. 2023-26, § 6, adopted Aug. 1, 2023, repealed § 4-3.3(B), which pertained to bed and breakfast inn.
(C)
Casino or gambling establishment. Such uses shall be allowed only when allowed by the general law of the state. When allowed, the property line of any such use shall be at least five hundred (500) feet from the property line of any residential district, residential use, historic overlay district, building on the National Register of Historic Places, park, religious institution, or school.
(D)
Recreational vehicle park. This use is intended to provide commercial rental parking spaces and sites for recreational vehicles (RVs), including motor homes, travel trailers, pick-up campers and tent trailers; to provide goods and services customarily needed by occupants of the park; and to assure reasonable standards for the development of facilities for the occupancy of recreational vehicles on a temporary basis, ranging from short overnight stops to longer destination-type stays of several days to weeks. All recreational vehicle (RV) parks within the City of Perry shall be governed by the following regulations:
(1)
Minimum area for recreational vehicle (RV) parks and rental spaces.
a.
Minimum park area. The minimum size of an RV park shall be three (3) acres.
b.
Rental space size. Minimum rental space size for those spaces having utility hookups shall be one thousand five hundred (1,500) square feet. Minimum rental space size for those spaces not having hookups shall be nine hundred (900) square feet. Minimum rental space size shall not include any area required for access roads, off-street parking, service buildings, recreation areas, office and similar RV park needs.
c.
Rental pads. A minimum of eighty (80) percent of all spaces shall be equipped with a surfaced area of not less than ten (10) feet by forty (40) feet, containing hookups for water, sewer and electricity. Surfacing shall consist of gravel, asphalt or concrete. Where gravel surfacing is used, the design of the gravel pad shall be approved by the administrator to maintain proper drainage and minimize dust. Where provided, each RV unit shall be parked entirely on the surfaced area so that no part thereof obstructs any roadway or walkway within the RV park. Those spaces not equipped with such a surfaced area, intended for occupancy by recreational vehicles not having self-contained toilet, lavatory or bathing facilities, shall be equipped with a gravel pad, the design of which shall be approved by the administrator, of not less than ten (10) feet by twenty-five (25) feet for RV unit parking and a hookup for water. Spaces equipped with such a gravel pad shall not exceed twenty (20) percent of the total number of spaces in the RV park.
(2)
Setback requirements. Each rental space shall meet the following setback requirements:
a.
Fifty (50) feet when abutting a state or federal highway or designated major arterial;
b.
Twenty-five (25) feet when abutting a public right-of-way other than (a) above;
c.
Twenty-five (25) feet when abutting any property line other than (a) or (b) above;
d.
There shall be a minimum distance of ten (10) feet provided between RV units parked side by side;
e.
There shall be a minimum distance of ten (10) feet between RV units parked end to end;
f.
There shall be a minimum distance of twenty (20) feet between any RV space and any building.
(3)
Streets. Streets or roadways and parking areas within the RV park shall be designed to provide safe and convenient access to all spaces and to facilities for common use by park occupants, and shall be constructed and maintained to allow free movement of emergency and service vehicles at all times, and shall be graded to drain and surfaced with asphalt or concrete, the design of which shall be approved by the administrator, to maintain proper drainage. All interior roadways shall be at least twenty-three (23) feet in width for two-way traffic, and at least twelve (12) feet in width for one-way traffic. A forty-five-foot turning radius shall be required on all curves, to allow access by emergency vehicles. Any bridges within the development shall have a capacity of at least sixteen (16) tons, to allow access by emergency vehicles. Road grades shall not exceed six (6) percent. Access into the park from a public street shall meet the same design standards as those of the public street, for a distance of forty (40) feet from the property line into the development. All roadways and walkways within the park shall be adequately lighted at night, to provide safe access.
(4)
Frontage. All rental spaces shall have a minimum frontage of twenty (20) feet along an interior roadway.
(5)
Sanitary facilities. Every RV park shall be provided with one or more service buildings equipped with flush toilets, lavatories, showers and laundry facilities meeting minimum state health department standards.
(6)
Sanitary disposal stations. Every RV park shall contain at least one sanitary disposal station for the sole purpose of removing and disposing of wastes from holding tanks in a clean, efficient and convenient manner.
a.
Each sanitary station shall consist of a drainage basin constructed of impervious material, containing a disposal hatch and self-closing cover, and related washing facilities.
b.
The disposal hatch of sanitary station units shall be connected to the sewage disposal system. Related facilities required to wash holding tanks and the general area of the sanitary station shall be connected to the RV park water supply system.
c.
Each sanitary station shall have a sign posted stating "Danger—Not to be used for drinking or domestic purposes."
d.
Sanitary stations shall be approved by the county health department.
(7)
Utilities. All utilities shall be placed underground.
a.
Water supply. Every RV park shall connect to a public water system. Each rental space equipped with sewer and electrical hookups shall also be equipped with two (2) water outlets, to provide connection for the RV and a garden hose. All other rental spaces shall be equipped with one water outlet. Water supply shall be installed in compliance with City of Perry specifications. Fire hydrants shall meet minimum standards adopted by the City of Perry.
b.
Sanitary sewer. A minimum of eighty (80) percent of all rental spaces shall be equipped with a hookup to a public sewage system and installed in compliance with City of Perry specifications.
c.
Electricity. A minimum of eighty (80) percent of all rental spaces shall be equipped with an electrical outlet supplying at least one hundred ten (110) volts, or one hundred ten/two hundred twenty (110/220) volts, installed in accordance with applicable state electrical codes.
(8)
Refuse disposal. The storage, collection and disposal of refuse shall be performed so as to minimize accidents, fire hazards, air pollution, odors, insects, rodents or other nuisance conditions. All refuse shall be stored in durable, washable and nonabsorbent metal or plastic containers with tight-fitting lids. Such containers shall be provided at the rate of at least one thirty-gallon container, secured in a rack or holder, for each rental space, or an equivalent storage capacity in centralized storage facilities. Adequate refuse collection and removal shall be the responsibility of the park owner.
(9)
Landscaping. Landscaping, screening and buffering shall comply with the provisions of sections 6-3 and 6-4 of this chapter. In addition to buildings located on the site, rental pads shall be removed from the overall site area for the calculation of tree unit density. Rental pads shall not count toward interior parking lot landscaping.
(10)
Open space. Open space for common areas, playgrounds and other recreational uses shall be provided at the rate of at least ten (10) percent of the gross area of the RV park, and shall be of sufficient size and distribution as to be a functional part of the entire development plan. Open space shall not include any area designated as a roadway, RV rental space, storage area, swimming pool, yard area surrounding the caretaker's or manager's residence, or any area required for setbacks as set forth in subsection (D)(2) of these regulations.
(11)
Structural additions. Temporary structures such as pre-manufactured, portable canvas awnings, screened enclosures, or platforms, which are normal camping equipment, may be erected but must be removed when the rental space is vacated. No permanent or other structural additions shall be built onto or become a part of any RV.
(12)
Storage sheds. No storage sheds shall be allowed within an RV rental space.
(13)
Fires. Fires shall be made only in stoves and other equipment intended for such purposes and placed in safe and convenient locations, where they will not constitute fire hazards to vegetation, undergrowth, trees and RVs. No open fires are allowed.
(14)
Tents. Tents for sleeping shall be permitted, and their number shall be limited to one tent per rental space. Areas for group tent camping may be established, with the following provisions:
a.
The area set aside for such group use is not a part of any designated open space;
b.
An adequate number of parking spaces is provided;
c.
The area is served by one or more water outlets; and
d.
The area is located no further than three hundred (300) feet from a service building.
(15)
Registration of occupants. It shall be the responsibility of the owner or manager of the RV park to keep a current record of the names and addresses of the owners and/or occupants of each RV space, the make, model, year and license number of each RV and motor vehicle by which it is towed, the state, territory or country issuing such licenses, and the arrival and departure dates of each occupant. This record must be made available for inspection to all appropriate agencies whose duties necessitate acquisition.
(16)
Additional standards for special exception. In addition to the standards for granting a special exception, the applicant requesting special exception for an RV park shall demonstrate conformance with, and the planning commission and the city council shall find:
a.
That the site is in conformance with sound planning principles and the land use plan for that area, as set forth in the comprehensive plan;
b.
That the site has an acceptable relationship to the major thoroughfare plan of the city, and is accessible to recreational vehicles without causing disruption to residential areas; and
c.
That the proposed recreational vehicle park will not overload utility and drainage facilities.
(E)
Sexually oriented business.
(1)
Location.
(a)
No sexually oriented business shall be operated within one thousand (1,000) feet of:
1.
A religious institution;
2.
A day care center or other school;
3.
A boundary of a residential district;
4.
A property line of a lot containing a structure having a residential use;
5.
A public park or recreation area;
6.
A public building; or
7.
A youth activity center.
(b)
There shall be no establishment, substantial enlargement, or transfer of ownership or operation of a sexually oriented business within one thousand (1,000) feet of another sexually oriented business.
(2)
Measurement of distance. Distances provided in subsection (E)(1) above shall be measured in a straight line, without regard to intervening structures, from the structure of the sexually oriented business to the nearest property line of the premises containing another sexually oriented business, a religious institution, day care center or school, a public park or recreation area, a public building, a youth activity center, a boundary of a residential district, or a lot containing a structure having a residential use.
(3)
Purpose; findings and rationale. The city's purpose, findings, and rationale for regulating the location of sexually oriented businesses is set forth in section 15-141 of the City Code and the city hereby adopts and incorporates herein its stated findings and legislative record related to the adverse secondary effects of sexually oriented businesses, including the judicial opinions and reports related to such secondary effects.
(F)
Vehicle sales and services. All such uses shall comply with the following standards:
(1)
Vehicles, parts, or equipment shall not be stored, parked, or displayed in any landscape area (except as provided in section 4-3.3(F)(3)(b), the right-of-way, or in a location which obstructs visibility in sight triangles for streets and driveways.
(2)
All vehicles not displayed for sale or lease, automobile parts, discarded parts, and similar materials shall be stored within an enclosed building or within an outdoor storage area which complies with screening requirements in subsection 19-6.2.5, additional screening requirements.
(3)
Automobile sales and rental, boat/recreational vehicle sales and rental. Automobile sales and rental uses and boat/recreational vehicle sales and rental uses shall be subject to the following standards:
(a)
Minimum site size. Automobile sales or rental uses, and boat/recreational vehicle sales and rental uses shall be located on a site at least one acre in area dedicated solely to such use.
(b)
Vehicle display-storage areas. Vehicle display storage areas shall be subject to the following standards:
1.
A vehicle display storage area shall not be located within a required setback, required landscaping area, or required parking space.
2.
Vehicle display devices shall not be elevated more than two (2) feet above grade.
3.
Areas used for display or storage of vehicles shall be surfaced with concrete, asphalt concrete, or approved pervious paving surfaces approved by the administrator, except that up to ten (10) vehicles may be displayed on turf located on the premises of an authorized automobile sales use. Gravel is not an acceptable paving surface for display or storage of vehicles. All surfaces shall be maintained in sound condition free of potholes, weeds and other vegetation, dust, trash, and debris.
4.
Display vehicles shall be arranged in an orderly fashion and provide reasonable room for pedestrian and vehicular maneuvering.
5.
No vehicles shall be displayed on top of a building.
6.
Junked or salvage vehicles are prohibited. All motor vehicles for sale shall be maintained in running condition.
(c)
Service areas. Vehicle service areas shall be placed entirely within an enclosed building. Service bay or garage doors that face a public right-of-way shall be recessed at least fifteen (15) feet beyond the main facade of the building. Service bay and garage doors shall not face residential districts.
(d)
Outdoor storage. Outdoor storage of materials, supplies, and equipment may be allowed only within an area screened in accordance with section 6-3.7, additional screening requirements. Outdoor storage lots may contain a gravel surface, provided it is maintained free of potholes, weeds and other vegetation, dust, trash, and debris.
4-3.4. Service and industrial uses.
(A)
Agricultural operations, all other. Agriculture, forestry, livestock and poultry production operations shall be conduction on parcels of at least ten (10) acres in area. Structures containing poultry or livestock and storage of manure or other odor- or dust-producing substances shall be located at least two hundred (200) feet from a property line. All animals are shall be contained within a structure or corral and are limited in density as follows:
Table 4-3-1: Animal Density
EXPAND
Type of Animal Maximum Density
Horse, cow, pig, or any combination thereof 1 per 1 acre
Goat, sheep, or any combination thereof 1 per ½ acre
Foul, rabbit, or any combination thereof 10 per ½ acre
  (B)
Contractor's office with on-site storage/fabrication.
(1)
Areas of a site used for outdoor storage of materials, equipment, and vehicles shall not be located within required building setbacks.
(2)
When located in an OI, MUC, or NMU zoning district, areas of a site used for outdoor storage of materials, equipment, and vehicles shall be screened in accordance with the provisions of section 6-3.7.
(3)
When located in an OI or NMU zoning district, contractor's office with on-site storage/fabrication shall be located on a parcel of land with a minimum area of five (5) acres.
(4)
When located in an OI or NMU zoning district, all fabrication shall be conducted within an enclosed building.
4-3.5. Short-term rental. The standards in this subsection are required for all short-term rental properties.
(A)
Definitions. As used in this subsection, the following definitions apply:
Advertise means the act of drawing the public's attention to a short-term rental in order to promote the availability of the residence for use as a short-term rental. Said advertising may be found in any medium, including, but not limited to, newspaper, magazine, brochure, website, or mobile application.
Bedroom means the living area(s) of the dwelling unit that is designed and furnished for sleeping and which has proper egress as required by the International Residential Code.
Occupant means any individual person living, sleeping, or possessing a building, or portion thereof. A person is not required to pay rent, provide in-kind services, or be named in any lease, contract, or other legal document to be considered an occupant.
Premises means property, a lot, plot, or parcel of land, including any structures or portions of structures thereon.
Responsible person means the signatory of an agreement for the rental, use and occupancy of a short-term rental unit, who shall be an occupant of that short-term rental unit, who is at least twenty-one (21) years of age, and who is legally responsible for ensuring that all occupants of the short-term rental unit and/or their guests or visitors comply with all applicable laws, rules and regulations pertaining to the use and occupancy of the subject short-term rental unit.
(B)
Short-term rental permit required. An annual short-term rental permit or renewal permit is required pursuant to section 2-3.6.
(C)
Designation of local contact person required. The owner shall designate the name and contact information of a local contact person who can be contacted regarding immediate concerns and complaints from the public. Said individual must be available to be reached in person or by phone at all times while occupants are on the premises of a short-term rental. If called, a local contact person must be able to and shall be present at the premises within one hour of a call from administrator, or his designee. A local contact person must be authorized to make decisions regarding the premises and its occupants. A local contact person may be required to, and shall not refuse to, accept service of citation for any violations on the premises. Acceptance of service shall not act to release the owner of any liability under this chapter.
(D)
Proof of insurance required. The owner shall provide documentation of host protection or other commercial general liability insurance commensurate with the operations of the short-term rental that provides coverage of one million dollars ($1,000,000.00) per occurrence. Such coverage shall indicate that the property is being used as a short-term rental. A certificate of insurance must be on file with the administrator. Proof of insurance shall be required at the time of application and notice of cancelation of insurance must be provided to the administrator within thirty (30) days.
(E)
Hotel occupancy taxes; request for occupancy history. The owner shall remit all hotel occupancy taxes required under state law and chapter 15 of the Code of the City of Perry. Upon request of the administrator or the City of Perry Finance Director, the owner of the premises used as a short-term rental shall remit, within thirty (30) days, an accounting of all occupants who rented the premises and the hotel occupancy taxes paid therefor. It shall be unlawful for a person to fail to provide said information requested in a timely manner.
(F)
Occupational tax certificate required. The owner shall obtain and maintain a City of Perry occupational tax certificate for the period(s) covered under the short-term rental permit or renewal permit.
(G)
Separation of short-term rentals. Within residentially zoned districts, a short-term rental shall not be located within one thousand (1,000) feet of a permitted short-term rental, measured from property line of the permitted short-term rental to the property line of a proposed short-term rental.
(H)
Short-term rentals per premises. Within residentially zoned districts, no more than one short-term rental shall be permitted per premises.
(I)
Restrictions on the number of occupants. The owner or local contact person shall not rent, allow, provide, or advertise for more than two (2) persons per bedroom, plus two (2) additional persons, when using the premises as a short-term rental unit. Regardless of the number of bedrooms on the premises, it shall be unlawful for more than ten (10) persons, including children, to occupy a short-term rental unit at any one time, or to exceed the maximum occupancy shown on the short-term rental permit. A visual inspection by a city employee of more than ten (10) persons at the premises is prima facie evidence of and shall be probable cause to issue a citation for a violation of this section.
(J)
Parking restrictions. The maximum number of motor vehicles allowed at a short-term rental unit shall be limited to the number of available off-street parking spaces. It shall be unlawful for an owner to permit, allow or advise occupants to park more vehicles on the premises than the available off-street parking spaces, or to suffer or permit parking of vehicles on an unapproved surface. It shall be unlawful for an occupant of a short-term rental unit to park a motor vehicle on a residential street near a short-term rental. It shall be unlawful for an occupant of a short-term rental unit, or an owner thereof, to allow an occupant to park or occupy a motor home, recreational vehicle, boat, utility trailer, or commercial vehicle on the premises of a short-term rental unit.
(K)
Minimum stay required. An owner or person shall not rent or lease a short-term rental unit for a period of less than twenty-four (24) hours.
(L)
Physical conversion of premises prohibited. Within residentially zoned districts, the owner shall not convert a garage to living space, remodel, renovate, enlarge, or otherwise modify premises to add additional bedrooms for use as a short-term rental. It shall be unlawful for an owner or person to pave or otherwise cover pervious soil to create additional on-premises parking without prior approval from the administrator.
(M)
Noise restrictions. It shall be unlawful to allow or make noise or sound that exceeds the limits set forth in the city's noise ordinance, section 17-55.
(N)
On-premises curfew requirements. The owner shall not allow the congregation of occupants outside on the premises between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 9:00 a.m.
(O)
Trash pickup requirements. The owner or occupant shall not allow trash and refuse to accumulate in an unsanitary manner. If the owner does not remove trash and refuse from the premises after each individual occupancy, the owner or occupant shall place all residential solid waste curbside for collection and disposal by the city, or its authorized representative, no later than 6:00 a.m. on the day of collection and no earlier than 3:00 p.m. on the day before the scheduled collection day. The mobile toter shall be removed from curbside no later than 8:00 a.m. on the day after collection.
(P)
Advertising, promoting, or allowing of special events prohibited. An owner or occupant shall not advertise or promote a special event or allow the advertising and promotion of a special event (e.g., banquet, wedding, reception, reunion, bachelor or bachelorette party, concert, or any similar activity that would assemble large numbers of invitees) to be held on the premises (i.e., utilize the premises as an "event venue" or "convention center" as defined in this chapter).
(Q)
Notice to occupants of short-term rentals. An owner or person operating a short-term rental shall provide a notice of instructions (also known as "host rules") to occupants staying at the premises in a form developed by the administrator. The notice shall instruct the occupants as to all applicable city regulations pertaining to short-term rentals. These include, but are not limited to, occupancy restrictions, limits on parking, trash pickup, prohibitions on special events, limits on noise, and curfew times.
(R)
Written rental agreement required. The owner shall require a written rental agreement with a responsible person for the short-term rental unit which shall contain the following provisions:
(1)
The responsible person's agreement to abide by all of the requirements of this chapter, any other applicable city ordinances, state and federal law and acknowledge that his or her rights under the agreement may not be transferred or assigned to anyone else;
(2)
The responsible person's acknowledgement that it shall be unlawful to make any noise or sound that exceeds the limits set forth in the city's noise ordinance; and
(3)
The responsible person's acknowledgement and agreement that violation of the agreement or this chapter may result in immediate termination of the agreement and eviction from the short-term rental unit by the owner or local contact person, as well as the potential liability for payments of fines levied by the city.
(S)
Permit to be displayed. A copy of the approved short-term rental permit shall be posted at a conspicuous location inside the front entrance(s) to the short-term rental unit.
(T)
Use of assigned permit number required. An owner or person shall not advertise a short-term rental unit in any medium without including the current permit number assigned by the administrator.
(U)
Use of unauthorized permit number prohibited. An owner or person shall not use, advertise, or promote or allow the use, advertisement or promotion of a short-term rental using a permit number not assigned to the owner or person, or to a different address, or to a different dwelling unit.
(Ord. No. 2017-25, § 2, 12-19-17; Ord. No. 2020-36, § 2, 12-15-20; Ord. No. 2021-17, § 2, 8-17-21; Ord. No. 2022-20, § 4, 6-21-22; Ord. No. 2022-39, § 7, 10-18-22; Ord. No. 2023-26, §§ 6, 7, 8-1-23)
Sec. 4-4. - Accessory uses and structures.
4-4.1. Purpose. This section authorizes the establishment of accessory uses and structures that are incidental, customarily associated with, and subordinate to principal uses. The city's intent is to allow a broad range of accessory uses provided such uses are located on the same lot as the principal use and comply with the performance criteria set forth in this section.
4-4.2. General development and operational standards.
(A)
Compliance with ordinance requirements. All accessory uses, structures, and activities shall be subject to the applicable general, dimensional, operational, and use-specific regulations set forth in this chapter, including the regulations that apply to the associated principal use. In case of any conflict between the accessory use/structure standards of this section and any other requirement of this chapter, the standards of this section shall control.
(B)
Time of establishment. No accessory use or structure shall be permitted on the subject lot until after the principal structure is permitted.
(C)
General conditions. All accessory uses and structures shall:
(1)
Be clearly incidental and customarily associated with the principal use;
(2)
Not involve the conduct of trade on the premises;
(3)
Be located and conducted on the same lot as the permitted principal use or structure; and
(4)
Be operated and maintained under the same ownership as the permitted principal use.
(D)
Location of accessory structures. Unless otherwise specified, all accessory structures shall comply with the following general location requirements:
(1)
An accessory structure may be located only in the side or rear yards of the principal building.
(2)
Accessory structures shall be located at least ten (10) feet from any principal or other accessory structure.
(3)
No accessory structure shall be located within any platted or recorded easement or over any utility.
(E)
Maximum height. The maximum allowed height for an accessory structure located at the setback shall be twenty (20) feet; the maximum height may be increased one foot for each one foot of increase in setback beyond the minimum to a maximum height of twenty-five (25) feet. In no case shall an accessory structure be taller than the associated principal structure.
(F)
Maximum floor area.
(1)
Accessory to residential uses. The maximum floor area of all structures accessory to residential uses may be five hundred (500) square feet or fifty (50) percent of the total floor area of the principal structure, whichever is greater. A covered breezeway which connects an accessory structure to the principal structure shall not be enclosed, shall be a maximum of six (6) feet wide, and shall be included in the building coverage and maximum floor area calculations of accessory structures.
(2)
Accessory to nonresidential and agricultural uses. The maximum floor area of all structures accessory to nonresidential uses shall not exceed ten (10) percent of the lot area on which the permitted principal use is located.
(G)
Residential occupancy. No accessory structure shall be used for a residence except as authorized by the decision-making body to be occupied by resident caretakers.
(H)
Approval of accessory uses and structures. Unless otherwise specified, an accessory use or accessory structure shall be treated as a permitted use in the district in which it is located. An accessory use or structure may be approved in conjunction with approval of the principal use or structure.
(I)
Temporary accessory uses and structures. Temporary accessory uses and structures shall be governed by the standards and temporary use permit procedures set forth in subsections 19-2.3.11 and section 19-4.5 of this chapter.
4-4.3. Standards for specific accessory uses and structures.
(A)
Unlisted accessory uses or structures. Accessory uses and structures not listed in this subsection 4-4.3 may still be permitted subject to compliance with the general development and operational standards of subsection 4-4.2.
(B)
Caretaker's residence. Caretaker's residences are permitted as an accessory use in the C-1, C-2, M-1, and M-2 districts, subject to compliance with the following standards:
(1)
Residential occupation of the premises shall be specifically required because of the nature of the principal use of the property or for the safekeeping of the property;
(2)
The caretaker's residence shall be located on the same premises with the principal use for which it is required;
(3)
There shall be no more than one caretaker's residence on the property and it shall be occupied only by owners or employees of the use for which it is required; and
(4)
The caretaker's residence shall be constructed so that the exterior of the premises provides a development style consistent with the principal structure.
(C)
Home occupation. A home occupation permit may be issued subject to the following standards:
(1)
Where allowed. The home occupation shall be operated entirely within the dwelling unit or a related accessory building.
(2)
Who may operate. Only by the persons maintaining residence on the lot may operate a home occupation. If the persons maintaining residence are not the owners, the property owner's permission must be provided.
(3)
Area. The combined floor area of a home occupation shall not exceed twenty-five (25) percent of the floor area of the principal structure.
(4)
Employees. A home occupation may employ no more than one person who is not a resident in the applicant's home.
(5)
Operational requirements.
(a)
The home occupation shall not involve the retail sale of merchandise except for products related directly to services performed.
(b)
No merchandise shall be displayed in such a manner as to be visible from off the premises.
(c)
No outdoor storage shall be allowed in connection with any home occupation.
(d)
No alteration of the residential character of the premises may be made and the hours and the manner in which the home occupation is conducted shall not be allowed to create a nuisance or disturbance.
(6)
Business owner. The business must be owned by the owner of the property on which the home occupation is located, or the business owner must have written approval of the owner of the property if the applicant is a tenant.
(7)
Parking. Off-street parking shall be provided in accordance with the requirements of section 6-1, off-street parking and loading.
(8)
Prohibited home occupations. The following uses are prohibited as home occupations:
(a)
Landscaping business, other than office use;
(b)
Commercial greenhouse;
(c)
Contractor's business, other than office use;
(d)
Beauty salon or barber shop;
(e)
Automotive repair;
(f)
Furniture repair or cabinet shop;
(g)
Physician's or chiropractor's clinic;
(h)
Fortune telling.
(D)
Residential business. A residential business may only be allowed by special exception. Residential businesses are small offices or small-scale retail or service businesses which are clearly incidental and secondary to the use of the dwelling for residential dwelling purposes. In addition to, and which fully comply with the following standards:
(1)
Residential businesses may include but are not limited to beauty shops, barber shops, professional offices and minor repair shops.
(2)
Residential businesses shall not include the repair and/or maintenance of motor vehicles, large scale manufacturing or any use, which will create noise, noxious odors, or any hazard that may endanger the health, safety or welfare of the neighborhood.
(3)
The residential business shall not involve group instruction or group assembly of people on the premises.
(4)
The business or profession must be conducted entirely within the dwelling.
(5)
The dwelling must be the bona fide residence of the principal practitioner at the time of the application and, if approved, the residential business shall be valid only as long as the principal practitioner resides in the dwelling, is conducting business and has a current business certificate.
(6)
Residential businesses shall be limited to no more than twenty-five (25) percent of the total heated floor area of the residence.
(7)
There will be no changes, which would alter the character of the dwelling or reveal from the exterior that the dwelling is being used in part for other than residential purposes.
(8)
The portion of the residence in which the business is conducted shall be completely enclosed in a manner that the business is not visible from the surrounding property.
(9)
No outside storage is allowed.
(10)
Property on which the residential business is proposed must have frontage on a public road.
(11)
Off-street parking shall be provided in accordance with the requirements of section 6-1, off-street parking and loading.
(12)
Access by customers and/or clients shall be 8:00 a.m. through 6:00 p.m., Monday through Saturday.
(13)
One commercial vehicle may be parked in the approved parking area on the property.
(14)
A utility trailer needed for the operation of the business must be specifically requested and approved by the planning commission.
(E)
Garages, carports, and off-street parking areas. In residential districts, such uses shall serve only the residents of the property and shall not be used for any purpose other than an approved home occupation.
(F)
Display, sale, and repair of motor vehicles in all zoning districts. The following activities are prohibited in all zoning districts:
(1)
The display and sale of passenger vehicles except for approved auto sales businesses that comply with all requirements of this chapter.
(2)
With the exception of vehicle sales and services establishments, the repair of more than one vehicle owned by a person residing at the location of the activity. Repair includes engine, body, or other repair; or painting.
(3)
Storage outside of a substantially enclosed structure of any motor vehicle that is neither licensed nor operational.
(G)
Day care homes. Day care homes (see section 1.11, definitions) shall comply with the requirements of the state and subsection 4.4.3(C), home occupations.
(H)
Fences and walls. Any fence placed in a public right-of-way or an easement shall be removed at the fence owner's expense when required for public/utility improvements.
(1)
Any allowed fence or wall may be constructed up to the boundaries of a parcel, with the following exceptions:
(a)
Fences and walls shall be set back at least ten (10) feet from the right-of-way of an arterial or collector street;
(b)
Fences and walls shall not interfere with sight clearance at the intersection of streets and at the intersection of streets and driveways; and
(c)
As may be restricted in subsection (H)(2)(b) below.
(2)
The height and type of fence or wall is allowed based on the following provisions:
(a)
Residential districts. In all residential districts a fence or wall in a side yard or rear yard shall not be opaque above a height of eight (8) feet, or the height of the lowest portion of the eave of the principal building, whichever is less; and a fence or wall in a front yard shall not be opaque above a height of thirty (30) inches. (Height is measured from the finished grade at the base of the fence or wall.) Chain link fencing is permitted in residential districts.
(b)
Nonresidential and form based code districts, except C-3. In all nonresidential and form based code districts, except the C-3 district, a fence or wall in a side yard or rear yard shall not be opaque above a height of eight (8) feet, or the height of the lowest portion of the eave of the principal building, whichever is less; and a fence or wall in a front yard shall not be opaque above a height of thirty (30) inches. (Height is measured from the finished grade at the base of the fence or wall.) Chain link fencing is prohibited in the front yard, or within the required front building setback for undeveloped parcels. Any chain link fencing visible from a public street shall be coated in dark green or black vinyl. Barbed wire or other similar additions to fences is prohibited.
(c)
C-3, central business district. In the C-3 district, a fence or wall in a side yard or rear yard shall not be opaque above a height of eight (8) feet, or the height of the lowest portion of the eave of the principal building, whichever is less; and a fence or wall in a front yard shall not be opaque above a height of thirty (30) inches. (Height is measured from the finished grade at the base of the fence or wall.) All chain link fencing is prohibited in all locations in the C-3 zoning district.
(d)
Industrial districts; public utilities and recreation areas. In M-1, wholesale and light industrial; M-2, general industrial district, and on properties on which a public utility or recreational area any fence or wall is permitted, including chain link fencing. Height is not restricted. Barbed wire or other similar additions to fences is permitted.
(I)
Solar energy systems.
(1)
Purpose and findings. It is the purpose of this section to promote the safe, effective and efficient use of solar energy systems installed to reduce the on-site consumption of utility supplied energy and/or hot water as a permitted accessory use while protecting the health, safety and welfare of adjacent and surrounding land uses through appropriate zoning and land use controls. A solar energy system shall be permitted in any zoning district as an accessory to a principal use herein and subject to specific criteria as set forth below. Where said general standards and specific criteria overlap, the specific criteria shall supersede the general standards.
(2)
Definitions. The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this section, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
(a)
Mechanical equipment. Any device associated with a solar energy system, such as an outdoor electrical unit/control box, that transfers the energy from the solar energy system to the intended on-site structure.
(b)
Solar access. A property owner's right to have sunlight shine on the owner's land.
(c)
Solar energy system. An energy conversion system, including appurtenances, which converts solar energy to a usable form of energy to meet all or part of the energy requirements of the on-site user. This definition shall include the terms passive solar and active solar systems.
(d)
Solar glare. The effect produced by light reflecting from a solar panel with intensity sufficient to cause annoyance, discomfort, or loss in visual performance and visibility.
(3)
Applicability. This subsection applies to solar energy systems to be installed and constructed after September 3, 2013. Any upgrade, modification, or structural change that materially alters the size or placement of a solar energy system existing prior to September 3, 2013 shall comply with the provisions of this subsection.
(4)
Requirements. The installation and construction of a solar energy system shall be subject to the following development and design standards:
(a)
A solar energy system is permitted in all zoning districts as an accessory to a principal use.
(b)
A solar energy system shall provide power for the principal use and/or accessory use of the property on which the solar energy system is located and shall not be used for the generation of power for the sale of energy to other users, although this provision shall not be interpreted to prohibit the sale of excess power generated from time to time to the local utility company.
(c)
A solar energy system connected to the utility grid shall provide written authorization from the local utility company to City of Perry acknowledging and approving such connection.
(d)
A solar energy system may be roof mounted or ground mounted.
(e)
A roof-mounted system may be mounted on a principal building or accessory building. A roof-mounted system, whether mounted on the principal building or accessory building, may not exceed the maximum principal building height or accessory building height specified for the building type in the underlying zoning district. In no instance shall any part of the solar energy system extend beyond the edge of the roof.
(f)
A ground-mounted system shall not exceed the maximum building height for accessory buildings.
(g)
The surface area of a ground-mounted system, regardless of the mounted angle, shall be calculated as part of the overall lot coverage.
(h)
A ground-mounted system or system attached to an accessory building shall not be located within the front yard.
(i)
The minimum solar energy system setback distance from the property lines shall be equivalent to the accessory building setback requirement of the underlying zoning district.
(j)
All mechanical equipment associated with and necessary for the operation of the solar energy system shall comply with the following:
(i)
Mechanical equipment shall be screened from any adjacent property that is residentially zoned or used for residential purposes. The screen shall consist of shrubbery, trees, or other non-invasive plant species which provide a visual screen. In lieu of a planting screen, a decorative fence meeting the requirements of the Perry Land Development Ordinance may be used.
(ii)
Mechanical equipment shall not be located within the front yard.
(iii)
Mechanical equipment shall comply with the setbacks specified for accessory structures in the underlying zoning district.
(k)
Solar panels shall be placed such that concentrated solar radiation or glare shall not be directed onto nearby properties or roadways.
(l)
Solar panels shall not be placed in the vicinity of any airport in a manner that would interfere with airport flight patterns. Acknowledgment from the Federal Aviation Administration may be necessary.
(m)
All power transmission lines from a ground-mounted solar energy system to any building or other structure shall be located underground.
(n)
A solar energy system shall not be used to display advertising, including signage, streamers, pennants, spinners, reflectors, ribbons, tinsel, balloons, flags, banners or similar materials. The manufacturers and equipment information, warning, or indication of ownership shall be allowed on any equipment of the solar energy system provided they comply with the prevailing sign regulations.
(o)
A solar energy system shall not be constructed until a building/zoning permit has been approved and issued.
(p)
The design of the solar energy system shall conform to applicable industry standards. All wiring shall comply with the applicable version of the National Electric Code (NEC). The local utility provider shall be contacted to determine grid interconnection and net metering policies.
(q)
The solar energy system shall comply with all applicable city ordinances and codes so as to ensure the structural integrity of such solar energy system.
(r)
Before any construction can commence on any solar energy system, the property owner must acknowledge that he/she is the responsible party for owning and maintaining the solar energy system.
(s)
Any solar energy system constructed after September 3, 2013, with the exception of those where the principal use is a single- or two-family dwelling, shall be reviewed in accordance with subsection 6-6.1, architectural design standards for non-residential structures.
(t)
Any solar energy system constructed after September 3, 2013, which is located within a special district as designated in subsection 3-2.2 shall comply with the requirements of said special district, where applicable.
(5)
Removal. If a ground-mounted solar energy system is removed, any earth disturbance as a result of the removal of the ground-mounted solar energy system shall be graded and reseeded.
(6)
Repairs required. If a ground-mounted solar energy system has been abandoned (meaning not having been in operation for a period of six (6) months) or is defective or is deemed to be unsafe by the administrator, the solar energy system shall be required to be repaired by the owner to meet federal, state and local safety standards, or be removed by the property owner within the time period allowed by the administrator. If the owner fails to remove or repair the defective or abandoned solar energy system, the city may pursue a legal action to have the system removed at the owner's expense.
(J)
Fallout shelters. Fallout shelters are permissible as an accessory structure in any district, subject to the following conditions.
(1)
If any portion of the structure extends above the ground, that portion above must comply with the yard and lot coverage regulations of the district in which it is located, and the site plan for such shelter must be approved by the building inspector.
(2)
If the structure is completely underground, it need not comply with yard requirements or percentage of lot coverage requirements.
(3)
A fallout shelter, underground or aboveground, shall be confined to a side or rear yard and shall not be located in the front yard between the main building and the street on which it fronts.
(4)
Fallout shelters may contain or be contained in other structures or may be constructed separately.
(K)
Satellite dish antennas.
(1)
In residential districts, the satellite dish antenna shall be located, to the extent feasible as documented by the satellite provider, in locations that are not visible from the street. Provided however, in the event the satellite dish is located in the front yard same shall be screened unless such screening impairs the installation, maintenance or use of the antenna as documented by the satellite provider. Satellite dish antennas must meet applicable building setback requirements for the district in which said satellite dish antenna is to be located.
(2)
In commercial and industrial districts, the satellite antenna must be located to the extent feasible as documented by the satellite provider, in locations that are not visible from the street or on the roof of the main building provided said dish antenna does not exceed Federal Aviation Administration height limits for the district in which said dish antenna is to be located. In the event the satellite dish antenna is located in the front yard, said satellite dish antenna shall be screened unless such screening impairs the installation, maintenance or use of the antenna as documented by the satellite provider.
(L)
Animals in residential districts. Animals may be kept in residential districts subject to the district regulations and the following standards:
Table 4-4-3: Animal Density in Residential Districts
EXPAND
Minimum Lot Area Type of Animal Maximum Density
1 acre Horse, pony or any
combination thereof 1 per 1 acre
1 acre Foul, rabbit, or any
combination thereof 10 per ½ acre
  (M)
Hobby beekeeping.
(1)
Definitions of terms. In addition to the general definitions provided in this chapter, the following definitions shall apply to this section:
Apiary means the assembly of one or more hives of bees at a single location. Beekeeper means a person who owns or has charge of one or more hives of bees. Hive means an aggregate of bees consisting principally of workers, but having, when perfect, one queen and at times many drones, including brood, combs, honey and the receptacle inhabited by the bees.
Hobby beekeeping means a beekeeper that is not required to be licensed under the provisions of the Georgia Bee Law (O.C.G.A. § 2-14-40).
(2)
It shall be unlawful for any beekeeper to keep any hive or hives in such a manner or of such disposition as to cause any unhealthy condition, interfere with the normal use and enjoyment of human or animal life of others or interfere with the normal use and enjoyment of any public property or property of others.
(3)
Hobby beekeeping may be permitted provided the following requirements are met:
(a)
Requirement for commercial beekeepers. The Georgia Bee Law (O.C.G.A. § 2-14-40) requires that all beekeepers selling bees, queens, nuclei, etc., commercially be licensed. All other beekeepers (e.g., hobbyists, pollinators, honey producers) are not required to be licensed.
(b)
Registration required. All beekeepers are required to annually register with the city community development department. New or additional hive(s) shall be registered with the city prior to placing on the property.
(c)
Setbacks. The hive(s) shall be setback a minimum setback of ten (10) feet from all property lines. Where a hive is located within twenty-five (25) feet of a property line, as measured from the nearest point on the hive to the property line, the beekeeper shall establish and maintain a flyway barrier at least six (6) feet in height consisting of a solid wall, fence, dense vegetation or combination thereof that is parallel to the property line and extends ten (10) feet beyond the colony in each direction so that all bees are forced to fly at an elevation of at least six (6) feet high in the vicinity of the apiary. Hives in an area located as described above shall have the hive opening facing inward of the property on which they are located. Hives are specifically prohibited from the front yard or a side yard which abuts a street.
(d)
Hive densities. Two (2) hives shall be permitted for the first one-quarter (¼) acre and one additional hive for each one-quarter (¼) acre thereafter. Hives are prohibited on parcels having an area of less than one-quarter (¼) acre.
(e)
Water. Each beekeeper shall ensure that a convenient source of water is available to the bees at all times. The water shall be in a location that minimizes any nuisance created by bees seeking water on neighborhood property.
(f)
General maintenance. Each beekeeper shall ensure that no bee comb or other materials are left upon the grounds of the apiary site. All such materials shall promptly be disposed of in a sealed container or placed within a building or other bee-proof enclosure.
(g)
Queens. In any instance in which a hive exhibits unusual aggressive characteristics by stinging or attempting to sting without due provocation or exhibits an unusual disposition toward swarming, the beekeeper shall promptly re-queen the colony. Queens shall be selected from European stock bred for gentleness and non-swarming characteristics.
(h)
Africanized honey bees. The African species of bees or any hybrid involving the African species is prohibited.
(Ord. No. 2017-25, § 2, 12-19-17)
Sec. 4-5. - Temporary uses and structures.
4-5.1. Purpose. This section allows for the establishment of certain temporary uses of limited duration, provided that such uses are discontinued upon the expiration of a prescribed time period. Temporary uses do not involve the construction or alteration of any permanent building or structure.
4-5.2. General standards for all temporary uses and structures. All temporary uses and structures shall meet the following general requirements, unless otherwise specified in this chapter:
(A)
All temporary uses shall obtain a temporary use permit.
(B)
The temporary use shall not be detrimental to property or improvements in the surrounding area or to the public health, safety, or general welfare.
(C)
The temporary use shall not have substantial adverse impacts on nearby residential uses.
(D)
Permanent alterations to the site are prohibited.
(E)
If the property is developed, the site of the temporary use and structure shall be located in an area that supports the temporary use without encroaching into, or creating a negative impact upon, existing buffers; open space; landscaping; pedestrian and vehicular traffic movements (including emergency vehicle access); and parking space availability.
(F)
If the property is undeveloped, the site of the temporary use and structure shall be located in an area with sufficient land area to enable the temporary use to function adequately, including any parking and traffic movement that may be associated with the temporary use, without disturbing sensitive or protected resources, including required buffers.
(G)
The temporary use shall not violate any applicable conditions of approval that apply to the principal use on the site.
(H)
Off-street parking shall be adequate to accommodate the proposed temporary use.
(I)
All approved temporary signs associated with the temporary use shall be removed when the activity ceases.
(J)
All otherwise applicable permits and inspections have been issued and approved.
4-5.3. Specific standards for certain temporary uses and structures.
(A)
Seasonal sales. Seasonal sales, including the sale of such items as Christmas trees and pumpkins, seasonal produce, and other similar agricultural products, may be permitted for a maximum of ninety (90) days.
(B)
Sidewalk and parking lot sales. sidewalk and parking lot sales located on the same lot as the merchant's principal use may be permitted for a maximum of sixty (60) days per calendar year. There shall be no more than three (3) temporary sidewalk or parking lot sales of goods per site per calendar year.
(C)
Construction-related activities. Construction-related activities may be permitted subject to the following standards:
(1)
Temporary construction-related activities, including construction offices and storage buildings, outdoor storage, and employee parking areas, may occur on the same site as the construction activity without obtaining a temporary use permit. Such uses shall be removed within thirty (30) days after issuance of a final certificate of occupancy.
(2)
Because of site constraints, construction-related activities may need to occur on a site that is adjacent to or nearby the construction site. In such cases, a temporary use permit is required. Such uses shall be removed and the site restored to its previous condition within thirty (30) days after issuance of a final certificate of occupancy.
(D)
Temporary office facilities. temporary facilities used as sales/leasing offices, including those located in a model unit of a residential project or used during construction to expand or replace a permanent building, may be permitted on the same site as the permanent use. Sales offices may be established for pre-sales or leasing prior to construction of the project.
(1)
Such temporary offices may remain on the site for a period of time not to exceed twelve (12) months. This period may be renewed for a period of time not to exceed two (2) six-month periods upon approval of the administrator thirty (30) days prior to the expiration of the permit. In no event, however, shall such extensions allow the temporary use to remain on the site for more than two (2) years.
(2)
In addition to meeting the general standards of subsection 4.5.2, all structures approved pursuant to this section shall meet the following standards and requirements:
(a)
Location. Such structures may be located anywhere on site except within existing vegetated buffers or other areas designated on the site plan to remain free from land-disturbance.
(b)
Other requirements.
1.
The temporary structure shall be either a modular building unit or a building constructed to the standards of the state building code.
2.
Underpinning, skirting, or other curtain wall materials shall be installed.
3.
All permits required by applicable building, electrical, plumbing, and mechanical codes shall be obtained prior to installation of the temporary structure.
4.
A sketch plan containing sufficient information to show compliance with the above standards shall be submitted to and approved by the administrator prior to installation of the temporary structure.
(E)
Use of travel trailer or motorized home as a temporary residence. The use of a travel trailer or motorized home as a temporary residence may be permitted subject to the following standards:
(1)
A temporary use permit shall be obtained.
(2)
The temporary residence replaces the permanent residence of the applicant which has been rendered uninhabitable due to fire, vandalism, or natural disaster.
(3)
Use of the temporary residence shall be limited to the time needed to repair/restore the permanent residence to a habitable condition or six (6) months, whichever is less. The administrator may extend the temporary use for additional six-month periods.
(F)
Use of motor vehicle, trailer, or shipping container for sales, service, storage, or other business. The use of any motor vehicle, trailer, or shipping container in which, out of which, or from which any goods are sold, stored, services performed, or other business conducted shall be prohibited in all zoning districts, except as may be allowed by a temporary use permit. This subsection shall not prohibit the use of a motor vehicle, trailer, or shipping container for the following uses without benefit of a temporary use permit:
(1)
The sale of food and drink products at a city-approved event;
(2)
Construction authorized by a building permit;
(3)
The temporary loading and unloading of goods, provided that no individual trailer or container is in place longer than forty-eight (48) hours;
(4)
The temporary storage of seasonal merchandise; or
(5)
The storage of baled lawn and garden products.
See section 6-1.10 for standards for parking or storing recreational vehicles, utility trailers, and food trucks.
(Ord. No. 2017-25, § 2, 12-19-17; Ord. No. 2022-27, § 2, 8-2-22)
ARTICLE 5. - MEASUREMENTS AND DIMENSIONAL STANDARDS[2]

Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
Editor's note— Ord. No. 2022-32, § 5, adopted Sept. 20, 2022, repealed the former Art. 5, §§ 5-1—5-6, and enacted a new Art. 5 as set out herein. The former Art. 5 pertained to similar subject matter, and derived from Ord. No. 2017-25, § 2, adopted Dec. 19, 2017; Ord. No. 2019-03, § 2, adopted Feb. 5, 2019; Ord. No. 2021-08, §§ 1—3, adopted Apr. 20, 2021; and Ord. No. 2022-20, §§ 5—8, adopted June 21, 2022.

Sec. 5-1. - Minimum lot area and lot width, minimum house size, maximum density, and maximum lot coverage.
5-1.1 Residential districts. The minimum lot areas, minimum lot widths, minimum house size and maximum lot coverage in Table 5-1-1 shall apply.
Table 5-1-1: Minimum Lot Area, Lot Width, and Maximum Lot Coverage for Residential Development
See Appendix A for requirements in form based code districts
EXPAND
Zoning District Minimum Lot Area
(Square Feet) Minimum Lot
Width
(Measured at
Front Setback
Line) Minimum House
Size (Heated
Square Feet) 4 Maximum Lot
Coverage of
Buildings
(Percent)
R-Ag Residential-Agricultural 5 acres 300 1,500 25
R-1 Single-Family Residential 15,000 1, 2 90' 1,500 25
R-2 Single-Family Residential 12,000 1, 2 80' 1,500 25
R-3 Single-Family Residential (and single-family residential in nonresidential districts) 9,000 1, 2 70' 1,500 35
R-TH Residential Town House Development (see subsection 4-3.1(A) for individual lot standards) 6 units per acre 110' 1,200 40
RM-1 Multi-Family Residential
Detached Single-family 9,000 1, 2 75' n/a 35
Two-Family Dwelling (Duplex) 10,000 1, 2 75' n/a 35
Multi-Family Dwellings (3—6 units per parcel) 10 units per acre 75' n/a 40
RM-2 Multi-Family Residential 20 units per acre 100* n/a 40
R-MH Residential Manufactured Home
Single-family detached 9,000 2 70' n/a 35
Manufactured home subdivision 1 9,000 2 70' n/a 35
Manufactured home park 3 See subsection 4-3.1(B)
Multi-Family Residential in Nonresidential Districts See Table 5-1-2 for allowable densities
1 New lots abutting platted residential lots must meet the requirements of subsection 5-1(A)(1) below.
2 Lots served by private septic tank and/or a private well shall be the minimum size required by the county health department.
3 The minimum area for a manufactured home subdivision or park is five (5) acres.
4 House size less than the minimum may be allowed by special exception.
5 The R-2A zoning district is a residual zoning district that shall only apply to properties that are zoned R-2A as of July 1, 2022. No parcels may be rezoned to the R-2A zoning classification after July 1, 2022. The regulations for development in the R-2A zoning district shall be those regulations set forth in this ordinance for the R-2 zoning district.
  (A)
Minimum lot size adjustment. To provide a transition from existing subdivided lots to lots in proposed single-family and two-family subdivisions, the lots abutting platted residentially zoned (R-1, R-2, and R-3) lots shall be adjusted using the following requirements in addition to the requirements in Table 5-1-1. However, the minimum lot size shall not be more than two (2) times the minimum size required in Table 5-1-1. These regulations shall not apply to existing or proposed multi-family dwellings or to existing or proposed developments in the R-MH or R-Ag districts.
(1)
The required minimum size of the proposed lots shall be established by determining the average size of the smallest two-thirds (⅔) of the existing lots abutting the new subdivision. The proposed lots abutting the existing lots shall be eighty-five (85) percent of the average size, but not more than two (2) times the minimum lot size required in Table 5-1-1 for the zoning classification in which the development is located.
(B)
If the adjusted minimum lot size is within ten (10) percent of the minimum lot size requirements in Table 5-1-1, these regulations shall not apply.
5-1.2 Multi-family in nonresidential districts. Multi-family and townhouse residential developments shall meet the requirements in Table 5-1-2.
Table 5-1-2: Multi-Family Residential Maximum Density, Lot Width, and Maximum Lot Coverage
(All multi-family residential developments exceeding six units per lot requires a special exception)
EXPAND
Zoning District Maximum Dwelling Units
per Acre* Minimum Lot Width
(measured at building
line) Maximum Lot Coverage
of Buildings (Percent)
LC 6 75 40
OI 10 100 40
RTH 6 110 40
C-1, C-2 20 100 40
C-3 No maximum 0 100
IMU, MUC, NMU, FRB See Appendix A for requirements in form based code districts.
* City council may grant a special exception to allow a higher maximum density for existing buildings adaptively reused for residential or a mix of commercial and residential uses.
  (Ord. No. 2022-32, § 5, 9-20-22; Ord. No. 2022-39, § 8, 10-18-22)
Sec. 5-2. - Building setbacks.
5-2.1. Minimum building setbacks. Minimum building setbacks are established in Table 5-2-1.
Table 5-2-1: Minimum Building Setbacks1
See Appendix A for requirements in form based code districts
EXPAND
Zoning District Front Setback and
Corner Lot Side Setback Interior Lot
Side Setback Rear
Setback
Arterial/
Collector Street Minor
Street
Residential Districts
R-Ag Residential-Agricultural 50' 50' 15' 35'
R-1 Single-Family Residential 40' 30' 10' 35'
R-2 Single-Family Residential 40' 25' 8' 35'
R-3 Single-Family Residential 40' 25' 8' 35'
R-TH Residential Town House Development (see subsection 4-3.1(A) for individual lot standards) 40' 25' 2 25' 25'
RM-1 Multi-Family Residential 40' 25' C 35'
Nonresidential uses in RM-1 40' 25' 25' 35'
RM-2 Multi-Family Residential 40' 25' 25' 35'
R-MH Residential Manufactured Home Development (see subsection 4-3.1(B) for individual lot standards) 40' 25' 25' 25'
Commercial Districts
OC Office Commercial District 3 40' 25' A A
IN Institutional District 3 40' 25' A A
C-1 Highway Commercial District
Multi-Family < 7 units 40' 25' C 25'
Multi-Family > 6 units 40' 25' 25' 25'
Commercial or Mixed-Use 40' 25' A A
C-2 General Commercial District 3
Multi-Family < 7 units 40' 25' C 25'
Multi-Family > 6 units 40' 25' 25' 25'
Commercial or Mixed-Use 40' 25' A A
C-3 Central Business District (CBD)
Multi-Family 10' 10' A A
Commercial or Mixed-Use none none A A
LC Local Commercial District 3 40' 25' A 25'
Industrial Districts
M-1 Wholesale and Light Industrial 50' 50' B B
M-2 Industrial 50' 50' B B
A. None, except twenty-five (25) feet when abutting a residential district.
B. None, except fifty (50) feet when abutting a residential district.
C. Eight (8) feet plus two (2) additional feet for each story above two (2) stories.
1. Setbacks for accessory structures are five (5) feet from rear and interior side property lines, unless the otherwise required setback listed above is less. (Also see subsection 4-4.2(E).)
2. The minimum front setback for townhouses abutting a pocket greenspace is ten (10) feet.
3. Single-family dwellings in nonresidential districts shall comply with the setbacks established in the R-3 zoning district.
  5-2.2. Exceptions.
(A)
Windowsills, cornices, buttresses, ornamental features, chimneys, flues, and eaves may encroach up to two (2) feet into any required building setback, subject to compliance with applicable building codes.
(B)
Driveways, walkways, on-grade patios, uncovered steps, in-ground pools, retaining walls, fences and walls complying with the provisions of subsection 4-4.3(H) and as may be required by subsection 6-3.7, pergolas, arbors, and other landscape features, and mechanical equipment are allowed in any required building setback. Gazebos and other structures with a solid roof are considered accessory structures, subject to the provisions of section 4-4.
(Ord. No. 2022-32, § 5, 9-20-22; Ord. No. 2022-39, § 9, 10-18-22; Ord. No. 2023-05, § 1, 1-17-23)
Sec. 5-3. - Lots.
5-3.1. Lots. A lot shall not be modified in a manner which violates any provision of this ordinance. This provision shall not apply when a portion of a lot is acquired for public use.
5-3.2. Lots of record.
(A)
Land use. A lot that does not conform to the minimum area or width requirements of the zoning district in which it is located may be used for a single-family residence which otherwise complies with all applicable provisions of this ordinance.
(B)
Re-platting. Two (2) or more adjoining and vacant lots with continuous frontage are in the same ownership at the time of application which have a width or area less than is required by the zoning district in which they are located, shall be re-platted to create one or more lots which conform to the minimum width and area requirements of the zoning district.
(C)
Expansion and improvement of existing dwelling on sub-standard lot of record. An existing dwelling located on a substandard lot of record may be improved or expanded in compliance with all other applicable provisions of this ordinance.
5-3.3. Flag lots.
(A)
A flag lot shall not be created in any residential zoning district without approval of the planning commission. The commission in approving any flag lot in a residential zoning district shall determine the proposed flag lot(s) will not negatively impact the use and privacy of adjacent residential properties.
(B)
A flag lot shall not be created in any zoning district to circumvent any procedure or standard which would otherwise be required by this ordinance.
5-3.4. Access to public streets. All lots shall have a minimum of twenty (20) feet of frontage on a public street right-of-way.
5-3.5. Additional dwellings on a single lot. One additional single-family dwelling, or manufactured home if allowed in the zoning district in which the lot is located, may be permitted on the same lot as that of the main dwelling if the lot can be subdivided into two (2) lots which comply with all applicable provisions of this ordinance.
(Ord. No. 2022-32, § 5, 9-20-22)
Sec. 5-4. - Reserved.
Sec. 5-5. - Building height.
(A)
General. Building height is the vertical distance measured from the average elevation of the proposed finished grade at the front of the building to the highest point of the coping of the parapet wall of a flat roof, to the deck line of a mansard roof, or to the average height level between the eaves and ridge of a shed, gable, hip, or gambrel roof.
(B)
Maximum building height. Maximum building heights are established in Table 5-5-1.
Table 5-5-1: Maximum Building Height
Maximum building height for accessory structures is provided in subsection 4-4.2(E)
EXPAND
Zoning District and Use Maximum Building Height (in feet)
Single-family detached and two-family residential in any district 35
Nonresidential uses in R-Ag, R-1, R-2, R-3 and RMH 40
R-TH, RM-1 40
RM-2 45
C-1, C-2 50
LC, OI 40
C-3 56/maximum 4 stories
M-1, M-2 60
IMU, MUC, NMU, FBR See Appendix A for requirements in form based code districts
  (C)
Exceptions. Spires, belfries, cupolas, chimneys, antennas, water tanks, ventilators, elevator housings, mechanical equipment or other such structures placed above the roof level and not intended for human occupancy shall not be subject to height limitations. Silos, granaries, and other similar agricultural structures are not subject to height limitations.
(Ord. No. 2022-32, § 5, 9-20-22; Ord. No. 2022-39, § 10, 10-18-22; Ord. No. 2023-05, § 2, 1-17-23)
ARTICLE 6. - DEVELOPMENT AND DESIGN STANDARDS

Sec. 6-1. - Off-street parking and loading.
6-1.1. Intent. The intent of this section is to allow flexible methods of providing an adequate number of parking and loading spaces, while creating or improving a pedestrian-oriented community, and reducing excessive paved surfaces which lead to unnecessary heat buildup and stormwater runoff.
6-1.2. Applicability.
(A)
General. The off-street parking, bicycle parking, and loading standards of this section shall apply to any new building constructed and to any new use established.
(B)
Exemptions and modifications.
(1)
The off-street parking requirements in Table 6-1-1 shall not apply to properties in the C-3 district. Loading standards of this section shall not apply in the C-3 district. However, prior to issuance of any building permit or certificate of occupancy, whichever is issued first, the owner of any new building constructed or any new use established in the C-3 district shall submit to the administrator an estimate of the parking requirements that the building or use is expected to generate, based on the ratios established in this section, and an indication of where or how that parking will be provided.
(2)
The off-street parking, bicycle parking, and loading standards of subsections 6-1.2 and 6-1.3 shall not apply to parking areas which constitute the principal use of a site (commercial parking lots and parking structures). The maximum off-street parking standards of subsections 6-1.2 and 6-1.3 shall not apply to developments which incorporate a multi-level parking structure.
(C)
Expansions and alterations. The off-street parking, bicycle parking, and loading standards of this section shall apply when an existing structure or use is expanded or enlarged. Additional off-street parking, bicycle parking, and loading spaces shall be required based on the enlarged or expanded area, provided that in all cases the number of off-street parking, bicycle parking, and loading spaces provided for the entire use (pre-existing plus expansion) must equal at least seventy-five (75) percent of the minimum ratio established in this section.
(D)
Change of use. Off-street parking, bicycle parking and loading shall be provided for any change of use pursuant to the following:
(1)
If the change of use constitutes less than fifty (50) percent of the floor area of a structure or lot accommodating one or more uses (within a five-year period), the property shall comply with the provisions of this section to the greatest extent practicable as determined by the administrator provided the off-street parking and loading requirements equal at least seventy-five (75) percent of the minimum ratio established by this section.
(2)
If the change of use constitutes fifty (50) percent or more of the floor area of a structure or lot accommodating one or more uses (within a five-year period), the property shall comply with the provisions of this section to the greatest extent practicable as determined by the administrator provided the off-street parking and loading requirements equal at least one hundred percent (100) percent of the minimum ratio established by this section.
6-1.3. Off-street parking requirements.
(A)
Schedule A. Unless otherwise expressly stated in this chapter, off-street parking spaces shall be provided in accordance with Table 6-1-1.
Table 6-1-1: Off-Street Parking Requirements Schedule A
EXPAND
Use Category Use Type Minimum Spaces Required Maximum Spaces Allowed
Square footage refers to total gross floor area, excluding accessory warehouse and storage areas unless otherwise indicated
RESIDENTIAL USES
Household living* Multiple-family dwelling 1.5 per dwelling unit See Schedule B
Household living uses specifically for elderly or handicapped residents 0.5 per dwelling unit See Schedule B
Townhouse 2.25 per dwelling unit See Schedule B
Other household living uses with 3 or fewer bedrooms 2 per dwelling unit See Schedule B
Other household living uses with more than 3 bedrooms 3 per dwelling unit See Schedule B
* Enclosed garages shall not count toward minimum parking for household living uses.
Group living Boarding house 2 plus 1 for each bedroom rented 2 plus 1 for each bedroom rented
All other group living uses 1 per each 2 beds 1 per each bed
PUBLIC AND INSTITUTIONAL USES
Community service Library, museum 1 per 1,000 square feet See Schedule B
All other community service uses 1 per 500 square feet 1 per 250 square feet
Day care Child learning center (19+ people) 1 per 375 square feet 1 per 250 square feet
Group day care home (7 to 18 people) 2 plus requirement for principal use See Schedule B
Preschool 1 per 375 square feet 1 per 250 square feet
Educational facilities Business school 1 per 200 square feet 1 per 150 square feet
College or university 1 per 200 square feet See Schedule B
School, public or private 2 per classroom See Schedule B
Trade school 1 per 200 square feet 1 per 150 square feet
Government facilities Detention center See Schedule B See Schedule B
Emergency response facility See Schedule B See Schedule B
Maintenance, storage, and distribution facility 1 per 1,000 square feet See Schedule B
Post office 1 per 300 square feet See Schedule B
Healthcare facilities Hospital 1 per 400 square feet See Schedule B
Medical facility, other than hospital 1 per 600 square feet 1 per 250 square feet
Institutions Religious institution 1 per 5 permanent seats in the main sanctuary 1 per 3 seats in the main sanctuary
All other institutions 0.3 per bed plus 1 per employee See Schedule B
Parks and open areas All uses See Schedule B See Schedule B
Transportation terminals All uses See Schedule B See Schedule B
Utilities Communication tower None See Schedule B
Major and minor utility 1 per 1,500 square feet See Schedule B
COMMERCIAL USES
Eating establishments Restaurant, with drive-through 1 per 150 square feet plus vehicle stacking spaces (see § 6-1.7) 1 per 100 square feet plus vehicle stacking spaces
Restaurant with no seating 1 per 200 square feet 1 per 100 square feet
All other eating establishment uses 1 per 100 square feet 1 per 75 square feet
Offices Call centers 1 per 300 square feet See Schedule B
All other offices 1 per 600 square feet 1 per 200 square feet
Outdoor entertainment All uses 1 per 5,000 square feet of land area, or 1 per 3 persons capacity (maximum), whichever is greater See Schedule B
Retail sales and services Adult entertainment establishment 1 per 100 square feet See Schedule B
Bank, financial institution, or ATM 1 per 500 square feet plus vehicle stacking spaces for automated banking (see § 6-1.7) 1 per 200 square feet plus vehicle stacking spaces
Convention and exhibition hall See Schedule B See Schedule B
Civic club 1 per 300 square feet See Schedule B
Convenience store 1 per 200 square feet plus vehicle stacking spaces for gasoline service (see § 19-6.1.7) 1 per 100 square feet plus vehicle stacking spaces for gasoline service (see § 6-17)
Department or discount store, exceeding 35,000 gross square feet 1 per 650 square feet 1 per 250 square feet
Event venue See Schedule B See Schedule B
Grocery store 1 per 650 square feet 1 per 250 square feet
Health club or spa 1 per 250 square feet See Schedule B
Indoor entertainment facility 1 per 3 fixed seats, or 1 per 300 square feet, whichever is greater See Schedule B
Kennel or veterinary clinic 1 per 600 square feet See Schedule B
Landscape nursery See Schedule B See Schedule B
Nightclub or bar 1 per 100 square feet See Schedule B
Funeral home, mortuary 1 per 4 seats in main assembly room See Schedule B
Photography, art, dance studio or gallery 1 per 400 square feet 1 per 200 square feet
Personal services, all other uses 1 per 500 square feet 1 per 250 square feet
Prefabricated building display and sales See Schedule B See Schedule B
Retail sales and services, all other uses 1 per 500 square feet 1 per 250 square feet
Self-service
storage All uses 1 per 20 storage units 1 per 10 storage units
Vehicle sales and service Automobile rental and sales 1 per 300 square feet See Schedule B
Automobile repair 1 per 300 square feet See Schedule B
Automobile servicing 1 per 300 square feet See Schedule B
Automobile wash and detailing 1 per 500 square feet of sales, office, and lounge area, plus vehicle stacking spaces (see § 6-1.7) See Schedule B
Recreational vehicle rental and sales 1 per 300 square feet See Schedule B
Towing service 1 per 300 square feet See Schedule B
Truck or trailer rental 1 per 300 square feet See Schedule B
Visitor accommodations Bed and breakfast inn 2 plus 0.5 per guest room plus 2 plus 1 per guest room
Hotel or motel 0.75 per guest room, plus 1 per 800 square feet of conference and restaurant space 1 per guest room, plus 1 per 400 square feet of conference and restaurant space
SERVICE AND INDUSTRIAL USES
Agricultural operations All uses See Schedule B See Schedule B
Aviation services All uses See Schedule B See Schedule B
Industrial services All uses See Schedule B See Schedule B
Manufacturing and production All uses See Schedule B See Schedule B
Mining
operations All uses See Schedule B See Schedule B
Research and development All uses See Schedule B See Schedule B
Testing laboratories All uses See Schedule B See Schedule B
Warehouse and freight movement All uses See Schedule B See Schedule B
Waste-related services All uses See Schedule B See Schedule B
Wholesale sales All uses 1 per 1,500 square feet See Schedule B
    (B)
Schedule B. Uses that reference "Schedule B" have widely varying parking and loading demand characteristics, making it impossible to specify a single off-street parking or loading standard. Upon receiving a development application for a use subject to Schedule B standards, the administrator shall apply the off-street parking and loading standard specified for the listed use that is deemed most similar to the proposed use or establish minimum off-street parking requirements on the basis of a parking and loading study prepared by the applicant. Such a study shall include estimates of parking demand based on recommendations of the Institute of Transportation Engineers (ITE), or other acceptable estimates as approved by the administrator, and should include other reliable data collected from uses or combinations of uses that are the same as or comparable with the proposed use. Comparability will be determined by density, scale, bulk, area, type of activity, and location. The study shall document the source of data used to develop the recommendations.
(C)
Off-street bicycle parking requirements. The minimum number of parking spaces for bicycles shall be equal to one percent of the total number of off-street parking spaces provided. A minimum of two (2) bicycle parking spaces shall be provided for all sites.
6-1.4. Off-street loading requirements. Unless otherwise approved by the administrator, every building or structure erected and used for business, trade, or industry shall provide space as indicated in this section for the loading and unloading of vehicles, with access to a public street or alley. The spaces shall be arranged so that no vehicle will be required to back onto a public street or way and so that vehicles may maneuver for loading and unloading entirely within the property lines of the premises. Off-street loading spaces shall be provided in the following numbers:
(A)
Commercial uses. Each use shall provide one loading space, measuring ten (10) feet by twenty-five (25) feet with overhead clearance of fourteen (14) feet, for each twenty thousand (20,000) square feet of gross floor area or fraction thereof.
(B)
Service and industrial uses. Each use shall provide loading spaces that measure ten (10) feet by fifty (50) feet with overhead clearance of fourteen (14) feet, based on the gross floor area as shown below:
Table 6-1-2: Off-Street Loading for Wholesale and Industrial Uses
EXPAND
Gross Floor Area in Structure (sq. ft.) Number of Berths
0—25,000 1
25,001—50,000 2
50,001—100,000 3
100,001—150,000 4
150,001—200,000 5
Each 100,000 above 200,000 1
  (C)
Bus and truck terminals. Sufficient spaces to accommodate the maximum number of buses or trucks to be loading, unloading or stored at the terminal at any one time.
6-1.5. Computation of parking and loading requirements.
(A)
Fractions. When measurements of the number of required spaces result in a fractional number, any fraction of less than one-half (½) shall be rounded down to the next lower whole number and any fraction of one-half (½) or more shall be rounded up to the next higher whole number.
(B)
Multiple uses. Except as provided in subsection 6-1.8, lots containing more than one use must provide parking and loading in an amount equal to the total of the requirements for all uses.
(C)
Gross floor area. With regard to the parking standards in this section, square footage refers to the gross floor area of a building, excluding warehouse and storage space which is accessory to the primary use. With regard to the loading standards in this section, square footage refers to the total gross floor area of a building.
(D)
Parking for unlisted uses. Parking requirements for uses not specifically listed in Table 7-1-1 shall be determined by the administrator based on the provisions of Schedule B.
(E)
Reduction of automobile parking for alternative transportation vehicles. The administrator may reduce the required number of off-street parking spaces by one automobile space for every six (6) bicycle parking spaces provided. The administrator may reduce the required number of off-street parking spaces if spaces for vehicles such as golf carts or other types of alternative transportation vehicles are provided, on a case-by-case basis.
6-1.6. Parking design and location standards. In addition to the design standards listed in section 6-6, the following shall apply to all parking lots:
(A)
Surfacing and maintenance. All required parking and vehicular driving surfaces shall be graded for drainage in accordance with article 7, stormwater management. All parking and vehicular driving surfaces required pursuant to minimum spaces required in Table 6-1-1, except for parking and driveways for one-family detached and two-family dwellings, shall be surfaced with concrete or asphalt concrete pavement except as required or allowed in subsections 6-1.6(B), (D) and (E) of this section. Alternative materials may be approved by the administrator. Alternative materials shall only be considered if such material exhibits equivalent load bearing and wear characteristics as concrete or asphalt concrete. Gravel is not an acceptable alternative paving material except for overflow parking and vehicular use areas located in an M-1 or M-2 zoning district. All surfaces shall be maintained in sound condition free of potholes, weeds, dust, trash, and debris.
(B)
Low impact development (LID) techniques required. All parking areas, for uses other than single-family detached and two-family dwellings, which exceed the number of parking spaces required by the minimum spaces required column and equal to or less than the maximum spaces allowed column as listed in Table 6-1-1 should incorporate low impact development (LID) techniques for the area in which there are excess spaces. Each LID technique shall be approved by the administrator. Examples include, but are not limited to, bioretention areas and vegetative filter strips. The LID technique shall be sized to treat the first 0.5 inches of runoff from the excess spaces and will be in addition to the stormwater requirements set forth in article 7, stormwater management.
(C)
Reserved.
(D)
Overflow parking. All parking areas above the maximum number of spaces required in Table 6-1-1 are considered as overflow parking and shall be turf or an approved pervious paving system. Turf may be used for parking areas and vehicular driving surfaces only for parking areas which are designed to be used no more than ten (10) times per year.
(E)
Paving exemption for assembly uses. The administrator may waive the paving requirement for up to fifty (50) percent of the required parking spaces and vehicular driving surfaces for assembly uses (religious institutions, sports facilities, and the like). The waiver may be granted only if evidence is presented to the administrator that these parking spaces and vehicular driving surfaces will be used less than five (5) times per week and are not required for access by emergency vehicles. Parking areas for which paving is waived shall maintain a turf surface and be constructed with proper drainage.
(F)
Markings. All paved parking spaces shall be identified by surface markings and shall be maintained in a manner so as to be readily visible at all times. Such markings shall be arranged to provide for orderly and safe loading, unloading, parking, and storage of vehicles. Parallel parking spaces shall be marked with standard "cross" and "T" pavement markings as reflected in the design and specification manual. All striping shall be marked with four-inch lines. As appropriate, time and use restrictions may apply and signs shall be posted displaying the required information.
(G)
Backing movements prohibited. All off-street parking spaces and driveways, with the exception of parking areas for one-family detached and two-family dwellings, shall be arranged to require ingress and egress from the lot to a public street by forward motion of the vehicle. For single-family and two-family residences only, driveways may be used to satisfy minimum off-street parking requirements, provided that sufficient space is available to satisfy the minimum design standards.
(H)
Dimensions of parking stalls and driveways. All required parking spaces shall be designed to comply with the following minimum standards:
Table 6-1-3: Standards for Parking Stalls
EXPAND
Angle of Parking Stall Width (feet) Stall Depth (feet) Driveway Width (feet) Planting Island Width (feet)
0° (Parallel) 8 22 (length) 12 N/A
30° 9 17 12 4
45° 9 19 14 6
60° 9 20 18 7
90° 9 18 24 9
  (I)
Overhang protection. Wheel or bumper guards, curbing, or other methods approved by the administrator shall be provided, located and arranged so that no part of any parked vehicle will extend beyond the boundaries of the parking space and into a pedestrian area, landscape area or beyond the property line of the site.
(J)
Stacked parking. Generally, no parking spaces shall be located so as to require the moving of any vehicle on the premises in order to enter or leave any other space. However, the administrator may, on a case-by-case basis, allow stacking spaces provided for auto-related uses to count toward the minimum required parking as long as such spaces are not part of areas required for site ingress or egress or areas intended for fueling. For example, stacking spaces may be permitted if the parking is dedicated to one use only.
(K)
Bicycle parking. Bicycle parking areas shall be located for the convenient access to site amenities and primary building entrances. Bicycle parking areas shall be located on a hardscape surface, physically separated from automobile parking lots. They shall be designed to provide adequate space for ingress and egress, and not impede pedestrian and vehicle circulation. Bicycle racks shall be designed to support a bicycle frame in two (2) places in a stable, upright position. Bicycle racks shall be securely anchored to the lot surface. Bicycle parking areas and bicycle racks shall be designed and installed as specified in the design and specifications manual.
(L)
Parking in historic districts. In designated historic overlay districts, parking located in the front yard, including the front yard on corner lots, shall not be permitted on turf or other landscaped areas. All parking in the front yard shall meet the requirements of subsection (A) above.
6-1.7. Vehicle queuing spaces. The vehicle queuing standards of this section shall apply unless otherwise expressly approved by the administrator.
(A)
Minimum number of spaces. Off-street queuing spaces shall be provided as follows:
Table 6-1-4: Vehicle Queuing Areas
EXPAND
Activity Type Minimum Queuing Spaces Measured From
Bank teller lane 4 Teller or window
Automated teller
machine (ATM) 3 Teller machine
Restaurant drive-through 6 Order box
Restaurant drive-through 4 Order box to pick-up window
Car wash stall, automatic 6 Entrance
Car wash stall, self-service 3 Entrance
Other Determined by administrator based on traffic study
  (B)
Design and layout. Required queuing spaces are subject to the following design and layout standards:
(1)
Size. Queuing spaces shall be a minimum of eight (8) feet by twenty (20) feet in size.
(2)
Location. Queuing spaces may not impede on-site or off-site traffic movements or movements into or out of off-street parking spaces.
(3)
Design. Queuing spaces shall be separated from other internal driveways by raised medians if deemed necessary by the administrator for traffic movement and safety.
6-1.8. Accessible parking for disabled persons. A portion of the total number of provided off-street parking spaces in each off-street parking area or facility shall be specifically designated, located, and reserved for the use by persons with physical disabilities. For more information about accessible parking requirements and specifications, reference the building and accessibility codes adopted by the state and referenced in chapter 5, buildings and building regulations, of the City Code.
(A)
Location of accessible parking spaces. Developments that include multiple buildings must locate accessible parking spaces in a manner that provides reasonable accommodation for access to each building.
(B)
Relationship to general off-street parking requirements. Accessible parking required by this section shall count towards the fulfillment of the general off-street parking requirements of subsection 6-1.3.
6-1.9. Parking alternatives. The administrator may approve alternatives to providing the number of off-street parking spaces required by subsection 6-1.3, in accordance with the following standards:
(A)
Shared parking. The administrator may approve shared parking facilities for developments or uses with different operating hours or different peak business periods if the shared parking complies with all of the following standards:
(1)
Location. If located off-site, the shared parking spaces must be located within six hundred (600) feet of the primary entrance of all uses served, unless remote parking shuttle bus service is provided.
(2)
Shared parking study . A shared parking study that clearly demonstrates the feasibility of shared parking shall be submitted to the administrator. The study must be provided in a form established by the administrator. It must address, at a minimum, the size and type of the proposed development, the composition of tenants, the anticipated rate of parking turnover, and the anticipated peak parking and traffic loads for all uses that will be sharing off-street parking spaces. Use of data provided in Table 6-1-6 may be accepted as a shared parking study.
Table 6-1-6: Shared Parking Demand by Land Use and Time of Day
(Percentages are based on minimum parking requirements)
EXPAND
Land use Weekday Weekend Nighttime
Daytime (6 am—
5 pm) Evening (5 pm—
12 midnight) Daytime (6 am—
5 pm) Evening (5 pm—
12 midnight) (12 midnight—
6 am)
Office 100% 10% 10% 5% 5%
Retail 60% 90% 100% 70% 5%
Residential 30% 90% 80% 90% 100%
Restaurant 50% 100% 100% 100% 10%
Hotel/motel 75% 100% 75% 100% 75%
Entertainment 40% 100% 80% 100% 10%
Religious
institution 10% 30% 100% 30% 5%
To use Table 6-1-6:
1) Determine the minimum parking requirements in accordance with Table 6-1-1 for each land use as if it is a separate use.
2) Multiply each amount by the corresponding percentages for each of the five (5) time periods.
3) Calculate the total for each time period.
4) Select the column with the highest total and use this number as the required minimum number of parking spaces.
  (3)
Agreement for shared parking. A shared parking plan (where the minimum required parking spaces are provided off-site) will be enforced through written agreement among all owners of record. An attested copy of the agreement between the owners of record must be submitted to the administrator in a form established by the city attorney. Recordation of the agreement must take place before issuance of a building permit or certificate of occupancy for any use to be served by the shared parking area. A shared parking agreement may be revoked only if all required off-street parking spaces will be provided in accordance with the requirements of subsections 6-1.2 and 6-1.3.
(B)
Off-site parking. The administrator may approve the location of required off-street parking spaces on a separate lot from the lot on which the principal use is located if the off-site parking complies with all of the following standards:
(1)
Ineligible activities. Off-site parking may not be used to satisfy the required off-street parking standards for residential uses (except for guest parking), convenience stores, or other convenience-oriented uses. Required parking spaces for persons with disabilities shall not be located off-site.
(2)
Location. No off-site parking space may be located more than six hundred (600) feet from the primary entrance of the use served unless remote parking shuttle bus service is provided. Off-site parking spaces may not be separated from the use served by a street wider than three (3) lanes, unless a grade-separated pedestrian walkway, or other traffic control or remote parking shuttle bus service, is provided.
(3)
Agreement for off-site parking. In the event that an off-site parking area is not under the same ownership as the principal use served, a written agreement between the record owners will be required. The agreement must guarantee the use of the off-site parking area for at least ten (10) years. An attested copy of the agreement between the owners of record must be submitted to the administrator for recordation in a form established by the city attorney. Recordation of the agreement must take place before issuance of a building permit or certificate of occupancy for any use to be served by the off-site parking area. An off-site parking agreement may be revoked only if all required off-street parking spaces will be provided in accordance with the requirements of subsections 6-1.2 and 6-1.3. No use shall be continued if the parking is removed unless substitute parking facilities are provided, and the administrator shall be notified at least sixty (60) days prior to the termination of a lease for off-site parking.
(C)
Valet and tandem parking. The administrator may approve an off-street parking program utilizing limited tandem parking for commercial and industrial uses provided that the development requires fifty (50) or more parking spaces. No more than thirty (30) percent of the total number of spaces shall be designated as tandem. In addition, a valet parking attendant must be on duty during business hours.
(D)
On-street parking. Existing on-street parking spaces may be accepted by the administrator to meet the minimum parking requirements of this section.
(E)
Other eligible alternatives. The administrator may approve other alternatives to providing off-street parking spaces on the site of the subject development if the applicant demonstrates to the satisfaction of the administrator that the proposed plan will protect surrounding neighborhoods, preserve historic or heritage trees, maintain traffic circulation patterns, and promote quality urban design to at least the same extent as would strict compliance with otherwise applicable off-street parking standards.
6-1.10. Use of off-street parking areas.
(A)
General. Off-street parking areas shall be used solely for the parking of licensed motor vehicles in operating condition. Required spaces may not be used for the display of goods for sale or lease or for long-term storage of vehicles, boats, or building materials, except as expressly allowed in this section.
(B)
Oversized vehicles in residential districts. Oversized vehicles shall not be parked or stored in a residential district, except for ordinary delivery, loading or unloading of household goods, or during an active construction project.
(C)
Recreational vehicles in residential districts. In any residential district, recreational vehicles, travel trailers, campers, motorized homes, boats, boat trailers, ATVs or ATV trailers may be parked or stored in a completely enclosed building. Such vehicles or trailers not parked or stored in a completely enclosed building shall be limited to one per dwelling and shall be parked or stored in the side yard or rear yard of the lot.
(D)
Recreational vehicles in the C-3, central business district. Parking or storing any recreational vehicle, travel trailer, camper, motorized home, boat, boat trailer, ATV or ATV trailer in the central business district is prohibited outside of a completely enclosed building.
(E)
Utility trailers in residential districts. In any residential district, open or enclosed utility trailers may be parked or stored in a completely enclosed building. Such utility trailers not parked or stored in a completely enclosed building shall be limited to one per dwelling and shall be parked or stored in the side yard or rear yard of the lot. Utility trailers hitched to an operable vehicle used to transport the trailer to and from a worksite typically Monday through Friday may be parked on a paved or graveled driveway, including Saturday and Sunday when such trailer may not be attached to a vehicle, provided, however, the above limitation to one per dwelling and the requirement to be stored in the side yard or rear yard of the lot shall still apply to any trailers not stored in a completely enclosed building.
(F)
Utility trailers and food trucks in the central business district. In the C-3, central business district, open or enclosed utility trailers and food trucks may be parked or stored on a lot if located within a completely enclosed building, in a location which is not visible from any public street, or within an enclosure complying with the provisions of section 6-3.7. Utility trailers and food trucks not parked or stored within a completely enclosed building must be associated with a tenant located on the lot used to park or store the utility trailer or food truck.
(G)
Utility trailers and food trucks in non-residential districts. Within districts not otherwise regulated, utility trailers and food trucks may be parked or stored on any lot occupied by a tenant with which the trailer or food truck is associated. Trailers and food trucks shall not be parked or stored in required landscaping and buffer areas and shall not reduce the minimum required parking spaces for the property.
(Ord. No. 2017-25, § 2, 12-19-17; Ord. No. 2021-17, §§ 3, 4, 8-17-21; Ord. No. 2022-27, § 3, 8-2-22; Ord. No. 2022-42, § 1, 10-18-22)
Sec. 6-2. - Control of curb cuts and vision clearance.
6-2.1. The requirements for controlling curb cuts and maintaining vision clearance shall be as follows:
(A)
Curb cuts. No curb shall exceed fifty (50) feet in length, nor shall curb cuts be closer than twenty (20) feet to other curb cuts or closer than twenty (20) feet to an intersection of two (2) streets measured along the curb line. Curb cuts along state rights-of-way shall meet current Georgia Department of Transportation standards.
(B)
Vision clearance. In all districts except C-3 Central Business District (CBD), no fence, wall, shrubbery, sign, marquee or other obstruction to vision between the heights of two and one-half (2½) and ten (10) feet from ground level shall be permitted within twenty (20) feet of the intersection of the right-of-way lines of two (2) streets or railroad lines, or of a street intersection with a railroad line.
(Ord. No. 2017-25, § 2, 12-19-17)
Sec. 6-3. - Landscaping, buffering, and screening.
6-3.1. General.
(A)
Purpose and intent. The purpose of landscaping, buffering, and screening requirements is to provide an aesthetically pleasing environment for property owners and residents of the city and other members of the public. The requirements are intended to maintain and enhance property values, enhance the appearance of all developments, provide adequate buffers between different land uses, improve the character, appearance, and micro-climate of the city, improve heat and noise abatement, and reduce erosion and stormwater runoff.
(B)
Applicability. These regulations shall apply on a citywide basis for the following proposed development plans:
(1)
Subdivision, construction, or reconstruction of all residential and nonresidential developments.
(2)
Construction of a parking structure or a vehicular use area.
(3)
Expansion of a nonconforming parking lot pursuant to the provisions of section 9-6, nonconforming landscaping, buffering, and screening.
(4)
Demolition of a structure within the C-3 district resulting in a vacant lot.
(5)
Change of use pursuant to the provisions of section 9-6, nonconforming landscaping, buffering, and screening.
(C)
Exemptions.
(1)
These regulations shall not apply to lots containing a single-family detached or two-family dwelling. See subsection 6-4.2(B)(2) for tree protection and replacement requirements.
(2)
Industrial developments in an M-2 zoning district shall be exempt from the requirements of section 6-3.6, street buffer yards, and section 6-3.4, interior parking lot landscaping.
(D)
Landscape plan required. A landscape plan shall be submitted as part of a site plan permit application for all developments listed in subsection 6-3.1(B). The landscape plan shall meet the requirements listed in the administrative manual.
(E)
Maintenance. The owner of the property where landscaping is required shall be responsible for the maintenance and protection of all plant and screening material for the duration of the premises.
(1)
All landscape material, maintenance, and management shall conform to the minimum standards of the American National Standards Institute (ANSI) A300 Standards for Tree Care Operations.
(2)
Landscaped areas shall be maintained in good condition and kept free of dead plants, weeds, or debris. Failure to maintain or replace dead, damaged or diseased plant material or to repair a broken wall or fence within thirty (30) days of notification shall constitute a violation of this section. If a catastrophic event occurs which destroys a large quantity of vegetation, the owner or lessee shall replant within a reasonable time period determined by the administrator, normally during the next planting season, which is November through March. Replaced plant material must be in compliance with the minimum size, spacing, and quantity standards of this section.
(3)
Trees may not be severely trimmed beyond the standards of ANSI A300 Standards for Tree Care Operations. If aggressive trimming occurs, the property will be considered nonconforming and the property owner will be required to replace the trees with trees meeting the minimum size, spacing, and quantity standards of this section.
(4)
Buffer and screening material shall be maintained to meet the minimum size, spacing, and quantity standards of Table 6-3-2.
(F)
Species variety.
(1)
In order to prevent loss of all trees in the event disease or pests target certain species, a variety of tree species variety shall be included on the landscape plan based on the number of trees planted. The following minimum quantities shall be in the form of genus diversity:
Table 6-3-1: Tree Species Variety
EXPAND
Required Number of Trees Minimum Species
1—5 1
6—10 2
11—20 3
21+ 4
  (2)
In the case of unusual site limitations, an exception may be requested and a different mix and number of species may be proposed for review and approval. A description of the unusual site limitations and the reasons for the proposed actions must accompany the request upon submittal of the landscape plan.
6-3.2. Landscaping requirements.
(A)
General.
(1)
All planting areas shall be protected from vehicle damage by the installation of concrete curbing or other methods approved by the administrator. Alternative barrier designs which provide improved infiltration or storage of stormwater are strongly encouraged.
(2)
The plant materials used in and around parking lots and adjacent to street rights-of-way and pedestrian ways shall be designed to ensure visibility at intersections and safety of pedestrians.
(3)
All planting areas shall be stabilized with ground covers, mulches, or other approved materials to prevent soil erosion and to allow rainwater infiltration. Rubber mulch is not acceptable.
(4)
All plant and other materials used to comply with this section shall be placed in such a manner as to ensure maintenance access, to maintain unobstructed sight distances, to avoid encroachment on neighboring property, and shall be a species suitable for the proposed location, including conflicts with all utility easements and rights-of-way.
(5)
Plant height refers to the height of plants measured from the top of the root flare, and does not include the root ball or the plant's container.
(6)
The entire planting area must be scarified and contain amended on-site soil or a soil mix to a depth of eighteen (18) inches.
(7)
Rain sensors for irrigation systems.
(a)
New installation. All automatic irrigation systems installed after January 1, 2018 shall include rain sensors.
(b)
Required maintenance. All rain sensors shall be adjusted and set so that they automatically shut off the irrigation system after more than one-fourth (¼) inch of rainfall has occurred. All rain sensors shall be installed according to manufacturer's instructions in a location that will provide full exposure to rainfall such that accuracy of operation is ensured and shall be maintained in good working condition. No person shall, with the intent of circumventing the purpose of this section, adjust either the rain sensor or irrigation system so that the rain sensor is not able to override and turn off the irrigation system after one-fourth (¼) inch of rain has fallen.
(B)
Minimum planting size/height requirements. All landscape planting materials shall conform to the minimum size or height standards in Table 6-3-2 at the time of planting as well as meet the standards of ANSI Z60.1 American Standard for Nursery Stock.
(1)
For newly planted trees the caliper measurement of the trunk shall be taken six (6) inches above the top of the root flare up to and including four-inch caliper size. If the caliper at six (6) inches above the top of the root flare exceeds four (4) inches, the caliper shall be measured at twelve (12) inches above the top of the root flare.
(2)
For existing trees, the diameter measurement of the trunk shall be taken at DBH (diameter at breast height) four and one-half (4.5) feet above the average ground level.
Table 6-3-2: Minimum Planting Size/Height Requirements/Spacing
EXPAND
Type of Planting Material Minimum Size/Height/Spacing
Shade trees 3-inch caliper, 14-foot height, 6-foot clear trunk
Shade trees for single-family lots 2-inch caliper, 10-foot height, 5-foot clear trunk
Ornamental and understory street trees 2-inch caliper, 10-foot height, 5-foot clear trunk
Multi-stemmed street trees 2-inch caliper, 3 canes minimum, 10-foot height, 5 feet clear trunk
Evergreen buffer vegetation 6-foot height, plant spacing 5 feet on-center
Evergreen shrubs 18-inch height, plant spacing 3 feet on-center
Deciduous shrubs 24-inch height, plant spacing 3 feet on-center
Additional screening requirement 48-inch height, evergreen, plant spacing 4 feet on-center
  6-3.3. Street trees. Street trees shall be provided and maintained within, or adjacent to, all existing and proposed public street rights-of-way in accordance with the following requirements:
(A)
Street trees shall include only those trees listed in the approved list of tree species unless use of an alternative species is approved by the administrator.
(B)
Street trees shall be located in an area no further than ten (10) feet from the existing or proposed street right-of-way line.
(C)
Street trees shall be planted at a spacing of forty (40) feet on-center for shade trees or twenty (20) feet on-center for ornamental and understory trees along the entire length of the street frontage of the proposed development or as approved by the administrator based on the development plans. Ornamental and understory trees shall be used as street trees only when there is an overhead obstacle which would preclude the use of taller-growing shade trees. A list of acceptable street trees is available in the administrative manual.
(D)
Preserved existing trees of a three-inch DBH or greater may be used to satisfy the street tree requirement. Preserved existing trees shall meet all the requirements outlined in section 6-4, tree protection, be of an acceptable species as listed in the administrative manual, and be alive and healthy at the time of final inspection.
(E)
Trees used to comply with street tree requirements shall not count toward the minimum number of trees required to meet interior parking lot landscaping.
6-3.4. Interior parking lot landscaping.
(A)
In addition to all other landscape requirements, all parking lots subject to this section 6-2 shall provide and maintain landscaped planting areas within the interior of the parking lot. These standards shall not apply to multi-level parking structures. Each planting area shall consist of at least one hundred eighty (180) square feet, or as approved by the administrator.
(B)
In cases where the area required for the construction of the minimum parking spaces as required by section 6-1, off-street parking requirements, would cause the removal of a historic or heritage tree, the administrator may modify the landscaping requirements and/or the parking requirements in order to preserve the affected historic or heritage tree.
(C)
Planting areas shall be designed within parking areas as:
(1)
Islands located at the end of parking bays;
(2)
Islands located between parallel rows of cars, used to visually separate parking areas into pods;
(3)
Driveway medians, which shall have a minimum width of six (6) feet;
(4)
Other options may be approved by the administrator.
(D)
Each parking lot shall include one shade tree and eight (8) shrubs for every two thousand five hundred (2,500) square feet, or portion thereof, of the total parking lot area, including drives and service areas.
(E)
Not more than ten (10) continuous parking spaces shall be allowed in a row of parking without separation by a one hundred eighty (180) square-foot median containing at least one shade tree.
(F)
Shade trees are not to be located closer than twenty-five (25) feet apart measured from trunk to trunk.
(G)
Proposed shade trees being used to meet the interior parking lot landscaping requirements shall be located no further than ten (10) feet and no closer than four (4) feet from the edge of pavement.
(H)
Existing shade trees may be used to meet the interior parking lot landscaping requirements at the discretion of the administrator if the trees meet the intent of the interior parking lot landscaping requirements and the tree protection requirements.
(I)
Trees used to comply with interior parking lot requirements shall not count toward the number of trees required to meet the street tree requirements.
(J)
No more than twenty-five (25) percent of required shrubs may be deciduous.
Figure 6-3-1: Illustration of Interior Parking Lot Landscaping
6-3.5. Perimeter buffering and screening requirements.
(A)
Purpose. Perimeter buffer yards and screening are required in order to reduce the impact of a use of land on adjacent uses that are of a significantly different character, density, or intensity, and to reduce the visual impact of service facilities. A buffer yard shall not include underground utilities and stormwater facilities. Perimeter buffer yards and screening shall be required in addition to any other landscaping requirement listed in this section.
(B)
Applicability. Perimeter buffer yards and screening shall be installed and maintained by the developer of:
(1)
A nonresidential development adjoining a residential zoning district;
(2)
A multi-family residential development adjoining lots used as or zoned for single-family detached dwellings.
(C)
Permitted screening materials. The following items are permitted for use as screening materials. Alternative screening materials that are not listed may be used if approved by the administrator.
(1)
Evergreen buffer vegetation that is listed on the acceptable evergreen screen/buffer shrub species list, in the administrative manual, and meet the minimum planting height and spacing requirements of Table 6-3-2.
(2)
An earth berm may be used to achieve a portion of the minimum required six-foot height. Berms shall be covered with grass or mulch and shall be planted with other landscaping materials designed to meet the requirements of subsections 6-3.2(A) and (B). The slope of the berm shall not exceed the ratio of 3:1.
(3)
A solid fence measuring at least six (6) feet in height, but not more than eight (8) feet in height. If wood is used, only treated or rot resistant wood is acceptable. Chainlink, barbed wire, stock wire, chicken wire, and similar type fences are not permitted.
(4)
Masonry walls measuring at least six (6) feet in height, but not more than eight (8) feet in height. Walls shall be finished with brick, stone, textured concrete masonry units, or stucco. Natural and painted concrete block walls are not permitted.
(D)
Screening standard. With the approval of the administrator, a developer may use any combination of the screening materials referenced in subsection 6-3.3(C), provided the screen provides complete opacity pursuant to the requirements of this section.
(1)
Developments for which perimeter buffer yards and screening is required shall provide one of the following screening treatments along all lot lines abutting single-family detached dwellings (see Figure 6-3-2):
(a)
A buffer yard with a minimum width of five (5) feet that includes a solid masonry wall measuring at least six (6) feet in height, meeting the requirements of subsection 6-6.1(A)(10), and shade trees, meeting the requirements of Table 6-3-1, planted along the inside perimeter with a maximum on-center spacing of thirty (30) feet; or
(b)
A buffer yard with a minimum width of ten (10) feet that includes an alternating double row of a variety of evergreen shrubs and may include a berm to achieve a minimum height at time of planting of six (6) feet, planted a maximum of sixty (60) inches on-center; or
(c)
A buffer yard with a minimum width of twenty (20) feet that includes vegetative screening meeting the following standards per one hundred (100) linear feet and the requirements of Table 6-3-1:
i.
Eight (8) shade trees (at least two (2) evergreen); and
ii.
Four (4) understory trees (at least one evergreen); and
iii.
Thirty (30) shrubs (at least twenty-one (21) evergreen shrubs).
Figure 6-3-2: Options for Buffering Residential Districts and Single-Family
Detached Dwellings
6-3.6. Street buffer yards. In addition to the requirements of subsection 6-3.2, landscaping requirements, and subsection 6-3.3, buffering and screening requirements, all multi-family residential and nonresidential developments shall be buffered from streets and rights-of-way according to the following requirements:
(A)
The minimum width for any buffer yard shall be five (5) feet with an average of ten (10) feet measured along the property lines at ten-foot intervals. Properties developed with a zero front setback are exempt from these requirements. Parking structures located in the C-3 district shall be exempt from the buffer yard requirement when fences, walls, or similar structures are located between the ground level parking and the street or right-of-way.
(B)
All areas used for street buffer yards shall be located on the property. In unusual or extraordinary circumstances, as determined by the administrator, the public right-of-way may be used to meet the requirements of this section provided the property owner obtains permission from the owner of the right-of-way.
(C)
The street buffer yard shall have a continuous shrub border, maintained at thirty (30) inches in height, along the entire street frontage of the lot, excluding driveways. Seventy-five (75) percent of the shrubs shall be evergreen. Plant material must meet the minimum planting height listed in Table 6-3-2.
(D)
Unless waived by the administrator, vacant lots resulting from the demolition of buildings within the C-3 district shall provide a street buffer.
6-3.7. Additional screening requirements. In addition to the landscaping and screening required in this section, additional screening shall be required to conceal specific areas of high visual impact or hazardous areas.
(A)
Plants and a solid fence or wall, at least the height of the item being screened, but not more than eight (8) feet tall, shall be installed around all sides, excluding access areas. Access gates to these areas shall be solid and, to the extent practical, not oriented to a public street. Plant material must meet the minimum planting heights listed on table 6-3-2 and shall be installed around the following areas:
(1)
Loading and service areas.
(2)
Dumpsters/refuse collection points/recycling drop-off centers.
(3)
Ground level mechanical, heating and air-conditioning equipment (except for single-family detached and two-family dwellings).
(4)
Outdoor electrical or other above-ground utility equipment.
(5)
Outdoor storage lots.
(6)
Storage tanks.
(7)
Ground level equipment associated with communication towers.
(8)
Utility trailers and food trucks parked or stored in the C-3 district.
(B)
In addition to any fence that may be required by article 7, stormwater management, above-ground stormwater retention/detention facilities shall be screened with a continuous shrub border, maintained at thirty (30) inches in height, along the entire perimeter of the facility, excluding access gates. Seventy-five (75) percent of the shrubs shall be evergreen. Plant material must meet the minimum planting height listed in Table 6-3-2.
6-3.8. Alternative landscape plan. At the discretion of the administrator, alternate landscaping plans, plant material, planting methods, or landscape design may be used where unreasonable or impractical situations would result from application of landscaping requirements, or where necessary to protect existing vegetation, or where a more creative plan is proposed which substantially complies with the intent of these requirements. Landscaping requirements may be reduced if existing trees or other types of existing vegetation are preserved. Alternative plans, materials, or methods may be justified from natural conditions such as streams, natural rock formations, topography, and other physical conditions related to the site. Lot configuration and the presence and location of utility easements may justify an alternative landscaping plan.
(Ord. No. 2017-25, § 2, 12-19-17; Ord. No. 2021-08, § 4, 4-20-21; Ord. No. 2022-27, § 4, 8-2-22)
Sec. 6-4. - Tree protection.
6-4.1. General.
(A)
Purpose. Protection of existing tree cover is intended to preserve the environmental and aesthetic qualities of Perry; to encourage site design techniques that preserve the natural environment and enhance the developed environment; to control erosion, slippage, and sediment runoff into streams and waterways; to increase slope stability; and, to protect wildlife habitat and migration corridors. Preservation or provision of trees near structures also serves to conserve energy by reducing heating and cooling costs.
(B)
Applicability. The requirements of this section shall apply to all existing and new development, except that the following developments and activities shall be exempt from this section:
(1)
The removal of dead or naturally fallen trees, or trees that are found by the administrator to be a threat to the public health, safety, or welfare;
(2)
The removal of pine trees, provided the minimum requirements of this section are maintained;
(3)
The selective and limited removal of trees or vegetation necessary to obtain clear visibility at driveways or intersections, or for the purpose of performing authorized field survey work;
(4)
The selective and limited clearing of utility easements to maintain their intended function; and
(5)
The removal of trees or vegetation on land zoned or lawfully used for:
(a)
Agricultural and forestry activities, including tree farms and approved forestry management practices, except that if a site is substantially cleared of trees pursuant to legitimate forestry activities, no development applications shall be accepted for thirty-six (36) months from the date the clearing is completed;
(b)
Commercial garden centers, greenhouses, or nurseries; or
(c)
Industrial developments in an M-2 zoning district.
6-4.2. Tree protection and replacement.
(A)
Tree inventory required. A tree inventory shall be submitted as part of an application for a site plan permit and land disturbance permit. The inventory shall be in a form approved by the administrator and contain the information as required in the administrative manual.
(B)
Tree protection and replacement.
(1)
All properties, except lots containing a single-family detached or two-family dwelling, to which this section applies shall provide and maintain a tree density of twelve (12) tree credit units per acre or pro rata portion of an acre, excluding building footprints and the area of athletic fields and courts.
(2)
Including required street trees, each lot containing a single-family detached or two-family dwelling shall provide or maintain one shade tree for each three thousand (3,000) square feet of lot area, excluding the building footprint. Each existing tree exceeding six (6) inches DBH which will be maintained shall count as two (2) trees.
(3)
The required tree density may be obtained by preserving existing trees and/or planting new trees which may include required street trees, interior parking lot landscaping, and heritage and historic tree replacements.
(4)
Tree credit units are established for existing and new trees based on each tree's caliper or diameter. The credit units are established in the administrative manual.
(5)
The form, size, quality, and proportions of preserved and proposed trees must meet the guidelines outlined in the ANSI Z60.1 American Standard for Nursery Stock.
(6)
Single-family residential subdivisions must comply with a required density factor of ten (10) units per acre, excluding individual single-family lots. This requirement may be met as an average for the total acreage of each phase of the subdivision development, rather than for each individual acre. Trees may be retained or planted along the street right-of-way, as buffer edge plantings along a development's perimeter, in entranceways, or in common open space. Emphasis shall be placed upon retaining existing trees. It is the responsibility of the current property owner to maintain and manage the required trees per the standards of this chapter.
(7)
If the minimum protection standards are not met, or if trees are observed by the city to be injured or threatened, they may be deemed ineligible for meeting these requirements and additional trees will be required.
(C)
Protection and replacement of heritage and historic trees.
(1)
In order to protect significant trees, the city has established the heritage and historic tree designations. A heritage tree is any tree greater than twenty (20) inches in diameter and a historic tree is any tree greater than thirty (30) inches in diameter. A heritage tree which is removed shall be replaced with a minimum of two (2) four-inch caliper shade trees. A historic tree which is removed shall be replaced with a minimum of four (4) four-inch caliper shade trees. Because their shallow root system and narrow growth habit combine to pose risk to life and property, pine trees are not considered to be heritage or historic trees.
(a)
New trees used to comply with heritage and historic tree replacement requirements shall not count toward the street tree requirements.
(b)
New trees used to comply with heritage and historic tree replacement requirements shall not count toward the interior parking lot landscaping requirements.
(c)
No construction, grading, equipment, or material storage, or any other activity, shall be allowed within the critical root zone of a heritage or historic tree unless the steps to be taken to adequately ensure the health of the tree are submitted to the administrator in writing.
(d)
Heritage or historic trees shall not be cut, removed, pushed over, killed, harmed, trimmed, sprayed, or destroyed without written approval by the administrator.
(e)
Permits for trimming, removing or replacing heritage or historic trees from the administrator.
(2)
If the administrator determines that there is insufficient space on the property to replace a heritage or historic tree, the replacement tree may be planted on public property approved by the administrator or a fee based on market price in lieu of the replacement cost may be paid to the city tree fund.
6-4.3. Tree protection during construction.
(A)
Protective fencing.
(1)
When and where required. Before grading begins, fencing shall be required, at a minimum, around the critical root zone of all trees that are to be preserved. Additional fencing shall be required around the critical root zone of trees on adjacent properties or located in a right-of-way.
(2)
Type of fencing. All fencing required by this section shall be a minimum of four (4) feet high and of durable construction; such as wood or metal fencing.
(3)
Signs. Signs shall be installed on the protective fence visible on all sides of the fenced-in area (minimum one on each side and/or every three hundred (300) linear feet). The size of each sign must be a minimum of one foot by one and one-half (1.5) feet and shall contain the following: "TREE PROTECTION ZONE: KEEP OUT."
(4)
Activity within a fenced tree protection zone. No construction, grading, parking, equipment, or material storage, or any other activity, shall be allowed within the fenced area.
(5)
Maintenance of fencing. For existing trees to be counted toward required tree credits, they must be protected during the entire development period, beginning prior to the commencement of site work. Encroachment within the tree protection zone is permitted to allow the landscape contractor access to complete site work.
(B)
Encroachments. Encroachments within the critical root zones of any tree being preserved to comply with required tree credits, or within designated tree protection zones, shall occur only in rare instances. If such an encroachment is anticipated, a written request must be made to the city parks and recreations administrator for allowance of encroachment. Request must detail preventative measures taken. If approved the following preventative measures shall be employed:
(1)
Clearing activities. The removal of trees adjacent to a tree protection zone can cause inadvertent damage to the protected trees. Wherever possible, it is advisable to cut minimum two-foot trenches along the limits of land-disturbance, so as to cut, rather than tear, roots. Trenching is required for the protection of historic and heritage trees.
(2)
Soil compaction. Where compaction might occur due to traffic or materials through the tree protection zone, the area must first be mulched with a minimum four-inch layer of processed pine bark or wood chips or a six-inch layer of pine straw. Equipment or materials storage shall not be allowed within tree protection areas.
(Ord. No. 2017-25, § 2, 12-19-17; Ord. No. 2021-08, § 5, 4-20-21)
Sec. 6-5. - Exterior lighting.
6-5.1. Outdoor lighting of all types shall be directed so as to reflect away from all residential dwellings, and shall be so situated as not to reflect directly into any public rights-of-way.
(Ord. No. 2017-25, § 2, 12-19-17)
Sec. 6-6. - Design standards.
6-6.1. Architectural design standards for nonresidential structures. These regulations are intended to ensure the construction of new structures in commercial areas is consistent with the intent of the comprehensive plan.
(A)
Single tenant structures. All new commercial structures and all new nonresidential structures in the commercial districts shall meet the following standards:
(1)
Outside of pedestrian retail districts, building surfaces over two (2) stories high or fifty (50) feet in length shall be relieved with changes of wall plane (i.e., recesses and projections) that provide strong shadow or visual interest.
(2)
Buildings shall utilize natural building materials, such as wood, stone, and brick on building exteriors, except that roofing materials may be manmade. Steel or other metals shall not be used on building exteriors, except as may be necessary for roofing, window trim, gutters, and down spouts. Unpainted, smooth-faced concrete block shall not be used on building exteriors. Synthetic stucco shall not be used on building exteriors. All sides of a building may impact on its surroundings and shall be considered for treatment with an architectural finish of primary materials (i.e., brick and stone), unless other materials demonstrating equal or greater quality are used. As a general rule, except in industrial zoning districts, front facades shall be at least eighty (80) percent brick and stone. Side facades shall be at least fifty (50) percent brick and stone. Rear facades do not have a minimum suggested standard for primary materials unless they are visible from a public right-of-way.
(3)
Material or color changes generally shall occur at a change of plane. Piecemeal embellishment and frequent changes in material shall be avoided. A horizontal accent stripe (e.g., a foot-wide stripe of different color) shall be used to help reduce the monotonous color and break up the appearance of large building walls.
(4)
Facade colors shall be low reflectance, subtle, neutral, or earth tone colors. High intensity colors, metallic colors, black, or fluorescent colors shall not be used. Building trim and accent areas may feature brighter colors, including primary colors, provided that the width of the trim shall not exceed four (4) feet.
(5)
Building colors shall be carefully chosen so that each building complements that of its neighbors. Colors can be classified as the "base" color (used on the majority of the building surface), "trim" color (used on the window trim, fascia, balustrades, and posts), and "accent" color (used on signs, awnings, and doors). The base color shall consist of more subdued earth tones or brick shades. Trim colors shall have contrasted lighter or darker shade than the base color. If natural brick is used, it shall not be painted.
(6)
The use of awnings on buildings is recommended so as to provide much needed protection from sun, wind, and rain, and to improve aesthetics of the building exterior.
(7)
Awnings are recommended to be constructed with a durable frame covered by a canvas material. Awnings that are backlit through translucent materials may be acceptable but are not particularly encouraged. Aluminum and other metal canopies are acceptable in most instances, particularly when integrated into shopping center designs. Flameproof vinyl, canvas or metal awnings and canopies may be used.
(8)
Solid colors are preferred over striped awnings, but striping is permitted if colors compliment the character of the structure or group of buildings.
(9)
Awnings are encouraged for first floor retail uses to provide architectural interest and to encourage pedestrian activity. Where awnings are used, they shall be designed to coordinate with the design of the building and any other awnings along the same block face.
(10)
The design of fences and walls shall be compatible with the architecture of the main building(s) and shall use similar materials. All walls or fences fifty (50) feet in length or longer, and four (4) feet in height or taller, shall be designed to minimize visual monotony though changes in plane, height, material or material texture or significant landscape massing. Except in M-1 and M-2 zoning districts, chain link fencing is prohibited in the front yard, or within the required front building setback for undeveloped parcels. Any chain link fencing visible from a public street shall be coated in dark green or black vinyl. Chain link fencing is prohibited in all cases in the C-3 zoning district. Barbed wire or other similar additions to fences is prohibited, except in M-1 and M-2 zoning districts. Use of special fencing design or materials shall be discussed in cases where site security is paramount. All fencing materials must be approved by the department prior to construction.
(11)
Rooftop mechanical and electrical equipment shall be screened from public view by building elements that are designed as an integral part of the building architecture, or by a parapet wall.
(B)
Shopping centers including automobile related establishments. All new shopping centers and automobile related establishments containing less than fifty thousand (50,000) square feet shall meet the standards listed in subsection 6-6.1(A). In addition, the following standards shall apply:
(1)
Within a shopping center, a logical hierarchy of building forms shall be created. Building heights and masses shall be greatest in the focus area and inner portion of the support area (the part closest to the focus area), and shall transition to lower heights and less mass outward from the focus area to the outer edge of the support area. Building massing shall be varied to create a logical hierarchy of building forms, to break up long expanses of facade, and to create shade and shadow. Buildings at the outer edge of an activity center's support area shall be comparable in height and mass with the surrounding neighborhood beyond the support area.
(2)
Building location, setbacks, and orientation shall be carefully considered so as to increase pedestrian comfort.
(3)
As far as practicable, buildings in activity centers shall not be separated from fronting streets by large parking lots. At a minimum, placement of out-parcel buildings between a large parking lot and the street shall be used to help define the street scape, and lessen the visual impact of the parking lot from the street.
(4)
Auto service facilities shall not have their service bays facing the street, and parking for all uses shall be located to the side or rear of the building rather than in the front yard. Regardless, service areas and/or service bays shall be screened or sited so they are not visible from the street.
(5)
Vehicles under repair shall be kept either inside a structure or in an area which is screened from views from the street.
(6)
Service areas shall provide adequate queuing space that does not impede vehicle circulation through the site or result in vehicles stacking into the street.
(7)
The design of fences and walls shall be compatible with the architecture of the main building(s) and shall use similar materials. All walls or fences fifty (50) feet in length or longer, and four (4) feet in height or taller, shall be designed to minimize visual monotony though changes in plane, height, material or material texture or significant landscape massing. Except in M-1 and M-2 zoning districts, chain link fencing is prohibited in the front yard, or within the required front building setback for undeveloped parcels. Any chain link fencing visible from a public street shall be coated in dark green or black vinyl. Chain link fencing is prohibited in all cases in the C-3 zoning district. Barbed wire or other similar additions to fences is prohibited, except in M-1 and M-2 zoning districts. Use of special fencing design or materials shall be discussed in cases where site security is paramount. All fencing materials must be approved by the department prior to construction.
(8)
Separate structures (canopy, car wash, cashier's booth, etc.) on the site shall have consistent architectural detail and design elements to provide a cohesive project site. If a car wash is incorporated into the project, it shall be well integrated into the design. The car wash opening shall be sited so that it is not directly visible as the primary view from the street into the project site.
(9)
All areas devoted to the outside storage of vehicles, merchandise, and/or equipment not intended for display for public rent, lease, or sale, shall be screened from view from the right-of-way of the highway or public road along the entire property frontage, except in areas where access crossings have been approved. Screening may be accomplished by a natural vegetative buffer, by a building, by an earthen berm, by a one hundred (100) percent opaque, solid wooden fence or wall, or combination of these screening methods. The use of low-lying landscaping that does not screen the display areas from view from the public right-of-way shall not be deemed to comply with this policy.
6-6.2. Design standards for large retail establishments.
(A)
The intent of these standards is to ensure that large retail building development, defined as single-tenant buildings exceeding thirty-five thousand (35,000) square feet and shopping centers exceeding fifty thousand (50,000) square feet, contributes to the unique community character of Perry. All other rules and regulations of the this land development ordinance shall apply unless noted below.
(B)
Location standards.
(1)
Site must abut or have direct access to an arterial street.
(2)
Must be located in an area where city services can be provided efficiently.
(3)
Must be compatible with city's comprehensive plan.
(4)
The development cannot abut a residential street, have a private driveway into a residential street, or a street leading directly into a residential subdivision.
(C)
Sign standards. All signs at large retail establishments shall meet the requirements of section 106 [6-9], except the following regulations shall apply:
(1)
Large retail establishments shall be allowed one freestanding sign per road frontage. Freestanding signs shall be subject to the following requirements:
(a)
Parcels exceeding three (3) acres shall be allowed a maximum aggregate sign area of two hundred (200) square feet for the entire parcel.
(b)
Parcels less than three (3) acres but greater than thirty thousand (30,000) square feet shall be allowed a maximum aggregate sign area of one hundred fifty (150) square feet for the entire parcel.
(c)
Parcels less than thirty thousand (30,000) square feet in size shall be allowed a maximum aggregate sign area of one hundred (100) square feet for the entire parcel.
(d)
These limits shall not include the area of any wall signs or billboard signs located on the parcel.
(e)
These limits shall include the area of all freestanding signs on the parcel.
(f)
The only freestanding signs permitted at shopping centers shall be shopping center identification signs.
(2)
No freestanding sign shall be located within one hundred fifty (150) feet of another freestanding sign.
(3)
The maximum height of freestanding signs shall not exceed twenty (20) feet.
(4)
Rooftop signs or sign structures shall not be permitted.
(5)
Mono-pole sign structures shall not be permitted.
(6)
Portable signs shall not be permitted.
(7)
All signs shall be subject to the same side yard setbacks imposed upon other buildings and structures in the same zoning district in which said signs are located.
(8)
Setbacks along road right-of-way shall be a minimum of fifteen (15) feet from the curb or edge of pavement or on private property whichever is greater.
(D)
Architectural design standards.
(1)
Facades and exterior walls.
(a)
Facades greater than one hundred (100) feet in length, measured horizontally, shall incorporate wall plane projections or recesses having a depth of at least three (3) percent of the length of the facade and extending at least twenty (20) percent of the length of the facade. No uninterrupted length of any facade shall exceed one hundred (100) horizontal feet. See Figure 1.
(b)
Ground floor facades that face public streets shall have arcades, display windows, entry areas, awnings or other such features along no less than sixty (60) percent of their horizontal length. See Figure 2.
(2)
Small retail stores. Where shopping centers contain separately owned stores that occupy less than thirty-five thousand (35,000) square feet of gross floor area, with separate, exterior customer entrances, the street level facade of such stores shall be transparent between the height of three (3) feet and eight (8) feet above the walkway grade for no less than sixty (60) percent of the horizontal length of the building facade of such additional stores. Windows shall be recessed and should include visually prominent sills, shutters, or other such forms of framing.
(3)
Detail features. Building facades must include:
(a)
A repeating pattern that includes no less than three (3) of the elements listed below. At least one of these elements shall repeat horizontally. All elements shall repeat at intervals of no more than thirty (30) feet, either horizontally or vertically.
i)
Color change;
ii)
Texture change;
iii)
Material module change;
iv)
An expression of architectural or structural bays through a change in plane no less than twelve (12) inches in width, such as an offset, reveal or projecting rib. See Figure 3.
(4)
Roofs. Roofs shall have no less than two (2) of the following features:
(a)
Parapets concealing flat roofs and rooftop equipment such as HVAC units from public view. The average height of such parapets shall not exceed fifteen (15) percent of the height of the supporting wall and such parapets shall not at any point exceed one-third (⅓) of the height of the supporting wall. (See Figure 4) Such parapets shall feature three-dimensional cornice treatment;
(b)
Overhanging eaves, extending no less than three (3) feet past the supporting walls;
(c)
Sloping roofs that do not exceed the average height of the supporting walls, with an average slope greater than or equal to one foot of vertical rise for every three (3) feet of horizontal run and less than or equal to one foot of vertical rise for every one foot of horizontal run;
(d)
Three (3) or more roof slope planes.
(5)
Exterior materials and colors.
(a)
Predominant exterior building materials shall be high quality materials, including, but not limited to, brick, sandstone, other native stone and tinted/textured concrete masonry units.
(b)
Facade colors shall be low reflectance, subtle, neutral or earth tone colors. The use of high-intensity colors, metallic colors, black or fluorescent colors shall be prohibited.
(c)
Building trim and accent areas may feature brighter colors, including primary colors, but neon tubing shall not be an acceptable feature for building trim or accent areas.
(d)
Exterior building materials shall not include smooth-faced concrete block, tilt-up concrete panels or prefabricated steel panels.
(6)
Customer Entryways. Each large retail establishment on a site shall have clearly defined, highly visible customer entrances featuring no less than three (3) of the following:
(a)
Canopies or porticos;
(b)
Overhangs;
(c)
Recesses/projections;
(d)
Arcades;
(e)
Raised corniced parapets over the door;
(f)
Peaked roof forms;
(g)
Arches;
(h)
Outdoor patios;
(i)
Display windows;
(j)
Architectural details such as tile work and moldings which are integrated into the building structure and design;
(k)
Integral planters or wing walls that incorporate landscaped areas and/or places for sitting.
(7)
Where additional stores will be located in the large retail establishment, each such store shall have at least one exterior customer entrance, which shall conform to the above requirements.
(8)
All building facades which are visible from adjoining properties and/or public streets shall include materials and design characteristics consistent with those on the front. Use of inferior or lesser quality materials for side or rear facades shall be prohibited.
(E)
Site design standards.
(1)
Customer entrances. All sides of a principal building that directly face an abutting street shall feature at least one customer entrance. Where a principal building directly faces more than two (2) abutting public streets, this requirement shall only apply to two (2) sides of the building, including the side of the building facing the primary street, and another side of the building facing a second street.
(2)
Parking.
(a)
Parking lot orientation. No more than fifty (50) percent of the off-street parking area for the entire property shall be located between the front facade of the principal building(s) and the primary abutting street.
(b)
The minimum number of parking spaces shall be no less than four (4) spaces per one thousand (1,000) square feet of gross floor area and no more than six (6) spaces per one thousand (1,000) square feet of gross floor area.
(c)
Parking areas adjacent to public or private streets must be screened from view by low masonry walls, fences, berms, and/or landscaping. These design elements must be installed at no less than thirty-six (36) inches in height to properly screen vehicles within the parking area.
(3)
Building site.
(a)
Street setback. The setback shall be forty (40) feet on all sides that abut a public or private street.
(b)
Back and side setbacks. The minimum interior side and rear setback for any building facade shall be thirty-five (35) feet from the nearest property line. Where the facade faces abutting residentially zoned property, an earthen berm, no less than six (6) feet in height, containing at minimum evergreen trees planted at intervals of twenty (20) feet on center, or in clusters or clumps, shall be provided.
(c)
Inter parcel circulation. The site design must provide direct connections and safe street crossings to adjacent land uses. The direct connections between parcels shall be privately maintained unless otherwise agreed to by the developer and the city.
(4)
Pedestrian, bike and cart access.
(a)
Sidewalks at least eight (8) feet in width shall be provided along all sides of the lot that abut a street.
(b)
Continuous internal pedestrian walkways, no less than eight (8) feet in width, shall be provided from the public sidewalk or right-of-way to the principal customer entrance of all large retail establishments on the site. At a minimum, walkways shall connect focal points of pedestrian activity such as, but not limited to, street crossings, building and store entry points, and shall feature adjoining landscaped areas that include trees, shrubs, benches, flower beds, ground covers or other such materials for no less than fifty (50) percent of the length of the walkway.
(c)
Sidewalks, no less than eight (8) feet in width, shall be provided along the full length of the building along any facade featuring a customer entrance, and along any facade abutting public parking areas. Such sidewalks shall be located at least six (6) feet from the facade of the building to provide planting beds for foundation landscaping, except where features such as arcades or entryways are part of the facade.
(d)
Internal pedestrian walkways provided in conformance with subsection (b) above, shall provide weather protection features such as awnings or arcades within thirty (30) feet of all customer entrances.
(e)
All internal pedestrian walkways shall be distinguished from driving surfaces through the use of durable, low maintenance surface materials such as pavers, bricks or scored concrete to enhance pedestrian safety and comfort, as well as the attractiveness of the walkways.
(5)
Public spaces. Each retail establishment subject to these standards shall contribute to the establishment or enhancement of community and public spaces by providing at least two (2) of the following: Patio/seating area, pedestrian plaza with benches, transportation center, window shopping walkway, outdoor playground area, kiosk area, water feature, clock tower or other such deliberately shaped area and/or a focal feature or amenity that, in the judgment of the appropriate decision maker, adequately enhances such community and public spaces. Any such areas shall have direct access to the public sidewalk network and such features shall not be constructed of materials that are inferior to the principal materials of the building and landscape.
(6)
Outdoor storage and equipment areas.
(a)
Loading docks and truck parking areas shall be screened from public view using building mass, freestanding walls and/or landscaping.
(b)
HVAC and other mechanical equipment shall not be located on the street side of developments or adjacent to public spaces. Equipment located on, beside or adjacent to any building or development, shall be fully screened from view of streets and adjoining property.
(c)
All trash containment devices, including compactors and dumpsters, shall be located and designed so as not to be visible from the view of public spaces, adjacent streets or adjacent properties.
(d)
Utility equipment and facilities associated with on-site electric, cable, telephone, gas or other similar utility shall be screened, to the greatest extent possible, with evergreen plantings or other acceptable alternatives.
(7)
Lighting.
(a)
An overall lighting program shall be developed that considers the illumination of sidewalks and other multi-use pathways using low-intensity fixtures that provide an even distribution of light while avoiding areas of immense shadows. The overall lighting program shall ensure that light is directed down and away from abutting properties.
(b)
Floodlights, spotlights or any other similar lighting shall not be used to illuminate buildings or other site features unless approved as an integral architectural element of the site plan. On-site lighting may be used to accent architectural elements and not be used to illuminate entire portions of buildings. Floodlights or other types of lighting attached to light poles that illuminate the site and/or buildings are prohibited.
(8)
Landscaping. Unless noted in this section, all provisions of section 6-3 shall apply.
(F)
Expansion of existing large retail establishment. No addition to an existing single tenant retail building with an area greater than thirty-five thousand (35,000) square feet or a shopping center with an area larger than fifty thousand (50,000) square feet which would increase the gross square feet of floor area of such building by fifteen (15) percent or more, and no addition to a building which would result in a single tenant retail building exceeding thirty-five thousand (35,000) square feet or a shopping center exceeding fifty thousand (50,000) square feet, shall be approved for construction or occupancy unless the entire large retail establishment affected by the new construction has been determined to be in compliance with the "Design Standards for Large Retail Establishments" contained in this exhibit, whether the existing large retail establishment or building was approved under prior law or under this land use code. The fifteen (15) percent increase shall be calculated from the size of the establishment at the effective date of these regulations.
6-6.3. Design standards for the downtown development overlay district.
(A)
Intent. The intent of this section is to encourage and maintain the viability and visual compatibility of structures and sites in the downtown development overlay district.
(B)
Applicability. New construction and exterior modification of buildings and sites in the downtown development overlay district must obtain a certificate of appropriateness prior to starting such work. In addition to other design guidelines adopted by the Main Street Advisory Board, new construction and existing buildings, structures, and sites which are altered, reconstructed, or moved shall be consistent with the architectural styles of commercial buildings constructed prior to 1950 in the downtown development overlay district and the standards of this section.
(C)
Exemptions. Nothing in the section shall be construed to prevent the ordinary maintenance or repair of any exterior architectural feature of structures located in the downtown development overlay district when the repair does not involve a change in design, material, or outer appearance of the structure. Certificates of appropriateness are not required for alterations to the interior of a building or changes in the use of a building, although other permits may be required.
(D)
Sign standards. All signs shall require a certificate of appropriateness issued by the administrator prior to issuing a sign permit. The administrator may exempt signs which comply with the provisions of subsection 6-9.12(C).
(E)
Site design standards.
(1)
Orientation and setback. The orientation and setback of a building shall be consistent with adjacent buildings.
(2)
Spacing of buildings. The relationship of a building to open space between it and the adjoining buildings shall be visually compatible to the buildings and open spaces to which it is visually related.
(3)
Parking. Parking should be located to the side or rear of a building. When a parking lot must be located adjacent to a public right-of-way, a wall and/or landscape buffer should separate the parking lot from the right-of-way.
(4)
Courtyards and outdoor spaces. Walls, wrought iron fences, evergreen landscape buffers, and/or building facades shall form cohesive walls of enclosure along a street.
(F)
Building design standards.
(1)
Height. The height of the proposed building shall be visually compatible with adjacent buildings.
(2)
Proportion of building from facade. The relationship of the width of building to the height of the front elevation shall be visually compatible with buildings to which it is visually related.
(3)
Scale of a building. The size of a building, the building mass of a building in relation to open spaces, the windows, door openings, porches and balconies shall be visually compatible with the buildings to which it is visually related.
(4)
Proportion of openings within the facility. The relationship of the width of the windows in a building to the height of the windows shall be visually compatible with buildings to which it is visually related.
(5)
Rhythm of solids to voids in front facades. The relationship of solids to voids in the front facade of a building shall be visually compatible with buildings to which it is visually related.
(6)
Rhythm of entrance and/or porch projection. The relationship of entrances and porch projections to the sidewalks of a building shall be visually compatible to the buildings to which it is visually related.
(7)
Relationship of materials: Texture and color. The relationship of the materials, texture, and color of the facade of a building shall be visually compatible with the predominant materials in the buildings to which it is visually related. Brick or mortared stone shall be the predominant materials on new construction.
(8)
Roof shapes. The roof shape of a building shall be visually compatible with the buildings to which it is visually related.
(9)
Colors. Colors should be in keeping with color palettes currently in use, or of historical significance to the City of Perry. The community development department may suggest or make available certain color palettes, which are not required to have a certificate of appropriateness.
(G)
Temporary structures. Temporary structures are permitted for construction projects or catastrophic loss. These structures require approval by the administrator, subject to section 4-5.
6-6.4. Design standards for form based code districts. Standards for the form based code districts are found in Appendix A of this chapter.
(Ord. No. 2017-25, § 2, 12-19-17; Ord. No. 2021-08, § 6, 4-20-21; Ord. No. 2022-50, § 3, 12-20-22)
Secs. 6-7, 6-8. - Reserved.
Sec. 6-9. - Sign standards.
modified
6-9.1. Purposes.
(A)
It is the purpose of the mayor and city council in enacting these regulations to provide standards to safeguard life, public health, property, and welfare by regulating the location, size, illumination, erection, maintenance, and quality of materials of all signs. More specifically, signs have a powerful impact on the aesthetic environment of the community, and it is the purpose of this article to encourage an aesthetically attractive environment, allowing sufficient opportunities for communications to serve business, interest groups and the public, while complying with the federal and state constitutions and laws. Signs create visual clutter and therefore should be regulated in their size, location, construction, and illumination. Signs can detract from the beauty of the neighborhood and lower property values. In seeking to comply with federal and state law, the city has determined the following: large signs are, as the U.S. Supreme Court has recognized, an aesthetic harm; the state supreme court has upheld sign regulations on the basis of aesthetics and preserving the beauty of environment; and, the 11th Circuit has recognized portable signs are visual clutter and a potential traffic hazard. These holdings show that the city's ordinance is within the law and constitutional, which is a goal of the city. The goal of this article is to avoid being an impermissible content-based regulation, and instead to be a permissible time, place, and manner restriction.
(B)
Many signs can also be a hazard and negatively impact traffic safety by distracting drivers and blocking views of other vehicles and dangers, by making intersections more treacherous, and by making it difficult to see oncoming traffic when entering a roadway. Therefore, it is also the purpose of this article to prevent those harms by regulating signs to safe locations, safe sizes, with proper and safe illumination and construction.
6-9.2. Jurisdiction and applicability of code requirements.
(A)
This article shall apply to all properties within the incorporated areas of the city. This article shall not relate to the copy or message on signs within the city.
(B)
All signs and sign structures shall be constructed and maintained in conformance with the state minimum standard codes.
(C)
If any provisions or requirements of this article are in conflict with any other provision or requirement of this article or any other applicable governmental law, ordinance, resolution, rule, or other governmental regulation of any kind, the more restrictive rule or standard takes precedence.
6-9.3. General provisions and definitions.
(A)
No sign shall be placed or maintained within the city except in conformity with this article.
(B)
Notwithstanding any other restrictions in this article, any sign, display, or device allowed under this article may contain any commercial or non-commercial message, or any political or non-political message; except that such messages cannot depict obscenity, as defined by O.C.G.A. § 16-12-80, nor can they depict sexual conduct or sexually explicit nudity, as defined in O.C.G.A. § 36-60-3.
(C)
Height limitations in this article control over the general height limitations of this article and apply to any structure that contains a sign. For example, a church spire or radio antenna with a sign would be subject to the height limitations of this article, rather than general height limitations.
(D)
Definitions. The general definitions and interpretative rules of this chapter shall also be used. To the extent those general rules or definitions conflict with these specific definitions, these definitions shall control. The following words, terms, and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this subsection, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
A-frame sign means a sign which is normally in the shape of an "A" or some variation, which is usually two-sided.
Abandoned sign means a sign and/or sign structure which no longer correctly directs or exhorts any person, or advertises a bona fide business, lessor, owner, product, or service.
Animated sign means any sign that all or any part thereof visibly moves or imitates movement in any fashion whatsoever. Any sign that contains or uses for illumination any lights (or lighting devices) that change color, flash or alternate, show movement or motion, or change the appearance of said sign or any part automatically.
Area of sign (copy area) means the area within a continuous perimeter enclosing the limits of writing, representation, emblem, or any figure of similar character together with any frame, or material, open space, or color forming an integral part of the display or used to differentiate such sign from the background against which it is placed.
Banner means a sign hung either with or without a frame, possessing characters, letters, illustrations, or ornamentation applied to paper, plastic, or fabric of any kind. This definition expressly excludes flags.
Canopy means any permanent roof-like structure, including awnings and marquees, projecting beyond a building or extending along and projecting beyond the wall of a building, generally designed and constructed to provide protection from the weather.
Canopy sign means any sign attached to, or made a part of, the front, side, or top of a canopy. These signs are regulated as wall signs.
COA means a certificate of appropriateness issued by the Historic Preservation Commission or the administrator upon recommendation of the Main Street Advisory Board.
Copy means the wording or graphics on a sign surface in either permanent or removable form.
Erect means to build, construct, attach, hang, place, suspend, paint or affix.
Establishment means a commercial, industrial, institutional, educational, office, business, or financial entity.
Flag means any fabric sign, regardless of the message conveyed, mounted to a flagpole on one side only.
Freestanding sign means any sign which is independent from any building or other structure and is entirely supported by a single or multiple pedestals that are permanently attached at or below ground level. These signs are regulated as ground signs.
Frontage, building, means the length of an outside building wall facing a street, or portion thereof.
Frontage, street, means the length of the property line of any one parcel along a street on which it borders.
Ground sign means a sign that is anchored to the ground and is wholly independent of a building for support. Freestanding signs are included in this definition, as are signs on poles, frames, or other mounting structures other than buildings.
Illuminated sign means a sign which contains an internal source of light, or which is designed or arranged to reflect light from an artificial source.
Mansard roof sign means any sign attached to or erected within twelve (12) inches of an actual or simulated mansard roof of a building, with the sign face parallel to and within the limits of the building, but not exceeding the roofline, and not deemed to be a roof sign. These signs are regulated as wall signs.
Manual reader board means a portion of a ground sign on which copy is changed manually.
Monopole sign means a freestanding sign that is erected on a single pedestal attached to the ground for the display of messages irrespective of the number of faces or the configuration of the faces. These signs are regulated as ground signs.
Monument sign means a permanent sign with little or no open space between the ground and the sign face and constructed of brick, stone, concrete, masonry, stucco, or equal architectural material. These signs are regulated as ground signs.
Multiple-message sign means a sign or portion of a sign which changes the message or copy on the sign face mechanically or electronically by movement or rotation of panels or slats, or by changing electronic display on the sign face more than once per day.
Painted wall sign means any sign that is applied with paint or similar substance on the face of a wall.
Permanent sign means a sign permanently affixed to a building or the ground.
Person means any association, company, corporation, firm, organization, or partnership, singular or plural, of any kind.
Planned center means a nonresidential development with multiple establishments that are separately owned and operated.
Portable sign means any sign supported by its own frame or trailer, with or without wheels, that is designed to move from one place to another. Portable sign does not include A-frame signs.
Post and arm sign means a permanent sign supported by a single upright post with a horizontal arm from which a sign is suspended. These signs are regulated as ground signs.
Projecting sign means any sign affixed to a building or wall, which horizontally extends more than twelve (12) inches beyond the surface of a building or wall.
Roof sign means any sign erected, constructed, and maintained upon or over the roof of any building or projects above the roofline.
Roof sign (integral) means any sign erected or constructed as an integral part of a normal roof structure of any design. No part of the sign can extend vertically above the highest portion of the roof, and no part of the sign can be separated from the rest of the roof by a space of more than six (6) inches.
Setback means the distance from the property line to the nearest part of the applicable sign or sign structure, measured perpendicularly to the property line.
Sign means any display of words, shapes or images designed to convey a message to the viewer, located on the exterior of any dwelling, building or structure, or located anywhere on a lot upon a dedicated supporting structure or device, including poles, banners, windows, and similar devices.
Sign face means the actual message-carrying portion of the sign that can be used to display content, including any area that can display or does display words, pictures, or other communicative elements of the sign, including the background color.
Sign structure means and includes all the elements of the sign, including its supporting structure, sign face, base, lights, and every portion of the sign.
Street means any public or private right-of-way for automobile use. This excludes alleyways, parking lots and driveways.
Under canopy sign means a sign that is suspended from the underside of a canopy, is perpendicular to the wall surface of a building, and whose copy is not clearly visible from the public right-of-way.
Wall face means a measurement of area equal to the height of the structure from the ground to the coping or eave of the roof multiplied by the width of the wall associated with the individual business. The wall face is to be measured for each wall independently.
Wall sign means a sign that is fastened directly to or is placed or painted directly upon the exterior wall of a building and does not project more than twelve (12) inches from the building face.
Window sign means a sign having its message visible from the exterior of a building that is either located within a building so as to be visible through a window or affixed directly to the window either inside or outside the building.
6-9.4. Permitted signs.
(A)
Standard permitted signs. The following signs are permitted in the following zoning districts. If not otherwise stated, any sign not specifically authorized under this article shall be prohibited. These regulations apply to signs located on any lot or development.
(B)
Address required on ground signs. All ground signs except signs exempt from permit under section 6-9.13 shall include the address of the parcel on which the sign is located. When a sign is oriented to a street other than the street to which the address is assigned, the address shall include the street name of the assigned address.
6-9.5. Residential district sign standards.
Signs in residential districts. Signs permitted in the residential base zoning districts (R-Ag, R-1, R-2, R-2A, R-3, R-TH, RM-I, RM-2, R-MH, FBR) shall comply with the provisions in Table 6-9-1. Signs on one- and two-family lots are exempt from obtaining a sign permit.
EXPAND
Table 6-9-1. Standards for Signs in Residential Zoning Districts
Zoning
District Use Sign Type Maximum
Square Feet
per Sign Face Maximum
Number
per Lot Maximum
Height Illumina-
tion
Allowed
R-Ag
R-1
R-2
R-2A
R-3
R-TH
RM-1
RM-2
R-MH
FBR One- and
Two-family Dwelling Ground 4 2 4 Not Allowed
1 4 2
Window 1 2 n/a
Wall-mounted Flag 15 1 n/a External
Only
Ground-mounted Flag 24 total per pole 1 flagpole 20
Subdivision Development Monument 32 2 single-sided or 1 double-sided per entrance 8 External
Only
Multi-family and Nonresi-
dential Monument; Post and Arm 32 1 8 External
Only
Wall-mounted Flag 15 1 per tenant n/a
Ground-mounted Flag 40 total per pole 1 flagpole 30
All ground signs and flags shall be set back at least ten (10) feet from the property lines.
  6-9.6. Nonresidential district sign standards.
(A)
Ground signs in nonresidential districts. Ground signs permitted in the nonresidential base zoning districts, and the PC, DD, and NC overlay districts shall comply with the provisions in Table 6-9-2.
EXPAND
Table 6-9-2. Standards for Ground Signs in Nonresidential Zoning and Overlay Districts
Zoning and
Overlay District Sign Type Maximum Square Feet
per Sign Face Maximum
Number
per Lot Maximum
Height
(feet) Illumination
Allowed

Not based
on lot size
Lot size
> 3 acres Lot size
3 acres
or less
C-1, C-2
M-1, M-2
IMU, MUC, GU Monument; Monopole n/a 100 75 2 20 Internal or External
Ground-mounted Flag 48 total per pole n/a n/a 3 flagpoles 35 External only
Parkway Corridor Overlay (PC) Monument n/a 100 75 1 per street front 20 Internal or External
Ground-mounted Flag Same as base zoning district
LC, OI, NMU, Neighborhood Commercial Corridor Overlay (NC) Monument; Post and Arm 32 n/a n/a 1 per street front 15 External only
Ground-mounted Flag 48 total per pole n/a n/a 1 flagpole 35
C-3, Downtown Development Overlay (DD), Downtown Historic Preservation Overlay (HP) Monument; Post and Arm 32 for Monument; 12 for Post and Arm n/a n/a 1 per street front 10 External; Internal by COA only
A-frame* 6 n/a n/a 1 per tenant 4 Not allowed
Ground-mounted Flag 48 total per pole n/a n/a 1 flagpole 35 External only
All ground signs and flags shall be set back at least 10 feet from the property lines.
* A-frame signs shall be located so an accessible pedestrian path is maintained on a sidewalk and shall be displayed only during the sign owner's business hours.
  (B)
Wall, canopy, projecting and under canopy signs in nonresidential districts. Wall, canopy, projecting and under canopy signs in the nonresidential base zoning districts and PC, DD, NC overlay districts shall comply with the provisions of Table 6-9-3.
EXPAND
Table 6-9-3. Standards for Wall, Canopy, Projecting, Under Canopy, and Window Signs in Nonresidential Zoning and Overlay Districts
Zoning
District Sign Type Maximum
Number
(multi-tenant
building) Maximum
Number
(single-tenant
building) Maximum
Square Feet per
Sign Face Illumination
Allowed
C-1, C-2
M-1, M-2
IMU, MUC, GU Wall or Canopy 1 per tenant's exterior wall 1 per exterior wall 300 or 10% of each wall face, whichever is less Internal or External; Canopy External Only
Projecting* 1 per tenant 1 6
Under Canopy* 1 per tenant entrance 1 per building entrance 4
LC, OI, NMU, Neighborhood Commercial Corridor Overlay (NC) Wall or Canopy 1 per tenant's building frontage 1 per building frontage 100 or 10% of each wall face, whichever is less Internal or External; Canopy External Only
Projecting* 1 per tenant 1 6
Under Canopy* 1 per tenant entrance 1 per building entrance 4
C-3, Downtown Development Overlay (DD), Downtown Historic Preservation Overlay (HP) Wall or Canopy 1 per tenant's building frontage 1 per building frontage 1 for each linear foot of tenant's building frontage External Only
Projecting* 1 per tenant 1 6
Under Canopy* 1 per tenant entrance 1 per building entrance 4
All Districts Wall-mounted Flag 1 per tenant 1 24 External Only
Window n/a n/a 20% of aggregate window area per tenant Internal or External
Parkway Corridor Overlay (PC) Same as base zoning district
* Projecting signs and under canopy signs require seventy-eight-inch clearance from finished grade. Projecting signs shall not extend more than three (3) feet from the building and shall not project into a vehicular use area.
  (C)
Additional standards for signs in the C-3 zoning district, and the DD overlay district.
(1)
Wall signs in a planned center shall be composed of individual letters not exceeding eighteen (18) inches in height.
(2)
All signs require a certificate of appropriateness unless the administrator determines that a sign complies with the provisions of this section.
(3)
Prohibited signs in C-3 and DD districts:
(a)
Multiple message signs, except as authorized in section 6-9.9.
(b)
Neon tube signs, including neon and rope light building or window/door outlining.
(c)
Signs incorporating reflective and luminescent materials.
6-9.7. Additional ground signs. In addition to ground signs permitted in sections 6-9.5 and 6-9.6, additional ground signs are authorized during certain periods of time as described in Table 6-9-4. Such signs are exempt from obtaining a sign permit. Property address is not required on such signs.
EXPAND
Table 6-9-4. Standards and Time for Additional Ground Signs
Zoning District R-Ag, R-1, R-2, R-2A, R-3, R-TH, RM-1, RM-2, R-MH, FBR C-1, C-2, C-3, M-1, M-2, LC, OI, GU, IMU, MUC, NMU
Use
Maximum
One- and two-
family dwellings
One- and two-
family dwelling
subdivision
Multi-family
Nonresidential
Multi-family
Nonresidential
Time Period When Allowed 120 days prior to, through 14 days after, a primary, general election, runoff, or referendum Number per lot 4 n/a 4 4 4 4
Six (square feet) 4 n/a 4 4 4 4
Height (feet) 4 n/a 4 4 4 4
During the period when a property or tenant space is for sale, lease, or rent Number per lot * n/a * * * *
Size (square feet) 6 n/a 6 6 6 24
Height (feet) 4 n/a 6 6 6 8
Upon the issuance of a permit for development through the issuance of the final certificate of occupancy Number per lot 2 1 per subdivision 1 1 1 1
Size (square feet) 4 32 32 32 32 32
Height (feet) 4 10 10 10 10 10
* 1 per 500 feet of street frontage per street front.
Ground signs shall be set back at least 10 feet from the property lines and are not allowed in public rights-of-way.
  6-9.8. Banners. Banners are permitted for any use except one- and two-family dwellings, subject to the following standards:
(A)
A banner shall be permitted for up to thirty (30) consecutive days, and not more than ninety (90) days per calendar year.
(B)
A banner shall not exceed sixteen (16) square feet in area.
(C)
One banner shall be permitted per tenant.
(D)
The banner shall be attached to a flat wall or to a rigid ground-mounted frame in a manner such that the banner does not become an animated sign.
(E)
A sign permit shall be required for each thirty-day display.
6-9.9. Multiple message signs.
(A)
Multiple message signs may be incorporated as part of the ground sign(s) otherwise permitted in each nonresidential zoning or overlay district, per the provisions of Table 6-9-5.
EXPAND
Table 6-9-5. Standards for Multiple Message Signs in Nonresidential Zoning and Overlay Districts
Zoning and Overlay District Maximum Portion of Sign Face
Allowed to be Multiple Message
C-1, C-2, M-1, M-2, IMU, MUC, GU, and Parkway Corridor Overlay (PC) 32 square feet or 50 percent of allowable sign face, whichever is less
Interstate Corridor Overlay District (IC) 100 percent of allowable sign face only when sign is located within 20 feet of I-75 right-of-way
LC, OI, NMU, C-3, Downtown Development Overlay (DD), Downtown Historic Preservation Overlay (HP), and Neighborhood Commercial Corridor Overlay District (NC) Six square feet provided message does not change more than once per day
  (B)
When the message of a multiple-message sign is changed mechanically, it shall be accomplished in three (3) seconds or less. When the message of a multiple-message sign is changed in an electronic manner, through the use of light emitting diodes, back lighting or other light source, the transition shall occur within two (2) seconds. No multiple-message sign may change its message or copy, or any pictures or images that are part of the message, more frequently than once every ten (10) seconds.
(C)
When any multiple-message sign is located within one hundred fifty (150) feet of any residential district, the display of multiple-messages shall discontinue between the hours of 11:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m., and the sign shall be static and not display more than one message during that period.
(D)
Multiple message signs shall incorporate a photocell or similar technology that adjusts the brightness of the sign relative to the outdoor ambient light.
6-9.10. Regulations for signs.
(A)
Location, height, and setback.
(1)
The property owner must give permission for all sign placement on the owner's property, through the issuance of a letter signed by the owner.
(2)
All signs must comply with all side and rear setbacks of this chapter.
(3)
Signs can be located in front setback areas, but all signs and sign structures must be set back at least ten (10) feet from the public right-of-way. No portion of a sign or sign structure shall encroach on or overhang the public right-of-way, except for projecting and under-canopy signs as allowed in the Downtown Development Overlay District, or any other person's property. Furthermore, for safety reasons, no sign shall be located closer than ten (10) feet from the back of the curb of a public roadway, or if there is no curb, from the edge of the pavement.
(4)
Distances are measured from the closest portion of the sign (whether that is the base, sign face, or the sign structure) to the property line(s).
(5)
The height requirements of a sign shall be computed as the length of a straight vertical line from normal grade to the height of the highest attached component of the sign or sign structure. Normal grade shall be considered the lower of:
a.
Existing grade of the site of the sign prior to construction of the sign; or
b.
The newly established grade at the base of the sign after construction, exclusive of any filling, beaming, mounding, or excavating solely for the purpose of locating the sign.
(B)
Number. For the purpose of determining the number of signs, ground signs shall be equal to the number of sign structures. All other non-ground signs shall be considered to be a single display surface or display device containing elements organized, related, and composed to form a unit. A double-sided (double-faced) sign is counted as one sign.
(C)
Illumination.
(1)
Ground signs shall not be internally illuminated except where expressly permitted by this article. All signs, except those located on one- and two-family residential lots, may be externally illuminated. External illumination of any sign in any district shall be positioned and shielded so that the light source does not shine directly into the path of motorists on a public right-of-way or into the windows of adjacent dwellings or businesses without the permission of the owner and occupant thereof.
(2)
No sign shall give off light which glares, blinds, or has any other adverse effect on traffic or adjacent properties. The light from an illuminated sign shall be established in such a way that adjacent properties and roadways are not adversely affected and that no direct light is cast upon adjacent properties and roadways. This shall be determined by measuring the footcandles that fall on adjacent properties or the public right-of-way. No sign shall exceed one-half (0.5) footcandle at any adjacent property line in a residential district or two (2) footcandles at any public right-of-way.
(3)
Flashing, blinking or otherwise varying illumination is not permitted. No external or internal illumination that causes confusion with or distraction from any traffic signal or safety device shall be permitted.
(4)
All externally illuminated signs shall utilize low wattage luminaries, mounted in fixtures designed to direct the light and eliminate light trespass, such as light shining into residences or other neighboring structures.
(5)
All internally illuminated signs shall utilize low wattage luminaries designed to reduce light glow.
(6)
All illuminated signs over ten (10) feet in height shall either be internally illuminated, when authorized, or illuminated by external lighting fixtures not visible to passing motorists.
(D)
Calculation of area. The area of a sign is calculated by determining the area of the smallest rectangle which encloses the sign face and the structure surrounding the sign face. For example, the pole or base would not be included, but any frame holding the sign face in place would be counted. See examples:
Examples of Sign Face Area Measurements
(E)
Unusual-shaped signs. Unusual-shaped signs are signs that are any shape other than a rectangle, and include signs with projecting elements or features, round, oval, and triangular signs, signs with more than four (4) sides, signs in the shape of an animal, object, or device, and so forth. For all such signs, the area is determined by calculating the area of the smallest rectangle that will completely enclose all elements of the sign face.
6-9.11. Safety and construction standards.
(A)
Engineering approval. All signs in excess of fifteen (15) feet in height shall be constructed according to plans approved by a state registered professional engineer. The sign owner shall produce such approved plans at the request of the administrator.
(B)
Official confusion. Signs which contain or are in imitation of an official traffic sign or signal are prohibited.
(C)
Fire safety. No sign or sign structure may be erected or maintained which obstructs any fire escape, ventilation, or door; nor shall any sign or sign structure be attached to a fire escape.
(D)
Corner visibility. No sign or sign structure above a height of three (3) feet shall be maintained within fifteen (15) feet of the intersection of the right-of-way lines of two (2) streets, or of a street intersection with a railroad right-of-way.
(E)
Traffic visibility. No sign shall obstruct the view of vehicles entering the roadway (i.e., the view of oncoming traffic by vehicles attempting to enter the road).
(F)
Good repair. All signs, together with all their supports, braces, guys, and anchors shall be kept in good repair. Sign face shall be maintained at all times. Any structure formerly used as a sign, but not in use for any other purpose, must be removed by the owner of the property within ten (10) days after written notification from the administrator or thirty (30) days after its use as a valid sign has ceased, after which time, the city may cause the removal of the sign at the owner's expense.
(G)
Removal of unsafe signs and safety hazards. The city may remove a sign in violation of this chapter, without giving notice to any party, if said sign is upon the public right-of-way or upon other public property, or said sign poses an immediate safety threat to the life or health of any members of the public.
6-9.12. Prohibited signs.
The following types of signs are prohibited:
(A)
Roof signs and roof signs (integral).
(B)
Signs with more than two (2) sides.
(C)
Animated signs, except where expressly permitted.
(D)
A-frame signs, except in DD overlay district.
(E)
Portable signs.
(F)
Signs which contain or are in imitation of an official traffic sign or signal.
(G)
Any sign not authorized by this article.
6-9.13. Signs not required to obtain a sign permit.
The following types of signs do not require a sign permit, provided they comply with the provisions of this article:
(A)
Signs located on one- and two-family dwelling lots.
(B)
Window signs.
(C)
Flags.
(D)
Signs installed on a public right-of-way by the City of Perry, Houston County, Peach County, the State of Georgia, or their authorized agent.
(E)
Signs authorized in section 6-9.7.
(F)
Signs located at drive-through ordering stations.
(G)
Signs up to three (3) square feet in area, up to thirty (30) inches in height, and located within five (5) feet of the vehicular access points of a lot.
(H)
Signs integral to, or attached to fuel pumps, electric charging devices, or vending machines other than self-service vending units.
6-9.14. Procedures; permits.
(A)
Except as specifically exempted from the provisions of this article, a person or firm may not legally maintain, post, display, enlarge, erect, move, or substantially change a sign that is taller than forty-eight (48) inches without first obtaining a permit from the administrator. Signs using electrical wiring and connections (i.e., illuminated signs), as well as larger signs, may require additional permits under the city building code.
(B)
All parties are advised to consult with the administrator to avoid erecting signs that violate this article. No person shall obtain a vested right to maintain a sign that does not comply with this article at the time it is erected. Signs erected in violation of this article shall be removed or reconstructed in compliance with this article.
(C)
See section 2-3.9 for application requirements and procedures.
6-9.15. Nonconforming signs.
Signs existing legally at the time of the adoption or amendment of the ordinance from which this article is derived, but which do not conform to newly adopted or amended provisions of this article solely because of a change in this article, and not because of a change to the sign, may remain as legal nonconforming signs, subject to the following provisions:
(A)
There must be existing property rights in the sign;
(B)
The right to continue a nonconforming sign is confined to the sign owner or his transferee;
(C)
A nonconforming sign may be restored to its original condition, provided that not more than fifty (50) percent of the sign is destroyed. The fifty (50) percent is to be determined by fifty (50) percent of the value of the materials of the sign, inclusive of poles and other structural members, immediately prior to damage;
(D)
A nonconforming sign when relocated or moved shall no longer be considered a nonconforming sign and thereafter shall be subject to all the provisions of law and of these rules;
(E)
The sign must remain substantially the same as it was on the effective date of the adoption of the ordinance from which this article is derived which rendered the sign nonconforming. Extension, enlargement, replacement, rebuilding, adding lights to a non-illuminated sign, re-erection of the sign, or replacing a manual reader board with a multiple message sign will be considered a change in the existing sign. The maintenance will be limited to:
(1)
Replacement of nuts and bolts, and light bulbs;
(2)
Additional nailing, riveting, or welding;
(3)
Cleaning and painting;
(4)
Manipulating to level or plumb the device, but not to the extent of adding guys or struts for stabilization of the sign structure;
(5)
A change of the message, including changing faces, as long as similar materials are used, and the sign face is not enlarged or modified in shape. Sign face shall be maintained at all times.
(F)
At no time may changes be made in a nonconforming sign which would increase the value of the sign;
(G)
A nonconforming sign may continue as long as it is not abandoned, destroyed, discontinued, or purchased by any governmental agency. Any sign suffering damage in excess of normal wear cannot be repaired without:
(1)
Notifying the administrator in writing of the extent of the damage, the reason the damage is in excess of normal wear, and providing a description of the repair work to be undertaken, including the value of the sign materials and the cost of the repair; and
(2)
Receiving written notice from the administrator authorizing the repair work as described above. If said repair is authorized by the terms of this article, the administrator shall mail such notice to the applicant within thirty (30) days of receipt of the information described in subsection (7)(a) of this section.
(H)
A nonconforming sign with a sign face exceeding two hundred (200) square feet in area which is destroyed or damaged by more than fifty (50) percent of its replacement value and is authorized to be reestablished under a permit issued by the Georgia Department of Transportation, shall only be reestablished as a monopole sign. Such reestablished sign shall not exceed the sign face area and height of the sign prior to damage or destruction.
(I)
Notwithstanding the foregoing, any removal of a nonconforming sign shall be in accordance with O.C.G.A. § 32-6-83.
(Ord. No. 2023-28, § 5, 8-15-23)
Editor's note— Ord. No. 2023-28, § 5, adopted Aug. 15, 2023, repealed the former § 6-9, §§ 6-9.1—6-9.16, and enacted a new § 6-9 as set out herein. The former § 6-9 pertained to signs, and derived from Ord. No. 2017-25, § 2, adopted Dec. 19, 2017; and Ord. No. 2020-10, §§ 4, 5, adopted July 21, 2020.
Sec. 6-10. - Site development and related infrastructure.
modified
6-10.1. General design requirements.
(A)
Suitability of land. Land subject to flooding, improper drainage, or erosion, or which for topographical, geological or other reasons is unsuitable for residential use shall not be platted for residential use or for other uses that will continue to increase the danger to health, safety, or property destruction, unless the hazards can be and are corrected. No portion of a single-family or two-family residential lot shall be located within a 100-year floodplain.
(B)
Name of subdivision. The name of the subdivision must have the approval of the commission. The name shall not duplicate nor closely approximate the name of any existing subdivision.
(C)
Access. Access to every subdivision shall be provided over a public street.
(D)
Conformance to adopted major thoroughfare plans. All streets and other features of the major thoroughfare plan of the city shall be platted by the subdivider in the location and to the dimension indicated on the major thoroughfare plan adopted by the commission and/or council.
(E)
Through traffic. Minor streets shall be so laid out that their use by through traffic will be discouraged.
6-10.2. General requirements for streets and other rights-of-way.
(A)
Continuation of existing streets. Existing streets shall be continued at the same or greater width, but in no case less than the required width.
(B)
Connections with future subdivisions. Streets shall be reserved at strategic locations to provide for future access to adjoining properties which may be subdivided in the future. Each street connection shall interest property lines at a ninety-degree angle.
(C)
Street names. Street names shall require the approval of the commission. Streets that are obviously in alignment with streets already in existence and already named shall be given the name of the existing streets. Names of new streets shall not duplicate or closely approximate those existing streets.
(D)
Street jogs. Street jogs with centerline offsets less than one hundred twenty-five (125) feet shall not be permitted.
(E)
Culs-de-sac. Culs-de-sac, or dead-end streets, shall be provided at the closed end with a turnaround meeting the specifications of section 6-10.10, roadway surfacing and paving.
(F)
Development along major street, limited-access highway or railroad right-of-way. Where a subdivision abuts or contains an expressway, freeway, arterial or collector street, or a railroad right-of-way, the commission may require a street approximately parallel to and on each side of such right-of-way either as a marginal access street, or at a distance suitable for an appropriate use of intervening land, with a non-access reservation suitably planned. Due regard should be given requirements for approach grades and future grade separations in determining distances. Lots shall have no access to expressways, freeways, or arterial streets, but only to an accessible street in which case the commission may require double frontage lots.
(G)
Half streets. Half streets shall be prohibited except where essential to the reasonable development of the subdivision in conformity with the other requirements of these regulations, and where the commission finds it will be practical to require the dedication of the other half when the adjoining property is subdivided, the other half of the street shall be platted within such tract.
(H)
Alleys. The requirements for providing alleys within a subdivision are as follows:
(1)
Alleys shall be provided in multifamily commercial, and industrial districts, except where other definite and assured provision is made for service access such as off-street parking, loading and unloading consistent with and adequate for the uses proposed.
(2)
Alleys shall not be provided in one- and two-family residential developments unless the subdivider provides evidence satisfactory to the commission of the need for alleys.
(3)
Alley intersections and sharp changes in alignment shall be avoided, but where necessary, corners shall provide sufficient radius to permit safe vehicular movements.
(4)
Dead-end alleys shall be avoided where possible but if unavoidable, shall be provided with adequate turnaround facilities at the dead-end, as determined by the commission.
(I)
Reserve strips and easements.
(1)
Reserve strips controlling the access to streets shall be prohibited except where this control is definitely placed in the hands of the council under conditions approved by the commission. The commission may require access to expressways, freeways, arterial and collector streets by requiring all lots to face and have access to only minor streets.
(2)
Easements having a minimum width of ten (10) feet and located along the side or rear lot lines shall be provided, as is necessary for utility lines and underground mains and cables. Where a subdivision is traversed by a watercourse, drainage way, channel or stream, there shall be provided a stormwater or drainage right-of-way of adequate width. Parallel streets may be required by the commission therewith.
(J)
Fire apparatus access roads.
(1)
One- and two-family residential developments. Developments of one- and two-family dwellings where the number of dwelling units exceed thirty (30) shall provide two (2) separate and approved fire apparatus access roads. Where there are more than thirty (30) dwelling units accessed from a single fire apparatus access road and all dwelling units are equipped throughout with an approved automatic fire sprinkler system in accordance with the International Fire Code, access from two (2) directions shall not be required. The number of dwelling units accessed from a single fire apparatus access road shall not be increased unless fire apparatus access roads will connect to future development, as determined by fire code official. All fire apparatus access roads for one- and two-family residential developments shall meet City of Perry design standards for public streets.
(2)
Remoteness. Where two (2) fire apparatus access roads are required for any residential development, they shall, to the extent practicable, be placed a distance apart equal to not less than one-half (½) of the length of the maximum overall diagonal dimension of the property or area to be served, measured in a straight line between accesses.
6-10.3. Rights-of-way width requirements. The minimum street right-of-way widths shall be as stated in Table 6-10-1, minimum rights-of-way widths. The commission may require a larger right-of-way than those listed.
Table 6-10-1: Minimum Rights-of-Way Widths
EXPAND
Street Classification Minimum width in feet
Freeways and Expressways 150
Arterial Streets 100
Collector Streets 80
Minor Commercial and Industrial Streets 60
Minor Residential Streets 60
Dead-End Streets (Cul-de-Sacs) 50 (120 for turn-around bulb)
Marginal Access Streets 50
Alleys 20
  6-10.4. Street design requirements.
(A)
Street intersections. Street intersections shall be as nearly at right angles as possible with no street intersection being at any angle of less than seventy-five (75) degrees.
(B)
Right-of-way radius. The streets right-of-way radius at street intersections shall be at least twenty (20) feet. Where the angle of street intersection is less than ninety (90) degrees, the commission may require a longer radius.
(C)
Additional width on existing streets. Subdivisions that adjoin existing streets shall dedicate additional rights-of-way if needed to meet the minimum right-of-way width requirements set forth in subsection 6-10.3.
(1)
The entire right-of-way shall be provided where any part of the subdivision is on both sides of the existing streets.
(2)
When the subdivision is located on only one side of an existing street, one-half (½) of the required right-of-way, measured from the centerline of the existing roadway, shall be provided.
6-10.5. Design standards for block and lots.
(A)
Design lengths and widths. Block length and widths shall be determined based on the following requirements:
(1)
Blocks shall not be greater than two thousand two hundred (2,200) feet nor less than four hundred (400) feet in length.
(2)
Blocks shall be wide enough to provide two (2) tiers of lots of minimum depth, except where abutting a major street, limited-access highways or railroads or where other situations make this requirement impractical in which case the commission may approve a single tier of lots of minimum depth.
(3)
Blocks shall have pedestrian walkways not less than ten (10) feet wide, where deemed essential, to provide circulation, or access to schools, playgrounds, shopping centers, transportation and other community facilities.
(B)
Lot sizes. Lot dimensions shall conform to the requirements set forth in the zoning districts in which the land to be subdivided is located. Residential corner lots shall have adequate width to permit appropriate building setback from and orientation to both abutting streets.
(C)
Building lines. A building line meeting the front and side yard setback requirements of the zoning district in which the subdivision is located shall be established on all lots.
(D)
Lots abutting public streets. Each lot shall abut a dedicated public street.
(E)
Double frontage lots. Double frontage lots should be avoided except where essential to provide separations of residential development from traffic arterials or to overcome specific disadvantage of topography and orientation. A planting screen easement of at least ten (10) feet, and across which there shall be no right of access, shall be provided along the line of lots abutting such a traffic artery of other disadvantage use.
(F)
Lot drainage. On all residential and commercial building sites, buildable lots shall be designed and graded to ensure the top of any exterior foundation of a building extends above the elevation of the street gutter at a point of discharge, or the inlet of an approved drainage device, not less than twelve (12) inches plus two (2) percent. Alternate elevations are permitted subject to the approval of the building official, provided that it can be demonstrated that the required drainage to the point of discharge and away from the structure is provided at all locations on the site.
6-10.6. Monuments. Right-of-way and property line monuments shall be placed in each subdivision in accordance with the following:
(A)
Right-of-way monuments. A concrete marker imbedded at least two (2) feet into the ground shall be required at the intersection of the centerline of all street rights-of-way. Such concrete markers shall be at least four (4) inches in diameter. The top surface of such concrete marker shall be level with the surface of the street.
(B)
Property line monument. An iron pin or concrete marker at least two (2) feet into the ground shall be required at each lot corner and each point where the property line changes direction. Such an iron pin shall be at least three-quarters inch in diameter. The top surface of such iron pin shall be approximately level with the ground surface. Such concrete marker shall be at least four (4) inches in diameter. The top surface of such iron pin shall be approximately level with the ground surface.
6-10.6.[1.] Special classification of streets for construction. All streets shall be classified for construction purposes only as follows:
(A)
Standard street. A standard street shall be paved, curbed and guttered in accordance with the specifications required herein, and shall be required in all zoning districts. Right-of-way width requirements shall be in accordance with subsection 6-8.3.
6-10.7. Additional street design requirements.
(A)
Grades, horizontal curves, tangents, and sight distances. The following street design requirements shall be adhered to in addition to other requirements stated herein:
Table 6-10-2: Grades, Horizontal Curves, Tangents, and Sight Distances
EXPAND
Expressways, Freeways, Arterial streets Collector Streets Other Streets
Maximum street grades 6% 8% 12%
Minimum radii of centerline curvature 800' 500' 100'
Minimum length of tangent between reverse curves 300' 200' 100'
Minimum stopping sight distance 350' 240' 200'
  (B)
Vertical curves. All changes in grade shall be connected by vertical curves of minimum length in feet equal to fifteen (15) times the algebraic difference in percent of grades for expressways, freeways, arterial and collector streets, and one-half (½) this minimum length for other streets. Profiles of all streets showing natural and finished grades drawn to a scale of not less than one inch equals one hundred (100) feet horizontally and one inch equals twenty (20) feet vertically may be required by the commission.
6-10.8. Traffic control devices.
(A)
Installation. All required street name signs, traffic control signs and other traffic control devices in new development shall be installed by the developer at the developer's own expense.
(B)
Design and placement. The design and placement of all street name signs, traffic control signs and other traffic control devices shall meet the requirements of the Manual on Uniform Traffic Control Devices as adopted by the state department of transportation and revisions thereto.
(C)
Other signage. All other signage within the street right-of-way shall be the responsibility of the developer and/or the homeowner's association and for the perpetual maintenance of these devices. The signage shall provide "break-away" features and/or other appropriate safety measures prior to installation. The number, type and location of all other signage shall be approved by the public works department prior to installation.
6-10.9. Basic construction requirements for all streets.
(A)
Grading. All streets, roads and alleys shall be graded to their full width by the subdivider so that pavements and sidewalks, where required or if installed in the future, can be constructed on the same level plane. The preparation of the right-of-way before grading is started and the construction of cuts and fills shall be accomplished in accordance with the requirements herein and other specifications of the council.
(B)
Storm drainage. An adequate drainage system based on at least the ten-year rainfall frequency including necessary curb, pipes, culverts, headwalls, and ditches shall be provided for the proper drainage of all surface water.
(C)
Installation of utilities. After grading is completed and approved and before any base is applied all of the underground utilities—water main, sewer mains, gas mains, or any other underground utilities, and all service connections related thereto—shall be installed completely and proved throughout the length of the street and across the flat section. Service connections for sanitary sewer and water shall be extended to the right-of-way lines.
(D)
Slopes and shoulder improvements. The minimum ratio for all fill or cut slopes shall be two (2) to one and the minimum width for all shoulders from back edge of the curb, if installed, shall be eight (8) feet. All shoulders shall slope one-half-inch to the foot. When all construction is completed, all slopes and shoulders shall be cleared of all rubbish and shall have a stand of grass to prevent undue erosion, either by sprigging or seeding.
6-10.10. Roadway surfacing and paving. For standard streets, the following minimum requirements shall be adhered to for the surfacing and paving of said streets:
(A)
Pavement base. The pavement bases, not including the surface courses, shall be one of the following types and shall be of the following minimum thickness as designated for each street.
Table 6-10-3: Minimum Pavement Base
EXPAND
Expressways, Freeways, Arterial Streets Collector Streets Other Streets
Graded Aggregate Base 8" 7" 6"
Soil Bituminous Stabilized Base 8" 7" 6"
Soil Bound Macadam Base 8" 7" 6"
Soil Cement Base 8" 7" 6"
Sand-Clay Base 8" 8" 8"
  (B)
Thickness of pavement. The pavement shall be one of the following types and shall be designated for each street classification.
Table 6-10.4: Minimum Pavement Requirements
EXPAND
Expressways, Freeways, Arterial Streets Collector Streets Other Streets
Portland Cement Surface 8" 6" 6"
Asphaltic Concrete Surface 3½"** 2¾"* 2"
*The 2¾ inches consists of a 1½-inch Binder and a 1½-inch surface.
**The 3½ inches consists of a 2-inch Binder and a 1½-inch surface.
  (C)
Minimum pavement width. All minor residential streets shall have a minimum pavement width of twenty-seven (27) feet from back of curb to back of curb. All other street width requirements shall be determined by the commission and the council as required. For culs-de-sac and other dead end streets, a turnaround meeting the standards in Appendix D of the International Fire Code, as adopted in the Georgia State Minimum Fire Safety Standards, shall be provided at the closed end of the street.
(D)
Pavement breaks for utility connections. When it is necessary for a subdivider, or any utility company, to break existing pavements for the installation of utilities, for drainage facilities, or for any other purposes, the subdivider, or utility company shall be financially responsible for the repair of the pavement. The pavement shall be in accordance with the specifications required herein for construction of streets.
(E)
Curbs and gutters. Either a six-inch standing curb and gutter or a four-inch roll-over concrete curb and gutter with a minimum over-all width of twenty-four (24) inches shall be constructed on all standard streets. Cement concrete valley gutter shall be permitted across minor residential streets at street intersections only when no storm sewers are available as determined by the zoning enforcement officer. Valley gutters shall be at least six (6) feet in width. Whenever driveway openings are provided for lots abutting the street, the driveway shall be six (6) inches thick and a minimum of ten (10) feet in width at the sidewalk or at the street right-of-way line. The driveway shall have a minimum three-foot radius at the curb line.
(F)
Temporary turnarounds. Temporary turnarounds shall be required at the discretion of the commission. Said turnarounds shall consist of one and one-half (1½) inches of asphalt with a pavement base as described in subsection 6-10-10(A). In lieu of a paved temporary turnaround, the commission may permit an unpaved temporary turnaround, provided that the temporary unpaved turnaround shall require an appropriate letter of credit, in an amount determined by the public works department, for a duration of two (2) years approved prior to final plat approval. Unpaved temporary turnarounds shall meet all other construction and size requirements, with the exception of the paving and curbs. A temporary unpaved turnaround shall have positive drainage to prevent undermining of the turnaround or the new road associated with it. If there are recurring maintenance problems with the unpaved temporary turnaround the letter of credit shall be deemed forfeited and the financial institution will be required to immediately pay all amount due to the city.
(G)
Quality control and testing requirements. It will be the responsibility of the developer or his authorized representative to insure that all tests required are made. The cost of all testing and quality control will be performed at the expense of the developer by qualified testing laboratories approved by the commission. In all test reports, thickness of base and asphaltic concrete will be shown.
Table 6-10.5: Quality Control and Testing Requirements
EXPAND
Type of Test to be Performed Minimum Number of
Tests to be Performed Testing Standards
Sub-Grade Compaction
(density in place) One per 500 L.F. of roadway 95% Max. Density
ATSM-1557
Field Tests ASTM D-1556 F-2922 & D-2167
Base Compaction One (1) per 500 L.F. of roadway 100% Max. Density
ATSM-1557
Field Test-ASTM D-1556, D-2922 & D-2167
Asphaltic Concrete
(density in place) One (1) per 1,000 L.F. of Roadway 92% Laboratory Density
Asphaltic Concrete
(thickness in cores) Intervals not to exceed 500 L.F. Deficient in Thickness
not more than ½"
  6-10.11. Installation of utilities.
(A)
Water. Water mains for both domestic use and fire protection shall be properly sized by the city and connected with the public system. The lines shall be constructed in such a manner as to adequately serve the subdivision. The lines shall be sized and installed in conformance with water specifications for the city. The governing body may participate in sharing the costs of construction and installation of water system for any difference in the cost to lay oversized pipe and outfall systems which are needed in excess of the required water facilities needed to exclusively serve the new subdivision as determined by mayor and council.
(B)
Sewer. A publicly connected sanitary sewer system shall be installed and the subdivider shall incur the cost for the installation of all sewer systems which are required to serve the new subdivision including the cost of installing and tying in with the existing sewer system. The governing body may participate in sharing the cost of construction and installation of sewer systems for any difference in the cost of oversized pipe and outfall systems which are needed in excess of the required sewer facilities needed to exclusively serve the new subdivision as determined by mayor and council. All sewer facilities shall be installed in accordance with the standards of the department of human resources of the state and with the sewer specifications for the city.
(C)
Gas. When gas mains are connected with the gas distribution system of the city, the lines shall be installed in such a manner as to serve adequately all lots shown on the subdivision plats. The gas line shall be constructed in conformance with the gas specifications for the city.
(D)
Underground electrical system. If the subdivider installs an underground electrical system, he shall provide the building inspector with detailed plans showing the exact location of the lines.
(1)
Overhead street lighting. In cases where an underground electrical system has been installed, the subdivider shall provide terminal facilities and lighting fixtures for street lighting. This fixture shall be placed on the street pavement and in a location so as not to hinder the flow of traffic.
(2)
Cost of overhead street lighting. In cases of underground electrical systems, the subdivider shall assume the entire cost for installation of terminal street lighting fixtures.
6-10.12. Sidewalks.
(A)
Sidewalk Dimensions. Unless otherwise specified, all sidewalks shall be four (4) inches thick with a minimum width of five (5) feet. All sidewalks shall slope one-fourth (¼) inch to the foot toward the curb. A 30-inch grass planting strip shall be provided between the back of the planting curb and the sidewalk. The 30-inch grass planting strip between the back of the curb and the sidewalk shall not be required on streets designated as alternate transportation routes.
6-10.13. Fire hydrant systems. In addition to pertinent provisions of other fire protection codes adopted by the City of Perry, fire hydrant systems shall comply with the following:
(a)
Access to structures. Where a portion of the facility or building hereafter constructed or moved into or within the jurisdiction is more than four hundred (400) feet from a hydrant on a fire apparatus access road, as measured by an approved route around the exterior of the facility or building, on-site fire hydrants and mains shall be provided where required by the fire code official.
Exceptions:
(i)
For Group R-3 and Group U occupancies, the distance requirement shall be six hundred (600) feet.
(ii)
For buildings equipped throughout with an approved automatic sprinkler system installed in accordance with Sections 903.3.1.1 or 903.3.1.2 of the International Fire Code, the distance requirement shall be six hundred (600) feet.
(b)
Spacing along streets. The travel distance between one hydrant and the next hydrant along a street shall be no greater than five hundred (500) feet in residential developments and no greater than three hundred (300) feet in commercial developments. Hydrants shall be located prior to the entrance of a cul-de-sac and not within a cul-de-sac.
(Ord. No. 2017-25, § 2, 12-19-17; Ord. No. 2020-13, §§ 2, 3, 9-1-20; Ord. No. 2021-08, § 7, 4-20-21; Ord. No. 2022-51, §§ 1, 2, 12-20-22)
Sec. 6-11. - Private development standards.
6-11.1. Definitions. When used in this section, the following words and phrases shall have the meaning given. The words not defined below shall have the meaning given in section 1-13.
Common area means any area or space designed for joint use of tenants occupying the private development.
Density means the number of dwellings per gross acre.
Driveway means a private way used by vehicles and pedestrians on a private development or for common access to a group of lots or common facilities.
Governing authority means the mayor and council of the City of Perry, Georgia.
Management means the person who owns or has charge, care or control of the private development.
Occupied area means that area of an individual lot which has been covered by a dwelling and its accessory structures.
Private development means any development in which the infrastructure (water and sewer mains, streets, driveways, etc.) is not owned by the city. Private development shall include, but is not limited to, apartment complexes, manufactured home parks, private retirement communities, and condominiums.
Service building means a structure housing sanitary, operational, office, recreational, maintenance and other facilities build to conform to required standards.
Sewer connection means pipes, fittings and appurtenances from the drain outlet of the structure to the inlet of the corresponding sewer riser pipe of the sewer system serving the private development.
Travel trailer park means an area where one or more travel trailers can be parked, designed or intended to be used as temporary living quarters for one or more families and intended primarily for automobile transients, whether or not a charge is made for such accommodation.
Water connection means pipes, fittings and appurtenances from the water riser pipe to the water inlet pipe of the distribution system within the structure.
6-11.2. Private development. The purpose of this section is to promote the health, safety, morals and general welfare of the inhabitants of Perry, Georgia, by regulating the occupancy and maintenance of manufactured home parks, travel trailer parks, apartments, planned unit developments (PUD) and all other developments with privately maintained infrastructure. New private developments shall conform to the technical standards in this section.
(A)
Roadways, driveways and off-street parking.
(1)
Pavement. Roadways within the private development shall be constructed in accordance with city standards.
(2)
Width. Roadway pavement shall be of adequate width to serve the traffic of the private development and in any case shall meet the following minimum requirements:
(a)
Two-way streets—Twenty-three (23) feet.
(b)
One-way streets—Twelve (12) feet.
(c)
Cul-de-sac—Turn-around to meet the specifications set out in section 6-10.10, roadway surfacing and paving.
(3)
Minimum maintenance standards. Roadways shall be maintained free of ruts, holes, and standing water.
(4)
Inspections. All streets and driveways within private developments shall be subject to review and inspection by the city.
(5)
Access. All private developments shall be provided with safe and convenient vehicular access from abutting public streets or roads or highways. Said access shall be provided by streets, driveways or other means. Alignment and gradient shall be properly adapted to topography.
(6)
Driveways. Paved driveways shall be provided where necessary for convenient access to the private development. The minimum width shall be ten (10) feet.
(7)
Off-street parking. Off-street parking areas shall be provided in all private developments for the use of occupants and guests. All requirements found in section 6-1 shall apply.
(B)
All private developments shall comply with the landscaping requirements in section 6-3.
(C)
All private developments shall be furnished with lighting units so spaced and equipped with luminaries placed at such mounting heights as will sufficient levels of illumination for the safe movement of pedestrians and vehicles at night.
(D)
The ground surface in all parts of every private development shall be graded and equipped to drain all surface water in a safe, efficient manner in order to eliminate water pockets, low areas or bogs.
(E)
Exposed ground surfaces in all parts of every mobile home park shall be paved, or covered with stone screening, or other landscaping material, or protected with a vegetative growth that is capable of preventing soil erosion and of eliminating objectionable dust and/or mud.
(F)
An accessible, adequate, safe and potable supply of water shall be provided in each private development. Where a public supply of water of satisfactory quantity, quality and pressure is available, connection shall be made thereto and its supply used exclusively. When a satisfactory public water supply is not available, a private water supply system may be developed and used as approved by the Georgia Department of Public Health in accordance with rules and regulations for water supply quality control.
The water supply system of the private development shall be constructed and connected in accordance with the plumbing code of Perry, Georgia. Each dwelling or, in the case of two- and multi-family dwellings and commercial uses, each building, shall be provided with a water connection. Such connection shall be in accordance with the provisions of the plumbing code of Perry, Georgia.
(G)
An adequate and safe sewerage system shall be provided in all private development for conveying and disposing of all sewage. Each dwelling or, in the case of two- and multi-family dwellings and commercial uses, each building shall be provided with a sewer connection. Such system and connection shall be designed, constructed and maintained in accordance with the provisions of the plumbing code of Perry, Georgia.
(Ord. No. 2017-25, § 2, 12-19-17; Ord. No. 2020-13, § 3, 9-1-20)
ARTICLE 7. - STORMWATER MANAGEMENT

Sec. 7-1. - Stormwater management requirements and controls.
7-1.1. General provisions.
(A)
Findings of fact. It is hereby determined that:
(1)
Land development and associated increases in impervious cover alter the hydrologic response of local watersheds and increase stormwater runoff rates and volumes, flooding, stream channel erosion, and sediment transport and deposition;
(2)
This stormwater runoff contributes to increased quantities of water-borne pollutants; and
(3)
Stormwater runoff, soil erosion and nonpoint source pollution can be controlled and minimized through the regulation of stormwater runoff from development sites.
Therefore, the city establishes this set of water quality and quantity policies applicable to all surface waters to provide reasonable guidance for the regulation of stormwater runoff for the purpose of protecting local water resources from degradation. It is determined that the regulation of stormwater runoff discharges from land development projects and other construction activities in order to control and minimize increases in stormwater runoff rates and volumes, soil erosion, stream channel erosion, and nonpoint source pollution associated with stormwater runoff is in the public interest and will prevent threats to public health and safety.
(B)
Purpose. The purpose of this article is to establish minimum stormwater management requirements and controls to protect and safeguard the general health, safety, and welfare of the public residing in watersheds within this jurisdiction. This article seeks to meet that purpose through regulation of activities that can through proper regulation improve and maintain those water resources that lie partially or wholly within the jurisdictional boundaries of the city.
(C)
Compatibility with other permit and ordinance requirements. This article is not intended to interfere with, abrogate, or annul any other ordinance, rule or regulation, stature, or other provision of law. The requirements of this article should be considered minimum requirements, and where any provision of this article imposes restrictions different from those imposed by any other ordinance, rule or regulation, or other provision of law, whichever provisions are more restrictive or impose higher protective standards for human health or the environment shall be considered to take precedence.
(D)
Severability. The provisions of this article are hereby declared to be severable. If any provision, clause, sentence, or paragraph of this article or the application thereof to any person, establishment, or circumstances shall be held invalid, such invalidity shall not affect the other provisions or application of this article.
(E)
Responsibility for administration. Unless otherwise stated, the administrator shall administer, implement, and enforce the provisions of this article. Any powers granted or duties imposed upon the administrator may be delegated to persons or entities acting under the authority of city.
(F)
Effects of compliance. The standards set forth herein pursuant to this article unless otherwise noted are minimum standards; therefore this article does not intend nor imply that compliance by any person will ensure that there will be no adverse effect with regard to water quality and quantity.
7-1.2. Definitions. When used in this article, the following words and phrases shall have the meaning given in this section. Words not defined herein shall be construed to have a meaning given by common and ordinary use as defined by Webster's Third New International Dictionary, copyright 1970. The term "shall" is mandatory. When not inconsistent with the context, words used in the singular number include the plural and those used in the plural number include the singular. Words used in the present tense include the future. The following definitions shall apply in the interpretation and enforcement of this article, unless otherwise specifically stated:
As-built drawings mean amended site and construction plans specifying the locations, dimensions, elevations, capacities and operational capabilities of road and drainage structures and facilities as they have been constructed.
Best management practices (BMPs) mean structural devices to store or treat stormwater runoff or non-structural programs or practices both of which are designed to prevent or reduce the pollution of the waters of the state.
Buffer means an area along the course of any watercourse to be maintained in an undisturbed and natural condition.
Construction means any alteration of land for the purpose of achieving its development of changing use, including particularly any preparation for, building of, or erection of a structure and/or infrastructure.
Construction activity means activities subject to NPDES construction permits. These include construction projects resulting in land disturbance of one acre or more. Such activities include but are not limited to clearing and grubbing, grading, excavating, and demolition.
Cut means a portion of land surface or area from which earth has been removed or will be removed by excavation; the depth below original ground surface to excavated surface. Also known as "excavation."
Day means a day is defined as a calendar day.
Department means the Georgia Department of Natural Resources.
Design storm means the rainfall event of such size and frequency as described in the Georgia Stormwater Management Manual or local design manual, which is used for the design of stormwater facilities.
Developer means any person who acts in his own behalf or as the agent of any owner of property and engages in alteration of land or vegetation in preparation for construction activity.
Development means any action in preparation for construction activities which result in alteration of either land or vegetation other than such minor land disturbing activities as home gardens and individual home landscaping repairs or maintenance work which result in minor soil erosion.
Director means the director of the Environmental Protection Division of the Department of Natural Resources, State of Georgia.
Division means the Georgia Environmental Protection Division of the Department of Natural Resources, State of Georgia.
Drainage means a general term applied to the removal of surface or subsurface water from a given area either by gravity or by pumping, commonly applied herein to surface water.
Drainage plan means a plan prepared using appropriate and commonly accepted engineering standards which specifies the means for alteration or development of a drainage system.
Drainage structure means any stormwater conveyance structure as defined below, and any piping or ditching for stormwater management purposes.
Drainage system means the surface and subsurface system for the removal of water from the land, including both the natural elements of streams, marshes, and ponds, whether of an intermittent or continuous nature, and the manmade element which includes culverts, ditches, channels, retention facilities and the storm sewer system.
Erosion means the process by which land surface is worn away by the action of wind, water, ice or gravity.
Erosion and sediment control plan means a plan for the control of soil erosion and sediment resulting from land disturbing activity.
Existing grade means the vertical location of the existing ground surface prior to cutting or filling.
Filling means the placement of any soil or other solid material, either organic or inorganic, on a natural ground surface or excavation.
Finished grade means the final elevation and contour of the ground after cutting or filling and conforming to the proposed design.
Flood means a temporary rise in the level of rivers, streams, lakes, marshes and ocean, which results in inundation of areas not ordinarily covered by water.
Floodplain means any land area susceptible to being inundated by flood waters from any source.
Floodway means the channel of a river or other watercourse and the adjacent land areas subject to erosive velocities and damage from flood-borne debris that must be reserved in order to discharge the base flood (intermediate regional flood), without ultimately increasing the water surface elevation more than one foot.
Grading means altering ground surfaces to specified elevations, dimensions, and/or slopes; this includes stripping, cutting, filling, stockpiling and shaping or any combination thereof and shall include the land in its cut or filled condition.
Greenbelt means an area of land to be dedicated to the City of Perry, Georgia or a land trust which shall remain undisturbed, insofar as possible, from its natural state to form a screen or buffer.
Hazardous materials mean any material, including any substance, waste, or combination thereof, which because of its quantity, concentration, or physical, chemical, or infectious characteristics may cause, or significantly contribute to, a substantial present or potential hazard to human health, safety, property, or the environment when improperly treated, stored, transported, disposed of, or otherwise managed.
Hotspot means an area where the land use or activities generate or have the potential to generate highly contaminated runoff, with concentrations of pollutants in excess of those typically found in stormwater or as specified by the city.
Illicit discharge means any discharge as defined in 40 CFR Part 122.26(b)(2) to a MS4 that is not entirely composed of stormwater, except those discharges authorized under a NPDES permit (other than the NPDES permit for discharges from the MS4).
Illicit connections means any man-made conveyance connecting a discharge directly to a MS4.
Impervious surface means a manmade structure or surface which prevents the infiltration of stormwater into the ground below the structure or surface. Structures or surfaces which are constructed so as to only minimally affect the infiltration of stormwater are not considered impervious surfaces.
Industrial activity means activities subject to NPDES industrial permits as defined in 40 CFR, Section 122.26 (b)(14).
Intermediate regional flood means a 100-year frequency flood, as defined on the flood hazard map, which has a one-percent chance of being equaled or exceeded in any given year.
Intermittent stream means any stream which flows for only part of the year and does not support aquatic life whose life history requires residence in flowing water for a continuous period of at least six (6) months.
Issuing authority means the jurisdiction which has been certified by the director of the environmental protection division of the department of natural resources as an issuing authority, pursuant to the Erosion and Sedimentation Act of 1975, as amended.
Jurisdictional wetland means an area that meets the definitional requirements for wetlands as determined by the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers.
Jurisdictional wetland determination means a delineation of jurisdictional wetland boundaries by the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, as required by Section 404 of the Clean Water Act, 33 U.S.C. § 1344, as amended.
Land disturbing activity means any activity which results in changes in the volume or flow rates of rainfall runoff, soil erosion from water or wind; or the movement of sediments into state waters or onto land within the state, including, but not limited to, clearing, dredging, grading, excavating, transporting, and filling of land.
Live retention means that quantity of water capable of being effectively contained by a designated facility for stormwater storage for a specified period of time.
Local design manual means a manual containing specific guidelines and standards for stormwater management that are either watershed or county-wide specific, for the proper implementation of the requirements of this article.
Lot means a tract, portion or parcel of land separated from other tracts, portions or parcels by description on a subdivision plat of record or survey map or described by metes and bounds, and intended to be used to facilitate transfer of ownership or for building development. For the purposes of this article, the term does not include any portion of a dedicated right-of-way.
Maintenance of stormwater facility means preserving the enclosing walls or impounding embankment of the retention facility in good condition; ensuring structural soundness, functional adequacy and freedom from sediment; and rectifying any unforeseen erosion problems.
Municipal separate storm sewer system (MS4) means a conveyance or system of conveyances including roads with drainage systems, municipal streets, catch basins, curbs, gutters, ditches, manmade channels or storm drains, owned or operated by a municipality or other public, designed or used for collecting or conveying storm water runoff and is not a combined sewer or part of a publicly owned treatment works.
National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System (NPDES) Stormwater Discharge Permit means a permit issued by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (or by the state under authority delegated pursuant to 33 USC § 1342(b)) that authorizes the discharge of pollutants to waters of the United States, whether the permit is applicable on an individual, group, or general area-wide basis.
Natural ground surface means the ground surface in its original state before any grading, excavation or filling.
Nephelometric turbidity units (NTU) means numerical units of measure based upon photometric analytical techniques for measuring the light scattered by finely divided particles of a substance in suspension. This technique is used to estimate the extent of turbidity in water in which colloidally dispersed particles are present.
Non-stormwater discharge means any discharge to the storm drain system that is not composed entirely of stormwater.
Non-structural best management practice means any natural or planted vegetation or other nonstructural component of the stormwater management plan that provides for or enhances stormwater quantity and/or quality control or other stormwater management benefits, and includes, but is not limited to, riparian buffers, open and greenspace areas, overland flow filtration areas, natural depressions, and vegetated channels.
Owner means the person in whom is vested the fee ownership, dominion or title of property, by proprietor; this term may also include a tenant, if chargeable under his lease for the maintenance of the property, and any agent of the owner or tenant, including a developer.
Perennial stream means any stream which flows continuously throughout the year or supports aquatic life whose life history requires residence in flowing water for a continuous period of six (6) months or longer.
Permit means the authorization necessary to conduct a land-disturbing activity under the provisions of this article.
Person means any individual, partnership, firm, association, joint venture, public or private corporation, trust, estate, commission, board, public or private institution, utility, cooperative, state agency, municipality, or other political subdivision of this state, any interstate body or any other legal entity.
Pollution means the contamination or other significant alteration of any water's physical, chemical or biological properties, including, but not limited to, a change in temperature, taste, color, turbidity, or odor of such waters or the discharge of any liquid, gaseous, solid, radioactive, or other substance into any such waters as will or is likely to render such waters harmful, detrimental or injurious to the public health, safety or welfare or to domestic, commercial, industrial, agricultural, recreational, or other legitimate beneficial uses, or to livestock, wild animals, birds, fish or other aquatic life.
Pollutant means any impurity or waste material that degrades the physical, chemical, biological or radiological integrity of surface or subsurface waters.
Pretreatment means the onsite reduction of the amount of pollutants, the elimination of pollutants, or the alteration of the nature of pollutant properties in stormwater prior to or in lieu of discharging or otherwise introducing such pollutants into the publicly owned drainage system.
Project means the entire proposed development project regardless of the size of the area of land to be disturbed.
Reach means a longitudinal segment of a stream or river measured along specified points on the stream or river.
Redevelopment means a land development project on a previously developed site, but excludes ordinary maintenance activities, remodeling of existing buildings, resurfacing of paved areas, and exterior changes or improvements which do not materially increase or concentrate stormwater runoff, or cause additional nonpoint source pollution.
Regulated activity means any activity which will, or which may reasonably be expected to, result in the discharge of dredged or fill material into waters of the U.S. excepting those activities exempted in Section 404 of the Federal Clean Water Act.
Public right-of-way shall mean a strip or parcel of land occupied by or intended to be occupied by a street, crosswalk, pedestrian path, cart path, utility system, water main, sanitary sewer or storm drain sewer main, drainage ditches and watercourses or any other valid public use. The usage of the term "right-of-way" for land platting purposes shall mean that every right-of-way hereafter established and shown on a record or final plat is to be separate and distinct from the lots or parcels adjoining such right-of-way, and not included within the dimensions or areas of such other lots or parcels. Rights-of-way intended for streets, crosswalks, water mains, sanitary sewers, storm drains or other use involving maintenance by a public agency, shall be dedicated or deeded to public use by the maker of the plat on which such right-of-way is established.
Roadway drainage structure means bridges, culverts and ditches associated with roadway construction, which allow stream flows to move freely under a stream crossing or to convey stormwater runoff from a roadway to a stream.
Runoff coefficient means the ratio of runoff to rainfall.
Sediment means solid material, both organic and inorganic, that is in suspension, is being transported, or has been moved from its site of origin by air, water, ice, or gravity as a product of erosion.
Sedimentation means the action or process of forming or depositing sediment.
Sedimentation facility means a facility specifically developed for the purpose of allowing the deposition of sediment resulting from the land development process.
Shear failure means failure of an earthen bank caused by the steepness of the slope.
Stabilization means the process of establishing an enduring soil cover of vegetation and/or mulch or other ground cover and/or combination with installing temporary or permanent structures for the purpose of reducing to a minimum the erosion process and the resultant transport of sediment by wind, water, ice or gravity.
State waters means any and all rivers, streams, creeks, branches, lakes, reservoirs, ponds, drainage systems, springs, wells, wetlands, wet weather streams, and all other bodies of surface or subsurface water, including any waters which are subject to the ebb and flow of the ocean tides, natural or artificial, lying within or forming a part of the boundaries of the state which are not entirely confined and retained completely upon the property of a single individual, partnership, or corporation.
Stormwater means any surface flow, runoff, and drainage consisting entirely of water from any form of natural precipitation, and resulting from such precipitation.
Stormwater design manual means the Georgia Stormwater Management Manual, current edition, as published by the Atlanta Regional Commission and the City of Perry, Georgia design standards. The Georgia Stormwater Management Manual is available online at www.georgiastormwater.org.
Stormwater facility means a facility which provides for storage of stormwater runoff and controlled release of this runoff during and after a flood storm.
Stormwater pollution prevention plan (SWPPP) means a document which describes the best management practices and activities to be implemented by a person or business to identify sources of pollution or contamination at a site and the actions to eliminate or reduce pollutant discharges to stormwater, stormwater conveyance systems, and/or receiving waters to the maximum extent practicable.
Stormwater runoff means the portion of a precipitation on the land which reaches the drainage system.
Stream means natural, running water flowing continuously or intermittently in a channel on or below the surface of the ground.
Structural erosion and sediment control practices means measures for the stabilization of erosive or sediment-producing areas by utilizing the mechanical properties of matter for the purpose of either changing the surface of the land or storing, regulating or disposing of runoff to prevent excessive sediment loss. Examples of structural erosion and sediment control practices are riprap, sediment basins, dikes, level spreaders, waterways or outlets, diversions, grade stabilization structures, sediment traps, land grading, etc.
Structural stormwater control means a structural stormwater management facility or device that controls stormwater runoff and changes the characteristics of that runoff including, but not limited to, the quantity, the quality, the period of release or the velocity of flow.
Structure means anything constructed or erected, the use of which requires a location on the ground, or attached to something having a location on the ground.
Subdivision means subdivision includes all divisions of a tract or parcel of land into two (2) or more lots, building sites, or other divisions for the purposes, whether immediate or future, of sale, gift, or building development and includes all divisions or development of land involving a new street or a change in an existing street. It shall also include resubdivision, the process of subdividing and the land or area subdivided; provided, however, divisions of land into parcels of five (5) acres or more where no new street is involved are not included in this definition.
Substantial improvement means any repair, reconstruction, or improvement of a structure, the cost of which equals or exceeds fifty (50) percent of the market value of the structure, either: (1) before the improvement or repair is started, or (2) if the structure has been damaged and is being restored, before the damage occurred. For the purpose of this definition, "substantial improvement" is considered to occur when the first alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor or other structural part of the building commences, whether or not that alteration affects the external dimensions of the structure. The term does not, however, include either:
a.
Any project for improvement of a structure to comply with existing state or local health, sanitary, or safety code specifications which are solely necessary to assure safe living conditions;
b.
Any alteration of a structure listed on the National Register of Historic Places or a state inventory of historic places; or
c.
Any project that properly obtains a waiver from these requirements.
Undisturbed natural buffer means a tract of land in its natural, undisturbed state where vegetation cannot be removed or planted without a city permit. No herbicides, pesticides, or other chemicals, either natural or manmade can be used in this buffer.
Utility means any public or private water or sewer piping systems, water or sewer pumping stations, electric power lines, fuel pipelines, telephone lines, roads, driveways, bridges, river/lake access facilities, stormwater systems, and railroads or other utilities identified by the city.
Vegetation means all plant growth.
Vegetative erosion and sediment control practices means measures for the stabilization of erosive or sediment producing areas by covering the soil with:
a.
Permanent seeding, sprigging or planting, producing long-term vegetative cover;
b.
Temporary seeding, producing short-term vegetative cover; or
c.
Sodding, covering areas with a turf of perennial sod-forming grass.
Watercourse means any natural or man-made conveyance channel, stream, river, creek, channel, ditch, canal, conduit, culvert, drain, waterway, gully, ravine, or wash in which stormwater flows either continuously or intermittently and which has a definite channel, bed and banks, and including any areas adjacent thereto subject to inundation by reason of overflow or floodwater.
Wetlands means those areas that are inundated or saturated by surface or groundwater at a frequency and duration sufficient to support, and that under normal circumstances do support, a prevalence of vegetation typically adapted for life in saturated soil conditions. Wetlands generally include swamps, marshes, bogs, and similar areas. The ecological parameters for designating wetlands include hydric soils, hydrophytic vegetation, and hydrological conditions that involve a temporary or permanent source of water to cause soil saturation.
7-1.3 Illicit discharge prohibition.
(A)
General provisions.
(1)
Purpose. The purpose of this article is to provide for the health, safety, and general welfare of the citizens of the city through the regulation of non-stormwater discharges to the storm drainage system to the maximum extent practicable. The objectives of this article are:
(a)
To regulate the contribution of pollutants to the municipal separate storm sewer system (MS4) by stormwater discharges by any user;
(b)
To prohibit illicit connections and discharges to the MS4; and
(c)
To establish legal authority to carry out all inspection; surveillance and monitoring; and enforcement procedures as necessary to ensure compliance with this article.
(2)
Applicability. This article shall apply to all non-stormwater discharges entering the storm drain system generated on any developed or undeveloped lands unless explicitly exempted by the city under subsection 7-1.4(B)(1) of this article.
(B)
Discharge prohibitions.
(1)
Prohibition of illegal discharges. No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged into the MS4 or watercourses any materials, including but not limited to pollutants or waters containing any pollutants that cause or contribute to a violation of applicable water quality standards, other than stormwater.
The commencement, conduct or continuance of any illegal discharge to the storm drain system is prohibited except as described as follows:
(a)
The following discharges are exempt from discharge prohibitions established by this article: water line flushing or other potable water sources, landscape irrigation or lawn watering, diverted stream flows, rising ground water, ground water infiltration to storm drains, uncontaminated pumped ground water, foundation or footing drains (not including active groundwater dewatering systems), crawl space pumps, air conditioning condensation, springs, non-commercial washing of vehicles, natural riparian habitat or wetland flows, swimming pools (if dechlorinated, typically less than one mg/L chlorine), firefighting activities, and any other water source not containing pollutants.
(b)
Discharges specified in writing by the administrator as being necessary to protect public health and safety.
(c)
Dye testing is an allowable discharge, but requires a verbal notification to the administrator twenty-four (24) hours prior to the time of the test followed by written notice within ten (10) days.
(d)
Any non-stormwater discharge permitted under an NPDES permit, waiver, or waste discharge order issued to the discharger and administered under the authority of the United States Environmental Protection Agency (USEPA), provided that the discharger is in full compliance with all requirements of the permit, waiver, or order and other applicable laws and regulations, and provided that approval has been granted for any discharge to the storm drain system. Proof of compliance with said permit may be required in a form acceptable to the administrator prior to the allowing of discharges to the MS4.
(e)
Any stormwater discharge regulated under an NPDES stormwater discharge permit for industrial activities provided that the discharger is in full compliance with all requirements of the permit. Proof of compliance with said permit may be required in a form acceptable to the administrator prior to the allowing of discharges to the MS4.
(f)
Any stormwater discharge regulated under an NPDES stormwater discharge permit for construction activities or other local land disturbance permit provided that the discharger is in full compliance with all requirements of the permit. Proof of compliance with said permit may be required in a form acceptable to the administrator prior to the allowing of discharges to the MS4.
(2)
Prohibition of illicit connections. The construction, use, maintenance or continued existence of illicit connections to the MS4 or watercourses is prohibited. This prohibition expressly includes, without limitation, illicit connections made in the past, regardless of whether the connection was permissible under law or practices applicable or prevailing at the time of connection.
(C)
Suspension of MS4 access.
(1)
Suspension due to illicit discharges in emergency situations. The administrator may, without prior notice, suspend MS4 discharge access to a person when such suspension is necessary to stop an actual or threatened discharge that presents or may present imminent and substantial danger to the environment, or to the health or welfare of persons, or to the MS4 or waters of the United States. If the violator fails to comply with a suspension order issued in an emergency, the administrator may take such steps as deemed necessary to prevent or minimize damage to the MS4 or Waters of the United States, or to minimize danger to persons.
(2)
Suspension due to the detection of illicit discharge. Any person discharging to the MS4 or watercourses in violation of this article may have their MS4 access terminated if such termination would abate or reduce an illicit discharge. The administrative will notify a violator of the proposed termination of its MS4 access. The violator may petition the administrator for a reconsideration and hearing. A person commits a violation of this article if the person reinstates MS4 access to premises terminated pursuant to this section, without the prior written approval of the administrator.
(D)
Monitoring of discharges.
(1)
Applicability. This section applies to all facilities that have stormwater discharges associated with industrial activity, including construction activity.
(2)
Access to facilities.
(a)
The administrator shall be permitted to enter and inspect facilities subject to regulation under this article as often as may be necessary to determine compliance with this article. If a discharger has security measures in force, which require proper identification and clearance before entry into its premises, the discharger shall make the necessary arrangements to allow access to representatives of the administrator.
(b)
Facility operators shall allow the administrator ready access to all parts of the premises for the purposes of inspection, sampling, examination and copying of records that must be kept under the conditions of an NPDES permit to discharge stormwater, and the performance of any additional duties as defined by state and federal law.
(c)
The administrator shall have the right to set up on any permitted facility such devices as are necessary in the opinion of the administrator to conduct monitoring and/or sampling of the facility's stormwater discharge.
(d)
The administrator has the right to require the discharger to install monitoring equipment as necessary. The facility's sampling and monitoring equipment shall be maintained at all times in a safe and proper operating condition by the discharger at its own expense. All devices used to measure stormwater flow and quality shall be calibrated to ensure their accuracy.
(e)
Any temporary or permanent obstruction to safe and easy access to the facility to be inspected and/or sampled shall be promptly removed by the operator at the written or oral request of the administrator and shall not be replaced. The costs of clearing such access shall be borne by the operator.
(f)
Unreasonable delay in allowing the administrator access to a permitted facility is a violation of a stormwater discharge permit and of this article. A person who is the operator of a facility with a NPDES permit to discharge stormwater associated with industrial activity commits a violation if the person denies the administrator reasonable access to the permitted facility for the purpose of conducting any activity authorized or required by this article.
(g)
If the administrator has been refused access to any part of the premises from which stormwater is discharged, and he/she is able to demonstrate probable cause to believe that there may be a violation of this article, or that there is a need to inspect and/or sample as part of a routine inspection and sampling program designed to verify compliance with this article or any order issued hereunder, or to protect the overall public health, safety, and welfare of the community, then city may seek issuance of a search warrant from any court of competent jurisdiction.
(E)
Requirement to prevent, control and reduce stormwater pollutants.
(1)
Specification of best management practices. The city may adopt requirements identifying best management practices for any activity, operation, or facility, which may cause or contribute to pollution or contamination of stormwater, the MS4 or watercourses, or waters of the U.S.
(2)
Pollution prevention in new facilities. The owner or operator of a commercial or industrial establishment shall provide, at their own expense, reasonable protection from accidental discharge of prohibited materials or other wastes into the MS4 or watercourses through the use of these structural and non-structural BMPs.
(3)
Pollution prevention in existing facilities. Any person responsible for a property or premise, which is, or may be, the source of an illicit discharge, may be required to implement, at said person's expense, additional structural and non-structural BMPs to prevent the further discharge of pollutants to the MS4 or watercourses.
(4)
Discharge permits from regulatory agencies other than the city. Compliance with all terms and conditions of a valid NPDES permit authorizing the discharge of stormwater associated with industrial activity, to the extent practicable, shall be deemed compliance with the provisions of this section. BMPs designated for compliance with the NPDES permit or BMPs implemented as a result of action taken in compliance of this Article shall be included in a SWPPP as necessary for compliance with requirements of the NPDES permit.
(F)
Watercourse protection. Every person owning property through which a watercourse passes, or such person's lessee, shall keep and maintain that part of the watercourse within the property free of trash, debris, excessive vegetation, and other obstacles that would pollute, contaminate, or significantly retard the flow of water through the watercourse. In addition, the owner or lessee shall maintain existing privately owned structures within or adjacent to a watercourse, so that such structures will not become a hazard to the use, function, or physical integrity of the watercourse.
(G)
Notification of spills. Notwithstanding other requirements of law, as soon as any person responsible for a facility or operation, or responsible for emergency response for a facility or operation has information of any known or suspected release of materials which are resulting or may result in illegal discharges or pollutants discharging into stormwater, the MS4 or watercourses, or water of the United States said person shall take all necessary steps to ensure the discovery, containment, and cleanup of such release. In the event of such a release of hazardous materials said person shall immediately notify emergency response agencies of the occurrence via emergency dispatch services. In the event of a release of non-hazardous materials, said person shall notify the administrator in person, by phone, facsimile or email no later than the next business day. Notifications in person or by phone shall be confirmed by written notice addressed and mailed to the administrator within three (3) business days of the phone notice. The notification of the discharge of materials to the administrator shall be in addition to notification of other applicable city, county, regional, state and federal authorities. If the discharge of prohibited materials emanates from a commercial or industrial establishment, the owner or operator of such establishment shall also retain an on-site written record of the discharge and the actions taken to prevent its recurrence. Such records shall be retained for at least three (3) years.
(H)
Enforcement.
(1)
Notice of violation. Whenever the administrator finds that a person has violated a prohibition or failed to meet a requirement of this article, the administrator may order compliance by written notice of violation to the responsible party. Such notice may require without limitation:
(a)
The performance of monitoring, analyses, and reporting;
(b)
The elimination of illicit connections or discharges;
(c)
That violating discharges, practices, or operations shall cease and desist;
(d)
The abatement or remediation of stormwater pollution or contamination hazards and the restoration of any affected property;
(e)
Payment of a fine to cover administrative and remediation costs; and
(f)
The implementation of source control or treatment BMPs.
If abatement of a violation and/or restoration of affected property is required, the notice shall set forth a deadline within which such remediation or restoration must be completed. Said notice shall further advise that, should the violator fail to remediate or restore within the established deadline, the work may be done by a designated governmental agency or a contractor and the expense thereof shall be charged to the violator.
(2)
Appeal of notice of violation. Any person receiving a notice of violation may appeal the determination of the administrator to the city manager. The notice of appeal must be received within ten (10) days from the date of the notice of violation. Hearing on the appeal before the appropriate authority or his/her designee shall take place within fifteen (15) days from the date of receipt of the notice of appeal. The decision of the reviewing authority or their designee shall be final.
(3)
Enforcement measures after appeal. If the violation has not been corrected pursuant to the requirements set forth in the notice of violation, or, in the event of an appeal, within ten (10) days of the decision of the reviewing authority upholding the decision of the administrator, then representatives of the administrator shall enter upon the subject private property and are authorized to take any and all measures necessary to abate the violation and/or restore the property. It shall be unlawful for any person, owner, agent or person in possession of any premises to refuse to allow the administrator or designated contractor to enter upon the premises for the purposes set forth above.
(4)
Cost of abatement of the violation. Within thirty (30) days after abatement of the violation, the owner of the property will be notified of the cost of abatement, including administrative costs. The property owner may file a written protest objecting to the amount of the assessment within thirty (30) days. If the amount due is not paid within a timely manner as determined by the decision of the reviewing authority or by the expiration of the time in which to file an appeal, the charges shall become a special assessment against the property and shall constitute a lien on the property for the amount of the assessment.
(5)
Injunctive relief. It shall be unlawful for any person to violate any provision or fail to comply with any of the requirements of this article. If a person has violated or continues to violate the provisions of this article, the administrator may petition for a preliminary or permanent injunction restraining the person from activities which would create further violations or compelling the person to perform abatement or remediation of the violation.
(6)
Compensatory action. In lieu of enforcement proceedings, penalties, and remedies authorized by this article, the city may impose alternative compensatory actions upon a violator, such as storm drain stenciling, attendance at compliance workshops, creek cleanup, etc.
(7)
Violations deemed a public nuisance. In addition to the enforcement processes and penalties provided, any condition caused or permitted to exist in violation of any of the provisions of this article is a threat to public health, safety, and welfare, and is declared and deemed a nuisance, and may be summarily abated or restored at the violator's expense, and/or a civil action to abate, enjoin, or otherwise compel the cessation of such nuisance may be taken.
(8)
Criminal prosecution. Any person that has violated or continues to violate this article shall be liable to criminal prosecution to the fullest extent of the law, and shall be subject to a criminal penalty of two thousand five hundred dollars ($2,500.00) per violation per day.
The city may recover all attorneys' fees, court costs and other expenses associated with enforcement of this article, including sampling and monitoring expenses.
(9)
Remedies not exclusive. The remedies listed in this article are not exclusive of any other remedies available under any applicable federal, state or local law and it is within the discretion of the authorized enforcement agency to seek cumulative remedies.
7-1.4. Post construction stormwater runoff.
(A)
General provisions.
(1)
Purpose. The purpose of this article is to establish minimum stormwater management requirements and controls to protect and safeguard the general health, safety, and welfare of the public residing in watersheds within this jurisdiction. This article seeks to meet that purpose through the following objectives:
(a)
Minimize increases in stormwater runoff from any development in order to reduce flooding, siltation, increases in stream temperature, and streambank erosion and maintain the integrity of stream and drainage channels;
(b)
Minimize increases in nonpoint source pollution caused by stormwater runoff from development which would otherwise degrade local water quality;
(c)
Minimize the total annual volume of surface water runoff which flows from any specific site during and following development to not exceed the pre-development hydrologic regime to the maximum extent practicable; and
(d)
Reduce stormwater runoff rates and volumes, soil erosion and nonpoint source pollution, wherever possible, through stormwater management controls and to ensure that these management controls are properly maintained and pose no threat to public safety.
(2)
Applicability. This article shall be applicable to all development plan applications, unless eligible for an exemption or granted a waiver by the administrator under the specifications of subsection 7-1.4(C) of this article. This article also applies to land development activities that are smaller than the minimum applicability criteria if such activities are part of a larger common plan of development that meets the following applicability criteria, even though multiple separate and distinct land development activities may take place at different times on different schedules.
(a)
New development that involves the creation of five thousand (5,000) square feet or more of impervious cover, or that disturbs one acre or more of land;
(b)
Redevelopment that includes the creation, addition or replacement of five thousand (5,000) square feet or more of impervious cover, or that involves other land development activity of one acre or more;
(c)
Any new development or redevelopment, regardless of size, that is defined by the administrator to be a hotspot land use; or
(d)
Land development activities that are smaller than the minimum applicability criteria set forth in subsections a. and b. above if such activities are part of a larger common plan of development, even though multiple, separate and distinct land development activities may take place at different times on different schedules.
(e)
Any development project regardless of size deemed by the administrator that shall contribute to a known or suspected water quality or quantity impairment.
(3)
Exempt activities. The following activities are exempt from this article:
(a)
Individual single-family or duplex residential lots that are not part of a subdivision or phased development project;
(b)
Additions or modifications to existing single-family or duplex residential structures;
(c)
Agricultural or silvicultural land management activities within areas zoned for these activities; and
(d)
Repairs to any stormwater management facility or practice deemed necessary by the administrator.
When a site development plan is submitted that qualifies as a redevelopment project as defined in article II of this chapter, decisions on permitting and on-site stormwater requirements shall be governed by special stormwater sizing criteria found in the current local stormwater design manual (LDM). These criteria are dependent on the amount of impervious area created by the redevelopment and its impact on water quality. Final authorization of all redevelopment projects will be determined after a review by the administrator.
(4)
Development of a local stormwater design manual (LDM). The city may furnish additional policy, criteria and information including specifications and standards, for the proper implementation of the requirements of this article and will provide such information in the form of a LDM. The LDM will serve to supplement and/or clarify information set forth in the Georgia Stormwater Management Manual.
The LDM will include a list of acceptable stormwater treatment practices, including the specific design criteria and operation and maintenance requirements for each stormwater practice. The manual may be updated and expanded from time to time, at the discretion of the city, based on improvements in engineering, science, monitoring and local maintenance experience. Stormwater treatment practices that are designed and constructed in accordance with these design and sizing criteria will be presumed to meet the minimum water quality performance standards during the design and permitting phase of a land development project.
(B)
Permit procedures and requirements.
(1)
Permit required. No land owner or land operator shall receive any of the building, grading or other land development permits required for land disturbance activities without first meeting the requirements of this article prior to commencing the proposed activity.
(2)
Application requirements. Unless specifically excluded by this article, any landowner or operator desiring a permit for a land disturbance activity shall submit to the city a permit application on a form provided for that purpose. Unless otherwise excepted by this article, a permit application must include the minimum requirements as defined in this article or LDM in order for the permit application to be considered.
(3)
Application review fees. The city may require the submittal of a review fee for review of the stormwater management plan. This review fee shall be based on the amount of land to be disturbed at the site, and the fee structure shall be established by the mayor and council of the city. All of the monetary contributions shall be credited to a local budgetary category to support local plan review, inspection and program administration, and all fees shall be paid prior to the issuance of any development permits.
(4)
Application procedure. All applications received by the city will be received and processed in the manner outlined in this chapter.
(5)
Permit duration. Permits issued under this section shall be valid from the date of issuance through the date the administrator notifies the permit holder that all stormwater management practices have passed the final inspection required under permit condition. Should no activity take place on the site, the permit shall expire within one year of issuance.
(C)
Waivers to stormwater management requirements.
(1)
Waivers for providing stormwater management. Every applicant shall provide for stormwater management as required by this article, unless a written request is filed to waive this requirement. Requests to waive the stormwater management plan requirements shall be submitted to the administrator for approval.
The minimum requirements for stormwater management may be waived in whole or in part upon written request of the applicant, provided that at least one of the following conditions apply or the applicant presents sufficient engineering data and analysis to support their request for a waiver as determined by the local jurisdiction:
(a)
It can be demonstrated that the proposed development is not likely to impair attainment of the objectives of this article.
(b)
Alternative minimum requirements for on-site management of stormwater discharges have been established in a stormwater management plan that has been approved by the administrator and local ordinance (or some other legally enforceable document) that requires the implementation of the plan.
(c)
Provisions are made to manage stormwater by an off-site facility. The off-site facility is required to be in place, to be designed and adequately sized to provide a level of stormwater control that is equal to or greater than that which would be afforded by on-site practices and there is a legally obligated entity responsible for long-term operation and maintenance of the stormwater practice.
(d)
The administrator finds that meeting the minimum on-site management requirements is not feasible due to the natural or existing physical characteristics of a site.
(e)
Non-structural practices will be used on the site that reduce: a) the generation of stormwater from the site; b) the size and cost of stormwater storage; and c) the pollutants generated at the site. These non-structural practices shall be explained in detail in the local or state design manual and the amount of credit available for using such practices shall be determined by the administrator.
(2)
Conditions of waiver. In instances where one of the conditions above applies, the administrator may grant a waiver from strict compliance with these stormwater management provisions, as long as acceptable mitigation measures are provided. However, to be eligible for a variance, the applicant must demonstrate to the satisfaction of the administrator that the waiver will not result in the following impacts to downstream waterways:
(a)
Deterioration of existing culverts, bridges, dams, and other structures;
(b)
Degradation of biological functions or habitat;
(c)
Accelerated streambank or streambed erosion or siltation; and
(d)
Increased threat of flood damage to public health, life, and property.
(3)
Mitigation requirements for waivers. Where compliance with minimum requirements for stormwater management is waived, the applicant will satisfy the minimum requirements by meeting one of the mitigation measures selected by the administrator. Mitigation measures may include, but are not limited to, the following:
(a)
The purchase and donation of privately owned lands, or the grant of an easement to be dedicated for preservation and/or reforestation. These lands should be located adjacent to the stream corridor in order to provide permanent buffer areas to protect water quality and aquatic habitat.
(b)
The creation of a stormwater management facility or other drainage improvements on previously developed properties, public or private, that currently lack stormwater management facilities designed and constructed in accordance with the purposes and standards of this article.
(c)
Monetary contributions (fee-in-lieu) to fund stormwater management activities such as research and studies (e.g., regional wetland delineation studies, stream monitoring studies for water quality and macroinvertebrates, stream flow monitoring, threatened and endangered species studies, hydrologic studies, and monitoring of stormwater management practices, etc.).
(4)
Fee in lieu of stormwater management practices. Where the administrator waives all or part of the minimum stormwater management requirements, or where the waiver is based on the provision of adequate stormwater facilities provided downstream of the proposed development, the applicant may be required to pay a fee in an amount as determined by the administrator.
When an applicant obtains a waiver of the required stormwater management, the monetary contribution required shall be in accordance with a fee schedule (unless the developer and the city agree on a greater alternate contribution) established by the city's mayor and council. All of the monetary contributions shall be credited to an appropriate capital improvements program project, and shall be made by the developer prior to the issuance of any development permits.
(5)
Dedication of land. In lieu of a monetary contribution, an applicant may obtain a waiver of the required stormwater management by entering into an agreement with the city for the granting of an easement or the dedication of land by the applicant, to be used for the construction of an off-site stormwater management facility. The agreement shall be entered into by the applicant and the city prior to the recording of plats or, if no record plat is required, prior to the issuance of the development permits.
(D)
General performance criteria for stormwater management. Unless judged by the administrator to be exempt or granted a waiver, the following performance criteria shall be addressed for stormwater management at all sites:
(1)
All site designs shall establish stormwater management practices to control the peak flow rates of stormwater discharge associated with specified design storms and reduce the generation of stormwater. These practices should seek to utilize previous areas for stormwater treatment and to infiltrate stormwater runoff from driveways, sidewalks, rooftops, parking lots, and landscaped areas to the maximum extent practical to provide treatment for both water quality and quantity.
(2)
All stormwater runoff generated from new development shall not discharge untreated stormwater directly into a state water without adequate control of stormwater runoff. Where such discharges are proposed, the impact of the proposal on wetland functional values shall be assessed using a method acceptable to the administrator. In no case shall the impact on functional values be any less than allowed by the Army Corp of Engineers (ACOE) or the Georgia Department of Natural Resources (DNR).
(3)
Annual groundwater recharge rates shall be maintained to the maximum extent practical, by promoting infiltration through the use of structural and non-structural methods where allowable.
(4)
For new development, stormwater treatment practices shall be designed to remove pollutants to levels prescribed in the current LDM. It is presumed that a BMP complies with this performance standard if it is:
(a)
Sized to capture the prescribed water quality volume (WQ v );
(b)
Designed according to the specific performance criteria outlined in the LDM;
(c)
Constructed properly; and
(d)
Maintained regularly.
(5)
To protect stream channels from degradation, specific channel protection criteria shall be provided as prescribed in the current LDM.
(6)
Stormwater discharges to critical areas with sensitive resources (i.e., fisheries, shellfish beds, swimming beaches, recharge areas, etc.) may be subject to additional performance criteria, or may need to utilize or restrict certain stormwater management practices.
(7)
Certain industrial sites are required to prepare and implement a SWPPP, and shall file a notice of intent (NOI) under the provisions of the NPDES industrial stormwater general permit. The stormwater pollution prevention plan requirement applies to both existing and new industrial sites.
(8)
Stormwater discharges from land uses or activities with higher potential pollutant loadings, known as "hotspots", may require the use of specific structural stormwater treatment practices (STPs) and pollution prevention practices.
(9)
Prior to design, applicants are encouraged to consult with the administrator to determine if they are subject to additional stormwater design requirements.
(10)
The calculations for determining peak flows as found in the LDM shall be used for sizing all stormwater management practices.
(E)
Basic stormwater management design criteria.
(1)
Minimum control requirements. All stormwater management practices will be designed so that the specific storm frequency storage volumes (e.g., recharge, water quality, channel protection, ten-year, 100-year) as identified in the LDM are met, unless the administrator grants the applicant a waiver or the applicant is exempt from such requirements. In addition, if hydrologic or topographic conditions warrant greater control than that provided by the minimum control requirements, the administrator reserves the right to impose any and all additional requirements deemed necessary to control the volume, timing, and rate of runoff.
(2)
Site design feasibility. Stormwater management practices for a site shall be chosen based on the physical conditions of the site. Applicants shall consult the current LDM for guidance on the factors that determine site design feasibility when selecting a stormwater management practice.
(3)
Conveyance issues. All stormwater management practices shall be designed to convey stormwater to allow for the maximum removal of pollutants and reduction in flow velocities. The current LDM shall provide detailed guidance on the requirements for conveyance for each of the approved stormwater management practices.
(4)
Landscaping plans required. All stormwater management practices that utilize wetlands vegetation as part of the functional treatment process (e.g. constructed wetlands, etc.) must submit a separate landscaping plan detailing both the vegetation to be in the practice and how and who will manage and maintain this vegetation. This plan must be prepared by an individual having a professional certification by the Society of Wetlands Scientists and has completed three (3) projects of a similar nature that have been successfully implemented or equivalent qualifications as determined by the administrator.
(5)
Maintenance agreements. All stormwater treatment practices shall have an enforceable operation and maintenance agreement to ensure the system functions as designed. This agreement will include any and all maintenance easements required to access and inspect the stormwater treatment practices, and to perform routine maintenance as necessary to ensure proper functioning of the stormwater treatment practice. In addition, a legally binding covenant specifying the parties responsible for the proper maintenance of all stormwater treatment practices shall be secured prior to issuance of any permits for land disturbance activities. An example of the covenant can be found in the LDM.
(6)
Non-structural stormwater practices. The use of non-structural stormwater treatment practices is encouraged in order to minimize the reliance on structural practices. Credit in the form of reductions in the amount of stormwater that must be managed can be earned through the use of non-structural practices that reduce the generation of stormwater from the site. These non-structural practices are explained in detail in the current LDM and applicants wishing to obtain credit for use of non-structural practices must ensure that these practices are documented and remain unaltered by subsequent property owners.
(F)
Requirements for stormwater management plan approval.
(1)
Stormwater management plan required for all developments. No application for development will be approved unless it includes a stormwater management plan detailing in concept how runoff and associated water quality impacts resulting from the development will be controlled or managed. This plan must be certified by a professional engineer licensed in the state and must indicate whether stormwater will be managed on-site or off-site and if on-site, the general location and type of practices.
The stormwater management plan(s) shall be referred for comment to all other interested agencies, and any comments must be addressed in a final stormwater management plan. This final plan must be signed by a professional engineer licensed in the state, who will verify that the design of all stormwater management practices meet the submittal requirements outlined in the submittal checklist found in the current LDM. No development permits shall be issued until a satisfactory final stormwater management plan, or a waiver thereof, shall have undergone a review and been approved by the administrator after determining that the plan or waiver is consistent with the requirements of this article.
(2)
Stormwater management plan requirements. A stormwater management plan shall be required with all land disturbance activity (LDA) permit applications and will include sufficient information (e.g., maps, hydrologic calculations, etc.) to evaluate the environmental characteristics of the project site, the potential impacts of all proposed development of the site, both present and future, on the water resources, and the effectiveness and acceptability of the measures proposed for managing stormwater generated at the project site. The intent of this planning process is to determine the type of stormwater management measures necessary for the proposed project, and ensure adequate planning for management of stormwater runoff from future development. To accomplish this goal the applicant will prepare a design report which shall include elements sufficient to ensure compliance with this article as outlined in the current LDM. The administrator reserves the right to extend these requirements to ensure compliance with this article if the requirements in the current LDM prove to be insufficient. However, in these cases, the administrator must provide a written explanation of the additional elements needed to the applicant.
(3)
Performance bond/security; letter of credit; negotiable instrument. The city may, at its discretion, require the submittal of a performance security, bond, letter of credit or negotiable instrument in order to ensure that the stormwater practices are installed by the permit holder as required by the approved stormwater management plan. The amount of the installation performance security, bond, letter of credit or negotiable instrument shall be the total estimated construction cost of the stormwater management practices approved under the permit, plus twenty-five (25) percent as agreed to by the applicant and the city. The performance security, letter of credit or negotiable instrument shall contain forfeiture provisions for failure to complete work specified in the stormwater management plan.
The installation performance security, letter of credit or negotiable instrument shall be released in full only upon submission of "as-built plans" and written certification by a professional engineer licensed in the state and/or registered land surveyor licensed in the state that the stormwater practice will function in accordance with the approved plan and other applicable provisions of this article. The administrator will make a final inspection of the stormwater practice to ensure that it is in compliance with the approved plan and the provisions of this article. Provisions for a partial pro-rata release of the performance security, letter of credit or negotiable instrument based on the completion of various development stages may be done at the discretion of the administrator.
(G)
Construction inspection.
(1)
Notice of construction commencement. The applicant must notify the administrator in advance before the commencement of construction. If any violations are found, the property owner shall be notified in writing of the nature of the violation and the required corrective actions. No added work shall proceed until any violations are corrected and all work previously completed has received approval by the administrator.
(2)
As-built plans. All applicants are required to submit actual "as-built" plans for any stormwater management practices located both on-site and off-site after final construction is completed in a format specified in the current LDM. The plan must show the final design specifications for all stormwater management facilities and must be certified by a professional engineer licensed in the state. A final inspection by the administrator is required before the release of any performance securities can occur.
(3)
Landscaping and stabilization requirements. Any area of land from which the natural vegetative cover has been either partially or wholly cleared or removed by development activities shall be revegetated within ten (10) days from the substantial completion of such clearing and construction. The following criteria shall apply to revegetation efforts:
(a)
Reseeding must be done with an annual or perennial cover crop accompanied by placement of straw mulch or its equivalent of sufficient coverage to control erosion until such time as the cover crop is established over ninety (90) percent of the seeded area.
(b)
Replanting with native woody and herbaceous vegetation must be accompanied by placement of straw mulch or its equivalent of sufficient coverage to control erosion until the plantings are established and are capable of controlling erosion.
(c)
Any area of revegetation must exhibit survival of a minimum of seventy-five (75) percent of the cover crop throughout the year immediately following revegetation. Revegetation must be repeated in successive years until the minimum seventy-five (75) percent survival for one year is achieved.
In addition to the above requirements, a landscaping plan must be submitted with the final design describing the vegetative stabilization and management techniques to be used at a site after construction is completed in accordance with other such requirements in the City Code. This plan will explain not only how the site will be stabilized after construction, but who will be responsible for the maintenance of vegetation at the site and what practices will be employed to ensure that adequate vegetative cover is preserved.
(H)
Maintenance and repair of stormwater facilities.
(1)
Maintenance easement. Prior to the issuance of any certificate of occupancy or final plat that has a stormwater management facility as part of the project, the applicant or owner of the site must execute a maintenance easement agreement that shall be binding on all subsequent owners of land served by the stormwater management facility. The agreement shall provide for access to the facility at reasonable times for periodic inspection by the administrator, or their contractor or agent, and for regular or special assessments of property owners to ensure that the facility is maintained in proper working condition to meet design standards and any other provisions established by this article.
(2)
Maintenance covenants. Maintenance of all stormwater management facilities shall be ensured through the creation of a formal maintenance covenant that must be approved by the administrator and recorded into the final plat prior to final approval. As part of the covenant, a schedule shall be developed for when and how often maintenance will occur to ensure proper function of the stormwater management facility. The covenant shall also include plans for periodic inspections to ensure proper performance of the facility between scheduled cleanouts.
The city, in lieu of a maintenance covenant, may accept dedication of any existing or future stormwater management facility for maintenance, provided such facility meets all the requirements of this article and includes adequate and perpetual access and sufficient area, by easement or otherwise, for inspection and regular maintenance.
(3)
Requirements for maintenance covenants. Stormwater management facilities may be required to undergo annual inspections to document maintenance and repair needs and ensure compliance with the requirements of this article and accomplishment of its purposes. These needs may include: removal of silt, litter and other debris from all catch basins, inlets and drainage pipes; grass cutting and vegetation removal; and necessary replacement of landscape vegetation. Any maintenance needs found must be addressed in a timely manner, as determined by the administrator, and the inspection and maintenance requirement may be increased as deemed necessary to ensure proper functioning of the stormwater management facility. The requirement for such inspections shall be outlined in the maintenance covenant.
(4)
Inspection of stormwater facilities. Inspection programs may be established on any reasonable basis, including but not limited to: routine inspections; inspections; inspections based upon complaints or other notice of possible violations; inspection of drainage basins or areas identified as higher than typical sources of sediment or other contaminants or pollutants; inspections of businesses or industries of a type associated with higher than usual discharges of contaminants or pollutants or with discharges of a type which are more likely than the typical discharge to cause violations of state or federal water or sediment quality standards or an applicable NPDES stormwater permit; and joint inspections with other agencies inspecting under environmental or safety laws. Inspections may include, but are not limited to: reviewing maintenance and repair records; sampling discharges, surface water, groundwater, and material or water in drainage control facilities; and evaluating the condition of drainage control facilities and other stormwater treatment practices.
(5)
Right-of-entry for inspection. When any new drainage control facility is installed on private property, or when any new connection is made between private property and a public drainage control system or sanitary sewer, the property owner shall grant to the administrator the right to enter the property at reasonable times and in a reasonable manner for the purpose of inspection. This includes the right to enter a property when it has a reasonable basis to believe that a violation of this article is occurring or has occurred, and to enter when necessary for abatement of a public nuisance or correction of a violation of this article.
(6)
Records of installation and maintenance activities. Parties responsible for the operation and maintenance of a stormwater management facility shall make records of the installation and of all maintenance and repairs, and shall retain the records for at least three (3) years. These records shall be made available to the administrator during inspection of the facility and at other reasonable times upon request.
(7)
Failure to maintain practices. If a responsible party fails or refuses to meet the requirements of the maintenance covenant, the city, after reasonable notice, may correct a violation of the design standards or maintenance needs by performing all necessary work to place the facility in proper working condition. In the event that the stormwater management facility becomes a danger to public safety or public health, the administrator shall notify the party responsible for maintenance of the stormwater management facility in writing. Upon receipt of that notice, the responsible person shall affect maintenance and repair of the facility in an approved manner and within the established deadline. After proper notice, the city may assess the owner(s) of the facility for the cost of repair work and any penalties; and the cost of the work shall be a lien on the property, or prorated against the beneficial users of the property, and may be placed on the tax bill and collected as ordinary taxes by the city.
(I)
Enforcement and penalties.
(1)
Violations. Any development activity that is commenced or is conducted contrary to this article may be restrained by injunction or otherwise abated in a manner provided by law.
(2)
Notice of violation. When the administrator determines that an activity is not being carried out in accordance with the requirements of this article, the administrator shall issue a written notice of violation to the owner of the property. The notice of violation shall contain:
(a)
The name and address of the owner or applicant;
(b)
The address when available or a description of the building, structure or land upon which the violation is occurring;
(c)
A statement specifying the nature of the violation;
(d)
A description of the remedial measures necessary to bring the development activity into compliance with this article and a time schedule for the completion of such remedial action;
(e)
A statement of the penalty or penalties that shall or may be assessed against the person to whom the notice of violation is directed as provided herein; and
(f)
A statement that the determination of violation may be appealed to the county by filing a written notice of appeal within three (3) days of service of notice of violation.
Persons receiving a notice of violation may be required to halt all construction activities via a stop work order.
(3)
Stop work orders. This "stop work order" will be in effect until the administrator confirms that the development activity is in compliance and the violation has been satisfactorily addressed. Failure to address a notice of violation in a timely manner as determined by the administrator can result in civil, criminal, or monetary penalties in accordance with the enforcement measures authorized in this article.
(4)
Civil and criminal penalties. In addition to or as an alternative to any penalty provided herein or by law, any person who violates the provisions of this article shall be punished by a fine of not less than two thousand five hundred dollars ($2,500.00). Such person shall be guilty of a separate offense for each day during which the violation occurs or continues.
(5)
Restoration of lands. Any violator may be required to restore land to its undisturbed condition. In the event that restoration is not undertaken within a reasonable time after notice, the city may take necessary corrective action, the cost of which shall become a lien upon the property until paid.
(6)
Holds on occupation permits. Occupation permits will not be granted until all corrections to all stormwater practices have been made and accepted by the administrator.
7-1.5. Flood damage prevention.
(A)
Statutory authorization, findings of fact, purpose and objectives.
(1)
Statutory authorization. The legislature of the state has, in O.C.G.A. § 36-1-20(a), delegated the responsibility to local government units to adopt regulations designed to promote the public health, safety, and general welfare of its citizenry.
Therefore, the mayor and council of the city do hereby adopt the following floodplain management regulations.
(2)
Findings of fact.
(a)
The flood hazard areas of the city are subject to periodic inundation that results in loss of life and property, health and safety hazards, disruption of commerce and governmental services, extraordinary public expenditures for flood protection and relief, and impairment of the tax base, all of which adversely affect the public health, safety and general welfare.
(b)
These flood losses are caused by the cumulative effect of obstructions in floodplains causing increases in flood heights and velocities, and by the occupancy in flood hazard areas by uses vulnerable to floods or hazardous to other lands which are inadequately elevated, flood-proofed, or otherwise unprotected from flood damages.
(3)
Statement of purpose. It is the purpose of this article to promote the public health, safety and general welfare and to minimize public and private losses due to flood conditions in specific areas by provisions designed to:
(a)
Restrict or prohibit uses which are dangerous to health, safety and property due to water or erosion hazards, which result in damaging increases in erosion or in flood heights or velocities;
(b)
Require that uses vulnerable to floods, including facilities which serve such uses, be protected against flood damage at the time of initial construction or substantial improvement;
(c)
Control the alteration of natural floodplains, stream channels, and natural protective barriers which are involved in the accommodation of flood waters;
(d)
Control filling, grading, dredging and other development which may increase erosion or flood damage; and
(e)
Prevent or regulate the construction of flood barriers which will unnaturally divert floodwaters or which may increase flood hazards to other lands.
(4)
Objectives. The objectives of this article are:
(a)
To protect human life and health;
(b)
To minimize expenditures of public money for costly flood control projects;
(c)
To minimize the need for rescue and relief efforts associated with flooding and generally undertaken at the expense of the general public;
(d)
To minimize prolonged business interruptions;
(e)
To minimize damage to public facilities and utilities such as water and gas mains, electric, telephone and sewer lines, street and bridges located in floodplains;
(f)
To help maintain a stable tax base by providing for the sound use and development of flood prone areas in such a manner as to minimize flood blight areas;
(g)
To ensure that potential homebuyers are notified that property is in a potential flood area; and
(h)
Comply with the requirements of the National Flood Insurance Program (NFIP) so as to ensure the availability of flood insurance for residents and property owners.
(5)
Methods of reducing flood losses. In order to accomplish its purposes, this article includes methods and provisions for:
(a)
Restricting or prohibiting uses which are dangerous to health, safety, and property due to water or erosion hazards, or which result in damaging increases in erosion or in flood heights or velocities;
(b)
Requiring that uses vulnerable to floods, including facilities which serve such uses, be protected against flood damage at the time of initial construction;
(c)
Controlling the alteration of natural floodplains, stream channels, and natural protective barriers, which help accommodate or channel flood waters;
(d)
Controlling filling, grading, dredging, and other development which may increase flood damage; and
(e)
Preventing or regulating the construction of flood barriers that will unnaturally divert flood waters or may increase flood hazards in other areas.
(B)
General provisions.
(1)
Lands to which this article applies. This article shall apply to all areas of special flood hazard as designated by the city within the zoning and building code jurisdiction of the city.
(2)
Basis for establishing the areas of special flood hazard. The areas of special flood hazard identified by the Federal Emergency Management Agency in the flood insurance study (FIS) or flood insurance rate maps (FIRM), dated September 28, 2007, with accompanying maps and other supporting data, and any revision thereto, are adopted by reference and declared to be a part of this article. The flood insurance study is on file at the administrator. In addition, the local administrator shall reasonably utilize any base flood evaluation and floodway data available from a federal, state, or other source, in order to identify a special flood hazard not otherwise identified by the Federal Emergency Management Agency. This data is also on file with the administrator.
(3)
Establishment of development permit. A development permit shall be required in conformance with the provisions of this article prior to the commencement of any development activities.
(4)
Compliance. No structure or land shall hereafter be located, extended, converted or structurally altered without full compliance with the terms of this article and other applicable regulations.
(5)
Abrogation and greater restrictions. This article is not intended to repeal, abrogate, or impair any existing easements, covenants, or deed restrictions. However, where this article and another conflict or overlap, whichever imposes the more stringent restrictions shall prevail.
(6)
Interpretation. In the interpretation and application of this article all provisions shall be:
(a)
Considered as minimum requirements;
(b)
Liberally construed in favor of the governing body; and
(c)
Deemed neither to limit nor repeal any other powers granted under state statutes.
(7)
Warning and disclaimer of liability. The degree of flood protection required by this article is considered reasonable for regulatory purposes and is based on scientific and engineering considerations. Larger floods can and will occur. Flood heights may be increased by man-made or natural causes. This article does not imply that land outside the areas of special flood hazard or uses permitted within such areas will be free from flooding or flood damages. This article shall not create liability on the part of the city or any officer or employee thereof for any flood damages that result from reliance on this article or any administrative decision lawfully made thereunder.
(8)
Penalties for violation. Violation of the provisions of this article or failure to comply with any of its requirements, including violation of conditions and safeguards established in connection with grants of variance or special exceptions, shall constitute a misdemeanor. Any person who violates this article or fails to comply with any of its requirements shall, upon conviction thereof, be fined not more than two thousand five hundred dollars ($2,500.00), and in addition, shall pay all costs and expenses involved in the case. Each day such violation continues shall be considered a separate offense. Nothing herein contained shall prevent the city or its agent from taking such other lawful actions as is necessary to prevent or remedy any violation.
(C)
Administration.
(1)
Designation of flood damage prevention article administrator. The mayor and council of the city hereby appoints the administrator to administer and implement the provisions of this article.
(2)
Permit procedures—Application phase. No application for land development within any area of special flood hazard will be approved unless it includes a floodplain management/flood damage prevention plan. This plan shall be made to the administrator on forms furnished by him prior to any development activities. This plan shall be in accordance with the criteria established in this section. This plan must be submitted with the stamp and signature of a professional engineer licensed in the state, who will verify that, all designs are consistent with the requirements of this article.
The approved floodplain management/flood prevention damage plan shall contain certification by the applicant that all land development activities will be done according to the plan or previously approved revisions. Any and all land development permits and/or use and occupancy certificates or permits may be revoked at any time if the construction and building activities are not in strict accordance with approved plans.
The floodplain management/flood damage prevention plan shall include, but not be limited to the following: plans drawn to scale of the site in question and the nature, location, and dimensions of existing or proposed structures; earthen fill placement; storage of materials or equipment; and drainage and stormwater management facilities. Specifically, the following information is required:
(a)
Site plan, including but not limited to:
1.
For all proposed structures, spot ground elevations at building corners and 20-foot or smaller intervals along the foundation footprint, or one-foot contour elevations throughout the building site;
2.
Proposed locations of water supply, sanitary sewer, and utilities;
3.
If applicable, the base flood elevation and location of the base flood boundary; and
4.
If applicable, the location and elevation of the floodway.
(b)
Foundation design detail, including but not limited to:
1.
Proposed elevation in relation to mean sea level (or highest adjacent grade) of the lowest finished floor, including basement, of all structures; and
2.
For crawl-space foundation, location and total net area of foundation openings as required in subsection 7-1.5(D)(2) of this article.
(c)
Proposed elevation in relation to mean sea level to which any substantial improvements to an existing non-residential structure will be flood-proofed, as required in subsection 7-1.5(D) of this article;
(d)
Description of the extent to which any watercourse will be altered or relocated as a result of the proposed land development; and
(e)
All appropriate certifications required under this article.
1.
If the project proposes to alter the configuration of the watercourse for which a detailed flood study has been developed (or the boundaries of a floodway), the applicant shall submit the proposed grading and drainage plans, stormwater management plans, floodplain studies, and all supporting computer modeling to the FEMA Region IV office for a conditional letter of map revision. The project will not receive final approval until the proposed alteration of the watercourse (and/or floodway boundaries) has been approved by FEMA.
2.
If a proposed project will alter the boundaries of the area of special flood hazard as shown on the FEMA flood insurance rate maps, the applicant shall submit the approved grading and drainage plans, stormwater management plans, floodplain studies, and all supporting computer modeling to the FEMA Region IV office for a conditional letter of map revision, within thirty (30) days of receiving final approval.
3.
Within thirty (30) days following completion of the entire project or a phase thereof, the applicant shall submit engineer's certified copies of the final, constructed grading and drainage plans and stormwater management plans to the FEMA Region IV office for issuance of a final letter of map revision.
4.
The administrator shall be provided copies of all related correspondence, and shall sign the required community acknowledgement form.
(3)
Permit procedures—Construction phase. Upon placement of the lowest floor, or flood-proofing by construction means, it shall be the duty of the permit holder to submit to the floodplain management administrator a certification of the NGVD 88 (National Geodetic Vertical Datum) elevation of the lowest floor or flood-proofed elevation, as built, in relation to mean sea level. Said certification shall be prepared by or under the direct supervision of a professional engineer and certified by same. When flood proofing is utilized for a particular building, said certification shall be prepared by or under the direct supervision of a professional engineer or architect and certified by same. Any work undertaken prior to submission of the certification shall be at the permit holder's risk. The permit holder immediately and prior to further progressive work being permitted to proceed shall correct deficiencies detected by such review. Failure to submit the survey or failure to make said corrections required hereby shall be cause to issue a stop work order for the project.
(4)
Duties and responsibilities of the administrator. Duties of the administrator shall include, but not be limited to:
(a)
Review all development permits to assure that the permit requirements of this article have been satisfied.
(b)
Advise permittee that additional federal or state permits may be required, and if specific federal or state permit requirements are known, require that copies of such permits be provided and maintained on file with the development permit.
(c)
Notify adjacent communities, the state floodplain coordinator, and other federal and/or state agencies with statutory or regulatory authority prior to any alteration or relocation of a watercourse.
(d)
Assure that maintenance is provided within the altered or relocated portion of said watercourse so that the flood-carrying capacity is not diminished.
(e)
Verify and record the actual elevation (in relation to mean sea level) of the lowest floor (including basement) of all new or substantially improved buildings, in accordance with subsection 7-1.5(C)(3).
(f)
Verify and record the actual elevation (in relation to mean sea level) to which the new or substantially improved buildings have been flood-proofed, in accordance with subsection 7-1.5(C)(3).
(g)
Review certified plans and specifications for compliance.
(h)
Where interpretation is needed as to the exact location of boundaries of the areas of special flood hazard (for example, where there appears to be a conflict between a mapped boundary and actual field conditions) the administrator shall make the necessary interpretation. The person contesting the location of the boundary shall be given a reasonable opportunity to appeal the interpretation as provided in this section.
(i)
When base flood elevation data or floodway data have not been provided in accordance with subsection 7-1.5(B)(2) then the administrator shall obtain, review and reasonably utilize any base flood elevation and floodway data available from a federal, state or other source, in order to administer the provisions of subsection 7-1.5(D). Review all development permits to assure that the permit requirements of this chapter have been satisfied.
(j)
Advise permittees that additional federal or state permits may be required, and if specific federal or state permit requirements are known, require that copies of such permit be provided and maintained on file with the development permit.
(k)
Notify adjacent communities, the state department of natural resources (and any other appropriate agencies, such as regional planning, water management, or flood control districts) prior to any alteration or relocation of a watercourse, and submit evidence of such notification along with a copy of the notice to the FEMA Region IV office.
(l)
Assure that the flood-carrying capacity of the watercourse is not diminished by the proposed alteration or relocation.
(m)
Verify and record the actual elevation (in relation to mean sea level) of the lowest floor (including basement) of all new or substantially improved buildings, in accordance with this section.
(n)
Verify and record the actual elevation (in relation to mean sea level) to which the new or substantially improved buildings have been flood proofed, in accordance with this section.
(o)
When flood proofing is utilized for a particular building, obtain certification from a registered professional engineer or architect, in accordance with this section.
(p)
Determine whether a building or development site is located within an area of special flood hazard by referencing the FEMA flood insurance study and accompanying maps, or other available and appropriate data. If detailed topographic mapping is available, the boundary of the area of special flood hazard shall be plotted on such mapping utilizing the base flood elevations provided for the area in question. This more detailed definition of the boundary of the base flood shall be utilized as best available data for purposes of regulating the area of special flood hazard. If there are significant discrepancies between the boundary as shown on the FEMA maps and the topographic mapping available, the administrator shall so advise the FEMA Region IV office.
(q)
Within A zones along rivers, streams, lakes, swamps, and marshes, determine the appropriate base flood elevation for each individual building site utilizing the flood data tables (for lakes) and the stream profiles contained in the FEMA flood insurance study. The base flood elevations printed on the FEMA maps are illustrative only. The administrator shall interpolate the base flood elevation at a site between two (2) given base flood elevation markers by referring to the stream profiles and measuring the distance of the site upstream or downstream from a cross section shown on the FEMA map.
(r)
Where interpretation is needed as to the exact location of boundaries of the areas of special flood hazard (for example, where there appears to be a conflict between a mapped boundary and the natural grade of actual field conditions) make the necessary interpretation, utilizing the most accurate topographic mapping available. The elevations published in the FEMA flood insurance study, as portrayed in the profile sheets, shall be the ruling reference for delineating the boundary of the floodplain. The person contesting the location of the boundary shall be given a reasonable opportunity to appeal the interpretation as provided in this article. Property may not be excluded from the area of special flood hazard as a result of filling unless a letter of map revision has been approved by FEMA.
(s)
Where the administrator has determined all or a portion of a property to be located outside of the flood hazard area, yet it is shown as being within the flood hazard area on the FEMA maps, the applicant shall be advised of the need to obtain a letter of map amendment or revision from the FEMA Region IV Office and shall be given an application packet utilizing forms provided by FEMA. While the property may be exempt from the requirements of this chapter, flood insurance purchase will remain mandatory until FEMA authorizes a letter of map amendment or revision.
(t)
When base flood elevation data or floodway data have not been provided in accordance with subsection 7-1.5(B)(2), obtain, review, and reasonably utilize any base flood elevation and floodway data available from a federal, state, or other source, in order to administer the provisions of this chapter. Base flood elevations may be estimated using topographic maps or scientific engineering methodology. Base flood elevation and delineation of the boundaries of the special flood hazard areas shall be developed and provided for subdivision proposals and other proposed developments (including industrial parks, shopping centers, public facilities, and manufactured home parks and subdivisions) that are greater in size than the lesser of fifty (50) lots or five (5) acres. Also, floodway data shall be developed for all definable streams subject to a flood study. Base flood elevation, flood hazard area boundary mapping, and floodway data, if developed, shall be submitted to the FEMA Region IV office within thirty (30) days of receipt and acceptance by the community for review as a possible map revision.
(u)
When a development project will cause a reconfiguration of the flood hazard area due to grading, filling, channel alteration, or relocation, development of a stormwater management system, or the excavation of lakes, require the applicant to submit and obtain approval from FEMA of a conditional letter of map revision. Where a floodway is being impacted, this must be obtained prior to construction. Following completion of all or each phase of such a development, the administrator shall require the applicant to submit to FEMA the as-built topographic and hydrologic information to obtain a final letter of map revision.
(v)
The office of the administrator shall serve as the official map repository for FEMA flood insurance rate maps, flood boundary and floodway maps (if applicable), and flood hazard boundary maps for the community, together with letters of map amendment (LOMAs) and letters of map revision (LOMRs). At least one copy of all current and superseded maps, LOMAs, and LOMRs shall be maintained for public use and viewing.
(w)
All records pertaining to the provisions of this section shall be maintained in the administrator and shall be open for public inspection. Copies of all development permits and summary supporting documentation shall be filed by geographic area for ease of coordinating all floodplain development activities.
(D)
Provisions for flood hazard reduction.
(1)
General standards. In all areas of special flood hazard the following provisions are required:
(a)
New construction and substantial improvements shall be anchored to prevent flotation, collapse or lateral movement of the structure;
(b)
Manufactured homes shall be anchored to prevent flotation, collapse, or lateral movement. Methods of anchoring may include, but are not limited to, use of over-the-top or frame ties to ground anchors. This standard shall be in addition to and consistent with applicable state requirements for resisting wind forces;
(c)
New construction and substantial improvements shall be constructed with materials and utility equipment resistant to flood damage;
(d)
New construction or substantial improvements shall be constructed by methods and practices that minimize flood damage;
(e)
Electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing, air conditioning equipment and other service facilities shall be designed and/or located so as to prevent water from entering or accumulating within the components during conditions of flooding;
(f)
New and replacement water supply systems shall be designed to minimize or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the system;
(g)
New and replacement sanitary sewage systems shall be designed to minimize or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the systems and discharges from the systems into flood waters;
(h)
On-site waste disposal systems shall be located and constructed to avoid impairment to them or contamination from them during flooding;
(i)
Any alteration, repair, reconstruction or improvements to a building that is in compliance with the provisions of this article shall meet the requirements of "new construction" as contained in this article; and
(j)
Any alteration, repair, reconstruction or improvements to a building that is not in compliance with the provisions of this article, shall be undertaken only if said non-conformity is not furthered, extended, or replaced.
(2)
Specific standards. In all areas of special flood hazard where base flood elevation data have been provided, as set forth in subsection 7-1.5(B)(2), the following provisions are required:
(a)
Residential construction. New construction or substantial improvement of any residential building (or manufactured home) shall have the lowest floor, including basement, elevated no lower than thirty-six (36) inches above the base flood elevation. Should solid foundation perimeter walls be used to elevate a structure, openings sufficient to facilitate the unimpeded movement of flood waters shall be provided in accordance with standards of subsection 7-1.5(D)(2).
(b)
Non-residential construction. New construction or substantial improvement of any commercial, industrial, or non-residential building (or manufactured home) shall have the lowest floor, including basement, elevated to no lower than thirty-six (36) inches above the level of the base flood elevation. Buildings located in all A-zones may be flood-proofed in lieu of being elevated provided that all areas of the building below the base flood elevation (plus any community free board) elevation are water tight with walls substantially impermeable to the passage of water, and use structural components having the capability of resisting hydrostatic and hydrodynamic loads and the effect of buoyancy. A registered professional engineer or architect shall certify that the standards of this subsection are satisfied.
(c)
Elevated buildings. New construction or substantial improvements of elevated buildings that include fully enclosed areas formed by foundation and other exterior walls below the base flood elevations shall be designed to preclude finished living space and designed to allow for the entry and exit of floodwaters to automatically equalize hydrostatic flood forces on exterior walls.
1.
Designs for complying with this requirement must either be certified by a professional engineer or architect or meet the following minimum criteria:
(i)
Provide a minimum of two (2) openings having a total net area of not less than one square inch for every square foot of enclosed area subject to flooding;
(ii)
The bottom of all openings shall be no higher than one foot above foundation interior grade (which must be equal to in elevation or higher than the exterior foundation grade); and
(iii)
Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, valves or other coverings or devices provided they permit the automatic flow of floodwaters in both directions.
2.
Access to the enclosed area shall be minimum necessary to allow for parking of vehicles (garage door) or limited storage of maintenance equipment used in connection with the premises (standard exterior door) or entry to the living area (stairway or elevator);
3.
The interior portion of such enclosed area shall not be partitioned or finished into separate rooms; and
4.
Where elevation requirements exceed six (6) feet above the highest adjacent grade, a copy of the legally recorded deed restriction (prohibiting the conversion of the area below the lowest floor to a use or dimension contrary to the building's originally approved design) shall be presented as a condition of issuance of the final certificate of occupancy.
(d)
Manufactured homes and recreational vehicles.
1.
All manufactured homes placed, or substantially improved, on individual lots or parcels, in expansions to existing manufactured home parks or subdivisions, in a new manufactured home park or subdivision or in substantially improved manufactured home parks or subdivisions, must meet all the requirements for new construction, including elevation and anchoring.
2.
All manufactured homes placed or substantially improved in an existing manufactured home park or subdivision must be elevated so that:
(i)
The lowest floor of the manufactured home is elevated no lower than thirty-six (36) inches above the level of the base flood elevation, or
(ii)
The manufactured home chassis is supported by reinforced piers or other foundation elements of at least an equivalent strength, of no less than thirty-six (36) inches in height above the ground.
(iii)
The manufactured home must be securely anchored to the adequately anchored foundation system to resist flotation, collapse and lateral movement.
(iv)
In an existing manufactured home park or subdivision on which a manufactured home has incurred "substantial damage" as the result of a flood, any manufactured home placed or substantially improved must meet the standards of subsection 7-1.5(D)(2)(d).
3.
All recreational vehicles placed on sites must either:
(i)
Be fully licensed and ready for highway use (a recreational vehicle is ready for highway use if it is on its wheels or jacking system, is attached to the site only by quick disconnect type utilities and security devices and has no permanently attached additions);
(ii)
Meet all the requirements for new construction, including anchoring and elevation requirements of subsections 7-1.5(D)(2)(a) or 7-1.5(D)(2)(d)(i) and (iii) above; or
(iii)
Be on the site for fewer than one hundred eighty (180) consecutive days.
(3)
Standards for streams with designated special flood hazard areas.
(a)
Prohibit encroachments within the floodplain or floodway, including fill, new construction, substantial improvements and other developments unless certification (with supporting technical data) by a registered professional engineer that such encroachment shall not result in any increase in flood levels during the occurrence of the base flood discharge;
(b)
Reserved;
(c)
Reserved;
(d)
All new construction and substantial improvements shall comply with all applicable flood hazard reduction provisions of subsection 7-1.5(D); and
(e)
Prohibit the placement of manufactured homes (mobile homes), except in an existing manufactured homes (mobile homes) park or subdivision. A replacement manufactured home may be placed on a lot in an existing manufactured home park or subdivision provided the anchoring standards, the elevation standards, and the encroachment standards of this article are met.
(4)
Standards for streams without designated special flood hazard areas.
(a)
When base flood elevation data or floodway data have not been provided in accordance with subsection 7-1.5(B)(2), then the local administrator shall obtain, review, and reasonably utilize any base flood elevation and floodway data available from a federal, state, or other source, in order to administer the provisions of subsection 7-1.5(D). If data is not available from other sources, then the following provisions shall apply.
1.
No encroachments, including fill material or structures, shall be located within the established 100-year floodplain, unless certification by a registered professional engineer is provided demonstrating that such encroachment shall not result in any increase in flood levels during the occurrence of the base flood discharge, and appropriate State and Federal regulations are followed.
2.
New construction and substantial improvements of existing structures shall have the lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area (including basement) elevated no less than thirty-six (36) inches above the calculated flood elevation. The flood elevation will be calculated following guidelines provided in the FEMA publication "Managing Floodplain Development in Approximate Zone A Areas, A Guide for Obtaining and Developing Base (100-Year) Flood Elevations."
(5)
Standards for subdivision proposals (AO zones). Located within the areas of special flood hazard established in subsection 7-1.5(B), are areas designated as shallow flooding areas. These areas have flood hazards associated with base flood depths of one to three (3) feet, where a clearly defined channel does not exist and the water path of flooding is unpredictable and indeterminate; therefore, the following provisions apply:
(a)
All new construction and substantial improvements of residential structures shall have the lowest floor, including basement, elevated to the flood depth number specified on the flood insurance rate map, above the highest adjacent grade. If no flood depth number is specified, the lowest floor, including basement, shall be elevated no less than three (3) feet above the highest adjacent grade.
(b)
All new construction and substantial improvements of non-residential structures shall:
1.
Have the lowest floor, including basement, elevated to the flood depth number specified on the flood insurance rate map above the highest adjacent grade. If no flood depth number is specified, the lowest floor, including basement, shall be elevated at least two (2) feet above the highest adjacent grade; or
2.
Together with attendant utility and sanitary facilities be completely flood-proofed to the specified flood level so that any space below that level is watertight with walls substantially impermeable to the passage of water and with structural components having the capability of resisting hydrostatic and hydrodynamic loads and effects of buoyancy. Certification is required as per subsection 7-1.5(D)(2)(b).
(6)
Standards for subdivision proposals.
(a)
All subdivision proposals shall be consistent with the need to minimize flood damage;
(b)
All subdivision proposals shall have public utilities and facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical and water systems located and constructed to minimize flood damage;
(c)
All subdivision proposals shall have adequate drainage provided to reduce exposure to flood hazards; and
(d)
Base flood elevation data shall be provided for subdivision proposals and other proposed development (including manufactured home parks and subdivisions) which is greater than the lesser of fifty (50) lots or five (5) acres.
(7)
Critical facility. Construction of new critical facilities shall be, to the extent possible, located outside the limits of the special flood hazard area (SFHA) (100-year floodplain). Construction of new critical facilities shall be permissible within the SFHA if no feasible alternative site is available. Critical facilities constructed within the SFHA shall have the lowest floor elevated three (3) feet or more above the level of the base flood elevation at the site. Flood proofing and sealing measures must be taken to ensure that toxic substances will not be displaced by or released into floodwaters. Access routes elevated to or above the level of the base flood elevation shall be provided to all critical facilities to the extent possible.
(E)
Variance procedures.
(1)
Designation of variance and appeals board. The city or its agent as established by the mayor and council of the city shall hear and decide appeals and requests for variances from requirements of this article.
(2)
Duties of variance and appeals board. The board shall hear and decide appeals when it is alleged an error in any requirement, decision, or determination is made by the administrator in the enforcement or administration of this article. Any person aggrieved by the decision of the board may appeal such decision to the mayor and council of the city.
(3)
Variance procedures. In passing upon such applications, the city or its agent shall consider all technical evaluations, all relevant factors, standards specified in other sections of this article, and:
(a)
The danger that materials may be swept onto other lands to the injury of others;
(b)
The danger of life and property due to flooding or erosion damage;
(c)
The susceptibility of the proposed facility and its contents to flood damage and the effect of such damage on the individual owner;
(d)
The importance of the services provided by the proposed facility to the community;
(e)
The necessity to the facility of a waterfront location, where applicable;
(f)
The availability of alternative locations for the proposed use which are not subject to flooding or erosion damage;
(g)
The compatibility of the proposed use with existing and anticipated development;
(h)
The relationship of the proposed use to the comprehensive plan and floodplain management program for that area;
(i)
The safety of access to the property in times of flood for ordinary and emergency vehicles;
(j)
The expected heights, velocity, duration, rate of rise, and sediment of transport of the flood waters and the effects of wave action, if applicable, expected at the site; and
(k)
The costs of providing governmental services during and after flood conditions, including maintenance and repair of public utilities and facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical, and water systems, and streets and bridges.
(4)
Conditions for variances.
(a)
Variances shall only be issued when there is:
1.
A showing of good and sufficient cause;
2.
A determination that failure to grant the variance would result in exceptional hardship; and
3.
A determination that the granting of a variance will not result in increased flood heights, additional threats to public expense, create nuisance, cause fraud on or victimization of the public, or conflict with existing local laws or articles.
(b)
Variances shall only be issued upon a determination that the variance is the minimum necessary, considering the flood hazard, to afford relief; and in the instance of an "historic structure," a determination that the variance is the minimum necessary so as not to destroy the historic character and design of the building.
(c)
Any applicant to whom a variance is granted shall be given written notice specifying the difference between the base flood elevation and the elevation to which the lowest floor is to be built and stating that the cost of flood insurance will be commensurate with the increased risk resulting from the reduced lowest floor elevation.
(d)
The administrator shall maintain the records of all appeal actions and report any variances to the Federal Emergency Management Agency or Georgia Emergency Management Agency upon request.
(5)
Variance notification. Any applicant to whom a variance is granted shall be given written notice over the signature of a community official that:
(a)
The issuance of a variance to construct a structure below the base flood elevation will result in increased premium rates for flood insurance, and
(b)
Such construction below the base flood level increases risks to life and property. A copy of the notice shall be recorded by the administrator with the clerk of superior court for the county in which the property is located and shall be recorded in a manner so that it appears in the chain of title of the affected parcel of land. The administrator will maintain a record of all variance actions, including justification for their issuance, and report such variances issued in the community's biennial report submission to the Federal Emergency Management Agency.
(6)
Historic structures. Variances may be issued for the repair or rehabilitation of "historic structures" upon a determination that the proposed repair or rehabilitation will not preclude the structure's continued designation as a "historic structure" and the variance is the minimum to preserve the historic character and design of the structure.
(7)
Special conditions. Upon consideration of the purposes of this article, the city or its agent may attach such conditions to the granting of variances as it deems necessary to further the purposes of this article.
(8)
No-impact certification within designated special flood hazard areas. Variances shall not be issued within any designated Special flood hazard area if an increase in flood levels during the base flood discharge would result.
(Ord. No. 2017-25, § 2, 12-19-17)
Sec. 7-2. - Soil erosion, sedimentation and pollution control.
7-2.1. Definitions. The following definitions shall apply in the interpretation and enforcement of this chapter, unless otherwise specifically stated:
Best management practices (BMPs) include sound conservation and engineering practices to prevent and minimize erosion and resultant sedimentation, which are consistent with, and no less stringent than, those practices contained in the "Manual for Erosion and Sediment Control in Georgia" published by the commission as of January 1 of the year in which the land-disturbing activity was permitted.
Board means the board of natural resources.
Buffer means the area of land immediately adjacent to the banks of state waters in its natural state of vegetation, which facilitates the protection of water quality and aquatic habitat.
Certified personnel means a person who has successfully completed the appropriate certification course approved by the Georgia Soil and Water Conservation Commission.
Coastal marshlands means shall have the same meaning as in O.C.G.A. § 12-5-282.
Commission means the Georgia Soil and Water Conservation Commission (GSWCC).
CPESC means Certified Professional in Erosion and Sediment Control with current certification by EnviroCert, Inc., which is also referred to as CPESC or CPESC, Inc.
Cut means a portion of land surface or area from which earth has been removed or will be removed by excavation; the depth below original ground surface to the excavated surface. Also known as "excavation."
Department means the Georgia Department of Natural Resources (DNR).
Design professional means a professional licensed by the state in the field of: engineering, architecture, landscape architecture, forestry, geology, or land surveying; or a person that is a certified professional in erosion and sediment control (CPESC) with a current certification by EnviroCert, Inc. Design professionals shall practice in a manner that complies with applicable Georgia law governing professional licensure.
Director means the director of the environmental protection division or an authorized representative.
District means the Ocmulgee Soil and Water Conservation District.
Division means the Environmental Protection Division (EPD) of the department of natural resources.
Drainage structure means a device composed of a virtually non-erodible material such as concrete, steel, plastic or other such material that conveys water from one place to another by intercepting the flow and carrying it to a release point for storm water management, drainage control, or flood control purposes.
Erosion means the process by which land surface is worn away by the action of wind, water, ice or gravity.
Erosion, sedimentation and pollution control plan means a plan required by the Erosion and Sedimentation Act, O.C.G.A. ch. 12-7, that includes, as a minimum protections at least as stringent as the state general permit, best management practices, and requirements in subsection 7-2.3(C) of this chapter.
Fill means a portion of land surface to which soil or other solid material has been added; the depth above the original ground surface or an excavation.
Final stabilization means all soil disturbing activities at the site have been completed, and that for unpaved areas and areas not covered by permanent structures and areas located outside the waste disposal limits of a landfill cell that has been certified by EPD for waste disposal, one hundred (100) percent of the soil surface is uniformly covered in permanent vegetation with a density of seventy (70) percent or greater, or landscaped according to the plan (uniformly covered with landscaping materials in planned landscape areas), or equivalent permanent stabilization measures as defined in the manual (excluding a crop of annual vegetation and seeding of target crop perennials appropriate for the region). Final stabilization applies to each phase of construction.
Finished grade means the final elevation and contour of the ground after cutting or filling and conforming to the proposed design.
Grading means altering the shape of ground surfaces to a predetermined condition; this includes stripping, cutting, filling, stockpiling and shaping or any combination thereof and shall include the land in its cut or filled condition.
Ground elevation means the original elevation of the ground surface prior to cutting or filling.
Land-disturbing activity means any activity which may result in soil erosion from water or wind and the movement of sediments into state waters or onto lands within the state, including, but not limited to, clearing, dredging, grading, excavating, transporting, and filling of land but not including agricultural practices as described in subsection 7-2.2(E).
Larger common plan of development or sale means a contiguous area where multiple separate and distinct construction activities are occurring under one plan of development or sale. For the purposes of this paragraph, "plan" means an announcement; piece of documentation such as a sign, public notice or hearing, sales pitch, advertisement, drawing, permit application, zoning request, or computer design; or physical demarcation such as boundary signs, lot stakes, or surveyor markings, indicating that construction activities may occur on a specific plot.
Local issuing authority means the governing authority of any county or municipality which is certified pursuant to subsection (a) [of] O.C.G.A. § 12-7-8.
Metropolitan River Protection Act (MRPA) means a state law referenced as O.C.G.A. §§ 12-5-440 et seq. which addresses environmental and developmental matters in certain metropolitan river corridors and their drainage basins.
Natural ground surface means the ground surface in its original state before any grading, excavation or filling.
Nephelometric turbidity units (NTU) means numerical units of measure based upon photometric analytical techniques for measuring the light scattered by finely divided particles of a substance in suspension. This technique is used to estimate the extent of turbidity in water in which colloidally dispersed or suspended particles are present.
NOI means a notice of intent form provided by EPD for coverage under the state general permit.
NOT means a notice of termination form provided by EPD to terminate coverage under the state general permit.
Operator means the party or parties that have: (A) operational control of construction project plans and specifications, including the ability to make modifications to those plans and specifications; or (B) day-to-day operational control of those activities that are necessary to ensure compliance with an erosion, sedimentation and pollution control plan for the site or other permit conditions, such as a person authorized to direct workers at a site to carry out activities required by the erosion, sedimentation and pollution control plan or to comply with other permit conditions.
Outfall means the location where storm water in a discernible, confined and discrete conveyance, leaves a facility or site or, if there is a receiving water on site, becomes a point source discharging into that receiving water.
Permit means the authorization necessary to conduct a land-disturbing activity under the provisions of this chapter.
Person means any individual, partnership, firm, association, joint venture, public or private corporation, trust, estate, commission, board, public or private institution, utility, cooperative, state agency, municipality or other political subdivision of the state, any interstate body or any other legal entity.
Phase or phased means sub-parts or segments of construction projects where the sub-part or segment is constructed and stabilized prior to completing construction activities on the entire construction site.
Project means the entire proposed development project regardless of the size of the area of land to be disturbed.
Properly designed means designed in accordance with the design requirements and specifications contained in the "Manual for Erosion and Sediment Control in Georgia" (Manual) published by the Georgia Soil and Water Conservation Commission as of January 1 of the year in which the land-disturbing activity was permitted and amendments to the manual as approved by the commission up until the date of NOI submittal.
Roadway drainage structure means a device such as a bridge, culvert, or ditch, composed of a virtually non-erodible material such as concrete, steel, plastic, or other such material that conveys water under a roadway by intercepting the flow on one side of a traveled roadway consisting of one or more defined lanes, with or without shoulder areas, and carrying water to a release point on the other side.
Sediment means solid material, both organic and inorganic, that is in suspension, is being transported, or has been moved from its site of origin by wind, water, ice, or gravity as a product of erosion.
Sedimentation means the process by which eroded material is transported and deposited by the action of water, wind, ice or gravity.
Soil and water conservation district approved plan means an erosion, sedimentation and pollution control plan approved in writing by the Ocmulgee Soil and Water Conservation District.
Stabilization means the process of establishing an enduring soil cover of vegetation by the installation of temporary or permanent structures for the purpose of reducing to a minimum the erosion process and the resultant transport of sediment by wind, water, ice or gravity.
State general permit means the national pollution discharge elimination system (NPDES) general permit or permits for storm water runoff from construction activities as is now in effect or as may be amended or reissued in the future pursuant to the state's authority to implement the same through federal delegation under the Federal Water Pollution Control Act, as amended, 33 U.S.C. Section 1251, et seq., and subsection (f) of O.C.G.A. § 12-5-30.
State waters means any and all rivers, streams, creeks, branches, lakes, reservoirs, ponds, drainage systems, springs, wells, and other bodies of surface or subsurface water, natural or artificial, lying within or forming a part of the boundaries of Georgia which are not entirely confined and retained completely upon the property of a single individual, partnership, or corporation.
Structural erosion, sedimentation and pollution control practices mean practices for the stabilization of erodible or sediment-producing areas by utilizing the mechanical properties of matter for the purpose of either changing the surface of the land or storing, regulating or disposing of runoff to prevent excessive sediment loss. Examples of structural erosion and sediment control practices are riprap, sediment basins, dikes, level spreaders, waterways or outlets, diversions, grade stabilization structures and sediment traps, etc. Such practices can be found in the publication Manual for Erosion and Sediment Control in Georgia.
Trout streams means all streams or portions of streams within the watershed as designated by the Wildlife Resources Division of the Georgia Department of Natural Resources under the provisions of the Georgia Water Quality Control Act, O.C.G.A. § 12-5-20, in the rules and regulations for Water Quality Control, Chapter 391-3-6 at www.epd.georgia.gov. Streams designated as primary trout waters are defined as water supporting a self-sustaining population of rainbow, brown or brook trout. Streams designated as secondary trout waters are those in which there is no evidence of natural trout reproduction, but are capable of supporting trout throughout the year. First order trout waters are streams into which no other streams flow except springs.
Vegetative erosion and sedimentation control measures means measures for the stabilization of erodible or sediment-producing areas by covering the soil with:
(a)
Permanent seeding, sprigging or planting, producing long-term vegetative cover, or
(b)
Temporary seeding, producing short-term vegetative cover; or
(c)
Sodding, covering areas with a turf of perennial sod-forming grass.
Such measures can be found in the publication Manual for Erosion and Sediment Control in Georgia.
Watercourse means any natural or artificial watercourse, stream, river, creek, channel, ditch, canal, conduit, culvert, drain, waterway, gully, ravine, or wash in which water flows either continuously or intermittently and which has a definite channel, bed and banks, and including any area adjacent thereto subject to inundation by reason of overflow or floodwater.
Wetlands means those areas that are inundated or saturated by surface or ground water at a frequency and duration sufficient to support, and that under normal circumstances do support a prevalence of vegetation typically adapted for life in saturated soil conditions. Wetlands generally include swamps, marshes, bogs, and similar areas.
7-2.2. Exemptions. This chapter shall apply to any land-disturbing activity undertaken by any person on any land except for the following:
(A)
Surface mining, as the same is defined in O.C.G.A. § 12-4-72, "The Georgia Surface Mining Act of 1968."
(B)
Granite quarrying and land clearing for such quarrying;
(C)
Such minor land-disturbing activities as home gardens and individual home landscaping, repairs, maintenance work, fences, and other related activities which result in minor soil erosion;
(D)
The construction of single-family residences, when such construction disturbs less than one acre and is not a part of a larger common plan of development or sale with a planned disturbance of equal to or greater than one acre and not otherwise exempted under this paragraph; provided, however, that construction of any such residence shall conform to the minimum requirements as set forth in O.C.G.A. § 12-7-6 and this paragraph. For single-family residence construction covered by the provisions of this paragraph, there shall be a buffer zone between the residence and any state waters classified as trout streams pursuant to Article 2 of Chapter 5 of the Georgia Water Quality Control Act. In any such buffer zone, no land-disturbing activity shall be constructed between the residence and the point where vegetation has been wrested by normal stream flow or wave action from the banks of the trout waters. For primary trout waters, the buffer zone shall be at least fifty (50) horizontal feet, and no variance to a smaller buffer shall be granted. For secondary trout waters, the buffer zone shall be at least fifty (50) horizontal feet, but the director may grant variances to no less than twenty-five (25) feet. Regardless of whether a trout stream is primary or secondary, for first order trout waters, which are streams into which no other streams flow except for springs, the buffer shall be at least twenty-five (25) horizontal feet, and no variance to a smaller buffer shall be granted. The minimum requirements of subsection (b) of O.C.G.A. § 12-7-6 and the buffer zones provided by this paragraph shall be enforced by the local issuing authority;
(E)
Agricultural operations as defined in O.C.G.A. § 1-3-3, "definitions", to include raising, harvesting or storing of products of the field or orchard; feeding, breeding or managing livestock or poultry; producing or storing feed for use in the production of livestock, including but not limited to cattle, calves, swine, hogs, goats, sheep, and rabbits or for use in the production of poultry, including but not limited to chickens, hens and turkeys; producing plants, trees, fowl, or animals; the production of aqua culture, horticultural, dairy, livestock, poultry, eggs and apiarian products; farm buildings and farm ponds;
(F)
Forestry land management practices, including harvesting; provided, however, that when such exempt forestry practices cause or result in land-disturbing or other activities otherwise prohibited in a buffer, as established in subsections (15) and (16) of subsection 7-2.3(C) of this chapter, no other land-disturbing activities, except for normal forest management practices, shall be allowed on the entire property upon which the forestry practices were conducted for a period of three (3) years after completion of such forestry practices;
(G)
Any project carried out under the technical supervision of the Natural Resources Conservation Service (NRCS) of the United States Department of Agriculture;
(H)
Any project involving less than one acre of disturbed area; provided, however, that this exemption shall not apply to any land-disturbing activity within a larger common plan of development or sale with a planned disturbance of equal to or greater than one acre or within two hundred (200) feet of the bank of any state waters, and for purposes of this paragraph, "state waters" excludes channels and drainage ways which have water in them only during and immediately after rainfall events and intermittent streams which do not have water in them year-round; provided, however, that any person responsible for a project which involves less than one acre, which involves land-disturbing activity, and which is within two hundred (200) feet of any such excluded channel or drainage way, must prevent sediment from moving beyond the boundaries of the property on which such project is located and provided, further, that nothing contained herein shall prevent the local issuing authority from regulating any such project which is not specifically exempted by this section;
(I)
Construction or maintenance projects, or both, undertaken or financed in whole or in part, or both, by the department of transportation, the state highway authority, or the state road and tollway authority; or any road construction or maintenance project, or both, undertaken by any county or municipality; provided, however, that construction or maintenance projects of the department of transportation or the state road and tollway authority which disturb one or more contiguous acres of land shall be subject to provisions of O.C.G.A. § 12-7-7.1; except where the department of transportation, the state highway authority, or the state road and tollway authority is a secondary permittee for a project located within a larger common plan of development or sale under the state general permit, in which case a copy of a notice of intent under the state general permit shall be submitted to the local issuing authority, the local issuing authority shall enforce compliance with the minimum requirements set forth in O.C.G.A. § 12-7-6 as if a permit had been issued, and violations shall be subject to the same penalties as violations by permit holders;
(J)
Any land-disturbing activities conducted by any electric membership corporation or municipal electrical system or any public utility under the regulatory jurisdiction of the public service commission, any utility under the regulatory jurisdiction of the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, any cable television system as defined in O.C.G.A. § 36-18-1, or any agency or instrumentality of the United States engaged in the generation, transmission, or distribution of power; except where an electric membership corporation or municipal electrical system or any public utility under the regulatory jurisdiction of the public service commission, any utility under the regulatory jurisdiction of the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, any cable television system as defined in O.C.G.A. § 36-18-1, or any agency or instrumentality of the United states engaged in the generation, transmission, or distribution of power is a secondary permittee for a project located within a larger common plan of development or sale under the state general permit, in which case the local issuing authority shall enforce compliance with the minimum requirements set forth in O.C.G.A. § 12-7-6 as if a permit had been issued, and violations shall be subject to the same penalties as violations by permit holders; and
(K)
Any public water system reservoir.
7-2.3. Minimum requirements for erosion, sedimentation and pollution control using best management practices.
(A)
General provisions. Excessive soil erosion and resulting sedimentation can take place during land-disturbing activities if requirements of the ordinance and the NPDES general permit are not met. Therefore, plans for those land-disturbing activities which are not exempted by this chapter shall contain provisions for application of soil erosion, sedimentation and pollution control measures and practices. The provisions shall be incorporated into the erosion, sedimentation and pollution control plans. Soil erosion, sedimentation and pollution control measures and practices shall conform to the minimum requirements of subsections 7-2.3(B) and (C) of this chapter. The application of measures and practices shall apply to all features of the site, including street and utility installations, drainage facilities and other temporary and permanent improvements. Measures shall be installed to prevent or control erosion, sedimentation and pollution during all stages of any land-disturbing activity in accordance with requirements of this chapter and the NPDES general permit.
(B)
Minimum requirements/BMPs.
(1)
Best management practices as set forth in subsections 7-2.3(B) and (C) of this chapter shall be required for all land-disturbing activities. Proper design, installation, and maintenance of best management practices shall constitute a complete defense to any action by the Director or to any other allegation of noncompliance with paragraph (2) of this subsection or any substantially similar terms contained in a permit for the discharge of storm water issued pursuant to subsection (f) of O.C.G.A. § 12-5-30, the "Georgia Water Quality Control Act". As used in this subsection the terms "proper design" and "properly designed" mean designed in accordance with the hydraulic design specifications contained in the "Manual for Erosion and Sediment Control in Georgia" specified in O.C.G.A. § 12-7-6(b).
(2)
A discharge of storm water runoff from disturbed areas where best management practices have not been properly designed, installed, and maintained shall constitute a separate violation of any land-disturbing permit issued by a local issuing authority or of any state general permit issued by the division pursuant to subsection (f) of O.C.G.A. § 12-5-30, the "Georgia Water Quality Control Act," for each day on which such discharge results in the turbidity of receiving waters being increased by more than twenty-five (25) nephelometric turbidity units for waters supporting warm water fisheries or by more than ten (10) nephelometric turbidity units for waters classified as trout waters. The turbidity of the receiving waters shall be measured in accordance with guidelines to be issued by the director. This paragraph shall not apply to any land disturbance associated with the construction of single family homes which are not part of a larger common plan of development or sale unless the planned disturbance for such construction is equal to or greater than five (5) acres.
(3)
Failure to properly design, install, or maintain best management practices shall constitute a violation of any land- disturbing permit issued by a local issuing authority or of any state general permit issued by the division pursuant to subsection (f) of O.C.G.A. § 12-5-30, the "Georgia Water Quality Control Act," for each day on which such failure occurs.
(4)
The director may require, in accordance with regulations adopted by the board, reasonable and prudent monitoring of the turbidity level of receiving waters into which discharges from land disturbing activities occur.
(5)
The LIA may set more stringent buffer requirements than stated in subsections (C)(15), (16) and (17), in light of O.C.G.A. § 12-7-6(c).
(C)
The rules and regulations, ordinances, or resolutions adopted pursuant to O.C.G.A. 12-7-1 et seq. for the purpose of governing land-disturbing activities shall require, as a minimum, protections at least as stringent as the state general permit; and best management practices, including sound conservation and engineering practices to prevent and minimize erosion and resultant sedimentation, which are consistent with, and no less stringent than, those practices contained in the Manual for Erosion and Sediment Control in Georgia published by the Georgia Soil and Water Conservation Commission as of January 1 of the year in which the land-disturbing activity was permitted, as well as the following:
(1)
Stripping of vegetation, regrading and other development activities shall be conducted in a manner so as to minimize erosion;
(2)
Cut-fill operations must be kept to a minimum;
(3)
Development plans must conform to topography and soil type so as to create the lowest practicable erosion potential;
(4)
Whenever feasible, natural vegetation shall be retained, protected and supplemented;
(5)
The disturbed area and the duration of exposure to erosive elements shall be kept to a practicable minimum;
(6)
Disturbed soil shall be stabilized as quickly as practicable;
(7)
Temporary vegetation or mulching shall be employed to protect exposed critical areas during development;
(8)
Permanent vegetation and structural erosion control practices shall be installed as soon as practicable;
(9)
To the extent necessary, sediment in run-off water must be trapped by the use of debris basins, sediment basins, silt traps, or similar measures until the disturbed area is stabilized. As used in this paragraph, a disturbed area is stabilized when it is brought to a condition of continuous compliance with the requirements of O.C.G.A. §§ 12-7-1 et seq.;
(10)
Adequate provisions must be provided to minimize damage from surface water to the cut face of excavations or the sloping of fills;
(11)
Cuts and fills may not endanger adjoining property;
(12)
Fills may not encroach upon natural watercourses or constructed channels in a manner so as to adversely affect other property owners;
(13)
Grading equipment must cross flowing streams by means of bridges or culverts except when such methods are not feasible, provided, in any case, that such crossings are kept to a minimum;
(14)
Land-disturbing activity plans for erosion, sedimentation and pollution control shall include provisions for treatment or control of any source of sediments and adequate sedimentation control facilities to retain sediments on-site or preclude sedimentation of adjacent waters beyond the levels specified in this subsection (B);
(15)
Except as provided in subsections (16) and (17) of this subsection, there is established a 25-foot buffer along the banks of all state waters, as measured horizontally from the point where vegetation has been wrested by normal stream flow or wave action, except where the director determines to allow a variance that is at least as protective of natural resources and the environment, where otherwise allowed by the director pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 12-2-8, where a drainage structure or a roadway drainage structure must be constructed, provided that adequate erosion control measures are incorporated in the project plans and specifications, and are implemented; or where bulkheads and sea walls are installed to prevent shoreline erosion on Lake Oconee and Lake Sinclair; or along any ephemeral stream. As used in this provision, the term "ephemeral stream" means a stream: that under normal circumstances has water flowing only during and for a short duration after precipitation events; that has the channel located above the ground-water table year round; for which ground water is not a source of water; and for which runoff from precipitation is the primary source of water flow. Unless exempted as along an ephemeral stream, the buffers of at least twenty-five (25) feet established pursuant to Part 6 of Article 5, Chapter 5 of Title 12, the "Georgia Water Quality Control Act", shall remain in force unless a variance is granted by the director as provided in this paragraph. The following requirements shall apply to any such buffer:
(a)
No land-disturbing activities shall be conducted within a buffer and a buffer shall remain in its natural, undisturbed state of vegetation until all land-disturbing activities on the construction site are completed. Once the final stabilization of the site is achieved, a buffer may be thinned or trimmed of vegetation as long as a protective vegetative cover remains to protect water quality and aquatic habitat and a natural canopy is left in sufficient quantity to keep shade on the stream bed; provided, however, that any person constructing a single-family residence, when such residence is constructed by or under contract with the owner for his or her own occupancy, may thin or trim vegetation in a buffer at any time as long as protective vegetative cover remains to protect water quality and aquatic habitat and a natural canopy is left in sufficient quantity to keep shade on the stream bed; and
(b)
The buffer shall not apply to the following land-disturbing activities, provided that they occur at an angle, as measured from the point of crossing, within twenty-five (25) degrees of perpendicular to the stream; cause a width of disturbance of not more than fifty (50) feet within the buffer; and adequate erosion control measures are incorporated into the project plans and specifications and are implemented: (i) stream crossings for water lines; or (ii) stream crossings for sewer lines; and
(16)
There is established a 50-foot buffer as measured horizontally from the point where vegetation has been wrested by normal stream flow or wave action, along the banks of any state waters classified as "trout streams" pursuant to Article 2 of Chapter 5 of Title 12, the "Georgia Water Quality Control Act", except where a roadway drainage structure must be constructed; provided, however, that small springs and streams classified as trout streams which discharge an average annual flow of twenty-five (25) gallons per minute or less shall have a 25-foot buffer or they may be piped, at the discretion of the landowner, pursuant to the terms of a rule providing for a general variance promulgated by the board, so long as any such pipe stops short of the downstream landowner's property and the landowner complies with the buffer requirement for any adjacent trout streams. The director may grant a variance from such buffer to allow land-disturbing activity, provided that adequate erosion control measures are incorporated in the project plans and specifications and are implemented. The following requirements shall apply to such buffer:
(a)
No land-disturbing activities shall be conducted within a buffer and a buffer shall remain in its natural, undisturbed, state of vegetation until all land-disturbing activities on the construction site are completed. Once the final stabilization of the site is achieved, a buffer may be thinned or trimmed of vegetation as long as a protective vegetative cover remains to protect water quality and aquatic habitat and a natural canopy is left in sufficient quantity to keep shade on the stream bed: provided, however, that any person constructing a single-family residence, when such residence is constructed by or under contract with the owner for his or her own occupancy, may thin or trim vegetation in a buffer at any time as long as protective vegetative cover remains to protect water quality and aquatic habitat and a natural canopy is left in sufficient quantity to keep shade on the stream bed; and
(b)
The buffer shall not apply to the following land-disturbing activities, provided that they occur at an angle, as measured from the point of crossing, within twenty-five (25) degrees of perpendicular to the stream; cause a width of disturbance of not more than fifty (50) feet within the buffer; and adequate erosion control measures are incorporated into the project plans and specifications and are implemented: (i) stream crossings for water lines; or (ii) stream crossings for sewer lines.
(17)
There is established a 25-foot buffer along coastal marshlands, as measured horizontally from the coastal marshland-upland interface, as determined in accordance with O.C.G.A. Chapter 5 of Title 12, the "Coastal Marshlands Protection Act of 1970," and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder, except where the director determines to allow a variance that is at least as protective of natural resources and the environment, where otherwise allowed by the director pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 12-2-8, where an alteration within the buffer area has been authorized pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 12-5-286, for maintenance of any currently serviceable structure, landscaping, or hardscaping, including bridges, roads, parking lots, golf courses, golf cart paths, retaining walls, bulkheads, and patios; provided, however, that if such maintenance requires any land-disturbing activity, adequate erosion control measures are incorporated into the project plans and specifications and such measures are fully implemented, where a drainage structure or roadway drainage structure is constructed or maintained; provided, however, that if such maintenance requires any land-disturbing activity, adequate erosion control measures are incorporated into the project plans and specifications and such measures are fully implemented, on the landward side of any currently serviceable shoreline stabilization structure, or for the maintenance of any manmade storm-water detention basin, golf course pond, or impoundment that is located entirely within the property of a single individual, partnership, or corporation; provided, however, that adequate erosion control measures are incorporated into the project plans and specifications and such measures are fully implemented. For the purposes of this paragraph maintenance shall be defined as actions necessary or appropriate for retaining or restoring a currently serviceable improvement to the specified operable condition to achieve its maximum useful life. Maintenance includes emergency reconstruction of recently damaged parts of a currently serviceable structure so long as it occurs within a reasonable period of time after damage occurs. Maintenance does not include any modification that changes the character, scope or size of the original design and serviceable shall be defined as usable in its current state or with minor maintenance but not so degraded as to essentially require reconstruction.
(a)
No land-disturbing activities shall be conducted within a buffer and a buffer shall remain in its natural, undisturbed, state of vegetation until all land-disturbing activities on the construction site are completed. Once the final stabilization of the site is achieved, a buffer may be thinned or trimmed of vegetation as long as a protective vegetative cover remains to protect water quality and aquatic habitat; provided, however, that any person constructing a single-family residence, when such residence is constructed by or under contract with the owner for his or her own occupancy, may thin or trim vegetation in a buffer at any time as long as protective vegetative cover remains to protect water quality and aquatic habitat; and
(b)
The buffer shall not apply to crossings for utility lines that cause a width of disturbance of not more than fifty (50) feet within the buffer, provided, however, that adequate erosion control measures are incorporated into the project plans and specifications and such measures are fully implemented.
(c)
The buffer shall not apply to any land-disturbing activity conducted pursuant to and in compliance with a valid and effective land-disturbing permit issued subsequent to April 22, 2014, and prior to December 31, 2015; provided, however, that adequate erosion control measures are incorporated into the project plans and specifications and such measures are fully implemented or any lot for which the preliminary plat has been approved prior to December 31, 2015 if roadways, bridges, or water and sewer lines have been extended to such lot prior to the effective date of this Act and if the requirement to maintain a 25-foot buffer would consume at least eighteen (18) percent of the high ground of the platted lot otherwise available for development; provided, however, that adequate erosion control measures are incorporated into the project plans and specifications and such measures are fully implemented.
(d)
Activities where the area within the buffer is not more than five hundred (500) square feet or that have a "minor buffer impact" as defined in [EPD Rule] 391-3-7-.01(r), provided that the total area of buffer impacts is less than five thousand (5,000) square feet are deemed to have an approved buffer variance by rule. Bank stabilization structures are not eligible for coverage under the variance by rule and notification shall be made to the division at least fourteen (14) days prior to the commencement of land disturbing activities.
(D)
Nothing contained in O.C.G.A. §§ 12-7-1 et seq. shall prevent any local issuing authority from adopting rules and regulations, ordinances, or resolutions which contain stream buffer requirements that exceed the minimum requirements in subsections 7-2.3(B) and (C) of this chapter.
(E)
The fact that land-disturbing activity for which a permit has been issued results in injury to the property of another shall neither constitute proof of nor create a presumption of a violation of the standards provided for in this chapter or the terms of the permit.
7-2.4. Application/permit process.
(A)
General. The property owner, developer and designated planners and engineers shall design and review before submittal the general development plans. The local issuing authority shall review the tract to be developed and the area surrounding it. They shall consult the zoning ordinance, storm water management ordinance, subdivision ordinance, flood damage prevention ordinance, this chapter, and any other ordinances, rules, regulations or permits, which regulate the development of land within the jurisdictional boundaries of the local issuing authority. However, the owner and/or operator are the only parties who may obtain a permit.
(B)
Application requirements.
(1)
No person shall conduct any land-disturbing activity within the jurisdictional boundaries of city without first obtaining a permit from the administrator to perform such activity and providing a copy of notice of intent submitted to EPD if applicable.
(2)
The application for a permit shall be submitted to the administrator and must include the applicant's erosion, sedimentation and pollution control plan with supporting data, as necessary. Said plans shall include, as a minimum, the data specified in subsection 7-2.4(C) of this chapter. Erosion, sedimentation and pollution control plans, together with supporting data, must demonstrate affirmatively that the land disturbing activity proposed will be carried out in such a manner that the provisions of subsections 7-2.3(B) and (C) of this chapter will be met. Applications for a permit will not be accepted unless accompanied by copies of the applicant's erosion, sedimentation and pollution control plans. All applications shall contain a certification stating that the plan preparer or the designee thereof visited the site prior to creation of the plan in accordance with EPD Rule 391-3-7-.10.
(3)
In addition to the local permitting fees, fees will also be assessed pursuant to paragraph (5) subsection (a) of O.C.G.A. § 12-5-23, provided that such fees shall not exceed eighty dollars ($80.00) per acre of land-disturbing activity, and these fees shall be calculated and paid by the primary permittee as defined in the state general permit for each acre of land-disturbing activity included in the planned development or each phase of development. All applicable fees shall be paid prior to issuance of the land disturbance permit. In a jurisdiction that is certified pursuant to subsection (a) of O.C.G.A. § 12-7-8, one-half (½) of such fees levied shall be submitted to the division; except that any and all fees due from an entity which is required to give notice pursuant to paragraph (9) or (10) of O.C.G.A. § 12-7-17 shall be submitted in full to the division, regardless of the existence of a local issuing authority in the jurisdiction.
(4)
Immediately upon receipt of an application and plan for a permit, the local issuing authority shall refer the application and plan to the district for its review and approval or disapproval concerning the adequacy of the erosion, sedimentation and pollution control plan. The district shall approve or disapprove a plan within thirty-five (35) days of receipt. Failure of the district to act within thirty-five (35) days shall be considered an approval of the pending plan. The results of the district review shall be forwarded to the local issuing authority. No permit will be issued unless the plan has been approved by the district, and any variances required by subsection 7-2.3(C)(15), (16) and (17) have been obtained, all fees have been paid, and bonding, if required as per subsection 7-2.4(B)(6), have been obtained. Such review will not be required if the local issuing authority and the district have entered into an agreement which allows the local issuing authority to conduct such review and approval of the plan without referring the application and plan to the district. The local issuing authority with plan review authority shall approve or disapprove a revised plan submittal within thirty-five (35) days of receipt. Failure of the local issuing authority with plan review authority to act within thirty-five (35) days shall be considered an approval of the revised Plan submittal.
(5)
If a permit applicant has had two (2) or more violations of previous permits, this chapter section, or the Erosion and Sedimentation Act, as amended, within three (3) years prior to the date of filing the application under consideration, the local issuing authority may deny the permit application.
(6)
The local issuing authority may require the permit applicant to post a bond in the form of government security, cash, irrevocable letter of credit, or any combination thereof up to, but not exceeding, three thousand dollars ($3,000.00) per acre or fraction thereof of the proposed land-disturbing activity, prior to issuing the permit. If the applicant does not comply with this section or with the conditions of the permit after issuance, the local issuing authority may call the bond or any part thereof to be forfeited and may use the proceeds to hire a contractor to stabilize the site of the land-disturbing activity and bring it into compliance. These provisions shall not apply unless there is in effect an ordinance or statute specifically providing for hearing and judicial review of any determination or order of the local issuing authority with respect to alleged permit violations.
(C)
Plan requirements. Plans must be prepared to meet the minimum requirements as contained in subsections 7-2.3(B) and (C) of this chapter, or through the use of more stringent, alternate design criteria which conform to sound conservation and engineering practices. The Manual for Erosion and Sediment Control in Georgia is hereby incorporated by reference into this chapter. The plan for the land-disturbing activity shall consider the interrelationship of the soil types, geological and hydrological characteristics, topography, watershed, vegetation, proposed permanent structures including roadways, constructed waterways, sediment control and storm water management facilities, local ordinances and state laws. Maps, drawings and supportive computations shall bear the signature and seal of the certified design professional. Persons involved in land development design, review, permitting, construction, monitoring, or inspections or any land disturbing activity shall meet the education and training certification requirements, dependent on his or her level of involvement with the process, as developed by the commission and in consultation with the division and the stakeholder advisory board created pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 12-7-20.
(1)
Data required for site plan shall include all the information required from the appropriate erosion, sedimentation and pollution control plan review checklist established by the commission as of January 1 of the year in which the land-disturbing activity was permitted.
(D)
Permits.
(1)
Permits shall be issued or denied as soon as practicable but in any event not later than forty-five (45) days after receipt by the local issuing authority of a completed application, providing variances and bonding are obtained, where necessary and all applicable fees have been paid prior to permit issuance. The permit shall include conditions under which the activity may be undertaken.
(2)
No permit shall be issued by the local issuing authority unless the erosion, sedimentation and pollution control plan has been approved by the district and the local issuing authority has affirmatively determined that the plan is in compliance with this chapter, any variances required by subsections 7-2.3(C)(15), (16) and (17) are obtained, bonding requirements, if necessary, as per subsection 7-2.4(B)(6) are met and all ordinances and rules and regulations in effect within the jurisdictional boundaries of the local issuing authority are met. If the permit is denied, the reason for denial shall be furnished to the applicant.
(3)
Any land-disturbing activities by a local issuing authority shall be subject to the same requirements of this chapter, and any other ordinances relating to land development, as are applied to private persons and the division shall enforce such requirements upon the local issuing authority.
(4)
If the tract is to be developed in phases, then a separate permit shall be required for each phase.
(5)
The permit may be suspended, revoked, or modified by the local issuing authority, as to all or any portion of the land affected by the plan, upon finding that the holder or his successor in the title is not in compliance with the approved erosion and sedimentation control plan or that the holder or his successor in title is in violation of this chapter. A holder of a permit shall notify any successor in title to him as to all or any portion of the land affected by the approved plan of the conditions contained in the permit.
(6)
The LIA may reject a permit application if the applicant has had two (2) or more violations of previous permits or the Erosion and Sedimentation Act permit requirements within three (3) years prior to the date of the application, in light of O.C.G.A. § 12-7-7(f)(1).
7-2.5. Inspection and enforcement.
(A)
The administrator will periodically inspect the sites of land-disturbing activities for which permits have been issued to determine if the activities are being conducted in accordance with the plan and if the measures required in the plan are effective in controlling erosion and sedimentation. Also, the local issuing authority shall regulate primary, secondary and tertiary permittees as such terms are defined in the state general permit. Primary permittees shall be responsible for installation and maintenance of best management practices where the primary permittee is conducting land-disturbing activities. Secondary permittees shall be responsible for installation and maintenance of best management practices where the secondary permittee is conducting land-disturbing activities. Tertiary permittees shall be responsible for installation and maintenance where the tertiary permittee is conducting land-disturbing activities. If, through inspection, it is deemed that a person engaged in land-disturbing activities as defined herein has failed to comply with the approved plan, with permit conditions, or with the provisions of this chapter, a written notice to comply shall be served upon that person. The notice shall set forth the measures necessary to achieve compliance and shall state the time within which such measures must be completed. If the person engaged in the land-disturbing activity fails to comply within the time specified, he shall be deemed in violation of this chapter.
(B)
The local issuing authority must amend its ordinances to the extent appropriate within twelve (12) months of any amendments to the Erosion and Sedimentation Act of 1975.
(C)
The administrator shall have the power to conduct such investigations as it may reasonably deem necessary to carry out duties as prescribed in this chapter, and for this purpose to enter at reasonable times upon any property, public or private, for the purpose of investigation and inspecting the sites of land-disturbing activities.
(D)
No person shall refuse entry or access to any authorized representative or agent of the local issuing authority, the commission, the district, or division who requests entry for the purposes of inspection, and who presents appropriate credentials, nor shall any person obstruct, hamper or interfere with any such representative while in the process of carrying out his official duties.
(E)
The district or the commission or both shall semi-annually review the actions of counties and municipalities which have been certified as local issuing authorities pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 12-7-8(a). The district or the commission or both may provide technical assistance to any county or municipality for the purpose of improving the effectiveness of the county's or municipality's erosion, sedimentation and pollution control program. The district or the commission shall notify the division and request investigation by the division if any deficient or ineffective local program is found.
(F)
The division may periodically review the actions of counties and municipalities which have been certified as local issuing authorities pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 12-7-8(a). Such review may include, but shall not be limited to, review of the administration and enforcement of a governing authority's ordinance and review of conformance with an agreement, if any, between the district and the governing authority. If such review indicates that the governing authority of any county or municipality certified pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 12-7-8(a) has not administered or enforced its ordinances or has not conducted the program in accordance with any agreement entered into pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 12-7-7(e), the division shall notify the governing authority of the county or municipality in writing. The governing authority of any county or municipality so notified shall have ninety (90) days within which to take the necessary corrective action to retain certification as a local issuing authority. If the county or municipality does not take necessary corrective action within ninety (90) days after notification by the division, the division shall revoke the certification of the county or municipality as a local issuing authority.
7-2.6. Penalties and incentives.
(A)
Failure to obtain a permit for land-disturbing activity. If any person commences any land-disturbing activity requiring a land-disturbing permit as prescribed in this chapter without first obtaining said permit, the person shall be subject to revocation of his business license, work permit or other authorization for the conduct of a business and associated work activities within the jurisdictional boundaries of the local issuing authority.
(B)
Stop-work orders.
(1)
For the first and second violations of the provisions of this chapter, the director or the local issuing authority shall issue a written warning to the violator. The violator shall have five (5) days to correct the violation. If the violation is not corrected within five (5) days, the director or the local issuing authority shall issue a stop-work order requiring that land-disturbing activities be stopped until necessary corrective action or mitigation has occurred; provided, however, that, if the violation presents an imminent threat to public health or waters of the state or if the land-disturbing activities are conducted without obtaining the necessary permit, the director or the local issuing authority shall issue an immediate stop-work order in lieu of a warning;
(2)
For a third and each subsequent violation, the director or the local issuing authority shall issue an immediate stop-work order; and
(3)
All stop-work orders shall be effective immediately upon issuance and shall be in effect until the necessary corrective action or mitigation has occurred.
(4)
When a violation in the form of taking action without a permit, failure to maintain a stream buffer, or significant amounts of sediment, as determined by the local issuing authority or by the director or his or her designee, have been or are being discharged into state waters and where best management practices have not been properly designed, installed, and maintained, a stop work order shall be issued by the local issuing authority or by the director or his or her designee. All such stop work orders shall be effective immediately upon issuance and shall be in effect until the necessary corrective action or mitigation has occurred. Such stop work orders shall apply to all land-disturbing activity on the site with the exception of the installation and maintenance of temporary or permanent erosion and sediment controls.
(C)
Bond forfeiture. If it is determined that a person engaged in land-disturbing activities has failed to comply with the approved plan, a written notice to comply shall be served upon that person. The notice shall set forth the measures necessary to achieve compliance with the plan and shall state the time within which such measures must be completed. If the person engaged in the land-disturbing activity fails to comply within the time specified, he shall be deemed in violation of this chapter and, in addition to other penalties, shall be deemed to have forfeited his performance bond, if required to post one under the provisions of subsection 7-2.4(B)(6). The local issuing authority may call the bond or any part thereof to be forfeited and may use the proceeds to hire a contractor to stabilize the site of the land-disturbing activity and bring it into compliance.
(D)
Monetary penalties. Any person who violates any provisions of this chapter, or any permit condition or limitation established pursuant to this chapter, or who negligently or intentionally fails or refuses to comply with any final or emergency order of the director issued as provided in this chapter shall be liable for a civil penalty not to exceed two thousand five hundred dollars ($2,500.00) per day. For the purpose of enforcing the provisions of this chapter, notwithstanding any provisions in any city charter to the contrary, municipal courts shall be authorized to impose penalty not to exceed two thousand five hundred dollars ($2,500.00) for each violation. Notwithstanding any limitation of law as to penalties which can be assessed for violations of county ordinances, any magistrate court or any other court of competent jurisdiction trying cases brought as violations of this chapter under county ordinances approved under this chapter shall be authorized to impose penalties for such violations not to exceed two thousand five hundred dollars ($2,500.00) for each violation. Each day during which violation or failure or refusal to comply continues shall be a separate violation.
7-2.7. Education and certification.
(A)
Persons involved in land development design, review, permitting, construction, monitoring, or inspection or any land-disturbing activity shall meet the education and training certification requirements, dependent on their level of involvement with the process, as developed by the commission in consultation with the division and the stakeholder advisory board created pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 12-7-20.
(B)
For each site on which land-disturbing activity occurs, each entity or person acting as either a primary, secondary, or tertiary permittee, as defined in the state general permit, shall have as a minimum one person who is in responsible charge of erosion and sedimentation control activities on behalf of said entity or person and meets the applicable education or training certification requirements developed by the commission present on site whenever land-disturbing activities are conducted on that site. A project site shall herein be defined as any land-disturbance site or multiple sites within a larger common plan of development or sale permitted by an owner or operator for compliance with the state general permit.
(C)
Persons or entities involved in projects not requiring a state general permit but otherwise requiring certified personnel on site may contract with certified persons to meet the requirements of this chapter.
(D)
If a state general permittee who has operational control of land-disturbing activities for a site has met the certification requirements of paragraph (1) of subsection (b) of O.C.G.A. § 12-7-19, then any person or entity involved in land-disturbing activity at that site and operating in a subcontractor capacity for such permittee shall meet those educational requirements specified in paragraph (4) of subsection (b) of O.C.G.A § 12-7-19 and shall not be required to meet any educational requirements that exceed those specified in said paragraph.
7-2.8. Administrative appeal, judicial review.
(A)
Administrative remedies. The suspension, revocation, modification or grant with condition of a permit by the local issuing authority upon finding that the holder is not in compliance with the approved erosion, sediment and pollution control plan; or that the holder is in violation of permit conditions; or that the holder is in violation of any ordinance; shall entitle the person submitting the plan or holding the permit to a hearing before the city planning commission within thirty (30) days after receipt by the local issuing authority of written notice of appeal.
(B)
Judicial review. Any person, aggrieved by a decision or order of the local issuing authority, after exhausting his administrative remedies, shall have the right to appeal de novo to the Superior Court of Houston County, Georgia.
7-2.9. Liability.
(A)
Neither the approval of a plan under the provisions of this chapter, nor the compliance with provisions of this chapter shall relieve any person from the responsibility for damage to any person or property otherwise imposed by law nor impose any liability upon the local issuing authority or district for damage to any person or property.
(B)
The fact that a land-disturbing activity for which a permit has been issued results in injury to the property of another shall neither constitute proof of nor create a presumption of a violation of the standards provided for in this chapter or the terms of the permit.
(C)
No provision of this chapter shall permit any persons to violate the Georgia Erosion and Sedimentation Act of 1975, the Georgia Water Quality Control Act or the rules and regulations promulgated and approved thereunder or pollute any waters of the state as defined thereby.
(Ord. No. 2017-25, § 2, 12-19-17)
Sec. 7-3. - Water resource protection.
7-3.1. Purpose. The intent of this article is to establish minimum development standards and criteria which will afford reasonable protection of environmentally sensitive natural resources found throughout the city. It has been determined the wise management of these resources as defined in this section is essential to maintaining the health, safety, general welfare and economic well-being of the public.
7-3.2. Establishment of water resource districts. The city's water resource districts shall include the following:
(A)
Groundwater recharge area district.
(B)
Wetlands protection district.
The boundaries of these water resource districts are shown on a set of maps designated as "water resource districts" and are included as part of the city's official zoning map, which is on file with the administrator.
7-3.3. Definitions. In addition to the general definitions provided in this article, the following definitions shall apply to this section:
Aquifer means any stratum or zone of rock beneath the surface of the earth capable of containing or producing water from a well.
Drastic means the standardized system for evaluating groundwater pollution potential using the hydrogeologic settings described in the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency Document EPA-600-87-035 (Note: The Drastic methodology is the most widely used technique for evaluating pollution susceptibility).
Generalized wetlands map means the current U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service National Wetlands Inventory Maps for the City of Perry, Georgia.
Jurisdictional wetland means an area that meets the definitional requirements for wetlands as determined by the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers.
Jurisdictional wetland determination means a delineation of jurisdictional wetland boundaries by the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers as required by Section 404 of the Clean Water Act, 33 U.S.C. § 1344, as amended.
Pollution susceptibility means the relative vulnerability of an aquifer to being polluted from spills, discharges, leaks, impoundments, applications of chemicals, injections and other human activities in the recharge area.
Pollution susceptibility map means the relative vulnerability to pollution prepared by the department of natural resources using the Drastic methodology. (Georgia Department of Natural Resources Hydrologic Atlas 20: Groundwater Pollution Susceptibility Map of Georgia.)
Recharge area means any portion of the earth's surface where water infiltrates into the ground to replenish an aquifer.
Regulated activity means any activity which will or which may reasonably be expected to result in the discharge of dredged or fill material into the waters of the U.S. excepting those activities exempted in Section 404 of the Federal Clean Water Act.
Significant recharge areas mean those areas mapped by the Georgia Department of Natural Resources in Hydrologic Atlas 18 (1989 Edition).
Water resource districts mean a map overlay which imposes a set of requirements in addition to those of the underlying zoning district.
Wetlands means those areas inundated or saturated by surface or groundwater at a frequency and duration sufficient to support, and under normal circumstances do support, a prevalence of vegetation typically adapted for life in saturated soil conditions. Wetlands generally include swamps, marshes, bogs and similar areas. The ecological parameters for designating wetlands include hydric soils, hydrological vegetation and hydrological conditions involving a temporary or permanent source of water to cause soil saturation.
7-3.4. Groundwater recharge area district.
(A)
Findings of fact. Recharge areas are vulnerable to urban development activities as well as agricultural activities. Pesticides, herbicides, animal waste and septic tank effluents contribute to deterioration in the groundwater quality and can threaten the health of residents relying on well water. Development usually means an increase in the amount of land covered with impervious surfaces. Paving land in recharge areas can alter or impair their recharge characteristics thereby decreasing groundwater supplies.
(B)
Purpose. The purpose of this overlay district is to establish criteria to protect significant groundwater recharge areas from pollution by spills, discharges, leaks, impoundments, application of chemicals, injections and other development pressures.
(C)
District delineation. The groundwater recharge area district is delineated according to the Georgia Department of Natural Resources' "Most Significant Groundwater Recharge Areas of Georgia Hydrologic Atlas 18 (1989 Edition)". Each recharge area shall be determined to have a pollution susceptibility of high, medium, or low based on the "Georgia Pollution Susceptibility Map Atlas 20, 1992 Edition." Said maps are hereby adopted and made a part of this chapter.
(D)
Permitted uses. All uses allowed in the underlying zoning districts are permitted in the groundwater recharge area protection district. The following are additional requirements for specific uses:
(1)
New above-ground chemical or petroleum storage tanks, having a minimum volume of six hundred sixty (660) gallons, shall have secondary containment for one hundred ten (110) percent of the volume of such tanks or one hundred ten (110) percent of the volume of the largest tank in a cluster of tanks. Such tanks used for agricultural purposes are exempt provided they comply with all federal requirements.
(2)
New agricultural waste impoundment sites shall be lined if they are within:
(a)
A high pollution susceptibility area;
(b)
A medium pollution susceptibility area and exceed fifteen (15) acre-feet in size; and
(c)
A low pollution susceptibility area and exceed fifty (50) acre-feet in size.
As a minimum, the liner shall be constructed of compacted clay having a thickness of one foot and a vertical hydraulic conductivity of less than 5 × 10-7 cm/sec or other criteria established by the National Resource and Conservation Service.
(3)
New homes served by septic tank/drain field systems shall be on lots having the following minimum size limitations as identified on Table MT-1 of the Department of Human Resources' Manual for On-Site Sewage Management Systems (hereafter DHR Table MT-1). The minimum set forth in Table MT-1 may be increased further based on consideration of other factors (set forth in Sections A—F) of the DHR Manual.
(a)
One hundred fifty (150) percent of the subdivision minimum lot size calculated based on application of DHR Table MT-1 if they are within a high pollution susceptibility area;
(b)
One hundred twenty-five (125) percent of the subdivision minimum lot size calculated based on application of DHR Table MT-1 if they are within a medium pollution susceptibility area;
(c)
One hundred ten (110) percent of the subdivision minimum lot size calculated based on application of DHR Table MT-1 if they are within a low pollution susceptibility area.
(4)
New manufactured home parks served by septic tank/drain field systems shall have lots or spaces having the following size limitation as identified on Table MT-2 of the Department of Human Resources' (DHR) Manual for On-site Sewage Management Systems (hereafter DHR Table MT-2). The minimums set forth in Table MT-2 may be increased further based on consideration of other factors (set forth in sections A—F) of the DHR Manual.
(a)
One hundred fifty (150) percent of the subdivision minimum lot or space calculated based on application of DHR Table MT-2 if they are within a high pollution susceptibility area;
(b)
One hundred twenty-five (125) percent of the subdivision minimum lot or space size calculated based on application of DHR Table MT-2 if they are within a medium pollution susceptibility area; and
(c)
One hundred ten (110) percent of the subdivision minimum lot size or space size calculated based on application of DHR Table MT-2 if they are within a low pollution susceptibility area.
(5)
No construction may proceed on a building or manufactured home to be served by a septic tank unless the Houston County Health Department first approves the proposed septic tank installation as meeting the requirements of the Georgia Department of Human Resources Manual for On-Site Sewage Management (hereinafter DHR Manual and subsections 7-3.4(D(3) and (4) above.
(6)
New facilities which handle hazardous materials, of the types (listed in Section 312 of the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act of 1976, excluding underground storage tanks) and in amounts ten thousand (10,000) pounds or more on any one day shall perform their operations on impervious surfaces and in conformance with any applicable federal spill prevention requirements and any local fire prevention code requirements.
(7)
Permanent stormwater infiltration basins shall not be constructed in areas having high pollution susceptibility.
(E)
Exemptions. Any lot of record approved prior to the adoption of this article is exempt from the minimum lot size requirements contained in subsections 7-3.4(D)(3) and (4).
7-3.5. Wetlands protection district.
(A)
Findings of fact. The wetlands within the city are indispensable and fragile natural resources with significant development constraints due to flooding, erosion and soil limitations. In their natural state, wetlands serve man and nature. They provide habitat areas for fish, wildlife and vegetation; water quality maintenance and pollution control; flood control; natural resource education; scientific study, and recreational opportunities.
(B)
Purpose. The purpose of this overlay district is to promote them from alterations which will significantly affect or reduce the primary functions for water quality, floodplain and erosion control, groundwater recharge, aesthetic natural areas and wildlife habitat areas.
(C)
District delineation. The wetlands protection district is hereby established which shall correspond to all lands within the jurisdiction of the City of Perry, Georgia that are mapped as wetland areas by the U.S. Fish and Wildlife National Wetlands Inventory Maps. This map shall be referred to as the generalized wetlands map and is hereby adopted by reference and declared to be part of this article, together with all explanatory matter thereon as attached thereto.
The generalized wetlands map does not necessarily represent the boundaries of jurisdictional wetlands with the city and cannot serve as a substitute for a delineation of wetland boundaries by the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, as required by Section 404 of the Clean Water Act, as amended. Any local government action under this chapter does not relieve the landowner from federal or state permitting requirements.
(D)
Wetland development permit requirements. No regulated activity or use except those identified in subsection (E) shall be allowed within the wetland protection district without a development permit from the city. If the area proposed for development is located within fifty (50) feet of a wetlands protection district boundary as determined by the administrator using the Generalized Wetlands Map, a U.S. Army Corps of Engineers determination shall be required. If the Corps determines that wetlands are present on the proposed development site, the development permit will not be granted until Section 404 [of the Clean Water Act], permit or letter of permission, is issued.
(E)
Permitted uses. The following uses are permitted by right within the wetland protection district to the extent they are not prohibited by any other ordinance or law and provided they do not require structures, grading, fill, draining or dredging as provided herein. (These activities listed in this section are exempted from Section 404 [of the Clean Water Act] regulations provided they do not have impacts on a navigable waterway that would necessitate acquisition of an individual 404 permit. However, under Section 10 of the Rivers and Harbors Act, a permit may be required in some circumstances.)
(1)
Forestry practices applied in accordance with best management practices approved by the Georgia Forestry Commission and as specified in Section 404 of the Clean Water Act.
(2)
Conservation or preservation soil, water, vegetation, fish or other wildlife, provided it does not affect waters of the state or of the United States in such a way that would require an individual 404 permit.
(3)
Outdoor passive recreational activities, including fishing, bird watching, hiking, boating, horseback riding and canoeing.
(4)
The cultivation of agricultural crops. Agricultural activities shall be subject to best management practices approved by the Georgia Department of Agriculture.
(5)
The pasturing of livestock, provided that riparian wetlands are protected, that soil profiles are not disturbed, and that approved agricultural best management practices are followed.
(6)
Education, scientific research and nature trails.
(F)
Prohibited uses. The following uses are prohibited in a wetland district:
(1)
Receiving areas for toxic or hazardous waste or other contaminants.
(2)
Hazardous or sanitary landfills.
(Ord. No. 2017-25, § 2, 12-19-17)
ARTICLE 9. - NONCONFORMING USES AND SITUATIONS

Sec. 9-1. - General.
9-1.1. Purpose and intent.
(A)
Within the provisions established by this chapter, there exist nonconforming situations that were lawfully established before this chapter was adopted or amended, that now do not conform to the terms and requirements of this chapter. Nonconforming situations include unlawful uses of land or buildings and lots, structures, and signs that do not conform to one or more regulations of the districts in which the lot, structure, or sign is located. The purpose of this article is to regulate and limit the continued existence of those uses, structures, lots, and signs that do not conform to the provisions of this chapter or any amendments thereto.
(B)
It is the intent of this chapter to permit these nonconforming situations to continue until they are removed, but not to encourage their survival except under the limited circumstances established in this article. The provisions of this article are designed to curtail substantial investment in nonconforming situations to preserve the integrity of this chapter. However, it is not the intent of this chapter to require compliance with a requirement of this chapter that is not reasonably achieved if compliance cannot be achieved without adding additional land not under the same ownership to the lot where the nonconforming situation is maintained or moving a substantial structure that is located on a permanent foundation.
9-1.2. Authority to continue. Nonconforming uses and situations are allowed to continue in accordance with the requirements of this article.
9-1.3. Determination of nonconformity status. In all cases, the burden of establishing that a nonconforming situation lawfully exists shall be on the owner of the land on which the purported nonconforming situation is located.
9-1.4. Repairs, maintenance and reconstruction.
(A)
Repairs and maintenance that are required to keep nonconforming uses, structures, situations, and signs in a safe condition are permitted, provided that the repair or maintenance does not extend, expand, or enlarge the nonconforming use, structure, situation, or sign. For the purposes of this section, the term "repair or maintenance" shall include the total cost of labor and materials (within a five-year period) utilized in the repair or maintenance, the value of which does not exceed fifty (50) percent of the appraised value of the structure or fifty (50) percent of the replacement cost of the sign and:
(1)
Maintenance of safe condition. Repair that is necessary to maintain a nonconforming use, structure, or sign in a safe condition;
(2)
Correction of damage or deterioration. Repair that is necessary to correct any damage or deterioration to the structural soundness or interior appearance of a building or structure;
(3)
Maintenance of land for safety. Maintenance of land areas to protect against health hazards and promote the safety of surrounding land uses; and
(4)
Sign repair and maintenance. Repair and maintenance of nonconforming signs, such as repainting and electrical repair, provided the cost does not exceed fifty (50) percent of the replacement cost of the sign.
(B)
In the event any nonconforming structure is damaged, by any means, to the extent of fifty (50) percent or more of its replacement value prior to such destruction, such structure shall not be repaired or restored except in conformance with the standards for the zoning district in which it is located. The determination of replacement valuation shall be made by the administrator or, at the applicant's option and cost, by a certified independent appraiser.
Exception: A single-family detached dwelling completed prior to January 1, 2019 and which does not comply with the minimum house sizes in section 5-1.1 may be re-established with the square footage existing immediately prior to damage as described above, provided a building permit is obtained within six (6) months of the date of the damage and construction, repair or restoration is begun within one (1) year after the date of such damage and is diligently pursued to completion.
(C)
In the event a structure is damaged, by any means, to an extent of less than fifty (50) percent of its replacement value prior to such damage, no repairs or restoration shall be made unless a building permit is obtained within six (6) months of the date of the damage and repair or restoration is begun within one year after the date of such damage and is diligently pursued to completion. The determination of replacement valuation shall be made by the administrator or, at the applicant's option and cost, by a certified independent appraiser.
(D)
Garages, carports, and storage buildings accessory to single-family dwellings in which the garages, carports, or storage buildings are nonconforming due to the structure not meeting minimum setback requirements may be repaired, replaced, or increased in area not exceeding twenty (20) percent of the original footprint of the structure regardless of the repair or replacement cost relative to appraised value provided there is no increase to any nonconformity and provided further that the structure is not increased in its number of stories.
9-1.5. Change of tenancy or ownership.
(A)
General. Changes of tenancy, ownership, or management of a use containing a nonconforming situation wherein the use does not change are permitted, and, in such cases, the nonconforming situation shall continue to be subject to the requirements of this article.
(B)
Exception. The transfer of ownership or operation of a sexually oriented business located within one thousand (1,000) feet of another sexually oriented business is not permitted (see subsection 4.3.3(E), sexually oriented business).
9-1.6. Temporary nonconforming uses. A temporary use permit may be issued by the administrator pursuant to temporary use permit provisions in article 2, administration, for an appropriate period of time for the following uses, provided that the owner of the temporary nonconforming use agrees to remove the temporary nonconforming use upon expiration of the permit.
(A)
Nonconforming buildings, structures or uses incidental to building construction or land development may be allowed for the duration of the construction or development period.
(Ord. No. 2017-25, § 2, 12-19-17; Ord. No. 2019-03, § 3, 2-5-19)
Sec. 9-2. - Change of use where nonconforming situation exists.
9-2.1. Change to permitted use. A nonconforming use may be changed to a principal use permitted in the district in which the property is located provided all other requirements of this chapter applicable to that change of use can be met. Permission to accomplish the change must be obtained in the same manner as permission to make the initial use of a vacant lot in the district. Once conformity with this chapter is achieved, the property may not be changed to a nonconforming use.
9-2.2. Change to another nonconforming use. A nonconforming use shall not be changed to any other nonconforming use except as may be permitted pursuant to procedures and standards for special exception permit in article 2, administration.
(Ord. No. 2017-25, § 2, 12-19-17)
Sec. 9-3. - Expansion or enlargement where nonconforming situation exists.
9-3.1. Increase of nonconformity. Except as specifically provided for in this section, the extent of nonconformity shall not be increased. In particular, physical alteration of structures, the placement of new structures on open land, the relocation of structures, or the extension of a use to cover more land than was occupied when the use became nonconforming, is unlawful if such activity results in:
(A)
An increase in the total amount of space devoted to a nonconforming use; or
(B)
Greater nonconformity with respect to dimensional restrictions such as setback requirements, height limitations, density limitations, parking requirements, etc.
Notwithstanding subsection 9-3.1(B), the administrator may authorize the enlargement of a single-family dwelling determined to be nonconforming due to its not meeting minimum setback requirements provided there is no decrease in the prevailing setback and the number of stories is not increased.
9-3.2. Increase of use. A nonconforming use shall not be enlarged, expanded in area occupied, or intensified. A nonconforming use may be enlarged in any area of the same structure which is designed for such use prior to the date the use became a nonconforming use.
(Ord. No. 2017-25, § 2, 12-19-17)
Sec. 9-4. - Discontinuance and reestablishment of a nonconforming situation.
9-4.1. A nonconforming use shall not be reestablished after:
(A)
Discontinuance for one hundred eighty (180) days; or
(B)
Discontinuance for any period of time without a present intention to reinstate the nonconforming use.
Pursuant to subsection 9-1.4, repairs, maintenance and reconstruction, a nonconforming use may be reestablished if the reestablishment occurs within three (3) months from the time the renovations or repairs are completed.
9-4.2. If a nonconforming use is located within the same development as a conforming use, discontinuance of the nonconforming use pursuant to subsection 9-4.1(A)(2) shall terminate the right to continue the use thereafter.
9-4.3. Except as specifically provided in this chapter, a structure or lot accommodating a use or situation that does not conform to one or more regulations of article 6, development and design standards, shall not be reestablished or changed to another use after discontinuance for one hundred eighty (180) days.
(Ord. No. 2017-25, § 2, 12-19-17)
Sec. 9-5. - Reserved.
modified
Editor's note— Ord. No. 2023-28, § 6, adopted Aug. 15, 2023, repealed § 9-5, which pertained to nonconforming signs, and derived from Ord. No. 2017-25, § 2, adopted Dec. 19, 2017.
Sec. 9-6. - Nonconforming landscaping, buffering, and screening.
9-6.1. Expansion of nonconforming parking lots. Parking lots that do not comply with current landscape, buffer, and screening requirements and are proposed to be expanded shall, to the extent practicable as determined by the administrator, comply with the requirements of section 6-3, landscaping, buffering, and screening, based on the following schedule:
(A)
Any expansion of a nonconforming parking lot located on a corner lot shall require the applicant to comply with the requirements set forth in subsection 6-3.4, interior parking lot landscaping, subsection 6-3.6, street buffer yards, and subsection 6-3.3, street trees.
(B)
Expansion of a nonconforming parking lot located on an interior lot that increases the number of parking spaces or amount of impervious surface by twenty-five (25) percent or more (or that results in an increase of twenty-five (25) percent or more within a five-year period) shall comply with the requirements set forth in subsection 6-3.4, interior parking lot landscaping, subsection 6-3.6, street buffer yards, and subsection 6-3.3, street trees.
(C)
Expansion of a nonconforming parking lot located on an interior lot that increases the number of parking spaces or amount of impervious surface by less than twenty-five (25) percent shall require the applicant to comply with fifty (50) percent of the planting rate established in in subsection 6-3.4, interior parking lot landscaping, subsection 6-3.6, street buffer yards, and subsection 6-3.3, street trees.
9-6.2. Change of use. When the use of a building or site changes from one use classification to another use classification, the parcel on which the building or site is located shall, to the extent practicable as determined by the administrator, comply with the requirements of section 6-3, landscaping, buffering, and screening, based on the following schedule:
(A)
If a change of use constitutes less than twenty-five (25) percent of the floor area of a structure or lot accommodating one or more uses (within a five-year period), the property shall comply with the provisions of this section and all other applicable city, state and federal regulations to the greatest extent practicable, as determined by the administrator, provided the new use fully complies with the requirements of subsection 6-3.5, perimeter buffering and screening requirements, and subsection 6-3.7, additional screening requirements.
(B)
If a change of use constitutes twenty-five (25) percent or more but less than fifty (50) percent of the floor area of a structure or lot accommodating one or more uses (within a five-year period), the property shall comply with the provisions of this section and all other applicable city, state and federal regulations, to the greatest extent practicable, as determined by the administrator, provided the new use fully complies with the requirements of subsection 6-3.5, perimeter buffering and screening requirements, subsection 6-3.7, additional screening requirements; and subsection 6-3.3, street trees.
(C)
If a change of use constitutes fifty (50) percent or more of the floor area of a structure or lot accommodating one or more uses (within a five-year period), the property shall comply with the provisions of this section and all other applicable city, state and federal regulations, to the greatest extent practicable, as determined by the administrator, provided the new use fully complies with the requirements subsection 6-3.5 perimeter buffer yard requirements, subsection 6-3.7, additional screening requirements, subsection 6-3.3, street trees; and fifty (50) percent of the planting rate established in subsection 6-3.4, interior parking lot landscaping, and subsection 6-3.6, street buffer yards.
9-6.3 Parking reduction for landscape compliance. In determining the extent to which compliance with subsections 9-6.1 and 9-6.2 is practicable, the administrator shall balance the objectives of subsection 9-6.1, off-street parking and loading, and subsection 9-6.3, landscaping, buffering and screening, and may reduce the proposed number of parking spaces/paved area by a maximum of twenty (20) percent to accommodate the otherwise-required landscaping and screening.
(Ord. No. 2017-25, § 2, 12-19-17)
Sec. 9-7. - Nonconforming private developments.
(A)
For the purposes of this section, "nonconforming private development" shall be defined as a private development which was in existence prior to passage of this chapter and which does not conform to the technical standards found in section 6-11, private development standards.
(B)
Pursuant to Ordinance 2004-38, adopted July 20, 2004 all nonconforming private developments within the city shall conform to the technical standards, section 6-11, private development standards, by July 20, 2005.
(C)
Nonconforming parks shall submit to the zoning enforcement officer of Perry, Georgia, two (2) copies of a site plan within sixty (60) days from the adoption of the ordinance from which this section derives. The site plan shall contain the location of refuse facilities, street lighting facilities, and the location of required buffer areas.
(Ord. No. 2017-25, § 2, 12-19-17)
ARTICLE 10. - ENFORCEMENT[3]
modified

Footnotes:
--- (3) ---
Editor's note— Ord. No. 2023-26, § 8, adopted Aug. 1, 2023, repealed the former art. 10, §§ 10-1—10-6, and enacted a new art. 10 as set out herein. The former art. X pertained to similar subject matter, and derived from Ord. No. 2017-25, § 2, adopted Dec. 19, 2017; and Ord. No. 2020-10, §§ 6, 7, adopted July 21, 2020.

Sec. 10-1. - Purpose.
modified
This article establishes procedures through which the city seeks to ensure compliance with the provisions of this chapter and obtain corrections for ordinance violations. It also sets forth the remedies and penalties that apply to violations of this chapter. The provisions of this article are intended to encourage the voluntary correction of violations, where possible.
(Ord. No. 2023-26, § 8, 8-1-23)
Sec. 10-2. - Compliance required.
modified
Compliance with all provisions of this chapter is required pursuant to city code section 1-10.
(Ord. No. 2023-26, § 8, 8-1-23)
Sec. 10-3. - Violations.
modified
10-3.1. General violations.
(A)
Any failure to comply with a requirement standard, prohibition, or limitation imposed by this chapter or the terms or conditions of any permit or other development approval or authorization granted pursuant to this chapter, shall constitute a violation of this chapter punishable as provided in this article.
(B)
Permits issued on the basis of plans and applications approved by the city council, planning commission, board of zoning appeals, design review panels, administrator, or other officials or agencies where additional approval is required, authorize only the use, arrangement, location and construction set forth in such permits and development approvals, and no other use, arrangement, location or construction.
10-3.2. Specific violations. It shall be a violation of this chapter to do any of the following:
(A)
Construct, reconstruct, alter, demolish, change the use of, or occupy any land, building, structure, or sign without first obtaining the appropriate permit or permit approval, or without complying with the terms and conditions of the permit or approval required to engage in such activity, or to engage in development or subdivision of any land in contravention of this chapter, including the conditions and terms of all required permits and development approvals.
(B)
Excavate, grade, cut, clear, or undertake any other land-disturbing activity contrary to the requirements of this chapter or without first obtaining all necessary approvals required by this chapter or other applicable regulations.
(C)
Create, expand, replace, or change any nonconformity except in compliance with this chapter.
(D)
Reduce or diminish the requirements or development standards below the minimum required by this chapter.
(E)
Increase the intensity or density of use of any land or structure except in accordance with the requirements of this chapter.
(F)
Fail to comply with any terms, conditions, or limitations placed by the city council, planning commission, or administrator, upon any development approval, including official zoning district map amendment, designation of a planned unit development (PUD) zone district classification, annexation and zoning of land, special exception permit, short-term rental permit, variance permit, certificate of appropriateness, sign permit, mural permit, temporary use permit, site plan permit, land disturbance permit, minor subdivision plat, preliminary plat for subdivision, final plat for subdivision, certificate of development conformance, certificate of occupancy, or other form of authorization.
(G)
Fail to remove any sign installed, created, erected, or maintained in violation of this chapter, or for which the sign permit has lapsed.
(H)
Fail to comply with a certificate of appropriateness, which shall include the discontinuance of work or lack of progress toward achieving compliance with a certificate of appropriateness for a period of six (6) months.
(Ord. No. 2023-26, § 8, 8-1-23)
Sec. 10-4. - Responsible person.
modified
Any person who violates this chapter shall be subject to the remedies and penalties set forth in this article.
(Ord. No. 2023-26, § 8, 8-1-23)
Sec. 10-5. - Enforcement generally.
modified
10-5.1. Responsibility for enforcement of zoning provisions. The administrator shall be responsible for enforcing the provisions of this chapter. The administrator shall be provided with the assistance of such other persons as the city manager may direct.
10-5.2. Notice of violations. When the administrator finds that any building, structure, or land is in violation of this chapter, the administrator shall send a written notice to the person responsible for such violation. Such notice shall be copied to the owner (if the owner is not responsible for the violation) and shall indicate the nature of the violation, order the necessary action to abate the violation, and give a deadline for correcting the violation. If a violation is not corrected within a reasonable period of time as provided in the notification, the administrator shall take appropriate action as provided in subsection 10-6.1, remedies and penalties available to city, to correct and abate the violation and to ensure compliance with this chapter.
10-5.3. Complaints regarding violations. Whenever a violation of this chapter occurs, or is alleged to have occurred, any person may file a complaint. Such complaint shall state fully the alleged violation and the basis thereof, and shall be filed with the administrator, who shall maintain a record of the complaint. The complaint shall be investigated promptly by the administrator and action taken to abate or correct the violation.
10-5.4. Inspections to ensure compliance. Upon presentation of proper credentials, the administrator may enter any building, structure, land, or premises to ensure compliance with the provisions of this chapter. These inspections shall be carried out during normal business hours unless the administrator determines there is an emergency necessitating inspection at another time or times.
10-5.5. Right of appeal. Any person aggrieved or affected by an enforcement action may appeal such action to the planning commission pursuant to procedures for decisions and interpretations of the administrator in article 2, administration.
(Ord. No. 2023-26, § 8, 8-1-23)
Sec. 10-6. - Remedies and penalties.
modified
10-6.1. Remedies and penalties available to city. The city may use any combination of the following enforcement actions, remedies, and penalties pursuant to city Code section 1-10 to correct, stop, abate, and enjoin a violation of this chapter:
(A)
Citation noting violation. The administrator may issue a citation to the person pursuing the activity or activities in violation of this chapter, requiring appearance before the municipal court.
(B)
Stop order. The administrator may issue and serve upon a person pursuing the activities in violation of this chapter a stop work order requiring that the person stop all activities in violation of this chapter.
(C)
Permit suspension or revocation. Any development permit, approval, certificate, or other form of authorization required under this chapter may be suspended or revoked if the administrator determines that:
(1)
There is a failure to comply with the approved plans, specifications, terms or conditions required under the permit or development approval;
(2)
The permit or development approval was procured by false representation; or
(3)
The permit or development approval was issued in error.
Written notice of suspension or revocation shall be mailed or served upon the property owner, agent, applicant, or other person to whom the permit was issued, or such notice may be posted in a prominent location at the place of violation. No work or construction shall proceed after service of the notice.
(D)
Civil remedies. In addition to all other remedies and penalties outlined in this article, the administrator may initiate an action or proceeding for injunction or mandamus or other appropriate action or proceeding to prevent, abate, or correct a violation of this chapter or to prevent the occupancy of the building, structure or land.
(E)
Criminal remedies. Criminal penalties shall be as provided by city Code section 1-10.
10-6.2. Private civil relief. In case a building, structure, or land is or is proposed to be used in violation of this chapter, an adjacent or neighboring property owner or tenant who would be specially damaged by the violation may, in addition to other remedies, institute injunction, mandamus, or other appropriate action or proceeding to prevent the unlawful erection, construction, reconstruction, alteration, conversion, maintenance, or use, or to correct or abate the violation, or to prevent the occupancy of the building, structure, or land.
10-6.3. Additional remedies available for sign violations. In addition to the remedies and penalties provided in subsection 10-6.1, remedies and penalties available to city, and subsection 10-6.2, private civil relief, signs that are in violation of the provisions of this article shall be subject to the following provisions:
(A)
Notice of violation. The administrator may send notice to the sign owner, the sign installer, and anyone deemed to have an interest in the subject sign stating the nature of the violation, and granting an appropriate period of time, not to exceed thirty (30) days, to correct the violation.
(B)
Impoundment.
(1)
The administrator may impound the sign and send notice stating that the sign has been impounded, the reason for the impoundment, and the process for claiming the sign. An impounded sign shall be held for ten (10) calendar days from the date of the notice, during which time the sign owner may recover the sign. If the sign is not claimed within the ten-day period, the administrator may dispose of the sign without compensation to the sign owner.
(2)
The administrator may impound signs displayed on public rights-of-way or other public properties and dispose of them without notice.
(C)
Payment of costs of sign removal. If the administrator determines that it is necessary to remove a sign, the sign removal may be assigned either to city staff or to a private contractor approved by the city pursuant to its rules of procurement. Upon completion of the removal, the city department or the city's contractor shall submit an invoice to the city's finance officer for payment. The sign owner shall pay the costs directly to the city or the costs will become a lien against the real property upon which it was incurred and shall be collected in the same manner as city taxes or by other method permitted by law.
Notice may be provided to the sign owner, tenant or property owner by regular mail addressed to the last known address, by facsimile, by email, or any combination, as reasonable under the circumstances.
10-6.4. Additional remedies available for mural violations. In addition to the remedies and penalties provided in subsection 10-6.1, remedies and penalties available to city, and subsection 10-6.2, private civil relief, murals that are in violation of the provisions of this chapter shall be subject to the following provisions:
(A)
Notice of violation. The administrator may send notice to the owner of the structure upon which the mural is located stating the nature of the violation, and granting an appropriate period of time, not to exceed thirty (30) days, to correct the violation.
(B)
Costs for repair or removal of murals. If the mural is not repaired or removed within the prescribed time period of the violation notice, the city or a private contractor approved by the city pursuant to its rules of procurement may enter the premises to repair or remove the mural. Upon completion of the repair or removal, the city or the city's contractor shall submit an invoice to the city's finance officer for payment. The property owner shall pay the costs directly to the city or the costs will become a lien against the real property upon which it was incurred and shall be collected in the same manner as city taxes or by other method permitted by law.
Notice may be provided to the owner of the structure by regular mail addressed to the last known address, by facsimile, by email, or any combination, as reasonable under the circumstances.
10-6.5. Remedies cumulative. The remedies provided for violations of this chapter, whether civil or criminal, shall be cumulative and in addition to any other remedy provided by law, and may be exercised in any order.
(Ord. No. 2023-26, § 8, 8-1-23)
APPENDIX A. - FORM BASED CODE
ARTICLE 86. - GENERAL PROVISIONS

Sec. 86.1. - Title and Purpose.
86.1.1. Title
This ordinance shall be known as the "Perry Form Based Code" or may be internally citied as "this code."
86.1.2. General Purpose
The intent and purpose of this code is to enable and support the implementation of the following policies:
A.
That within the boundaries of the Perry Form Based Code, ordinary activities of daily life should be able to occur within walking or bicycling distance of most dwellings.
B.
That Perry should serve people of all ages and allow residents to remain in the community as they age.
C.
That interconnected networks of streets should be designed to disperse traffic and reduce the length and number of automobile trips.
D.
That a range of high-quality and aesthetically compatible housing options should be provided to accommodate different needs in the community.
E.
That the quality-of-life in existing neighborhoods should be preserved and protected.
F.
That development patterns should make walking and bicycling safer and more pleasant.
G.
That a range of useable open spaces including parks, squares, playgrounds, and preserved environmentally sensitive areas should be distributed throughout Perry.
H.
That buildings and landscaping should be coordinated in order to contribute to Perry's physical design and sense of place.
I.
That development should adequately accommodate automobiles while respecting the pedestrian and the design of public areas.
J.
That public buildings, gathering places, and areas for community events should be provided as locations that reinforce community identity.
K.
That public buildings should be distinctive and appropriate to a role more important than the other buildings that constitute the fabric of the area.
L.
That the harmonious and orderly development and redevelopment of Perry should be secured through these regulations.
(Ord. No. 2017-25, § 2, 12-19-17)
Sec. 86.2. - Applicability.
86.2.1. Territorial Application
This code applies within the applicable area shown on the Official Zoning Map and labeled "Perry Form Based Code."
86.2.2. Conformance Requirements
A.
All buildings, structures, or land, in whole or in part, must be used or occupied, in conformance with this code. All buildings or structures, in whole or in part, must be erected, constructed, moved, enlarged, or structurally altered in conformance with this code.
B.
Nothing in this code shall require any change in the plans, construction or intended use of a building or structure for which a lawful permit has been issued or a lawful permit application has been accepted before the effective date of this code, provided that the construction under the terms of such permit is diligently followed until its completion.
C.
Buildings, structures, and site improvements completed before the effective date of this code pursuant to a lawful permit shall not be considered non-conforming as to the design and dimensional standards of this code, provided however, that any exterior modification, including reconstruction due to damage, of buildings, structures, or site improvements completed after the effective date of this code shall comply with all provisions of this code to the extent practicable, as determined by the administrator.
86.2.3. Conflicting Provisions
A.
It is not the intent of this code to interfere with or abrogate or annul any easements, covenants or other agreements between parties; provided, however, that where this code imposes a greater restriction upon the use of property or premises or upon the height of buildings, or requires greater space than is imposed or required by other resolutions, rules or regulations, or by easements, covenants or agreements, the provisions of this code shall govern.
B.
Nothing herein shall be construed as repealing or modifying the conditions of operation or conditions of site development accompanying those zoning approvals, variances or use permits issued prior to the existence of this code; however, modification or repeal of these past conditions of approval may be accomplished through a zoning change in accordance Section 2-2.2 of the Perry Land Management Ordinance.
86.2.4. Regulating Plan
A.
The Official Regulating Plan shows the designation of property within the Perry Form Based Code. Alterations to the Official Regulating Plan shall be consistent with the requirements for zoning map amendment as described in Section 2-2.2 of the Perry Land Management Ordinance, or as may be amended from time to time.
B.
Regulating Plans shall consist of one or more maps showing the following:
1.
Form Based Zoning Districts and Civic Spaces;
2.
Street network, existing and planned;
3.
Mandatory Private Frontages;
4.
Any special requirements; and
5.
A record of any Variances.
C.
The City of Perry or the owner of a parcel or abutting parcels in the Official Regulating Plan may adjust the locations of proposed streets from those shown by up to a total of 300 horizontal feet by variance, provided that the interconnected network shown in the Official Regulating Plan is maintained.
86.2.5. Use of Words and Phrases
Terms used throughout this code may be defined in Article 4 Definitions of Terms. Article 4 contains regulatory language that is integral to this code. Those terms not defined in Article 4 shall be accorded their commonly accepted meanings. In the event of conflicts between these definitions and those of Section 1-13 of the Perry Land Management Ordinance, those of this code shall take precedence.
86.2.6. Text and Graphics
Illustrations, photos, and graphics are included in this code to illustrate the intent and requirements of the text. In the case of a conflict between the text of this code and any Illustrations, photos, or graphics, the text governs.
(Ord. No. 2017-25, § 2, 12-19-17; Ord. No. 2023-11, § 1, 2-21-23)
Sec. 86.3. - Form Based Zoning Districts.
86.3.1. Form Based Zoning Districts Established
A.
The following Zoning Districts are established within the area regulated by this code:
1.
Interstate Mixed Use (IMU)
2.
Mixed-Use Center (MUC)
3.
Neighborhood Mixed Use (NMU)
4.
Form Based Residential (FBR)
86.3.2. Zoning Changes
Zoning changes to a parcel within the Form Based Codes shall only occur in accordance with Section 2-2.2 of the Perry Land Management Ordinance.
(Ord. No. 2017-25, § 2, 12-19-17)
ARTICLE 87. - GENERAL REQUIREMENTS

Sec. 87.1. - Applicability.
87.1.1. Applicability
A.
The requirements of this Article apply to all parcels in the Perry Form Based Code unless expressly stated otherwise in this Article.
B.
The requirements of the Perry Land Development Ordinance still apply unless expressly stated otherwise in this Article. In addition, State and Federal laws may also apply.
C.
When the word "street" is used in this Article it means both public and private streets unless stated otherwise.
(Ord. No. 2017-25, § 2, 12-19-17)
Sec. 87.2. - Block and Access.
87.2.1. Intent
A.
The intent of the block and access standards is to provide a well-connected street network. Large blocks with limited connectivity discourage walking, contribute to street congestion, and add driving distance that can negatively impact emergency services. New streets should also be designed to consider the future development identified in the Perry Future Land Use Plan.
B.
The intent of the access standards is to provide safe and convenient vehicular and pedestrian access within developments and between adjacent developments and to lessen traffic congestion and increase connectivity. Pedestrian, bike, and vehicular access should be safe, direct and convenient.
87.2.2. Blocks
A.
Sites greater than 4 acres in size must incorporate existing or new streets that terminate at other existing or new streets to form an interconnected network with the maximum block perimeter lengths that follow:
EXPAND
Block Perimeter (Max.)
Form Based Zoning Districts
MUC 1,600 feet
NMU 2,000 feet
IMU, FBR 2,400 feet
  B.
In addition to the block standards above, blocks containing exclusively detached dwellings must be wide enough to provide two tiers of lots, except where fronting on arterial streets prevented by topographical conditions or size of the property, in which case the Community Developer Director or their designee may require and/or approve a single tier of lots.
C.
Other than stub-out streets, dead-end streets are not allowed unless a variance is granted for topographic hardship.
D.
Block Measurement
1.
A block is bounded by a public or private right-of-way (not including an alley). All public or private rights-of-way proposed as part of a development must be improved with a street.
2.
Block perimeter is measured along the edge of the property abutting the public or private right-of-way, except for the measurement of dead-end streets, which are measured from intersecting centerlines.
3.
The City Transportation Engineer may modify the block perimeter requirements when steep slopes in excess of 25%, preexisting development, tree protection areas, stream buffers, cemeteries, open space, or easements would make the provision of a complete block infeasible.
4.
Where the block pattern is interrupted by public parklands including greenways that are open and accessible to the public, pedestrian access points must be provided with a minimum spacing equal to half of the maximum block perimeter.
E.
No public or private street within the Form Based Code area, including alleys, may be gated.
87.2.3. Access
A.
General. When land is subdivided or otherwise developed, parcels and buildings must be arranged and designed so as to allow for the opening of future streets and must provide access to those areas not presently served by streets. No development may be designed to completely eliminate street access to abutting parcels without current street access.
B.
Stub-Out Streets
1.
Stub-Out Required
a.
Where a development abuts unsubdivided land, stub-out streets within the new development must be installed to the meet the block standards of Section 87.2.2.
b.
The stub-out street right-of-way, pavement, and curbing must extend to the boundary of the abutting parcel to the point where the connection to the anticipated street is expected.
c.
Where a stub-out street is provided, a sign noting the future street extension must be posted at the applicant's expense.
2.
Connecting to an Existing Stub-Out Street. If a stub-out street exists on an abutting parcel, the street system of any new development must connect to the stub-out street to form a through street.
3.
Exception. The City Transportation Engineer may eliminate the requirement for a stub-out street or require pedestrian and bicycle only access when steep slopes in excess of 25%, freeways, waterways, tree conservation areas, stream buffers, cemeteries, open space or easements would make the provision of a stub-out street infeasible.
87.2.4. Vehicle Cross-Access
All lots in districts allowing commercial uses, attached dwellings, and all lots where the adopted comprehensive plan land use classification would allow for rezoning to such district, that abut another lot in a district or land use classification allowing either commercial uses, or attached dwellings must comply with the following standards.
A.
Internal vehicular circulation areas must be designed and installed to allow for cross-access between abutting lots.
B.
Vehicle cross-access may not be gated.
C.
When an abutting lot is vacant or already developed, a stub for a future cross-access connection must be provided at the point where the connection to the abutting parcel is expected to occur in the future.
D.
If a cross-access driveway stub exists on an abutting parcel, the internal vehicular circulation area must connect to the stub to form a cross-access connection.
E.
When cross-access for vehicles is deemed impractical by the City Transportation Engineer on the basis of topography, the presence of natural features, or vehicular safety factors, the requirement for cross access may be waived. Bicycle and pedestrian connections must be provided between abutting properties when cross-access is waived.
F.
Property owners who establish cross-access easements must:
1.
Allow pedestrian and vehicular access to all properties on the same block face as the property owner establishing the cross-access. Pedestrian and vehicular access is contingent upon the granting of reciprocal vehicular, bicycle, and pedestrian access rights to the granting property;
2.
Record an easement allowing cross-access to and from properties served by the cross-access easement;
3.
Record a joint maintenance agreement requiring each property owner to maintain the vehicular, bicycle, and pedestrian access areas on their lot;
4.
Contain a provision prohibiting the erection of fences, walls and other obstructions that prevent the use of vehicular, bicycle, and pedestrian access ways;
5.
Include a statement that the cross-access agreement is conveyed with the land, is binding on all successors, heirs and assigns and that the easement rights are perpetual; and
6.
The cross access agreement must be signed by all of owners of the granting property.
G.
Exception. The Community Developer Director or their designee may eliminate the requirement for a cross-access easement when steep slopes in excess of 25%, freeways, waterways, tree conservation areas, stream buffers, cemeteries, open space or easements would make the provision of a cross-access easement infeasible.
(Ord. No. 2017-25, § 2, 12-19-17)
Sec. 87.3. - Streets.
87.3.1. Intent
A.
The intent of this Section is to provide a palette of street types and design elements that reflect the character of different areas within the Form Based Code area.
B.
The regulations provide adequate accommodations for vehicles, cyclists, and pedestrians.
C.
The street types defined in this Section provide a guide to balancing the needs of all modes of travel. Modifications to these types may be made by the Community Developer Director or their designee.
D.
The appropriate street type will be selected by the Community Developer Director or their designee based on the Perry Regulating Plan and engineering and land use context factors, including anticipated vehicle volumes.
87.3.2. Applicability
A.
When a development proposes the construction of a new public or private street, the requirements of this Section apply.
B.
When constructing a new street or reconstructing an existing street, sidewalks, bike lanes, curb and gutter, and street trees must be installed and constructed in accordance with this Section and the City of Perry Community Development Department/Public Works Design Standards.
C.
Existing streets may continue serving existing development in their current configuration; however, they must not be extended or substantially rebuilt except in conformance with this Section.
87.3.3. Street Types
A.
All new or extended public or private streets must meet the following standards unless modified by the Community Developer Director or their designee for the following public purposes:
1.
To provide on- or off-street bicycle facilities;
2.
To provide wider sidewalks or planters;
3.
To provide a median, left turn lane, or combination therefore;
4.
To provide bulb-outs;
5.
To provide hardscape surface in otherwise landscaped planters in order to provide pedestrian access to adjacent on-street parking;
6.
To increase or decrease the travel lane width; and
7.
To provide traffic calming or pedestrian safety measures.
B.
Arterial Street Residential
EXPAND
Width
Right-of-way Width 60 feet
Face of curb to face of curb width 36 feet
Streetscape
Sidewalk 6 feet
Planter 6 feet
Planter Tree Spacing (max.) 40 feet on-center
Planter Type Landscaped
Travelway
Parallel Parking 8 feet
Travel Lane 10 feet
  C.
Arterial Street Commercial/Mixed-Use
EXPAND
Width
Right-of-way Width 100 feet
Face of curb to face of curb width 68 feet
Streetscape
Sidewalk 10 feet
Planter 6 feet
Planter Tree Spacing (max.) 40 feet on-center
Planter Type Landscaped/Hardscaped*
Travelway
Parallel Parking 8 feet
Travel Lane 10.5 feet
  *Planter may be landscaped or hardscaped, but all trees shall be planted in a landscape area with a minimum size of 6 feet by 10 feet.
D.
Collector Street Residential
EXPAND
Width
Right-of-way Width 50 feet
Face of curb to face of curb width 26 feet
Streetscape
Sidewalk 6 feet
Planter 6 feet
Planter Tree Spacing (max.) 40 feet on-center
Planter Type Landscaped
Travelway
Parallel Parking 8 feet
Travel Lane 9 feet
  E.
Collector Street Commercial/Mixed-Use
EXPAND
Width
Right-of-way Width 70 feet
Face of curb to face of curb width 36 feet
Streetscape
Sidewalk Min. 10 feet
Planter 6 feet
Planter Tree Spacing (max.) 40 feet on-center
Planter Type Landscaped/Hardscaped*
Travelway
Parallel Parking 8 feet
Travel Lane 10 feet
  *Planter may be landscaped or hardscaped, but all trees shall be planted in a landscape area with a minimum size of 6 feet by 10 feet.
F.
Green Street
EXPAND
Width
Right-of-way Width 70 feet
Face of curb to face of curb width 36 feet
Streetscape
Sidewalk 6 feet (one side)*
Multi-use trail 12 feet (one side)*
Planter 8 feet
Planter Tree Spacing (max.) 40 feet on-center
Planter Type Bio-swale
Travelway
Parallel Parking 8 feet
Travel Lane 10 feet
  *The side of the street containing sidewalks and multi-use trails shall be as established by the Community Developer Director or their designee.
G.
Local Street Residential
EXPAND
Width
Right-of-way Width 60 feet
Face of curb to face of curb width 32 feet
Streetscape
Sidewalk 8 feet
Planter 6 feet
Planter Tree Spacing (max.) 40 feet on-center
Planter Type Landscaped
Travelway
Parallel Parking 7 feet
Travel Lane 9 feet
  H.
Local Street Commercial/Mixed-Use
EXPAND
Width
Right-of-way Width 70 feet
Face of curb to face of curb width 34 feet
Streetscape
Sidewalk Min. 10 feet
Planter 7 feet
Planter Tree Spacing (max.) 40 feet on-center
Planter Type Landscaped/Hardscaped*
Travelway
Parallel Parking 7 feet
Travel Lane 10 feet
  *Planter may be landscaped or hardscaped, but all trees shall be planted in a landscape area with a minimum size of 6 feet by 10 feet.
I.
Residential Alley
EXPAND
Width
Right-of-way or
Easement Width 20 feet
Paved Width 16 feet
Shoulder 2 feet
Travelway
Parallel Parking Not allowed
Travel Lane 16 feet
  J.
Commercial/Mixed-Use Alley
EXPAND
Width
Right-of-way or
Easement Width 20 feet
Paved Width 20 feet
Shoulder 0 feet
Travelway
Parallel Parking Not allowed
Travel Lanes 10 feet
  87.3.4. Existing Streets, Streetscapes
A.
Applicability. A building or site may be renovated or repaired without meeting the requirements of this Section, provided any increase in gross floor area or improved site area does not exceed 25%.
B.
Exceptions. This does not apply as follows:
1.
On a parcel located within a recorded subdivision that existed on the date of adoption of this ordinance and when no sidewalks currently exist adjacent to the parcel.
2.
On a parcel for which a Land Disturbance Permit or Building Permit is issued but where the Director of Community Development determines that the permit is for an accessory use or structure to the principal use or structure or for minor repairs or additions to the principal building or structure in existence.
C.
Streetscapes Required
1.
Existing streets, planters, and sidewalk that do not meet the width and planting standards of the Perry Form Based Code Streetscape Table must be brought into compliance with the current standards prior to the issuance of Certificate of Occupancy.
2.
On existing streets where there is insufficient right-of-way for the required streetscape improvements, the right- of-way needed for such improvements may be expanded by mutual agreement between the property owner and the entity holding the right-of-way, or a public access easement may be provided to the City to meet the required improvements.
3.
Where an easement is provided to the City and a parcel is zoned part of the Form Based Code, the back of the minimum required sidewalk (adjacent to the lot) may be considered the lot line for the purpose of establishing yards, may not be included in lot coverage calculations, and may not be counted in minimum lot size requirements for new lots.
Perry Form Based Code Streetscape Table
EXPAND
Street Type and Parcel Zoning District
(both must be met) Planter Sidewalk
Arterial (existing) IMU, MUC, NMU, FBR 6 feet 10 feet
Arterial (existing) All other Districts 6 feet 6 feet
Collector (existing or proposed) IMU, MUC, NMU, FBR 6 feet 10 feet
Collector (existing or proposed) All other Districts 6 feet 6 feet
Green (existing or proposed) IMU, MUC, NMU, FBR 8 feet 10 feet
Green (existing or proposed) All other Districts 8 feet 8 feet
Local (existing or proposed) IMU, MUC, NMU, FBR 6 feet 10 feet
Local (existing or proposed) All other Districts 6 feet 8 feet
  4.
Where a publically funded streetscape project using alternative planter standards was installed adjacent to a parcel after the date of adoption, the planter standards of Perry Form Based Code Streetscape Table do not apply.
87.3.5. Multi-Use Trails
A.
Multi-use trails shall have an average width of 12 feet, but their width may be periodically reduced to 8 feet where topography, wetlands, stream buffers, existing buildings, existing trees, or other existing conditions render this requirement infeasible. The maximum length of this reduced width is 400 feet.
B.
A multi-use trail may be required instead of a sidewalk along any new or existing street when the location is identified for a multi-use trail in the Official Regulating Plan or other plan that has been adopted by the City of Perry.
C.
Where a City of Perry park or access easement held by the City of Perry abuts a street subject to Section 87.3.5.A above, the multi-use trail may also be located in such park or easement.
D.
In approving a multi-use trail in lieu of a sidewalk, the Community Developer Director or their designee may reduce the planter width to a minimum width of 5 feet.
87.3.6. Improvements along State Roadways
A.
For any development that abuts a State highway or other right-of-way controlled by the State of Georgia, improvements to the roadway and the location and design of any street or driveway providing access from the State highway must comply with the standards and requirements of the Georgia Department of Transportation.
B.
An approved permit for proposed access or improvements is required by Georgia Department of Transportation and must be incorporated into the construction drawings for the project prior to the issuance of a Land Disturbance Permit.
87.3.7. Planter
A.
Defined. A zone adjacent to the curb intended for planting street trees and the placement of street furniture including light poles, litter receptacles and similar items.
B.
Street trees shall be planted in the planter as follows:
1.
Where no overhead utilities exist, shade trees must be planted a maximum of 40 feet on center in the planter. Newly planted trees shall be a minimum of 3½ inches in caliper, and shall be limbed up to a minimum of 7 feet.
2.
Where overhead utilities exist, one understory tree must planted a maximum of 25 feet on center in the planter, subject to approval of the overhead utility provider and the City Arborist.
3.
Trees shall have a minimum 6 feet by 10 feet pervious landscape planting area. Tree grates are not allowed unless the City Arborist determines that they will not negatively impact tree health.
(Ord. No. 2017-25, § 2, 12-19-17)
Sec. 87.4. - Parking and Loading.
87.4.1. Vehicle Parking
A.
Every use must provide and maintain vehicular parking in accordance with the vehicular parking requirements of Section 6-1 of the Perry Land Management Ordinance.
B.
Parking in the following locations may be used to satisfy the minimum parking requirements:
1.
Off-street parking located on the same site or lot as the use it serves;
2.
On-street parking located adjacent to and on the same side of the street as the site or lot contain the use it serves; and
3.
Off-site parking within 500 feet of the use it serves (as measured along a pedestrian walkway from the door of the use the parking serves).
C.
Shared Parking. A reduction of the parking requirements of 87.4.1.A may be permitted subject to the following:
1.
Applicants for shared parking shall submit the following to the Director of Community Development:
a.
A shared parking analysis using the Urban Land Institute (ULI) Shared Parking Model (latest edition);
b.
A to-scale map indicating location of proposed shared parking spaces; and
c.
Written consent of property owners and businesses agreeing to the shared parking arrangement, including copies of executed and court recorded agreements for off-site parking, as applicable.
2.
Uses providing shared parking must have either mutually exclusive or compatibly overlapping normal hours of operations.
3.
Reductions in the total number of required spaces for shared parking are not permitted unless the Planning and Zoning Administrator determines a reduction is appropriate on a case-by-case basis through use of the ULI Shared Parking Model.
4.
Renewed parking agreements shall be filed with the Director of Community Development. Lapse of a required lease agreement shall terminate the shared parking reduction.
5.
All shared parking spaces shall be clearly marked and signed as reserved during specified hours.
D.
When a use provides more than 100% of the minimum number of spaces required by the Vehicular Parking Requirements Table, any additional spaces in a surface parking lot must be constructed of pervious paving materials. For the purpose of conforming to this requirement, any on-street spaces or off-street spaces in parking structures must be counted towards satisfying the minimum requirement.
87.4.2. Bicycle Parking
A.
Facilities that provide or require 10 or more vehicle parking spaces must provide a minimum of 2 bicycle parking space, plus 1 space for each additional 25 provided vehicle parking spaces, provided that no site may have fewer than 2 spaces nor be required to exceed bicycle 30 spaces.
B.
Bicycle parking facilities must comply with the following provisions.
1.
Each required bicycle parking space must be at least 2 feet by 6 feet. Where a bike can be locked on both sides of a bicycle rack without conflict, each side can be counted as a required space.
2.
Bicycle racks must be securely anchored, be easily usable with both U-locks and cable locks, and support a bicycle at 2 points of contact to prevent damage to the bicycle wheels and frame.
3.
Bicycle parking must be provided in a well-lit area.
4.
Spacing of the bicycle racks must provide clear and maneuverable access.
5.
Bicycle parking may be placed within the public right-of-way, provided the encroachment is approved by the Community Developer Director or their designee.
6.
Bicycle parking spaces must be as close as or closer than the nearest vehicle parking space (as measured along a pedestrian walkway from the door of the use the parking serves).
87.4.3. Driveways
A.
Applicability. This following applies to driveways, including those serving alleys, but not to new streets in conformance with Section 87.3.3.
B.
Width. Unless approved by the Community Developer Director or their designee or required by the Georgia Department of Transportation along a State roadway, the maximum width of curb cuts, not including flares or returns at the throat of the facility, for entrances, exits, service drives and similar facilities shall be 24 feet for two-way entrances and 12 feet for one-way entrances.
C.
Number. The maximum number of driveways allowed on a site shall not exceed an amount equal to one driveway for every 300 feet of total street frontage or fraction thereof. All parcels are permitted at least one driveway.
D.
Location. Driveways may not be located on an arterial street when access is available from a collector or local street.
87.4.4. Design of Parking Structures
A.
When a parking structure fronts an arterial or collector street its ground story must have active uses (such as, but not limited to, residential, commercial, office or civic space) located between the parking structure and the closest adjacent street (not including an alley). Such active use shall have a minimum depth of 20 feet.
B.
Where upper stories of structured parking are adjacent to or visible from any street, they must be screened so that cars and ramps are not clearly visible from ground level view from the adjacent parcel or the adjacent street (not including an alley).
C.
Structured parking facades adjacent to or visible from any street must have the appearance of a horizontal storied building.
87.4.5. Loading
A.
On-site loading space is not required.
B.
Loading areas must be located to the rear of buildings. Loading areas must not be placed between a building and the closest adjacent street.
C.
Screening. If a loading area is provided, it must meet the following.
1.
Where a loading dock designed for tractor-trailers is placed between a shared lot line or building and the closest adjacent street (not including an alley), the entire length of the loading area must be screened.
2.
Screening must consist of either:
a.
An 8-foot high wall compatible with the principal building in terms of texture, quality, material and color; or
b.
Evergreen plant material that can be expected to reach a height of 8 feet with a spread of 4 feet within 3 years of planting.
87.4.6. Vehicle Access and Parking Locations
A.
No driveway or off-street parking lots may be located between a building and the closest street unless an intervening approved building type exists.
B.
Off-street parking for the following must be accessed from alleys:
1.
Townhouses on lots of any width.
2.
All other building types on lots less than 50 feet in width.
C.
Where a garage faces a street the garage must be recessed a minimum distance of 20 feet behind the front building façade.
(Ord. No. 2017-25, § 2, 12-19-17)
Sec. 87.5. - Landscaping and Screening.
87.5.1. Applicability
A.
New Construction. Any new building or site improvement must comply with the landscaping and screening requirements of this Section.
B.
Maintenance and Repair. An existing building or site may be repaired, maintained or modernized without providing additional landscaping or screening, provided there is no increase in gross floor area or improved site area.
C.
Additions.
1.
When an existing building, use or site is increased in gross floor area or improved site area by up to 25% cumulatively, landscaping and screening is required for the additional floor or site area only.
2.
When an existing building, use or site is increased in gross floor area or improved site area by more than 25% cumulatively, both the existing building, use or site and the additional floor or site area must conform to the landscaping and screening requirements of this Section.
D.
Change in Use. A change in use does not trigger the application of these requirements except when there is a specific use standard requiring landscaping or screening for the new use.
87.5.2. Yard Landscaping
A.
Yards between a parking lots and a street must comply with Section 87.5.3.
B.
Yards greater than 5 feet in depth and located between a building and the closest adjacent sidewalk along a street must be landscaped with grass, trees, shrubs, hedges and other landscaping materials for their entire width, with the exception of areas used for:
1.
Front porches and stoops;
2.
Outdoor dining or display;
3.
Pedestrian walkways used to access a street-facing pedestrian entrance;
4.
Driveways used to access off-street parking; and
5.
Amenity space, where required by Article 3.
C.
Yards greater than 10 feet in depth must be planted with one tree for each 30 feet of street frontage or portion thereof.
87.5.3. Parking Lot Landscape Strips
A.
Applicability. All surface parking areas (of any size) abutting a street (not including an alley) must be screened using one of the following options.
B.
Landscape Strip with Shrubs. A minimum 10 feet wide landscape strip planted with a minimum of 10 shrubs per 35 linear feet of street frontage, excluding driveway openings. Shrubs shall be provided to screen paved areas and parking lots from the right-of-way. Shrubs shall be at least 2 feet tall at time of planting. They must be planted 2 rows deep, and provide a screen within 3 years of planting.
C.
Landscape Strip with Wall.
1.
A 2.5 feet high wall in a minimum 4-foot planting strip.
2.
Walls must be close to the parking lot in order to provide a minimum 2-foot landscaped area facing the street.
3.
Walls must be closed and be constructed of one or a combination of the following: decorative blocks; brick; stone; cast-stone; split-faced block; or stucco over standard concrete masonry blocks.
D.
Landscape Strip with Berm.
1.
An earth berm a minimum of 2.5 feet higher than the finished elevation of the parking area, planted with 5 shrubs for every 35 linear feet of street frontage, excluding driveway openings.
2.
The berm must contain a rounded crown suitable for planting, and a stabilized side slope of no greater than 3:1.
E.
Landscape Strip with Grade Change. A 6-foot landscaped strip with a minimum 3-foot grade drop from the street to the parking area, planted with a minimum of 5 shrubs for every 35 linear feet of street frontage, excluding driveway openings.
F.
Location. A required landscape strip must be located at the outer perimeter of the parking area and must be provided along the entire parking area abutting the street, excluding breaks for pedestrians, bicycles and driveways.
G.
Plant Material. Required shrubs must be a minimum of 2.5 feet in height at time of planting. 70% of the required amount of shrubs must be evergreen.
87.5.4. Screening
A.
Service Areas.
1.
Trash and recycling collection and other similar service areas must be located to the side or rear of buildings and may not between a building and the street.
2.
Service areas must be screened on 3 sides by a wall a minimum 6 feet in height and on the 4th side by a solid gate at a minimum of 6 feet in height.
3.
The wall must be opaque and be constructed of one or a combination of the following: decorative blocks; brick; stone; cast-stone; split-faced block; or stucco over standard concrete masonry blocks.
4.
The gate must be self-locking and maintained in good working order.
B.
Roof-Mounted Equipment.
1.
Roof-mounted equipment must be set back at least 10 feet from the edge of the roof and screened from ground level view from abutting parcel or abutting street (not including an alley).
2.
New buildings must provide a parapet wall or other architectural element that is compatible with the principal building in terms of texture, quality, material, and color that fully screens roof-mounted equipment from ground level view.
3.
For buildings with no or low parapet walls, roof mounted equipment must be screened on all sides by an opaque screen compatible with the principal building in terms of texture, quality, material, and color.
C.
Wall-Mounted Equipment.
1.
Wall-mounted equipment located on any surface that is visible from a street (not including an alley) must be fully screened by landscaping or an opaque wall or fence that is compatible with the principal building in terms of texture, quality, material, and color.
2.
Screening must be of a height equal to or greater than the height of the mechanical equipment being screened.
D.
Ground-Mounted Equipment
1.
Ground-mounted mechanical equipment that is visible from a street (not including an alley) must be fully screened by landscaping or an opaque wall or fence that is compatible with the principal building in terms of texture, quality, material and color.
2.
Screening must be of a height equal to or greater than the height of the mechanical equipment being screened.
87.5.5. Design and Installation
A.
Plant Material.
1.
Plant materials must be hardy to zone 8 in accordance with the U.S. Department of Agriculture's Plant Hardiness Zone Map.
2.
Plant materials must be able to survive on natural rainfall once established with no loss of health.
3.
Tree height is measured from the top of the root ball to the tip of the main stem.
4.
No artificial plants, trees, or other vegetation may be installed as required landscaping and screening
87.5.6. Maintenance of Landscaping
A.
Responsibility. The property owner is responsible for maintaining all required landscaping and screening in good health and condition. Any dead, unhealthy, damaged or missing landscaping and screening must be replaced with landscaping and screening that conforms to this Section within 90 days (or within 180 days where weather concerns would jeopardize the health of plant materials) as approved by the City Arborist.
B.
Soil Erosion.
1.
All planting areas must be stabilized from soil erosion immediately upon planting and must be maintained for the duration of the use.
2.
Grass areas must be sodded prior to the issuance of a Certificate of Occupancy. If grass seed must be used, it must be a variety that may be reasonably expected to produce full coverage of the area.
C.
Pruning and Trimming
1.
All required landscaping must be allowed to reach its required size and must be maintained at no less than required size.
2.
To prevent long-term harm to the health of required landscaping, all pruning of shrubs and trees must be done in accordance with the International Society of Arboriculture Standards entitled "ANSI A300 Standards."
3.
"Topping," defined as removal of more than one-third of the leaves and branches of a tree, as measured from the lowest branch on the trunk of the tree to the top of the tree, is prohibited, except where necessary to maintain public overhead utilities.
(Ord. No. 2017-25, § 2, 12-19-17)
Sec. 87.6. - Neighborhood Compatibility.
87.6.1. Applicability
A.
Neighborhood compatibility measures are required when a lot zoned or used for a multifamily dwelling, office, institutional, commercial, industrial uses, or occupied by a non-detached residential use adjoins a protected district
B.
Protected district as used in this Section means any property zoned for or used exclusively for detached residential purposes.
87.6.2. Buffers
A.
A 25 feet wide undisturbed buffer is required as shown in the Form Based Buffer Table.
EXPAND
Form Based Buffer Table
Depth (min.) 25 ft.
Fence/wall height
(min.) Not required
Shade trees (min. per 100 feet and evenly spaced) 5
Understory trees (min. per 100 feet in length and evenly spaced) 4
Shrubs (min. per 100 feet in length and evenly spaced) 40
  B.
Except as otherwise provided, herein, the buffer shall be preserved in its natural undisturbed state, except that sparsely planted buffers shall be enhanced with additional plant material. Enhancement plants must provide an opaque screen within two years of planting and must meet the following standards:
1.
Plants must be a minimum of 5 feet in height at time of installation;
2.
At least 75% of the total number of plants installed must be evergreen species; and
3.
Plants will be planted and spaced as shown in the Form Based Buffer Table.
C.
Buffers may not contain any surface parking or storm water, detention facilities, or any structures except that the Director of Community Development may approve underground facilities within the buffer or the crossing of the buffer for the purpose of extending utilities.
D.
Stream buffers must be replanted where disturbed for approved access, detention and utility crossings. Replacement plants must be approved by the City Arborist.
E.
All buffer plantings are subject to the approval of the Director of Community Development.
87.6.3. Building Setbacks
All building setbacks are measured from the inside edge of the required buffer.
87.6.4. Transitional Height Plane
A.
A building must not extend into a 45-degree angular plane projecting over the subject property measured from a height of 35 feet at the side interior or rear setback line.
B.
The transitional height plane ends at any public street (not including an alley) or 60 feet from the protected district lot line, whichever is less.
(Ord. No. 2017-25, § 2, 12-19-17)
Sec. 87.7. - Building Types.
The following rules apply to all buildings in the Perry Form Based Code.
87.7.1. Descriptions
Within the Perry Form Based Code building types are used to regulate the design of buildings. Each building type is described below. A building's building type is determined by the Director of Community Development. All graphic depictions of building types are for illustrative purposes only. Note that these building types are for zoning purposes only, and not linked to the Building Code. Freestanding parking structures are not considered to be a building type.
A.
Detached House. A building type that accommodates one dwelling unit on an individual lot with yards on all sides. Not intended for nonresidential uses.
B.
Carriage House. A small self-contained accessory dwelling unit located on the same lot as a detached house, duplex, or townhouse but physically separated, for use as a complete, independent living facility, with provisions for cooking, sanitation and sleeping.
C.
Cottage Court. A building type designed to accommodate 5 to 10 detached dwelling units organized around a shared internal courtyard. Units cannot be vertically mixed.
D.
Duplex. A building type that accommodates two dwelling units arranged either horizontally or vertically. Not intended for nonresidential uses.
E.
Townhouse. A building type that accommodates 3 or more dwelling units where each unit is separated by a common side wall. Units cannot be vertically mixed.
F.
Walk-up Flat. A building type that accommodates 3 to 8 dwelling units vertically and horizontally integrated.
G.
Stacked Flat. A building type that accommodates 9 or more dwelling units vertically and horizontally integrated.
H.
Commercial House. A building type that accommodates nonresidential uses in a building type that resembles a detached house. Not intended for residential uses.
I.
Shopfront. A single-story building type that typically accommodates single-use retail or commercial activity.
J.
Mixed Use Building. A multi-story building type that typically accommodates ground story retail, office, or commercial uses with upper-story residential or office uses. Not for ground story street-facing residential uses along arterial or collector streets.
K.
General Building. A multi-story building type that typically accommodates nonresidential uses such as industrial, hotel, or office uses on all stories.
L.
Civic Building. A building type that accommodates civic uses. Not intended for commercial, retail, office, or residential uses.
87.7.2. Rules Specific to Building Types
A.
Detached House
A building type that accommodates one dwelling unit on an individual lot with yards on all sides. Not intended for nonresidential uses.
EXPAND
Lot
Detached house units per lot: 1 max.
Size
Dwelling floor area: 900 sf min.
(heated)
Pedestrian Access
Entrance facing street: Required
Walkway width: 3 ft min./5 ft max.
  B.
Carriage House
A small self-contained accessory dwelling unit located on the same lot as a detached house, duplex, or townhouse but physically separated, for use as a complete, independent living facility, with provisions for cooking, sanitation and sleeping.
EXPAND
Lot
Carriage house units per lot: 1 max.
Size
Dwelling Floor Area: 700 sf max.
(excluding
garage)
Bedrooms: 1 max.
Pedestrian Access
Entrance facing street: Not Required
Walkway width: n/a
  C.
Cottage Court
A building type designed to accommodate 5 to 10 detached dwelling units organized around a shared internal courtyard. Units cannot be vertically mixed.
EXPAND
Site
Site width/depth: 150 ft min.
Cottage court units per site: 5 min./10 max.
Courtyard
Area: 3,000 sf min.
Width: 40 ft min.
Courtyard may not be parked or driven upon, except for emergency access and permitted temporary events.
Pedestrian Access
Entrance facing street: Required for
units along
street
Walkway width: 3 ft min./5 ft max.
  D.
Duplex
A building type that accommodates two dwelling units arranged either horizontally or vertically. Not intended for nonresidential uses.
EXPAND
Lot
Duplex units per lot: 2 max.
Pedestrian Access
Entrance facing street: Required
Walkway width: 3 ft min./5 ft max.
  E.
Townhouse
A building type that accommodates 3 or more dwelling units where each unit is separated by a common side wall. Units cannot be vertically mixed. Not intended for nonresidential uses.
EXPAND
Site
Townhouse units per site: 3 min.
Townhouse units in a row: 8 max.
Fenestration
Ground floor: 15% min.
Upper story: 15% min./35% max.
Blank wall area: 20 ft max. (per story)
Pedestrian Access
Entrance facing street: Required for units along street
Walkway width: 3 ft min./5 ft max.
Parking Location
No on-site parking is allowed between the building and the street.
Design
No more than three adjacent units may have identical facade designs. Differentiation between adjacent units may be accomplished by a change in materials, building height, color, roof form, or setbacks.
  F.
Walk-up Flat
A building type that accommodates 3 to 8 dwelling units vertically and horizontally integrated.
EXPAND
Site
Walk-up flat units per building: 3 min./8 max.
Fenestration
Ground floor: 20% min.
Upper story: 20% min./40% max.
Blank wall area: 20 ft max. (per story)
Pedestrian Access
Entrance facing street: Required for lobby (if provided) or ground floor units along street (if no lobby)
Walkway width: 3 ft min./6 ft max.
Parking Location
No on-site parking is allowed between the building and the street.
  G.
Stacked Flat
A building type that accommodates 9 or more dwelling units vertically and horizontally integrated. Intended for primarily residential uses, but may include limited ground story commercial.
EXPAND
Site
Stacked flat units per building: 9 min.
Street facing façade length: 200 ft max.
Fenestration
Ground floor: 20% min.
Upper story: 20% min./40% max.
Blank wall area: 20 ft max. (per story)
Pedestrian Access
Entrance facing street: Required for lobby and ground floor units along street
Walkway width: 3 ft min./8 ft max.
Parking Location
No on-site parking is allowed between the building and the street.
  H.
Commercial House
A building type that accommodates nonresidential uses in a building type that resembles a detached house. Not intended for residential uses.
EXPAND
Site
Street facing façade length: 50 ft max.
Fenestration
Ground floor: 15% min./30% max.
Upper story: 15% min./30% max.
Blank wall area: 20 ft max. (per story)
Pedestrian Access
Entrance facing street: Required for businesses facing street
Walkway width: 6 ft min.
Parking Location
No on-site parking is allowed between the building and the street.
  I.
Shopfront
A single-story building type that typically accommodates single-use retail or commercial activity.
EXPAND
Site
Street facing façade length: 200 ft max.
Height
Ground floor height
(floor to ceiling): 14 ft min.
Fenestration
Ground floor: arterial or collector/local street: 70% min./30% min.
Blank wall area: arterial or collector/local street: 30 ft max./50 ft max.
Pedestrian Access
Entrance facing street: Required every 75 ft of
frontage
Walkway width: 6 ft min.
Parking Location
No on-site parking is allowed between the building and the street.
  J.
Mixed Use Building
A multi-story building type that typically accommodates ground story retail, office or commercial uses with upper-story residential or office uses. Not intended for ground story, street-facing residential uses along arterial or collector streets.
EXPAND
Site
Street facing façade length: 200 ft max.
Height
Ground floor height (floor to ceiling): 14 ft min.
Fenestration
Ground floor: arterial or collector/local street: 70% min./30% min.
Blank wall area: arterial or collector/local street: 30 ft max./50 ft max.
Upper story: 20% min./40% max.
Pedestrian Access
Entrance facing street: Required every 75 ft of
frontage
Walkway width: 6 ft min.
Parking Location
No on-site parking is allowed between the building and the street.
  K.
General Building
A multi-story building type that typically accommodates nonresidential uses such as industrial, hotel, or office uses on all stories.
EXPAND
Site
Street facing façade length: 200 ft max.
Height
Ground floor height (floor to ceiling): 11 ft min.
Fenestration
Ground floor: arterial or collector/local street: 50% min./20% min.
Blank wall area: arterial or collector/local street: 40 ft max./60 ft max.
Upper story 20% min.
Pedestrian Access
Entrance facing street: Required every 150 ft of
frontage
Walkway width: 6 ft min.
Parking Location
No on-site parking is allowed between the building and the street.
  L.
Civic Building
A building type that accommodates civic uses. Not intended for commercial, retail, office, or residential uses.
EXPAND
Fenestration
Ground floor: 15% min.
Blank wall area: 60 ft max.
Upper story: 15% min.
Pedestrian Access
Entrance facing street: Required
Walkway width: 6 ft min.
Parking Location
No on-site parking is allowed between the building and the street.
  (Ord. No. 2017-25, § 2, 12-19-17; Ord. No. 2019-03, § 4, 2-5-19)
Sec. 87.8. - Building Design.
87.8.1. Applicable
This Section applies to the Building Types identified in Section Sec. 87.7.
87.8.2. Fenestration
A.
Fenestration is the minimum percentage of window and door glass that must cover a facade.
B.
Glass used to satisfy fenestration requirements must be unpainted, must have a transparency (visible light transmission) higher than 70%, and must have an external reflectance of less than 15%. Transparency and external light reflectance must be established using the manufacturer's specifications.
C.
Fenestration is measured from the top of the finished floor to the top of the finished floor above.
D.
When there is no floor above, fenestration is measured from the top of the finished floor to the top of the wall plate.
87.8.3. Pedestrian Access
A.
A pedestrian entrance and walkway providing both ingress and egress, operable to residents at all times and operable to customer, visitors, and employees during business hours, is required to meet the street-facing pedestrian entrance requirements. Additional entrances off another street, pedestrian area or internal parking area are permitted, but must have the same or shorter hours of operability as the street-facing entrance.
B.
An angled pedestrian entrance may be provided at either corner of a building along the street to meet the street-facing pedestrian entrance requirements.
C.
Where a lot has frontage on a civic space instead of a street, these requirement apply to and from the civic space.
87.8.4. Building Elements
A.
Intent. The following standards are intended to ensure that certain building elements that when added to a street-facing facade are of sufficient size to be both usable and functional and be architecturally compatible with the building they are attached to.
B.
Front Porch. A raised structure attached to a building, forming a covered pedestrian entrance to a doorway.
1.
A front porch must be at least 6 feet deep (not including the steps).
2.
A front porch must be contiguous, with a width not less than 33% of the building facade from which it projects.
3.
A front porch must be roofed and may be screened, but cannot be fully enclosed.
4.
A front porch may extend up to 9 feet, including the steps, into a required front setback, provided that such extension is at least 2 feet from the vertical plane of any lot line.
5.
A front porch must not encroach into the public right-of-way or required sidewalk.
6.
Steps leading to front porches must have enclosed risers.
7.
Front porch columns must be a minimum width of 8 inches.
C.
Stoop. A small raised platform that serves as a pedestrian entrance to a building.
1.
A stoop must be no more than 6 feet deep (not including the steps).
2.
A stoop may be covered but cannot be fully enclosed.
3.
A stoop may extend up to 6 feet, including the steps, into a required setback, provided that such extension is at least 2 feet from the vertical plane of any lot line.
4.
A stoop must not encroach into the public right-of-way or required sidewalk.
5.
Steps leading to stoops must have enclosed risers.
6.
Stoop columns, where provided, must be a minimum width of 8 inches.
D.
Balcony. A platform projecting from the wall of an upper-story of a building with a railing along its outer edge, often with access from a door or window.
1.
A balcony must be at least 4 feet deep and may extend up to 6 feet into a required setback, provided that such extension is at least 2 feet from the vertical plane of any lot line.
2.
A balcony must have a clear height above the sidewalk of at least 10 feet.
3.
A balcony may be covered and screened, but cannot be fully enclosed.
4.
A balcony may encroach up to 6 feet into the public right-of-way or required sidewalk but must be at least 2 feet inside the curb line or edge of pavement, whichever is greater.
E.
Awning/Canopy. A wall-mounted, cantilevered structure providing shade and cover from the weather for a sidewalk.
1.
An awning must be a minimum of 10 feet clear height above the sidewalk and must have a minimum depth of 6 feet.
2.
An awning may extend into a required setback.
3.
An awning may encroach up to 9 feet into the public right-of-way or required sidewalk but must be at least 2 feet inside the curb line or edge of pavement, whichever is greater.
4.
Awning must be made of canvas and may not be reflective or shiny.
5.
Awnings must have open ends called "shed awnings" to allow views into buildings.
6.
Awnings may not be internally lit.
7.
Awnings must be as wide as, or up to two feet wider than, the door or window opening that they serve. Where multiple doors and windows are less than two feet apart, multiple awnings may be combined into a single awning.
F.
Gallery. A covered passage extending along the outside wall of a building supported by arches or columns that is open on 3 sides.
1.
A gallery must have a clear depth from the support columns to the building's facade of at least 8 feet and a clear height above the sidewalk of at least 10 feet.
2.
A gallery must be contiguous and extend over at least 75% of the width of the building facade from which it projects.
3.
A gallery may extend into a required setback.
4.
A gallery may encroach up 9 feet into the public right-of-way or required sidewalk but must be at least 2 feet inside the curb line or edge of pavement, whichever is greater.
87.8.5. General Architectural Standards
A.
Applicability
1.
The following applies to all buildings, except as specifically stated otherwise.
2.
Detached houses, carriages houses, cottage courts, duplexes, townhouses, walk-up flats, and stacked flats must comply with either the following or Section 87.8.6, at the discretion of the applicant.
B.
Building Materials
1.
Exterior finish materials on walls visible from a street or civic space must be limited to brick, manufactured stone, architectural block, natural stone, wood siding, cement-based siding, cement-based panels, and/or hard coat stucco.
2.
Hard coat stucco, when used as an exterior wall finish material on any individual building, is subject to the following additional standards:
a.
Hard coat stucco may not exceed 30% of the total wall area (excluding foundations) visible from a street or civic space. For the purpose of calculating conformance with this requirement, windows and doors are not included in the total wall area.
b.
The maximum wall length (excluding foundations) visible from a street or civic space that is finished in any continuous or discontinuous hard coat stucco is 60 feet. Authorized wall lengths finished in hard coat stucco must be separated by a minimum wall length of 60 feet that contains no hard coat stucco.
3.
Exterior finish materials must be combined only horizontally, with the visually heavier below the lighter as shown in the General Visual Weight Table. This does not apply to architectural details such as cornices, window sills, and beltlines.
4.
No more than three different exterior finish materials, textures, colors, or combinations thereof may be used on a single building, excluding materials used on windows, doors, front porches, balconies, foundations, awnings, or architectural details.
5.
Foundations must be constructed as a distinct building element that is finished in a different material or color than the exterior wall. Exposed above-ground foundations must be coated or faced in cement, hard coat stucco, brick, manufactured stone, or natural stone to contrast with façade materials.
C.
Building Facade
1.
The following applies to all street-facing facades.
2.
Where used, shutters must match one half the width and shape of the window opening to which they are adjacent.
3.
Facades must provide visual divisions between the ground story and second story through architectural means such as courses, awnings, or a change in materials.
4.
Windows above the ground story must be equally sized, vertically oriented, equally spaced and arranged in a grid pattern.
5.
Window must be recessed a minimum of 3 inches and a maximum of 8 inches from the adjacent façade.
D.
Building Massing
1.
Facades over 50 feet in length must incorporate wall projections or recesses a minimum of 12 inches in depth. The combined length of said recesses and projections must constitute at least 20% of the total facade length.
2.
Variation in the roofline of buildings and offsets in pitched roofs and gables are required. Parapets in individual building facades exceeding 100 continuous linear feet must be varied in height and projection and must use decorative elements such as crown moldings, dentals, brick soldier courses, or similar details.
87.8.6. Small Residential Building Standards
A.
Applicability. The following applies to detached houses, carriages houses, cottage courts, duplexes, townhouses, walk-up flats, stacked flats, and commercial houses.
B.
Building Materials
1.
The exterior finish material on all walls is limited to brick, manufactured stone, natural stone, wood siding, cement-based siding and/or hard coat stucco.
2.
Exterior finish materials must be combined only horizontally, with the visually heavier below the lighter as shown in the Small Residential Building Visual Weight Table. This does not apply to architectural details such as cornices, window sills, and beltlines.
3.
No more than three different exterior finish materials, textures, colors, or combinations thereof may be used on a single building, excluding materials used on windows, doors, porches, balconies, foundations, or architectural details.
4.
Foundations must be constructed as a distinct building element that is finished in a different material or color than the exterior wall. Exposed above-ground foundations must be coated or faced in cement, hard coat stucco, brick, manufactured stone, or natural stone to contrast with façade materials.
C.
Building Facades
1.
The following apply to all street-facing facades.
2.
Windows and Doors
a.
Where used, shutters must match one half the width and shape of the window opening to which they are adjacent.
b.
Doors and windows that operate as sliders are prohibited
c.
All windows must be vertically shaped with a height greater than width. The top of said windows must generally be in alignment with the top of the adjacent door frame.
d.
Windows must have true or simulated divided lights or be one-over-one lights.
e.
Windows must include sills of wood, masonry, stone, cast stone, or terra cotta.
f.
Window frames must be recessed a minimum of 1.5 inches from the exterior façade.
3.
A stoop or front porch is required.
4.
Awnings are not allowed.
D.
Building Massing
1.
Pitched roofs, if provided, must be symmetrically sloped no less than 5:12, except that roofs for front porches and attached sheds may be no less than 2:12.
2.
Flat roofs must be enclosed by parapets a minimum of 42 inches high, or as required to conceal mechanical equipment by Section 87.5.4.
3.
All roofs must have a minimum 25-year roof life and no visible roll roofing.
4.
Chimneys, where provided, must extend to the ground and must be faced in brick or stacked stone.
(Ord. No. 2017-25, § 2, 12-19-17)
Sec. 87.9. - Tree Protection.
87.9.1. Applicability
A.
This Section applies to all sites in the Perry Form Based Code except detached residential lots.
B.
Detached residential lots must comply with the full requirements of Section 6-4 of the Perry Land Management Ordinance.
C.
Sites subject to this Section and with a building coverage under 70% must comply with the full requirements of Section 6-4 of the Perry Land Management Ordinance.
D.
Site subject to this Section and with a building coverage of 70% or more must comply with one of the following:
1.
The full requirements of Section 6-4 of the Perry Land Management Ordinance; or
2.
The requirements of Section 2.9.2 below.
87.9.2. Minimum Site Density Requirements
A.
A minimum of one Overstory tree must be provided on-site for every 400 square feet of a site not covered by buildings.
B.
The required Overstory tree must have a minimum 4-inch caliper.
C.
The required number of Overstory trees may be achieved by counting existing trees to be preserved, planting new trees according to the standards of this Section, or some combination of the two.
D.
All sites shall comply with the applicable street tree requirements in the adjacent street.
(Ord. No. 2017-25, § 2, 12-19-17)
ARTICLE 88. - FORM BASED CODE ZONING DISTRICTS

Sec. 88.1. - Applicability.
A.
The requirements of this Article apply to all Form Based Zoning Districts.
B.
The requirements of the Perry Land Management Ordinance also apply in all Downtown Districts unless expressly stated otherwise in this Article.
(Ord. No. 2017-25, § 2, 12-19-17)
Sec. 88.2. - Rules of Interpretation.
88.2.1. Site
Defined. A site is any lot or group of contiguous lots owned or functionally controlled by the same person or entity, assembled for the purpose of development. Lots within a site may be separated by an existing public right-of-way.
88.2.2. Lot
A.
Lot Frontage.
1.
Every lot (except cottage court lots) and every cottage court site must have frontage upon:
a.
An existing public street, or
b.
A new public street or private street built to standards of Section 87.3.3, or
c.
A civic space meeting the standards of Section 88.2.3.B or an existing City of Perry park. No more than 20% of the total lots in a site (except cottage court lots) may front on a civic space or existing City park.
2.
Alleys may not be used to satisfy the lot frontage requirements of Section 88.2.2.A.1 above.
3.
The minimum lot frontage is 20 feet or the minimum lot width identified in district regulations, whichever is greater.
4.
Lots having frontage on a civic space or existing City park must still comply with fire lane access requirements, as applicable.
88.2.3. Open Space
A.
Defined. Open space is the horizontal outdoor area of a site reserved to provide separation, resource protection, scenic enjoyment, recreation, or amenity. It includes two types: civic space and amenity space.
B.
Civic space. Civic space is the portion of open space for public use defined by the combination of certain physical constants including the relationships among their intended use, their size, their landscaping, and their adjacent buildings. Civic spaces are limited to the following types:
1.
Park. An open space available for structured or unstructured recreation. A park may be independent of surrounding buildings at its edges. Its landscape may consist of paths and trails, meadows and lawns, water bodies, and woodlands. Recreation fields and courts may also be included. The minimum size for a park is one acre.
2.
Square. An open space available for unstructured recreation and civic purposes. A square is spatially defined by building or streets at its edges. Its landscape must consist of paths and trees, and may also include lawns and non-asphalt paved surfaces. The minimum size for a square is one-half acre.
3.
Plaza. An open space, available for civic purposes and commercial activities. A plaza must be spatially defined by building or streets at its edges. Its landscape must consist primarily of non-asphalt paved surfaces and trees. The minimum size for a plaza is one-quarter acre.
4.
Pocket Park. An open space, available for unstructured recreation. A pocket park may be spatially defined by buildings or streets at its edges. Its landscape must consist of lawn and trees. There is no minimum size for pockets parks.
5.
Playground. An open space designed and equipped for the recreation of children. A playground must be fenced and may include an open shelter. Playgrounds must be interspersed within residential areas, may be placed within a block, and may be included in parks and greens. There is no minimum size for playgrounds.
C.
Amenity space. Amenity space is the covered or uncovered, but unenclosed, outdoor areas of at least 100 square feet each for use by the occupants, invitees and guests of the development and specifically excluding Civic Spaces and required sidewalks. Amenity spaces may include, but are not limited to:
1.
Rooftop decks;
2.
Balconies;
3.
Patios and porches;
4.
Outdoor dining areas;
5.
Pool areas;
6.
Tennis courts, basketball courts, and similar uses;
7.
Yards, lawns, and gardens;
8.
Hardscape areas improved for pedestrian enjoyment; and
9.
Wooded areas.
D.
Open space may be privately or publically owned. Private open space is open space that is owned by a corporation, individual, or homeowners association. Public open space is open space owned by a governmental agency.
E.
Wetlands, lakes, ponds, streams, rivers, flood zones, and stream buffers may only be considered open space when located within one of the five types of civic spaces identified in Section 3.2.4.B.
F.
No required buffer, except for stream buffers, may be used to satisfy open space requirements.
G.
Stormwater management facilities may not be used to satisfy open space requirements.
H.
No areas used for vehicles, except for incidental service, maintenance, or emergency actions, may be used to satisfy open space requirements.
I.
A site's Open space requirements shall be considered completely satisfied when a development incorporates a historic building that complies with all of the following:
1.
The building is deemed fit for human habitation in accordance with the adopted Perry City Municipal Codes concerning buildings and structures; and
2.
A binding legal agreement that established a program for guaranteeing maintenance of said building through a condominium association, a homeowner association, bonding, or other protective maintenance guarantees is signed by all property owners and/or their prospective successors in title and is submitted to the City of Perry.
J.
When a historic building used to satisfy open space requirements in accordance with Section 3.2.3.I is subsequently completely destroyed, the applicable open space requirements of the zoning district must be satisfied within one year unless a variance is granted by the City Council.
(Ord. No. 2017-25, § 2, 12-19-17)
Sec. 88.3. - Building Types Allowed.
Building types are allowed by Form Based Zoning District as shown below.
(Ord. No. 2017-25, § 2, 12-19-17)
Sec. 88.4. - Uses Allowed by District.
88.4.1. Allowed Use Table
A.
Uses allowed in the Form Based Code districts are listed in the Table of Uses in Section 4-1 of the Perry Land Management Ordinance.
(Ord. No. 2017-25, § 2, 12-19-17)
Sec. 88.5. - IMU: Interstate Mixed Use.
88.5.1. Purpose
The purpose of this district is to provide for mixed-use development compatible with adjacent highway area and includes a variety of commercial uses serving the entire city, civic uses, and residential uses.
88.5.2. Building Types Allowed
The following building types are allowed:
A.
Townhouse
B.
Walk-Up Flat
C.
Stacked Flat
D.
Shopfront
E.
Flex Building
F.
Mixed-Use Building
G.
General Building
H.
Civic Building
88.5.3. Dimensional Standards
EXPAND
Site Standards
Min. Amenity Space
Requirement: 10% of site
(all sites)
Min. Civic Space
Requirements: 10% of site
(only sites over 5 acres)
Lot Standards Ⓐ Area Ⓑ Width
Townhouse: 900 sf min. 20 ft min.
All other Building Types: No min. 20 ft min.
Lot Coverage
Ⓒ All Building Types: 70% max.
  88.5.4. Building Placement
EXPAND
Principal and Accessory Structure Setbacks
Ⓐ Front Yard: 10 ft. min., 40 ft max.
Ⓑ Side Yard: 0 ft. min.
Ⓒ Rear Yard (no alley): 10 ft. min.
Ⓒ Rear Yard (alley): 8 ft. min.
Greater side setbacks, greater rear setbacks, and greater building separation may be required as established by the applicable building or fire codes.
  88.5.5. Bulk and Mass
EXPAND
Building Height
Ⓐ Min. Street-Facing Façade Height in Feet: 18 ft
Ⓐ Max. Height in Stories: 5 stories
Ⓐ Max. Height in Feet: 60 ft
The minimum permitted building height is whichever of the above is more.
The maximum permitted building height is whichever of the above is less.
  (Ord. No. 2017-25, § 2, 12-19-17)
Sec. 88.6. - MUC: Mixed-Use Center.
88.6.1. Purpose
The purpose of this district is to provide for a variety of residential housing, commercial, and civic options along major nodes leading to Downtown Perry.
88.6.2. Building Types Allowed
The following building types are allowed:
A.
Townhouse
B.
Walk-Up Flat
C.
Stacked Flat
D.
Shopfront
E.
Mixed-Use Building
F.
General Building
G.
Civic Building
88.6.3. Dimensional Standards
EXPAND
Site Standards for All Sites
Min. Amenity Space
Requirement: 10% of site
(all sites)
Min. Civic Space Requirements: 10% of site
(only sites over 5 acres)
Lot Standards Ⓐ Area Ⓑ Width
Townhouse: 900 sf min. 20 ft min.
All other Building Types: No min. 20 ft min.
Lot Coverage
Ⓒ All Building Types: 80% max.
  88.6.4. Building Placement
EXPAND
Principal and Accessory Structure Setbacks
Ⓐ Front Yard: 5 ft. min., 10 ft max.
Ⓑ Side Yard: 0 ft. min.
Ⓒ Rear Yard (no alley) 6 ft. min.
Ⓒ Rear Yard (alley): 3 ft. min.
Greater side setbacks, greater rear setbacks, and greater building separation may be required as established by the applicable building or fire codes.
  88.6.5. Bulk and Mass
EXPAND
Building Height
Ⓐ Max. Height in Stories: 4 stories
Ⓐ Max. Height in Feet: 56 ft
The maximum permitted building height is whichever of the above is less.
  (Ord. No. 2017-25, § 2, 12-19-17)
Sec. 88.7. - NMU: Neighborhood Mixed-Use.
88.7.1. Purpose
The purpose of this district is to provide for a variety of residential housing options, civic uses, and limited commercial uses and developments that are compatible with residential surroundings.
88.7.2. Building Types Allowed
The following building types are allowed:
A.
Detached House
B.
Carriage House
C.
Duplex
D.
Townhouse
E.
Cottage Court
F.
Walk-Up Flat
G.
Commercial House
H.
Shopfront
I.
Flex Building
J.
Mixed-Use Building
K.
General Building
L.
Civic Building
88.7.3. Dimensional Standards
EXPAND
Site Standards
Min. Amenity Space
Requirement: 10% of site
(all sites)
Min. Civic Space
Requirements: 10% of site
(only sites over 5 acres)
Lot Standards Ⓐ Area Ⓑ Width
Detached House: 2,500 sf 25 ft
Carriage House: Same as principal structure
Duplex: 2,500 sf 25 ft
Townhouse: 900 sf 20 ft
Cottage Court: 1,200 sf 20 ft
All other Building Types: 2,500 sf 20 ft
Lot Coverage
Ⓒ All Building Types: 70% max.
  88.7.4. Building Placement
EXPAND
Principal and Accessory Structure Setbacks
Ⓐ Front Yard: 10 ft. min., 20 ft. max.
Ⓑ Side Yard: 0 ft. min.
Ⓒ Rear Yard (no alley) 3 ft. min.
Ⓒ Rear Yard (alley): 10 ft. min.
Greater side setbacks, greater rear setbacks, and greater building separation may be required as established by the applicable building or fire codes.
  88.7.5. Bulk and Mass
EXPAND
Building Height
Ⓐ Max. Height in Stories: 3 stories
Ⓐ Max. Height in Feet: 40 ft
The maximum permitted building height is whichever of the above is less.
Building Size
Max. Building Footprint: 10,000 sf
  (Ord. No. 2017-25, § 2, 12-19-17)
Sec. 88.8. - FBR: Form Based Residential.
88.8.1. Purpose
The purpose of this district is to provide for a variety of housing options in a residential setting.
88.8.2. Building Types Allowed
The following building types are allowed:
A.
Detached House
B.
Carriage House
C.
Duplex
D.
Townhouse
E.
Cottage Court
F.
Civic Building
88.8.3. Dimensional Standards
EXPAND
Site Standards
Min. Amenity Space Requirement: 10% of site
(all sites)
Min. Civic Space Requirements: 10% of site
(only sites over 5 acres)
Lot Standards Ⓐ Area Ⓑ Width
Detached House: 2,500 sf 25 ft
Carriage House: Same as principal structure
Duplex: 2,500 sf 25 ft
Townhouse: 900 sf 20 ft
Cottage Court: 1,200 sf 20 ft
Civic Building: 5,000 sf 50 ft
Lot Coverage
Ⓒ All Building Types: 70% max.
  88.8.4. Building Placement
EXPAND
Principal and Accessory Structure Setbacks
Ⓐ Front Yard: 10 ft. min., 20 ft. max.
Ⓑ Side Yard: 0 ft. min.
Ⓒ Rear Yard (no alley): 3 ft. min.
Ⓒ Rear Yard (alley): 10 ft. min.
Greater side setbacks, greater rear setbacks, and greater building separation may be required as established by the applicable building or fire codes.
  88.8.5. Bulk and Mass
EXPAND
Building Height
Ⓐ Max. Height in Stories: 3 stories
Ⓐ Max. Height in Feet: 36 ft
The maximum permitted building height is whichever of the above is less.
  (Ord. No. 2017-25, § 2, 12-19-17)
ARTICLE 89. - SITE DEFINITIONS

Sec. 89.1. - Defined Terms.
Live-Work. Nonresidential activity conducted wholly within a residential dwelling that allows employees, customers, clients or patrons to visit.
Stub-out. A shortened thoroughfare which is intended to provide connectivity at some point in the future.
Wall Plate. A horizontal load-bearing member in a wall assembly. The top of the wall plate is the top most structural piece of the wall.
(Ord. No. 2017-25, § 2, 12-19-17)
