Chapter 67 - LAND USE INTENSITY DISTRICTS AND MAP[1]
App. A. Land Use Procedures and Standards

Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Editor's note— Ord. of 5-2-2005, adopted May 2, 2005, pertains to land use intensity districts and maps. At the editor's discretion, these provisions are included herein as specifically set out on the ordinance.  Section 40 of a resolution adopted Aug. 25, 2011, changed all references to the "commissioner, the "Pickens County Commissioner" or the "governing body" in this chapter to the "governing authority."

Sec. 67-1. - Preamble.
Whereas, the Constitution of the State of Georgia, effective July 1, 1983, provides in Article IX, Section II, Paragraph IV thereof, that the governing authority of the County may adopt plans and exercise the power of zoning; and
Whereas, the Georgia General Assembly has enacted the Georgia Planning Act of 1989, (Georgia Laws, 1989, pp. 1317-1391, Act 634) which among other things provides for local governments to adopt plans and regulations to implement plans for the protection and preservation of natural resources, the environment, vital areas, and land use; and
Whereas, the Georgia Department of Community Affairs has promulgated Minimum Standards and Procedures for Local Comprehensive Planning (Chapter 110-3-2 of Rules of the Georgia Department of Community Affairs) to implement the Georgia Planning Act of 1989, said standards and procedures were ratified by the Georgia General Assembly, and said rules require local governments to describe regulatory measures and land development regulations needed to implement local comprehensive plans; and
Whereas, the Georgia Department of Natural Resources has promulgated Rules for Environmental Planning Criteria, commonly known as the "Part Five" Standards, said rules were ratified by the Georgia General Assembly, and said rules require local governments to plan for the protection of the natural resources, the environment, and vital areas of the state; and
Whereas, the governing authority has adopted a comprehensive plan in accordance with the requirements of the Georgia Planning Act of 1989, Rules of the Georgia Department of Community Affairs, and Rules of the Georgia Department of Natural Resources, and said plan has been revised from time to time; and
Whereas, the comprehensive plan specifies a number of goals and policies that are not currently implemented by the County's land use regulations; and
Whereas, the governing authority desires to help assure the implementation of its comprehensive plan; and
Whereas, the governing authority desires to promote the health, safety, welfare, morals, convenience, order, and prosperity of the county and its citizens; and
Whereas, the governing authority desires to promote responsible growth, lessen congestion in the public thoroughfares, secure safety from fire and health dangers, and promote desirable living conditions; and
Whereas, the governing authority desires to regulate the height, bulk, and the size of buildings and structures; and
Whereas, the governing authority desires to classify land uses, establish procedures and regulations for the subdivision and development of land, and regulate the distribution and density uses on the land to avoid both the undue concentration of population and the inappropriate dispersion of population, prevent the encroachment of incompatible land uses within residential areas, and preserve property values; and
Whereas, thegoverning authority desires to provide for economically sound and stable land development by assuring the provision in land developments of adequate streets, utilities, services, traffic access and circulation, public open spaces, and maintenance continuity; and
Whereas, the governing authority finds that the regulations contained in this resolution [ordinance] are the minimum necessary to accomplish the various public purposes; and
Whereas, the General Assembly of the State of Georgia enacted Ga. Laws 1985, page 1139, Act. No. 662, providing for an amendment to Title 36 of the Official Code of Georgia Annotated, codified as O.C.G.A. Sections 36-66-1 et seq., so as to provide procedures for the exercise of zoning powers by cities and counties; and
Whereas, appropriate public notice and hearing have been accomplished; and
Whereas, the planning commission has considered this matter;
Now therefore be it resolved by the governing authority, and it is hereby resolved by the authority of the same, that the following or chapters and sections known collectively as the Pickens County Land Intensity District Ordinance is hereby enacted into law.
(Ord. of 5-2-2005)
Sec. 67-2. - Adoption and effective date.
This chapter is hereby adopted this 2nd day of May, 2005, and shall be effective immediately upon its adoption, the public welfare demanding it.
(Ord. of 5-2-2005)
Sec. 67-3. - Legal status provisions.
67-3.1. Title. This title shall be known and may be cited as the Land Use Intensity District Ordinance of Pickens County.
67-3.2. Jurisdiction. Unless this chapter clearly indicates otherwise, this chapter shall apply within the unincorporated limits of Pickens County, Georgia.
67-3.2. Conflicts with other laws. Whenever the regulations of this chapter require or impose more restrictive standards than are required in or under any other ordinance, the requirements of this chapter shall govern. Whenever the provisions of any state or federal statute requires more restrictive standards than are required by this chapter, the provisions of such statute shall govern.
67-3.3. Validity and severability. Should any section or provision of this chapter be declared invalid or unconstitutional by any court of competent jurisdiction, such declaration shall not affect the validity of the ordinance as a whole or any part thereof, which is not specifically declared to be invalid or unconstitutional.
67-3.4. Repeal of conflicting ordinances. All ordinances and parts of ordinances in conflict herewith are repealed to the extent necessary to give this chapter full force and effect.
67-3.5. Codification. It is the intention of the governing authority, and it is hereby resolved that the provisions of this chapter shall become and be made a part of the official code of the County of Pickens, and the sections of this chapter may be renumbered or reorganized to accomplish such intention.
(Ord. of 5-2-2005)
Sec. 67-4. - Definitions.
Except as specifically defined herein, all words used in this chapter have their customary dictionary definitions. Unless otherwise expressly stated, the following words shall have the meaning herein indicated.
Abandoned property: Wrecked or derelict property having no value other than nominal salvage value, if any, which has been left abandoned and unprotected from the elements and shall include wrecked, inoperative, or partially dismantled motor vehicles, trailers, boats, machinery, refrigerators, washing machines, plumbing fixtures, furniture, and any other similar article which has no value other than nominal salvage value, if any, and which has been left abandoned and unprotected from the elements.
Abutting: Having property lines in common, or having property separated by only an alley. Separation by a street right-of-way is not considered abutting.
Accessory building or structure: A building subordinate to the principal building or use on a lot and used for purposes incidental to the principal building or use and located on the same lot therewith.
Accessory use: A use of the land or building or portion thereof customarily incidental and subordinate to the principal use and located on the same lot with such principal use.
Agriculture: The commercial cultivation or growth from or on the land of horticultural, floricultural, forestry, dairy, livestock, poultry, and apiarian products.
Animal hospital: A building used for the medical treatment, housing or boarding of small domestic animals such as dogs, cats, rabbits, and birds or fowl by a veterinarian.
Animal shelter: See Kennel.
Apartment building: A building designed for or occupied exclusively by three or more households with separate housekeeping facilities for each household.
Assisted living facility: Residences for the frail elderly that provide rooms, meals, personal care, and supervision of self-administered medication. They may provide other services incidental to the above. For purposes of this chapter, assisted living facilities are considered institutionalized residential living and care facilities.
Automobile sales and service establishment: New and used car, truck, tractor, trailer, boat, recreational vehicle, camper, motorcycle, and other motorized vehicle sales, leasing, rental, and service, including mobile and manufactured home and modular building sales, and agricultural implement and equipment. This definition includes automotive services such as rental car facilities, body, paint, automotive glass, transmission, and tire repair shops, car washes, including automated and staffed facilities, and oil change and lubrication facilities.
Bed and breakfast home: A single-family dwelling occupied by the owner as his/her principal residence that offers transient lodging accommodations and breakfast for compensation provided that; the rental occupants shall not reside at the bed and breakfast for more than seven consecutive days; breakfast is the only meal served and only to the registered overnight guests; no person not a resident on the premises is employed; the exterior appearance of the dwelling is not altered from its residential character except for safety purposes; and, the identification sign shall be no larger than two square feet and not internally lighted.
Bed and breakfast inn: A building, not necessarily owner-occupied, that offers transient lodging accommodations and breakfast for four or more guest rooms for compensation provided that there is compliance with the same licensing, inspection and taxation requirements as hotels, motels, and restaurants; if within a residential district, the building shall be residential in character; breakfast is the only meal served and only to overnight guests; the owners may have employees; the owner shall provide one off-street parking space for each rental room and one space for each employee; and, in a residential district, signage shall be limited to one sign and maximum size of two feet.
Berm: An earthen mound or embankment, usually two to six feet in height, designed to provide visual interest, screen views, reduce noise, or fulfill other such purposes.
Boarding house: A building, where for compensation, both lodging and meals are provided for not more than ten persons, providing that a single-family dwelling shall not be deemed to be a boarding house by reason of a contribution to or expense sharing arrangement with the owner or tenant occupying the dwelling by a person related to by blood or marriage.
Buffer: A natural or enhanced vegetated area usually intended to screen and separate incompatible uses.
Buildable area: The portion of a lot which is not located within any minimum required yard, landscape strip/area or buffer, that portion of a lot wherein a building or structure may be located.
Building: Any structure having a roof supported by columns or by walls and which is designed for the shelter, support or enclosure of persons, animals, or property of any kind.
Building, height of: The vertical distance measured from the grade to the highest point of the coping of a flat roof; to the deck lines of a mansard roof; or to the mean height level between the eaves and ridge of a gable, hip or gambrel roof. Grade is defined as the average elevation of the ground on all sides of a building.
Building, principal: A building in which is conducted the principal use of the lot on which said building is situated.
Building setback line: The line that is the required minimum distance from the street right-of-way or any other lot line that establishes the area within which walls of a structure must be erected or placed. Covered porches, whether enclosed or not, shall be considered as a part of the building and shall not project into any required yards. The minimum measurement is to the wall, not the eave/overhang, and a cantilever building design measures to any wall projecting neearest to the property lines. For purposes of this chapter, a building setback line and minimum required yard shall be considered the same. On a corner lot, there is a minimum front yard setback requirement on both streets and both interior property lines shall require a minimum side yard setback.
Business service establishment: A facility engaged in support functions to establishments operating for a profit on a fee or contract basis, including but not limited to: advertising agencies, photocopying, blueprinting and duplication services, mailing agencies, commercial art and graphic design; personnel supply services and employment agencies, computer and data processing services, detective, protective, and security system services, accounting, auditing, and bookkeeping services, publications and business consulting firms, food catering, interior decorating, and locksmiths.
Campground: A parcel of land used or intended to be used, let, or rented for occupancy by campers or for occupancy by camping trailers, tents, or movable or temporary dwellings, rooms or sleeping quarters of any kind.
Cemetery: A place for the burial of the dead, including a mausoleum and columbarium.
Church: A building or structure, or groups of buildings or structures that by design and construction is primarily intended for conducting organized religious services. Associated accessory uses include, but are not limited to schools/kindergartens, meeting halls, indoor/outdoor recreational facilities, day care, cemeteries (see size requirements in the permitted use table), and counseling.
Clinic: An institution or professional office, other than a hospital or nursing home, where persons are counseled, examined, and/or treated by one or more persons providing any form of healing or medical health service. Persons providing these services may offer any combination of counseling, diagnostic, therapeutic or preventative treatment, instruction, or services, and which may include medical, physical, psychological, or mental services and facilities for primarily ambulatory persons. A clinic allows lodging and care in cases of medical necessity.
Club, nonprofit: A building or premises used for associations or organizations of an educational, fraternal, or social character, not operated or maintained for profit. Representative organizations include Elks, Veterans of Foreign Wars, and Lions. The term shall not include casinos, nightclubs, bottle clubs, or other establishments operated or maintained for profit.
Cluster homes: Homes that may consist of townhouses attached or detached single-family units, with or without garages at a maximum density of 6.0 units per acre that are located within areas served by water and sewer.
Columbarium: A vault with niches for urns containing the ashes for cremated bodies.
Commercial outdoor firing/shooting ranges: Any facilities where outdoor firing of firearms is performed on a commercial basis (i.e., requires a fee or membership), including but not limited to target practice, skeet and trap shooting, mock war games, and temporary competitions.
Commercial recreational facility, indoor: A use that takes place within an enclosed building that involves the provision of sports and leisure activities to the general public for a fee, including but not limited to the following: assembly halls, auditoriums, meeting halls, art galleries and museums, billiard halls and pool rooms, amusement halls, video arcades, ice and roller skating rinks, fully-enclosed theaters, physical fitness centers and health clubs.
Commercial recreational facility, outdoor: A use of land and/or buildings that involves the provision of sports and leisure activities to the general public for a fee, including but not limited to the following: stadiums, amphitheaters, circuses and carnivals, fairgrounds, drive-in theaters, golf driving ranges, miniature golf courses, batting cages, race tracks for animals or motor-driven vehicles, turkey shoots, trout ponds, equestrian centers and horse and pony riding rinks, botanical and zoological gardens, recreational vehicle parks, ultra-light flight parks, and bungee jumping. A golf course and private club that is built as part of a single-family residential subdivision and that operates in a quasi-public manner is not considered to be an outdoor commercial recreational facility.
Compatibility: With regard to development, the characteristics of different land uses or activities that permit them to be located near each other in harmony and without conflict. With regard to buildings, it implies harmony in appearance of architectural features in the same vicinity.
Conditional use: A use that would not be appropriate generally or without restriction throughout the particular use district and is not automatically permitted by right within a use district, but which, if controlled as to number, area, location or relation to the neighborhood, may be found to be compatible and approved by the governing authority within a particular use district as provided in certain instances by the Land Use Procedures and Standards Ordinance, Pickens County, Georgia.
Condominium: A building or group of buildings, in which units are owned individually, and the structure, common areas and facilities are owned by all of the owners on a proportional, undivided basis.
Contractor's establishment: An establishment engaged in the provision of construction activities, including but not limited to, plumbing, electrical work, building, grading, paving, roofing, carpentry, landscaping companies, and other such activities, including the storage of material and the overnight parking of commercial vehicles.
Curb cut: The providing of vehicular ingress and/or egress between property and an abutting public street.
Day care center: Any place operated by a person, society, agency, corporation, institution or group, and licensed or registered by the State of Georgia and licensed by Pickens County as a group day care home or day care center, wherein are received for pay for group supervision and care, for fewer than 24 hours per day, seven or more children under 18 years of age.
Density: The permitted number of dwelling units per gross acre of land to be developed.
Development: Any manmade change to improved or unimproved real estate, including, but not limited to, buildings or other structures, mining, dredging, filling, grading, paving, excavating, drilling operations, or permanent storage of materials.
Drive-through: A retail or service enterprise wherein service is provided or goods are sold to the customer within a motor vehicle and outside of a principal building.
Dwelling: A building which is designed or used exclusively for residential purposes, other than a mobile home, recreation vehicles, or motels and hotels.
Dwelling, multi-family: A building designed for or occupied exclusively by three or more families or households with separate housekeeping facilities for each family.
Dwelling, senior: A multi-family residence with 80 percent or more of the dwelling units occupied by residents, ages 62 and over or handicapped; or couples where either the husband or wife is 62 years of age or older; does not include convalescent or nursing facilities.
Dwelling, single-family: A building designed or arranged to be occupied by one family or household only.
Dwelling, two-family (duplex): A building designed or arranged to be occupied by two families or households living independently of each other.
Dwelling unit: A building or a building containing one or more rooms and forming a single habitable unit with individual permanent bathroom and kitchen facilities and is used or intended to be used for living, sleeping, cooking, and eating purposes of a single family.
Extended stay facility: A motel-like facility in which 50 percent or greater of all guest rooms have facilities for both the storage, refrigeration, and preparation of food, and/or which are advertised, designed, or used for weekly, monthly, or longer occupancy. (See "lodging services" in the permitted use table.)
Family: An individual, or two or more persons, occupying a dwelling unit appropriately sized for the number of persons living as a single household unit as distinguished from a group occupying a rooming/boardinghouse, a lodging service, fraternity, sorority, and clubs.
Family day care home: A private residence in which a business is operated by any person who receives therein (for pay) for supervision and care for fewer than 24 hours per day, three to not more than six children/adults who are not residents in the same private residence. For purposes of this chapter, a family day care home may be operated as a home occupation, subject to the requirements of this chapter.
Fence: An enclosure or barrier, composed of wood, masonry, stone, wire, iron, or other materials or combination of materials used as a boundary, means of protection, privacy screening, or confinement, including brick or concrete walls but not including hedges, shrubs, trees, or other natural growth.
Fence, solid: A fence, including entrance and exit gates where access openings appear, through which no visual images can be seen.
Finance, insurance, and real estate establishment: Such uses include but are not limited to banks, savings and loan institutions and credit unions, security and commodity exchanges, insurance agents, brokers, and service, real estate brokers, agents, managers, and developers, trusts, and holding and investment companies.
Flea market: See Open air business.
Governing authority: The sole commissioner or board of commissioners of Pickens County, as applicable, which shall have the power to act as granted by state law and this chapter.
Group home: A single-family dwelling, housing persons who are mentally/physically handicapped, elderly, terminally ill, AIDS/HIV victims, Alzhiemer's patients, or children and teens with emotional problems, operating as a single housekeeping unit under a common housekeeping management plan based on an intentionally structured relationship providing the organization and stability of a home environment.
Guesthouse: A lodging unit for temporary guests in an accessory building. No guesthouse shall be rented or otherwise used as a separate dwelling.
Halfway house: A building for temporary residence by nonrelated persons, who are recovering from alcohol abuse or other chemical-based substances, with one or more surrogate parents that provide services that include room, meals, supervision, rehabilitation, and counseling to enable residents to move back into society and live independently.
Health service: Health care facilities as well as establishments providing support to the medical profession and patients, such as medical and dental laboratories, blood banks, oxygen and miscellaneous types of medical supplies and services; and offices of doctors, dentists and other medical practitioners.
Health spa: An establishment which for profit or gain provides as one of its primary purposes, services or facilities which are purported to assist patrons improve their physical condition or appearance through change in weight, weight control, treatment, dieting, or exercise. The term includes establishments designated as "reducing salons," "exercise gyms," "health studios," "health clubs," and other terms of similar import. Not included within this definition are facilities operated by nonprofit organizations, facilities wholly owned and operated by a licensed physician at which such physician is engaged in the practice of medicine, or any establishment operated by a health care facility, hospital, intermediate care facility, or skilled nursing care facility.
Home occupation: An occupation carried on entirely within a residence by the occupants thereof, which activity is clearly incidental to the use of the residence as a dwelling and which does not change the residential character thereof, and is conducted in a manner as to not give any outward appearance of a business in the ordinary meaning of the term. This occupation does not infringe upon the right of neighboring residents to enjoy a peaceful occupancy of their homes for which purpose the residential use district was created and primarily intended.
Impervious surface: A manmade structure or surface, which prevents the infiltration of storm water into the ground below the structure or surface. Examples are buildings, roads, driveways, parking lots, decks, swimming pools, or patios.
Industrialized home: Any structure or component thereof which is wholly or in substantial part made, fabricated, formed, or assembled in manufacturing facilities for installation on a building site and has been manufactured in such a manner that all parts or processes cannot be inspected at the installation site without disassembly, damage to, or destruction thereof. Industrialized buildings are constructed and regulated in accordance with the "Industrialized Building Act", Georgia Law 1982 pp. 1637-1643 (Official Code of Georgia Annotated, Title 8, Chapter 2, Article 2, Part 1).
Institutional residential living and care facilities: An umbrella term that encompasses the following uses as specifically defined in this chapter: assisted living facility, intermediate care home, nursing home, hospice, and personal care home.
Intermediate care home: A facility which admits residents on medical referral; it maintains the services and facilities for institutional care and has a satisfactory agreement with a physician and dentist who will provide continuing supervision including emergencies; it complies with rules and regulations of the Georgia Department of Human Resources. The term "intermediate care" means the provision of food, including special diets when required, shelter, laundry and personal care services, such as help with dressing, getting in and out of bed, bathing, feeding, medications and similar assistance, such services being under appropriate licensed supervision. Intermediate care does not normally include providing care for bed patients except on an emergency or temporary basis.
Intra-family (lineal heir) land transfer: A subdivision of land within an AG land use intensity district where each and every lot within the subdivision is conveyed to a lineal heir, which include a grandparent, parent, stepparent, sibling, child, stepchild, adopted child or grandchild of the person conveying the parcel; provided further, that no more than one lot in the subdivision shall be deeded to any one individual. This definition shall not include or authorize any land subdivision, which involves or will involve the creation of lots for sale or the otherwise involving the property transfers for money, tangible or intangible personal property, real property exchanges, or other conveyances for consideration with anyone who does not meet the definition of lineal heir above.
Junk: Old and dilapidated automobiles, trucks, tractors and other such vehicles and parts thereof, wagons and other kinds of vehicles and parts thereof, scrap, building material, scrap contractor's equipment, tanks, casks, cans, barrels, boxes, drums, piping, bottles, glass, old iron, machinery, rags, paper, excelsior, hair, mattresses, beds or bedding or any other kind of scrap or waste material which is stored, kept, handled or displayed within the county limits.
Junk yard: A lot, parcel of land, structure or part thereof, used primarily for the collection, storage, and sale of wastepaper, rags, scrap metal, or discarded material, or for the collecting, dismantling, storage, and salvaging of machinery or vehicles not in running condition, or for the sale of parts thereof.
Junked vehicle: A vehicle not in operating condition which has been parked or stored upon the same lot or parcel for a period of 60 days or more.
Kennel: Any facility used for the purpose of commercial or not-for-profit boarding or sale of animals (excluding horses, swine, goats, and geese) or pets and any other customarily incidental treatment of the animals such as grooming, cleaning, selling of pet supplies, or otherwise.
Landfill, inert waste: A disposal facility accepting only wastes that will not or are not likely to cause production of leachate of environmental concern. Such wastes are limited to earth and earthlike products, concrete, cured asphalt, rock, bricks, yard trimmings, stumps, limbs, and leaves, and specifically excluding industrial and demolition waste.
Livestock: Any generally accepted farm animal raised for food, raw materials or pleasure, including, but not limited to, beef and dairy cattle, sheep, swine, poultry and horses. The term does not include cats, dogs, and other house pets.
Livestock animal unit: A measure, which represents a common denominator for the purposes of defining the land carrying capacity for livestock. The animal unit accounts for the carrying capacity of one acre of land and is related to the amount of feed various species consume, and the amount of waste they produce.
Livestock, concentrated operations: Any tract of land or building, pen or corral, sheds or fenced fields wherein livestock are maintained in close quarters for feeding, breeding, raising, or holding and the area is specifically designed as a confinement area where manure may accumulate at one location. All such operations are required to follow recognized best management practices. Such areas are further defined if the following minimum number of animals occur at one location: 50 horses; 75 dairy cows; 100 beef cattle; 250 swine (larger than 55 pounds); 1,000 sheep/goats; 1,000 nursery swine; 5,500 turkeys; 1,000 ostriches/emus; 500 ducks/geese; and 10,000 chickens. This provision does not apply to any number of livestock free-ranging in pasture.
Loading space: Loading and unloading space is a space, typically with dimensions of 12 feet by 60 feet, logically and conveniently located for pickups and/or deliveries or for loading and/or unloading in such a way as it does not conflict with driveways or patron parking, scaled to the delivery vehicles to be used, and accessible to such vehicles.
Lodging service: A facility that offers temporary shelter accommodations, or place for such shelter, open to the public for a fee, including but not limited to inns, hotels, motels, extended stay facilities and motor hotels. Bed and breakfast inns are not considered to be lodging services.
Lot: A parcel of land occupied or capable of being occupied by a use, building or group of buildings devoted to a common use, together with the customary accessories and open spaces belonging to the same.
Lot area, minimum: Minimum lot area means the smallest permitted total horizontal area within the lot lines of a lot, exclusive of street rights-of-way but inclusive of easements.
Lot, corner: A lot abutting upon two or more streets at their intersection. (See Building setback line.)
Lot coverage, maximum: The percentage of a given lot that may be occupied by all principal and accessory buildings and structures on said lot, measured within the outside of the exterior walls of the ground floor of all principal and accessory buildings and structures on the lot.
Lot, double frontage: Any lot, other than a corner lot, which has frontage on two streets.
Lot frontage: The width in linear feet of a lot where it abuts the right-of-way of any street.
Lot line, front: The front property line coincident with a street right-of-way line.
Lot of record: A lot, which existed prior to the adoption or subsequent amendment of this chapter, as shown or described on a plat or deed in the records of the Pickens County Superior Court Clerk.
Lot width: The distance between side lot lines measured at the front building line.
Lot width (curvilinear street frontage): For a lot having frontage upon a curvilinear street, the lot width shall be the distance between the side lines of the lot where the minimum lot width is obtained, measured parallel to the chord of the arc formed by the two outermost points of intersection of the side lines with the road right-of-way line. The lot width line is synonymous with the front setback line in this circumstance.
Manufactured home: A structure, transportable in one or more sections, which, in the traveling mode, is eight body feet or more in width or 40 body feet or more in length, when erected on site, is 320 or more square feet in floor area, and which is built on a permanent chassis and designed to be used as a dwelling with or without a permanent foundation when connected to the required utilities, and includes the plumbing, heating, air-conditioning, and electrical systems contained therein; or a structure that otherwise comes within the definition of a "manufactured home" under the National Manufactured Housing Construction and Safety Standards Act of 1974, as amended (42 U.S.C. 5401-5445).
Manufactured home park: Any property on which three or more manufactured homes are located or intended to be located for purposes of residential occupancy.
Manufacturing: Manufacturing means the converting of raw, unfinished materials or products, or any or either of them, into an article or articles or substance of a different character, or for use for a different character, or for use as a different purpose.
Mausoleum: A building where bodies are interred above ground in stacked vaults.
Mini-warehouse: A structure or group of structures containing separate spaces/stalls, which are leased or rented on an individual basis for the storage of goods.
Mobile home: A structure, transportable in one or more sections, which, in the traveling mode, is eight body feet or more in width or 40 body feet or more in length, when erected on site, is 320 or more square feet in floor area, and which is built on a permanent chassis and designed to be used as a dwelling with or without a permanent foundation when connected to the required utilities, and includes the plumbing, heating, air-conditioning, and electrical systems contained therein; and which has not been inspected and approved as meeting the requirements of the National Manufactured Housing Construction and Safety Standards Act of 1974, as amended (42 U.S.C. 5401-5445).
Nonconforming building or structure: A building or structure that does not meet one or more setbacks for the land use intensity district in which said building or structure is located, or a building or structure that exceeds the maximum lot coverage for the land use intensity district in which said building or structure is located, or a principal building or accessory structure that otherwise does not comply with dimensional requirements established by this chapter for the particular principal building or accessory structure or for the use district in which the nonconforming building or structure is located.
Nonconforming lot: A lot which does not conform to the lot requirements of the land use intensity district in which the lot is located as established by this chapter but which was a lot of record prior to the effective date of this chapter or its amendment.
Nonconforming use: Any building or use of land or building lawfully existing on or before the effective date of this chapter or as a result of subsequent amendments to this chapter, which does not conform with the use provisions of the use district in which it is located.
Nursing home: A facility which admits patients on medical referral only and for whom arrangements have been made for continuous medical supervision; it maintains the services and facilities for skilled nursing care, rehabilitative nursing care, and has a satisfactory agreement with a physician and dentist who will be available for any medical and/or dental emergency and who will be responsible for the general medical and dental supervision of the home; it complies with rules and regulations of the Georgia Department of Human Resources.
Office: A building, or portion thereof, wherein predominantly administrative, professional, or clerical operations are performed, and not involving retail sales.
Open air business: Any commercial establishment with the principal use of displaying products in an area exposed to open air on three or more sides, including but not limited to rock yards, nurseries and garden supply stores, lumber and building materials yards, flea markets, farmer's markets, statuaries and monument sales establishments, Christmas tree lots and firewood sales lots, liquid petroleum dealers and tank sales. A roadside stand is not an open-air business.
Parking space: An area having dimensions of nine feet by 20 feet and not less than 180 square feet, excluding driveway and maneuvering area, to be used as a temporary storage space for a private motor vehicle.
Personal care home: Any dwelling, whether operated for profit or not, which undertakes through its ownership or management to provide or arrange for the provision of housing, food service, and one or more personal services for two or more adults who are not related to the owner or administrator by blood or marriage. Personal care tasks include assistance with bathing, toileting, grooming, shaving, dental care, dressing, and eating. (Synonymous with assisted living home; see Institutional residential living and care facilities.)
Personal service establishment: A facility engaged in the provision of services to persons and their apparel, including but not limited to barber and beauty shops, coin-operated and full service laundries and dry cleaners, photographic studios, shoe repair and shoeshine shops, dance studios, schools, and halls, and travel agencies.
Planning commission: The Pickens County Planning Commission, or equivalent body, as established by the governing authority of Pickens County.
Public use: Any building, structure, or use owned and/or operated by the federal government, State of Georgia, county, the city, or any authority, agency, board, or commission of the above governments, that is necessary to serve a public purpose, such as but not limited to the following: Government administrative buildings, post offices, police and fire stations, libraries and publicly operated museums, public health facilities and public hospitals, public works camps, parks and community centers, public roads and streets, airports, water and sanitary sewerage intake, collection, pumping, treatment, and storage facilities, emergency medical facilities, and jails and correctional facilities.
Rabbit farming: An agricultural business which breeds, raises, or processes rabbits and resulting waste products for commercial marketing as pets, meat, fur, or soil by-products.
Recreational vehicles: A vehicular type portable structure without permanent foundation, which can be towed, hauled or driven and primarily designed as temporary living accommodation for recreational, camping and travel use and including, but not limited to, travel trailers, truck campers, camping trailers and self-propelled motor homes.
Recycling center, collection point: An incidental use that serves as a neighborhood drop-off destination for temporary storage of recoverable resources. No processing of such items is allowed. This facility would generally be located in a commercial parking lot, or at other public/quasi-public areas, such as churches and schools.
Recycling center, processing: Any facility utilized for the purpose of collecting, sorting and processing materials to be recycled, including but not limited to, plastics, glass, paper and aluminum materials.
Research laboratory: A facility for scientific laboratory research in technology-intensive fields, including but not limited to biotechnology, pharmaceuticals, genetics, plastics, polymers, resins, coatings, fibers, fabrics, films, heat transfer, and radiation research facilities, computer software, information systems, communication systems, transportation, geographic information systems, multi-media and video technology. Also included in this definition are facilities devoted to the analysis of natural resources, medical resources, and manufactured materials, including environmental laboratories for the analysis of air, water, and soil; medical or veterinary laboratories for the analysis of blood, tissue, or other human medical or animal products, and forensic laboratories for analysis of evidence in support of law enforcement agencies.
Retail trade establishment, enclosed: Any business offering goods and products for sale to the public, which may include the incidental repair of such goods and products, that operates entirely within a structure containing a roof and walls on all sides, except for outdoor display or other use during business hours and accessory storage in enclosed, subordinate buildings. These include but are not limited to the following: convenience stores including the sale of gasoline, hardware, paint, glass and wallpaper stores, grocery and miscellaneous food stores including retail bakeries, apparel, shoe, and accessory clothing stores, furniture, upholstery, floor covering, household appliance and home furnishing stores, musical instrument stores, radio, television, and computer stores, record, tape, and compact disc stores, eating and drinking places not involving drive-in or drive-through facilities, drug stores, apothecaries and proprietary stores, liquor stores and bottle shops, used merchandise stores and pawn shops, sporting goods stores and bicycle shops, art and stationery stores, hobby, toy, and game shops, jewelry, gift, novelty, souvenir and antique shops, camera and photographic supply stores, luggage and leather goods stores, sewing, needlework, and piece goods stores, catalogue and mail order stores, news stands, florists, tobacco shops, automotive parts stores not involving repair, video rental and sales stores, and watch and clock sales and repair shops.
Roadside stand: A use offering either farm-grown, prepared food products such as fruits, vegetables, canned foods, or similar agricultural products for sale on the premises or within a temporary structure on the premises with no space for customers within the structure itself. [Does not include apple houses or wineries/wine-tasting.]
Salvage yard: See Junk yard.
Screening: A method of visually shielding or obscuring one abutting or nearby building, structure, or use from another by fencing, walls, berms, densely planted vegetation, or some combination thereof.
Semi-public use: Any building, structure, or use, owned and/or operated by private utilities or private companies for a public purpose, or that is reasonably necessary for the furnishing of adequate service by such utilities, such as but not limited to the following: underground and overhead gas, electric, steam, or water distribution or transmission lines or systems, including incidental wires, cables, and poles but not telecommunication towers.
Street: A dedicated and accepted public right-of-way, which affords the principal means of access to abutting properties.
Structure: Anything constructed or erected, the use of which requires more or less permanent location on the ground or which is attached to something having more or less permanent location on the ground.
Telecommunications tower: (See Chapter 66, Pickens County Code of Ordinances.)
Townhouse: One of a group of three or more attached dwelling units under fee simple ownership.
Trash: Cuttings from vegetation, refuse, paper, bottles, and rags. Also see Junk.
Truck terminal: A facility for the receipt, transfer, short term storage, and dispatching of goods transported by truck.
Variance: A grant of relief from the requirements of this chapter which permits construction in a matter otherwise prohibited by this chapter where specific enforcement would result in unnecessary hardship. (See section 67-14.2.)
Warehouse: Storage of materials, equipment, or products within a building for manufacturing use or for distribution to wholesalers or retailers.
Wholesale trade establishment: An establishment engaged in the selling or distribution of merchandise to retailers, to industrial, commercial, institutional or professional business users, or to other wholesalers.
Yard: A space on the same lot with a principal building, open unoccupied and unobstructed by buildings or structures from ground to sky except where encroachments and accessory buildings are expressly permitted.
Yard, front: An open, unoccupied space on the same lot with a principal building, extending the full width of the lot, and situated between the street right-of-way and the front line of the building projected to the side lines of the lot.
Yard, side: An open, unoccupied space on the same lot with the principal building, situated between the building and the sideline of the lot and extending from the rear line of the front yard to the front line of the rear yard.
Yard, rear: An open, unoccupied space on the same lot with a principal building, extending the full width of the lot and situated between the rear line of the lot and the rear line of the building projected to the sidelines of the lot.
Zero lot line: The location of a building on a lot in such a manner that one or more building sides have no (zero) side or rear building setback (or yard requirements) and rests directly on a side or rear lot line. A zero lot line development is one where houses in the development on a common street frontage are shifted to one side of their lot.
(Ord. of 5-2-2005; Res. of 8-25-2011, § 1; Res. of 9-15-2016, § 1; Res. of 3-16-2017, § 1, Exh. A)
Sec. 67-5. - Establishment of land use intensity districts.
Purpose and establishment. The land use intensity districts established in this chapter are intended to: promote the orderly future development of the county in accordance with the comprehensive plan; discourage the size and type of development which would create excessive requirements and costs for public services; discourage uses which because of their size or type would generate an abnormal amount of traffic on minor streets; establish relationships between and among land uses that will ensure compatibility and maintain quality of life; and protect and promote suitable environments for residences, institutions, commercial and other employment centers, and other uses. The following use districts are hereby established:
Agriculture District (AG)
Small Agriculture District (SA)
Estate Residential (ER)
Rural Residential (RR)
Suburban Residential (SR)
Urban Residential (UR)
Special Planned Community District (SPC)
Suburban Residential Private Community District (SRPC)
Neighborhood Commercial District (NC)
Highway Business District (HB)
Industrial District (I)
(Ord. of 5-2-2005; Res. of 8-26-2010; Res. of 8-25-2011, § 2)
Sec. 67-6. - Official land use intensity districts map.
67-6.1. Map. The boundaries of land use intensity districts created by this chapter are hereby established as shown on a map entitled "Official Land Use Intensity Map, Pickens County Georgia." Said map and all explanatory matter thereon accompanies and is hereby made a part of this chapter.
67-6.2. Map amendment. If, in accordance with the provisions of this chapter, changes are made in the district boundaries or other subject matter portrayed on the official land use intensity districts map, such change shall be made on the official land use intensity district map promptly after the amendment has been approved by the governing authority.
67-6.3. Use district of vacated right-of-way. Whenever any street, alley or other public way is vacated or abandoned by official action of the governing authority, the use district adjoining each side of such street, alley, or public way shall be automatically extended to the center of same.
(Ord. of 5-2-2005; Ord. of 1-21-2016(1))
Sec. 67-7. - Rules governing boundaries.
Where uncertainty exists with respect to the boundaries of any of the aforesaid use districts as shown on the official land use intensity districts map, the following rules shall apply:
67-7.1. Where district boundaries are indicated as approximately following the centerlines of streets or highways, street lines or highway right-of-way lines or such lines extended, such centerlines, street lines or highway right-of-way lines shall be construed to be such boundaries.
67-7.2. Where district boundaries are so indicated that they approximately follow lot lines, such lot lines shall be construed to be said boundaries.
67-7.3. Where district boundaries are so indicated that they are approximately parallel to the centerlines of streets or highways, or rights-of-way of same, such district boundaries shall be construed as being parallel thereto and at such distance there from as indicated on the official land use intensity districts map. If no distance is given, such dimension shall be determined by the use of the scale shown on said official land use intensity districts map.
(Ord. of 5-2-2005)
Sec. 67-8. - Land use intensity districts.
67-8.1. Agricultural District (AG).
Purpose and intent. Located within Pickens County are several areas, which contain soils highly suitable for the cultivation of agricultural crops and forests. Land in the agricultural district constitutes a valuable natural resource, and protection is in the public interest. Agriculture and forestry are major components of the county's economy, and they remain viable economic enterprises in that land is held in relatively large tracts).
The continuation of agriculture and forestry as viable land uses and components of the local economy is threatened by rural residential, suburban and urban land uses and land subdivision. When land is divided into smaller tracts, it becomes less suitable for agriculture and forestry production because the assembly of enough acreage for a farm of minimum efficient size becomes difficult. Smaller tracts generally sell for a higher price per acre, and subdivision of large agricultural or forest tracts generally results in the increase of per-acre land values. The availability of smaller tracts at lower cost attracts exurban and suburban residential and non-farm buyers into the market, thereby increasing adjacent land values for residential uses and decreasing land values for agricultural and forest uses. The cumulative impact of the subdivision of farm and forest lands into small lots increases the level of conflict between farmers/foresters and non-farmers, makes farming more difficult, and eventually leads to dissolution of the agricultural and forest economy.
Therefore, pursuant to the many goals, objectives, policies, and recommendations of the comprehensive plan for the county, an agricultural land use intensity district is hereby established with the purposes of maintaining the agricultural and forest land resources in a form amenable to the continuation of agriculture, restricting the division of farmland so that it does not become broken up into small parcels, thereby avoiding the accelerated conversion of land to residential uses and discouraging the shift of the land market from agricultural and rural to suburban and urban.
These districts are most appropriately located in areas shown as agriculture/forestry on the future land use plan of the comprehensive plan.
Permitted and conditional uses. Permitted and conditional uses shall be as provided in Table 6-1-1, "Permitted and Conditional Uses by Land Use Intensity District."
Dimensional requirements. Dimensional requirements shall be as provided in Table 6-1-2, "Dimensional Requirements by Land Use Intensity District."
Intra-family (lineal heirs) land transfer.
A.
It is the intent of this section to provide for the subdivision and conveyance of land to immediate family members for their primary residence in accordance with the technical standards of this section. The purpose of this section is to preserve the ability of property owners to convey lands to lineal heirs by providing for an exception to the density assigned to the parent parcel, where such divisions create parcel sizes that are generally prohibited by the county's comprehensive plan.
B.
The subdivision of land under the provisions of this section shall be applied in a manner that creates the least extent and number of nonconforming lots or parcels.
1.
The maximum number of conforming parcel sizes shall be retained while providing for the equal division of the remaining acreage.
2.
Division of parent tracts that do not conform to the density standard assigned to parcel shall be divided to create parcels of equal size.
3.
Minimum parcel size is one and one-half acre.
4.
The minimum parcel size shall apply to any parcel created pursuant to this section.
5.
This section shall not be allowed more than one time for each family member.
6.
With the exception to density requirements, the division of land under the provisions of this section shall meet all other applicable standards in the land development regulations including, but not limited to, access design, and road construction standards.
C.
Intra-family (lineal heir) land transfers are prohibited in the following areas:
1.
SA, ER, RR, SR, UR, SPC, SRPC, NC, HB, and I land use intensity districts.
2.
Subdivisions or any tract located on a private easement less than 60 feet in width and serves two or more unrelated landowners.
3.
Lots in recorded subdivisions.
D.
Eligibility standards are as follows:
1.
Eligible persons or lineal heirs recipient: Grandparent, parent, stepparent, sibling, child, stepchild, adopted child or grandchild of the person conveying the parcel.
2.
Applicants for building permits must submit a notarized affidavit identifying their relationship to the parent parcel owners.
3.
Eligible parcels: Parent parcels of record under the ownership of the grantee for a period of time no less than five years.
E.
Platting requirements are as follows:
1.
A plat (survey) prepared on an 11-inch by 17-inch sheet at an acceptable scale by a licensed surveyor or engineer shall be prepared, showing the relationship of the parcels transferred to the un-platted lands of the grantee, all easements for utilities, egress and ingress and their relation to a public road right-of-way and shall include a legal description by fractional calls and/or metes and bounds for each of the lots or parcels created.
2.
Every parcel must have a permanent access for ingress and egress and shall be provided by a road built to county standards or in special cases a nonexclusive easement.
3.
No road or easement created may be less than 60 feet wide for the purpose of ingress and egress.
4.
Utility easements shall be a minimum of ten feet wide, in addition to any required minimum roadway or egress and ingress easement.
5.
Any roads constructed must meet the minimum requirements of the county road department for local roads.
6.
Private roads (not dedicated to the public) will not be accepted into the county road maintenance system, regardless of the type of construction as long as the property is located in the AG land use intensity district.
7.
All plats or surveys containing constructed roads shall provide construction plans that have been approved by the appropriate water management district for drainage.
8.
Prior to application for building permits, all roads and easements created for ingress and egress must be surveyed out, cleared, and stabilized to provide a durable surface for the passage of a two-wheel drive vehicle.
9.
Any road, easement or driveway that ties in or connects to a public road or right-of-way will require a permit that will require the driveway or turnout from a private road or easement to be constructed to county specifications.
F.
Applications may be obtained from the development department. The following documentation is required prior to the processing and review of applications for intra-family (lineal heir) land transfer subdivisions:
1.
Proof of ownership for five years. The applicant shall submit a deed and legal description of the parent parcel and proof of ownership for at least five years.
2.
Description of property division. The applicant shall submit three certified boundary surveys/plat maps showing all proposed division of the property, ingress and egress, easements for utilities, tie-ins to a public road right-of-way, and metes and bounds description of each parcels/lots created by the division.
3.
Lineal heir relationship affidavit. The applicant shall obtain, complete and submit the lineal heir relationship to the development department at the time of application for the intra-family (lineal heir) land transfer.
G.
Deeds with an attached plat map shall be recorded prior to the issuance of a building permit. Such deeds shall include language giving notice that the subdivision of land is in accordance to the intra-family (lineal heir) land transfer and of the prohibition of additional density conveyance addressed in subsection (H) of this section.
1.
Recording of the deeds or plat map of any parcel created pursuant to these regulations shall not be allowed until such time as the planning commission has reviewed and approved such plat.
2.
Building permits shall only be issued to the recipient of the parcels created for the primary residence and allowable accessory structures.
H.
No parcel created by this exception process may receive additional density exceptions for future offspring of the grantee, nor future owners of the parcel.
I.
Variances. If the enforcement of any of the provisions of this section would be impracticable or would work an undue hardship upon any person, following a report by the planning commission on the nature of the hardship, the governing authority may waive any of the provisions of this section and such waiver shall not be deemed a continuing waiver of such provisions, nor shall such waiver abrogate or impair the effectiveness of such provisions.
J.
Error. If an appreciable error or omission in the data shown on any plat duly recorded under the provisions of this section is detected by subsequent examination or revealed by a retracement of the lines run during the original survey of the lands shown on such recorded plat, the land surveyor who was responsible for the survey and the preparation of the plat as recorded may file an affidavit confirming that such error or omission was made. However, the person making the affidavit must state that he made a resurvey of the subject property in the recorded subdivision within the last ten days and that there is no evidence that would conflict with corrections as stated in the affidavit. The affidavit shall describe the nature and extent of such error or omission and the appropriate correction that, in his opinion, should be substituted for the erroneous data shown on such plat or added to the data on such plat. Where such an affidavit is filed, it is the duty of the county clerk to record such affidavit and he may place in the margin of such recorded plat a notation that the affidavit has been filed, the date of filing, and the book and page where it is recorded. The affidavit shall have no effect upon the validity of the plat or on the information shown thereon.
67-8.2 Small Agriculture District (SA).
Purpose and intent. This low density district is intended to create the opportunity for mini-farms, where the rural lifestyle of Pickens County is maintained and encouraged, albeit at a smaller scale. The minimum lot size of five acres with one single family detached home per lot, plus customary accessory uses, provides limited agriculture and forestry opportunities, perhaps mixed with animals held for personal enjoyment. Public water may be limited in some locations, so well-water may be expected in combination with individual sewage disposal systems. Conservation design subdivisions offer additional design opportunities to protect steep slopes, on-site hydrological features, and larger areas of scenic farmlands. This district, in combination with the AG district, can help implement the rural development character area of the comprehensive plan.
Permitted and conditional uses. Permitted and conditional uses shall be as provided in Table 6-1-1, "Permitted and Conditional Uses by Land Use Intensity District."
Dimensional requirements. Dimensional requirements shall be as provided in Table 6-1-2, "Dimensional Requirements by Land Use Intensity District."
67-8.3. Estate Residential District (ER).
Purpose and intent. This low density district is designed for rural ambience. The minimum lot size of three acres helps establish a more rural environment, and further determines that streets providing access to lots do not require curb-and-gutter designs that are more common to urban subdivisions. Curvilinear streets can combine with drainage swales to provide speed limiting, country lane conditions. On-site sewage management systems are common here and the lot sizes allow private wells or community water systems, in lieu of public water. Conservation subdivision designs are feasible in this district as well. Lots are limited to one principal dwelling per lot with customary accessory uses.
Permitted and conditional uses. Permitted and conditional uses shall be as provided in Table 6-1-1, "Permitted and Conditional Uses by Land Use Intensity District."
Dimensional requirements. Dimensional requirements shall be as provided in Table 6-1-2, "Dimensional Requirements by Land Use Intensity District."
67-8.4. Rural Residential District (RR).
Purpose and intent. RR districts are intended to provide for low-density residential areas consisting of detached single-family dwellings surrounded by yards that provide a desirable and healthy environment. RR districts are not served by sanitary sewer or by public water supply. The RR district establishes a minimum lot size of one unit per 65,340 square feet, but also establishes a maximum gross density to enable conservation subdivisions as an alternative to conventional rural residential subdivision patterns. Because RR districts are served by on-site sewage management systems, maximum density is based generally on public health requirements that lots must be large enough to accommodate a septic tank drain field and replacement drain field area. These districts are most appropriately located in areas shown as low density residential on the future land use map of the comprehensive plan.
Permitted and conditional uses. Permitted and conditional uses shall be as provided in Table 6-1-1, "Permitted and Conditional Uses by Land Use Intensity District."
Dimensional requirements. Dimensional requirements shall be as provided in Table 6-1-2, "Dimensional Requirements by Land Use Intensity District."
67-8.5. Suburban Residential District (SR).
Purpose and intent. SR districts are intended to provide for moderate density residential areas surrounded by yards that provide a desirable and healthy environment. SR districts are not served by sanitary sewer but have a public water supply available. The SR district establishes a minimum lot size of one acre, but also establishes a maximum gross density to enable conservation subdivisions as an alternative to conventional suburban residential subdivision patterns. These districts are most appropriately located in areas shown as medium density residential on the future land use map.
Permitted and conditional uses. Permitted and conditional uses shall be as provided in Table 6-1-1, "Permitted and Conditional Uses by Land Use Intensity District."
Dimensional requirements. Dimensional requirements shall be as provided in Table 6-1-2, "Dimensional Requirements by Land Use Intensity District."
67-8.6. Urban Residential District (UR).
Purpose and intent. UR districts are intended to provide urban low density residential living with yards that provide and encourage a desirable and healthy environment. UR districts are served by sanitary sewer and public water. With a minimum lot size of less than one acre (32,670 square feet or .75 acres), the UR district creates a large lot format that is consistent with a low density area, even though the water/sewer service levels to these areas might suggest higher density opportunities. The UR district implements the suburban infill character area.
Permitted and conditional uses. Permitted and conditional uses shall be as provided in Table 6-1-1, "Permitted and Conditional Uses by Land Use Intensity District."
Dimensional requirements. Dimensional requirements shall be as provided in Table 6-1-2, "Dimensional Requirements by Land Use Intensity District."
67-8.7. Special Planned Community (SPC).
Purpose and intent. This district is indicative of its name, allowing planned communities to be created, yet on a smaller scale than those designed in the Suburban Residential Private Community District (SRPC). The district, itself, only exists after detailed review and approval of a site plan and the designation of such land use intensity district on the official district map. Options allow both gated and un-gated communities and maximum density is six dwelling units per acre with access on paved street systems meeting the standards of Pickens County, whether public or private. Conservation design subdivisions are allowed and service levels can include equivalent public water systems in combination with septic tanks or equivalent public sewer systems. Conservation designs are encouraged to preserve open space, reduce infrastructure, and enhance the living environment. Mixed uses are feasible as described below.
Permitted and conditional uses. Permitted and conditional uses shall be as provided in Table 6-1-1, "Permitted and Conditional Uses by Land Use Intensity District."
Dimensional requirements. Dimensional requirements shall be as provided in Table 6-1-2, "Dimensional Requirements by Land Use Intensity District."
Applicability.
1.
Approval of the SPC district shall require development by a single owner or company, and a common master plan and any design that is approved with commonly-held open space or site amenities requires the establishment of a property/homeowner's association/equivalent prior to the sale of the first lot, along with private covenants assuring the maintenance of all improvements, common areas, and amenities.
2.
The district requires a minimum tract size of 150 acres to qualify for consideration.
3.
The district allows a mix of residential dwelling types.
4.
The site/master plan of the proposal will be reviewed and recommended for either approval or disapproval by the Pickens County Planning Commission and will be forwarded to the governing authority of Pickens County for final decision. Revisions, including proposals to increase density in areas previously approved for lower density, or the location or dimensions of approved streets, or other changes that affect the intent and character of the development, shall require re-review by the planning commission and final action by the governing authority of Pickens County, per the Land Use Procedures and Standards Ordinance, Pickens County. Site plan approval shall not exempt applicable reviews under the subdivision chapter of the Pickens County Land Development Standards.
67-8.8. Suburban Residential Private Community District (SRPC).
Purpose and intent. Suburban Residential Private Community (SRPC) districts are intended to provide for the development of large tracts of land as planned communities, creating a mix of residential and small commercial uses and densities based on the natural environment and compatibility with surrounding land uses. The SRPC district is a flexible alternative to the strict regulations of the other districts, allowing the developer to cluster houses and reduce the needed infrastructure, thus reducing the cost and preserving larger amounts of natural open space and increasing the land available for recreational areas. The maximum residential density of this district is six dwelling units per acre when served by public water and public sewer.
Permitted and conditional uses. Permitted and conditional uses shall be as provided in Table 6-1-1, "Permitted and Conditional Uses by Land Use Intensity District."
Applicability.
1.
SRPC is permitted only if the development is planned as a private gated community and is developed by a single owner or company, and/or under a common master plan with recorded restrictive covenants providing for a property owners association. The community shall include all improvements, common areas and amenities and shall be regulated by the covenants and restrictions of the property ownership association.
2.
The minimum size for a SRPC district shall be 500 acres, in a common ownership or under a common master plan.
3.
The land use shall be primarily residential, with community-supported uses such as small-scale neighborhood commercial, cultural, recreational and civic uses. The common property of the development such as open space, recreational areas, roads and infrastructure and buildings shall be maintained by the property ownership association or by the developer.
4.
The site/master plan of the proposal will be reviewed and recommended for either approval or disapproval by the Pickens County Planning Commission and will be forwarded to the governing authority of Pickens County for final decision. Revisions, including proposals to increase density in areas previously approved for lower density, or the location or dimensions of approved streets, or other changes that affect the intent and character of the development, shall require re-review by the planning commission and final action by the governing authority of Pickens County, per the Land Use Procedures and Standards Ordinance, Pickens County. Site plan approval shall not exempt applicable reviews under the subdivision chapter of the Pickens County Land Development Standards.
67-8.9. Neighborhood Commercial District (NC).
Purpose and intent. The neighborhood commercial district is intended to provide suitable areas for the retailing of goods and the provision of services to adjacent and nearby residential neighborhoods. Most of the uses permitted in this district are not auto-oriented in nature, and the overall character of neighborhood commercial districts is such that access by both vehicles and pedestrians is possible. This district most appropriately implements portions of multiple character areas identified on the Pickens County Future Development Map in the comprehensive plan as Highway 53/West Church Street Corridor, Steve Tate Highway/Highway 53/Yellow Creek Road Crossroads, Highway 53 South (East Church St.) Corridor, Highway 5 Alt./North Main Street Corridor and Burnt Mt. Road/Cove Road Corridor.
Permitted and conditional uses. Permitted and conditional uses shall be as provided in Table 6-1-1, "Permitted and Conditional Uses by Land Use Intensity District."
Dimensional requirements. Dimensional requirements shall be as provided in Table 6-1-2, "Dimensional Requirements by Land Use Intensity District."
67-8.10. Highway Business District (HB).
Purpose and intent. The highway business district is intended to provide suitable areas for those business and commercial uses which primarily serve the public traveling by automobile and which benefit from direct access to major streets. HB districts provide that the automobile has precedence over the pedestrian. Generally, highway commercial districts are considered unsuitable abutting single-family residential districts because of the uses permitted in the district and their associated off-site impacts. This district most appropriately implements portions of multiple character areas shown on the Pickens County Future Development Map in the comprehensive plan as Highway 515 Corridor; Highway 53/West Church Street Corridor; Highway 53 South (East Church St.) Corridor; and Highway 5 Alternate/North Main Street Corridor.
Permitted and conditional uses. Permitted and conditional uses shall be as provided in Table 6-1-1, "Permitted and Conditional Uses by Land Use Intensity District."
Dimensional requirements. Dimensional requirements shall be as provided in Table 6-1-2, "Dimensional Requirements by Land Use Intensity District."
67-8.11. Industrial District (I).
Purpose and intent. The purposes of these districts are to provide and reserve suitable areas for a variety of industrial uses including manufacturing, wholesale trade and distribution activities. Industrial districts are only intended to be located in areas with relatively level topography, adequate water and sewerage facilities, and access to arterial streets and highways. Industrial districts may be appropriate at the single lot level of development; however, these uses are encouraged to locate in planned industrial parks where possible. Vehicular activities in industrial districts consist predominantly of trucks, with some passenger vehicle traffic, and the road system is built to support truck traffic. The industries locating in this district are characterized as lower in intensity, cleaner, and generally more compatible when located adjacent to commercial areas than are heavy manufacturing uses. Industrial districts are intended to permit only those industrial and other uses that will not generate excessive noise, particulate matter, vibration, smoke, dust, gas, fumes, odors, radiation and other nuisance characteristics, or are capable of operation in such a manner as to control the external effects of the manufacturing process, such as odors, vibrations, emissions, or other nuisance characteristics through prevention or mitigation devices and conduct of operations within the confines of buildings. Heavy commercial activities and open storage businesses are also included as permitted uses in these districts; however, industrial districts do not service the general public and, therefore, business uses are generally not permitted. Heavier industrial activities may be permitted if approved as a conditional use. This district most appropriately implements areas shown on the Pickens County Future Development Map where industrial uses are established or expected to grow.
Permitted and conditional uses. Permitted and conditional uses shall be as provided in Table 6-1-1, "Permitted and Conditional Uses by Land Use Intensity District."
Dimensional requirements. Dimensional requirements shall be as provided in Table 6-1-2, "Dimensional Requirements by Land Use Intensity District."
TABLE 6-1-1
PERMITTED AND CONDITIONAL USES BY LAND USE INTENSITY DISTRICT
The following table shows uses, which are permitted (P), conditionally (special use) permitted (C), and not permitted (prohibited) (X). Approval of a conditional use shall require final action by the governing authority of Pickens County per the process dictated by the Land Use Procedures and Standards Ordinance, Pickens County (Chapter 67, Appendix A).
In cases where a use is proposed, but is not listed in this table, the land use officer shall make an administrative determination as to whether or not the use is permitted in the land use intensity district or districts in question. The land use officer may determine that such use is substantially similar to another permitted use and allow that use to be permitted. The land use officer may determine that such use is substantially similar to a conditional use, and allow that use as a conditional use. The land use officer may determine that such use is prohibited altogether in the use district or districts in question. In making such determinations, the land use officer shall consult the purpose and intent statements of the land use intensity district or districts in question, in addition to comparing the use in question to uses specifically listed in this table. In the event that the land use officer is unable to make a determination or if the entity requesting consideration on the subject use disagrees with the interpretation of the land use officer, then the board of appeals is empowered to properly convene and make a decision on the use, or failing to do so, authorize and recommend that the Land Use District Ordinance be properly amended per the Land Use Procedures and Standards Ordinance, Pickens County. In the latter case, the subject use is prohibited until this chapter is properly amended.
Section 67-10.3 Landscape Strips apply to all multi-family and non-residential developments. Also, section 67-10.5, Buffer Requirements, may apply when different land use districts abut each other.
EXPAND
USE DESCRIPTION AG SA ER RR SR UR SPC SRPC NC HB I
Accessory uses and structures not otherwise listed in this table, normally incidental to one or more permitted principal uses (See section 67-10.1) P P P P P P P P P P P
Active recreational facilities, nonprofit, such as tennis courts and swimming pools, as principal uses P P P P P P P P P P C
Active recreational facilities, nonprofit, such as tennis courts and swimming pools, as accessory to one or more permitted uses P P P P P P P P P P C
Adult businesses X X X X X X X X X C X
Agricultural experiment stations P X X X X X X X X X X
Agricultural production of field crops, fruits, nuts, and vegetables, including apple orchards, peach orchards, or vineyards/equivalents. (See "Gardens, non-commercial) P P P P P X P P X X X
Animal hospitals and veterinary clinics C C X X X X X X P P X
Animal rendering plants X X X X X X X X X X C
Assembly of products X X X X X X X X X X P
Asphalt plants X X X X X X X X X X C
Auction facilities for agricultural products C X X X X X X X X P X
Bed and breakfast home P P P P C C X X P P X
Bed and breakfast inns C C C C X X X P P P X
Boarding and rooming houses X X X X X X X X P P X
Bottling and canning plants X X X X X X X X X X P
Breweries and distilleries X X X X X X X X X X P
Business service establishments, not exceeding 2,500 square feet of gross floor area X X X X X X X P P P P
Business service establishments of more than 2,500 square feet of gross floor area X X X X X X X P X P P
Campgrounds C X X X X X X X X P X
Cement manufacturers X X X X X X X X X X P
Cemeteries [Three acre minimum required for a cemetery alone, but not applicable to a mausoleum or columbarium.] P P P P C C P P P P P
Ceramic production facilities X X X X X X X X X X C
Churches, temples, synagogues, and places of worship, including cemeteries as accessory uses [Three acres minimum is required to establish a new cemetery, but not applicable to a mausoleum or columbarium. Addition or expansion of existing cemeteries are exempt from this three acre requirement.] P P P P C C P P P P P
Club or lodge, nonprofit P P P P X X X X P P X
Cluster homes, which may consist of townhouses, attached or detached single family units, with or without garages at a density of 6.0 units per acre (within areas served by public water and public or private sewer). X X X X X X P P X X X
Coating of cans, coils, fabrics, vinyl, metal furniture, appliance surfaces, wire, paper, and flat wood paneling X X X X X X X X X X C
Cold storage plants and frozen food lockers X X X X X X X X X X P
Colleges and universities X X X X X X X X C P X
Commercial outdoor firing/shooting ranges X X X X X X X X X C X
See supplemental provisions section 67-10.11
Commercial recreational facility, indoor X X X X X X P P P P P
Commercial recreational facility, outdoor X X X X X X P P X C X
Conference centers and retreat centers C X X X X X P P P P P
Confined animal operations not specifically listed in this table C X X X X X X X X X X
Conservation areas and passive recreational facilities P P P P P P P P P P P
Contractor's establishments X X X X X X X X X P P
Country clubs, including golf courses and clubhouses including restaurants and golf pro shops as accessory uses P P P P P P P P P C X
Dairies P X X X X X X X X X X
Day care centers serving no more than 17 persons X X X X X X X P P P P
Day care centers serving 18 or more persons X X X X X X X P P P P
Distribution of products and merchandise X X X X X X X X X C P
Dry cleaning plants X X X X X X X X X X P
Dwellings, senior X X X X X X P P C P X
Dwellings, single-family detached P P P P P P P P X X X
Dwellings, single-family detached and manufactured homes, within an intra-family land transfer as provided in section 67-8.1. P X X X X X X X X X X
Dwellings, single-family attached (townhouses) X X X X X C P P P P X
Dwellings, two-family (duplexes) X X X X C P P P P P X
Dwellings, multi-family (apartments and condominiums) X X X X X X P P C P X
Dwellings, located within a building containing another principal use X X X X X X P P P P P
Explosives storage X X X X X X X X X X C
Exterminating and pest control businesses and disinfecting services X X X X X X X X X P P
Extraction industries—Extraction and removal of sand, gravel, top soil, clay, dirt, precious metals, gems, and minerals C X X X X X X X X X P
Family day care home in single-family detached dwellings P P P P P P P P P P X
Feed, grain, and fertilizer manufacturers X X X X X X X X X X C
Fiberglass insulation manufacturers X X X X X X X X X X P
Finance, insurance and real estate establishments, less than 2,500 square feet of gross floor area per establishment X X X X X X X P P P X
Finance, insurance and real estate establishments with 2,500 or more square feet of gross floor area per establishment X X X X X X X P C P X
Flea market [Also, see "open air business."] X X X X X X X X P P X
Food processing plants, including fish and poultry facilities X X X X X X X X X X C
Forest uses associated with production, management and harvesting of timber P X X X X X X X X X X
Fuel oil distributors and petroleum bulk storage sites X X X X X X X X X C P
Funeral homes and mortuaries X X X X X X X X C P C
Gardens, non-commercial, as accessory to residential use P P P P P P P P P P X
Greenhouses and nurseries: wholesale and retail sale of trees, plants, and shrubs P X X X X X X X X P X
Greenhouses, non-commercial, as accessory to residential use P P P P P P P P X X X
Group home X X X X P P X X P P X
Guest houses P P P P P P P P C X X
Halfway house (subsection 67-10.8) X X X X X X X X P P X
Hazardous waste receiving, handling, and disposal facilities X X X X X X X X X X C
Health services, including clinics and hospitals X X X X X X P P C P X
Health spas X X X X X X P P C P X
Home occupations (See section 67-10.2) P P P P P P P P P P X
Horse stables, non-commercial, as accessory to residential use P P P P X X X X X X X
Incinerators, including medical wastes X X X X X X X X X X C
Incinerators, as an accessory use to poultry operations for dead bird disposal. P X X X X X X X X X X
Institutional residential living and care facilities, serving six or less persons C C C C C C X X P P X
Institutional residential living and care facilities, serving seventeen or less persons X X C C C C X X P P X
Institutional residential living and care facilities, serving eighteen or more persons X X X X X X P P P P X
Junkyards, wrecked motor vehicle compounds, and wrecker services; salvage yards (See section 67-10.6) X X X X X X X X X C P
Kennel P P P C X X X X X X X
Landfills, inert waste C X X X X X X X X X C
Landfills, sanitary C X X X X X X X X X C
Livestock—Raising of 15 animal units or less - provided that all structures used for housing or feeding livestock shall be at least 100 feet from adjoining properties zoned AG, SA, ER, RR, SR, UR, SPC, and SRPC (See also section 67-10.7) P P P P X X X X X X X
Livestock—Raising of more than 15 animal units provided that all structures used for housing or feeding livestock shall be at least 100 feet from adjoining properties zoned AG, SA, ER, RR, SR, UR, SPC, and SRPC (See also section 67-10.7) P C C C X X X X X X X
Livestock, concentrated operations (feedlots) C X X X X X X X X X X
Lodging services (See section 67-10.10 for special requirement for extended stay facilities) X X X X X X P P X P X
Manufactured home parks (MHP) [See Chapter 38, Article IV of Pickens County Land Development Standards; MHP tract must meet or exceed the minimum lot size requirement for the respective districts.] P P P P P P P P X X X
Manufacturing establishment involving the mechanical or chemical conversion of raw materials into semi-finished or finished products, not otherwise specified in this table. X X X X X X X X X X P
Manufacturing—Manufacturing establishments involving only the assembly of pre-manufactured component parts, not otherwise specified in this table X X X X X X X X X C P
Metal products manufacturing X X X X X X X X X X P
Mini-warehouses and self storage facilities X X X X X X X X C P P
Mobile homes X X X X X X X X X X X
Motor-vehicle sales and service establishments X X X X X X X X X P X
Offices X X X X X X P P P P P
Open air businesses/farmer's market and unenclosed retail trade establishments [See subsection 67-10.9] X X X X X X X X P P X
Open storage yards as principal uses X X X X X X X X X P P
Parking lots and decks, off-site, as principal uses X X X X X X X X X P P
Personal service establishments X X X X X X X X P P X
Public and semi-public uses P P P P P P P P P P P
Pulp mills X X X X X X X X X X C
Rabbit farming (buildings or sheds for breeding, raising, or processing shall be located 100 feet or more from any property line.) P P X X X X X X X X X
Recycling centers, collection points P P P P X X X X P P P
Recycling centers, processing X X X X X X X X X X P
Research, scientific, and testing laboratories C X X X X X X X X P P
Restaurants, including outside seating areas but not including drive-ins or drive-through facilities X X X X X X X P P P P
Restaurants, including drive-ins or drive-through facilities X X X X X X X X X P X
Retail trade establishments, enclosed, not exceeding 2,500 square feet of gross floor area X X X X X X X P P P X
Retail trade establishments, enclosed, exceeding 2,500 square feet of gross floor area X X X X X X X P C P X
Roadside stands P P X X X X X X P P X
Schools for dance, martial arts, and other disciplines operated for profit or nonprofit X X X X X X P P P P P
Schools, private elementary, middle, and high C C P P P P P P P P C
Schools, trade and technical X X X X X X X X X P P
Service and fuel filling stations X X X X X X X P P P P
Solid waste transfer stations C C C C X X X X X X P
Solvent metal cleaning X X X X X X X X X X C
Stock yards and slaughterhouses X X X X X X X X X X C
Telecommunications tower See Chapter 66, Pickens County Code of Ordinances.
Temporary structures and uses approved by the Land Use Officer P P P P P P P P P P P
Textile manufacturing and processing X X X X X X X X X X P
Tire retreading and recapping facilities X X X X X X X X X C P
Truck terminals X X X X X X X X X C P
Volatile organic liquid handling and storage X X X X X X X X X X C
Warehouses and storage buildings X X X X X X X X X C P
Wholesale trade establishments X X X X X X X X X C P
Wineries-wine tasting/apple houses/equivalent, seasonal or permanent P P X X X X P P P P P
Wood products manufacturing X X X X X X X X X X P
  TABLE 6-1-2 DIMENSIONAL REQUIREMENTS BY LAND USE INTENSITY DISTRICT
EXPAND
DIMENSIONAL REQUIREMENT AG SA ER RR SR** UR** SPC SRPC NC HB I
Minimum lot area to rezone to the district (acres) NA 5.0 NA 1.0 NA NA 150 (3) 500 0.50 NA 1.0
Maximum height (feet) 40 40 35 35 35 35 (2) (2) 40 40 50
Maximum residential density (units per acre) (1) .20 .33 0.67 1 1.33 (2) (2) 5* 5* NA
Minimum lot size (square feet except as otherwise shown) (1) 5 ac. 3 ac. 65,340 43,560 32,670 (2) (2) 10,000* 10,000* NA
Minimum lot width (feet) [Footnote (3)] 250 250 200 150 110 110 (2) (2) 100* 100* 200
Minimum front yard setback from the street right-of-way (feet) 25 25 25 25 25 25 (2) (2) 25 25 25
Minimum side setback, interior lot line (feet) 15 15 15 15 15 15 (2) (2) 15 15 15
Minimum rear setback (feet) 15 15 15 15 15 15 (2) (2) 15 15 15
Minimum side and rear setback when abutting an RR, SR, or UR district (feet) None None None None None None (2) (2) 40 40 40
Minimum width of natural buffers See section 67-10.5
Minimum landscape strip required along rights-of-way for multi-family or any nonresidential use (width in feet) NA NA NA NA NA NA (2) (2) 20 20 20
Minimum landscape strip required on side property lines for multi-family or any nonresidential use (width in feet) NA NA NA NA NA NA (2) (2) 5 5 —-
Maximum lot coverage (percent) 20 20 25 20 25 25 (2) (2) 25 30 40
Minimum landscaped open space (percent) None None None None None None (2) (2) 20 20 20
  NA = Not applicable
* = Subject to health department approval, if not served by public water and public sewer.
** = See special requirements for duplexes in Section 38, Pickens County Land Development Standards.
(1)
Within an AG district, the minimum lot size for any subdivision of land except those allowed for an intra-family land transfer shall be ten acres. Lot sizes for lots within intra-family land transfers shall be subject to the provisions of section 67-8.1.
(2)
Shall be determined by an approved master plan.
(3)
Measured at the front building setback line.
(Ord. of 5-2-2005; Res. of 8-26-2010; Res. of 8-25-2011, §§ 3—12; Res. of 9-20-2012; Res. of 9-15-2016, § 1)
Sec. 67-9. - General provisions.
67-9.1. Use. No building, structure, land, or water shall hereafter be used or occupied, and no building or structure or part hereof shall be erected, constructed, reconstructed, moved or structurally altered except in conformity with the regulations of this chapter or amendments thereto, including the use provisions for the use district in which it is located. Except as otherwise provided for in this chapter pursuant to interpretation of the land use officer, any use not specifically permitted in a use district shall be prohibited in that district.
67-9. Height. No building or structure shall hereafter be erected or altered so as to exceed the height limits as may be generally established by this chapter for different types of buildings and structures, and as provided for the use district in which the property is located. The height limitations of this chapter shall not apply to church spires, belfries, cupolas and domes not intended for human occupancy, or public utility facilities.
67-9.3. Maximum density, minimum lot size, and minimum lot width. No lot shall hereafter be developed with a number of housing units that exceeds the residential density for the use district in which the lot is located as established by this chapter. No lot shall hereafter be developed that fails to meet the minimum lot size and minimum lot width for the use district in which the lot is located as established by this chapter, except as otherwise specifically provided.
67-9.4. Minimum required yards and building setbacks. No building shall hereafter be erected in a manner to have narrower or smaller rear yards, front yards, or side yards than specified for the use district in which the property is located, or for the specific use if yards and setback regulations pertain to a specific use in this chapter. No lot shall be reduced in size, and no principal building shall hereafter be constructed, so that the front, side, or rear yards of the use district in which said lot and building are located are not maintained. This section shall not apply when a portion of a lot is acquired for a public purpose. No part of a yard shall be included as a part of the yard required for another building. The application of buffer requirements, as established by this chapter, supersedes these minimum required yards.
67-9.5. One principal building on a lot. Only one principal building and its customary accessory buildings may hereafter be erected on any lot, unless this chapter specifically provides otherwise; further provided, that more than one multi-family dwelling, office, institutional, commercial, or industrial building may be located on a lot or tract.
67-9.6. Coverage requirements. No lot shall hereafter be developed to exceed the maximum lot coverage specified for the use district in which it is located. No lot shall be developed with less than the minimum landscaped open space specified for the use district in which said lot is located.
67-9.7. Visibility at intersections and driveway entrances. At the intersection of public streets, at the intersection of any vehicular access drive with a public street, and at the intersection of any vehicular access drive with another vehicular access drive, no plant, structure, fence, wall, sign or other element in excess of three feet in height above street grade shall be placed or maintained within a triangular area formed by a line connecting two points that are located 25 feet from the intersection.
67-9.8. Minimum lot frontage. The minimum residential lot frontage shall be 50 feet.
(Ord. of 5-2-2005; Res. of 8-25-2011, § 13)
Sec. 67-10. - Supplemental provisions.
67-10.1. Accessory uses and structures.
1.
No accessory structure or parking area shall be permitted in any required front set back of any land use intensity district.
2.
Residential accessory uses in the ER, RR, SR, UR, SPC, and SRPC districts, such as garages, greenhouses, or workshops, shall not be rented or occupied for commercial purposes.
3.
All residential accessory buildings must be located at least ten feet from the principal building.
4.
Filling station pumps and pump islands where permitted may occupy the required yards, provided that they shall not be less than 15 feet from street lines; canopies, whether attached or detached from the principal building must be at least 14 feet in height and the outermost edge shall be five feet from any property line.
5.
All non-residential accessory buildings shall only be used by the owners, employees, lessee, or tenants of the premises, and shall meet the setback requirements of the principal building.
6.
An open or unenclosed swimming pool may occupy a required rear or side yard, provided that the pool is not located closer than six feet to a rear lot line or ten feet to an interior side lot line. A three-feet wide walk space shall be provided between pool walls and protective fences or barrier walls.
7.
No accessory structure shall be located closer than 15 feet to a side or rear lot line in all land use intensity districts.
67-10.2. Home occupations. The conduct of some business in residential units in the AG, SA, ER, RR, SR, UR, SPC, and SRPC is permitted under the provisions of this section. It is the intent of this section is to ensure the compatibility of home occupations with other uses permitted in these districts and not create a nuisance to residents from excessive noise, traffic, smoke, fire hazards, and other possible negative effects from commercial activity. Therefore, home occupations must meet the following requirements:
1.
A home occupation must be clearly subordinate to the principal use of a parcel. In the AG, SA, ER, RR, SR, UR, SPC and SRPC districts, no more than 25 percent of the floor area of the dwelling unit may be used for home occupation purposes or for storage purposes in connection with a home occupation. An accessory building cannot be used in conjunction with a home occupation in the ER, RR, SR, UR, SPC, and SRPC districts.
2.
In the AG and SA districts, no more than 25 percent of the dwelling nor more than 600 square feet of an accessory building may be used for home occupation purposes or for storage purposes in connection with a home occupation.
3.
The home occupation is limited to employment of residents of the property plus not more than one additional person.
4.
A home occupation shall not produce objectionable noise, dust, vibrations, glare, fumes, or electrical interference detectable by normal means outside the structure.
5.
A home occupation shall not constitute a fire hazard to neighboring residences.
6.
No traffic shall be generated by a home occupation in greater volumes than would normally be expected in a residential neighborhood, and any need for parking generated by the conduct of such home occupation shall be met off-street.
7.
On premise retail sales are prohibited except for the sale of products or goods produced or fabricated on the premises as a result of the home occupation.
8.
There shall be no exterior indication of the home occupation or variation from the residential character of the principal use.
67-10.3. Landscape strips.
A.
Frontage landscape strips. A minimum 20-foot wide landscape strip shall be provided along the full length of any street frontage of a multi-family or nonresidential development.
1.
Frontage landscape strips shall contain no structures, parking areas, patios, stormwater detention facilities or any other accessory uses except for the following:
a.
Retaining walls or earthen berms constructed as part of an overall landscape design.
b.
Pedestrian-oriented facilities such as sidewalks and bus stops.
c.
Underground utilities.
d.
Driveways required in order to access the property.
e.
Signs otherwise permitted by this Code.
2.
One tree shall be provided within the frontage landscape strip for every 40 feet of length of street frontage, or portion thereof. Such trees may be deciduous or evergreen, but must be of a type that is suitable to local growing conditions and that will normally reach at least 12 inches at diameter breast height upon maturity. The trees may be clustered for decorative effect following professional landscaping standards spacing, location, and design.
3.
All portions of a frontage landscape strip shall be planted in trees, shrubs, grass or ground cover, except for those ground areas that are mulched or covered by permitted structures.
4.
Upon planting, new trees shall have a caliper of no less than two inches, and may be clustered for decorative effect following professional landscaping standards for spacing, location, and design.
5.
Plant materials in the frontage landscape strip are not to extend into the street right-of-way unless specifically allowed by the public works department.
B.
Side yard landscape strips. A minimum five-foot wide landscape strip shall be provided along any side lot line of a nonresidential development. The landscape strip is to extend from the front principal building setback line to the rear of the property (unless a buffer is required along the side lot line).
1.
Side yard landscape strips shall contain no structures, parking areas, patios, stormwater detention facilities or any other uses except for the following:
a.
Retaining walls or earthen berms constructed as part of an overall landscape design.
b.
Underground utilities.
c.
Driveways required to access neighboring property.
2.
All portions of a side yard landscape strip shall be planted in trees, shrubs, grass or ground cover, except for those ground areas that are mulched or covered by permitted structures.
67-10.4. Parking lot trees. Deciduous shade trees shall be provided within any parking lot designed or intended to accommodate five cars or more, in accordance with the requirements of this section.
A.
One deciduous shade tree shall be provided within the parking lot for every ten parking spaces, or portion thereof. Each tree shall be located within the parking lot in reasonable proximity to the spaces for which the tree was required. Trees provided to meet the minimum requirements of any landscape strip or buffer may not be toward this requirement.
B.
A landscaping island shall be located at the end of every parking bay between the last parking space and an adjacent travel aisle or driveway. The island shall be no less than eight-feet wide for at least one-half the length of the adjacent parking space. The island shall be planted in trees, shrubs, grass, or ground cover except for those areas that are mulched.
C.
Tree planting areas shall be no less than eight feet in width and shall provide at least 100 square feet of planting area per tree. No tree shall be located less than two and one-half feet from the back of curb. All parking lot landscape islands shall be curbed with minimum six-inch high vertical curbs.
D.
Landscaping islands and tree planting areas shall be well drained and contain suitable soil and natural irrigation characteristics for the planting materials they contain.
67-10.5. Buffers requirements. To minimize future potential conflicts between non-compatible land uses and to protect the health, safety, and general welfare, a buffer shall be required whenever two adjoining properties are in different land use districts as shown in the following Table 6-1-3.
TABLE 6-1-3
BUFFER REQUIREMENT BETWEEN LAND USE DISTRICTS
EXPAND
More Intensive Districts
AG
Agricultural SA
Small Ag. NC
Neighborhood
Commercial HC
Highway
Commercial I
Industrial
Less Intensive Districts
AG
Agricultural (See A. below) Buffer I Buffer I Buffer II Buffer II
SA
Small Ag. (See A. below) Buffer I Buffer I Buffer II Buffer II
ER
Estate Res. (See A. below) Buffer I Buffer II Buffer II Buffer II
RR
Rural Res. (See A. below) Buffer I Buffer I Buffer II Buffer II
SR
Suburb. Res. (See A. below) Buffer I Buffer I Buffer II Buffer II
UR
Urban Res. (See A. below) Buffer I Buffer I Buffer II Buffer II
SPC
Special Plan. Community (See A. below) NA Buffer I Buffer II Buffer II
SRPC
Suburb. Res. Private Com. (See A. below) NA Buffer I Buffer II Buffer II
  A.
AG Buffer requirements between livestock concentrated feeding operations and other uses. Any property located within the agriculture district, which proposes to engage in livestock concentrated feeding operations and are adjacent to properties with residential uses, or adjacent to other certain uses; including but not limited to, recreation park or center, hospital or convalescent home will be subject to a 550 foot building or use setback.
1.
Permitting.
a.
All permits will be obtained from the planning and development office.
b.
The permit will be in the individual company's name who will be owning such operation.
c.
Each individual obtaining such a permit shall furnish proof to the county building permit officer that such provisions of this section have been met.
2.
Exemptions. Any currently existing livestock concentrated feeding operations shall be exempt from the buffer requirement. All new livestock concentrated feeding operations must comply with the buffer requirement.
B.
Buffer requirements between residential, commercial and industrial districts. When two adjoining properties are in different land use districts, the property within the more intensive district is required to provide the buffer type as indicated in Table 6-1-3 when acquiring a building permit unless the buffer was pre-existing. When two adjoining vacant parcels are in different land use districts as indicated in Table 6-1-3, no buffer is required when the parcel in the less intensive district acquires a building permit.
Type I Buffer Requirement. The required buffer shall have not less than a 12-foot width and shall consist of plantings, which meets the screening standards of section 67-10.5C.
Type II Buffer Requirement. The required buffer shall have not less than a 30-foot width and shall consist of plantings plus a fence, wall (not otherwise a part of a structure), or a berm, or any combination thereof, which meets the screening standards of section 67-10.5C.
C.
Screening standards. Screening is a method of visually shielding or obscuring one use from another by fence, walls, berms or densely planted vegetation.
Plantings. Plantings shall consist of either trees or shrubs or any combination of both. Planted areas shall be located along the abutting property lines or in areas that will be provide the best screening effectiveness.
If trees or large shrubs are used solely as the screening devise, they shall be any evergreen species from the list provided by the planning and development office which, under normal growing conditions, will attain a minimum height of eight feet and a canopy spread of ten feet within four years. They shall be planted a minimum 20 feet on center as shown in the following illustration.
Tall Trees
If trees are used in combination with shrubs, they may be of any species from the list provided by the planning and development office. Small trees shall be planted 30 foot on center, and large trees 40 foot on center as shown in the following illustration. Shrubs shall be any evergreen species from the list provided by the planning and development office planted four feet on center as shown in the following illustration. Shrubs shall initially be of any size, which would normally attain a minimum height of six feet within three years after planting.
Small Trees
that will provide 90 percent visual blockage as shown in the examples provided by the planning and development office. The fence shall be placed on the edge of the buffer nearest the most intense land use.
Berms. Earthen berms shall have a minimum height of six feet.
D.
Buffer design. All buffers required by this section shall conform to the following specifications:
1.
Prior to development, a buffer plan shall be required to show the types and locations of all plantings within a required buffer. If a site plan is required, a buffer plan shall be incorporated as part of the site development plan.
2.
Landscaping within buffer areas shall be used to screen objectionable views or nuisances, such as parking and service areas, refuse containers, air conditioning units and transformers.
3.
Existing on-site trees may be credited as meeting the requirements of this section if the planning and development office determines that such plant materials achieve the purposes of this section.
E.
Location of buffers. Buffers shall be located on the outer perimeter of a lot or parcel along all lot lines adjoining dissimilar districts including adjacent property lines, which may be separated by an existing or proposed public right-of-way. Buffers shall not be located on any portion of existing, dedicated, or reserved public or private street right-of-way.
F.
Variances. The requirements of this section may be waived by the appropriate agency under any of the following conditions:
1.
If it is clearly demonstrated that the existing topography and/or vegetation will achieve the purposes of this section.
2.
If it is clearly demonstrated that for topographic reasons, no required screening device could possibly screen the ground level activities of the use from the first floor view of the residential structure abutting the use.
3.
It is clearly demonstrated that an existing separation between adjoining properties will achieve the purposes of this section.
G.
Use of buffers. A buffer may be used for some forms of passive recreation such as pedestrian, bike or equestrian trails, or as a stormwater retention area provided that: 1) no planted materials shall be eliminated; and 2) the total width of the required buffer area shall be maintained.
H.
Maintenance. The responsibility for maintenance of buffers shall remain with the owner of the property. To preserve the intended mitigation purpose of the buffer relative to adjacent properties, regularly scheduled maintenance of the buffer is required, including possible replacement of dead or diseased plant(s), fertilization, mowing grass, pruning, replenishing ground cover, or general care. Maintenance of planted areas shall consist of mowing, removal of litter and dead plant materials, and necessary pruning. Fences and walls shall be kept in a condition that meets the requirements of this section.
I.
Failure to comply with these provisions. See sections 1-11 of this chapter for enforcement and penalty provisions.
J.
Surety for buffer installation. When the date for issuing a certificate of occupancy does not coincide with the planting conditions that are necessary to install a required buffer, the planning and development office shall accept a letter of credit or other acceptable surety in the name of Pickens County for the buffer installation. Such surety shall be in the amount and form satisfactory to the planning and development office and shall certify the following:
1.
That the creditor does guarantee funds in an amount to cover the cost of installing all buffers as estimated by the developer and approved by the planning and development office. The guaranteed amount accepted by planning and development office shall equal the actual buffer costs (plants plus installation), plus 15 percent in the event of default.
2.
That in the case of failure on the part of the developer to complete the specified improvements within six months of the issue date of the credit, the creditor shall pay to Pickens County immediately and without further action such funds as are necessary to finance the completion of those improvements up to the limit of credit stated in the letter.
3.
That the letter of credit or other acceptable surety may not be withdrawn or reduced in amount until released after final inspection and certification of approval of the buffer by the planning and development office. Prior to the end of the first year after the buffer installation, the planning and development office shall make an inspection and notify the owner or developer of any required replacement or restoration.
67-10.6. Junk cars and junkyards.
A.
Junkyards; depositing junk; characteristics of junk property.
1.
It shall be unlawful to deposit, store, keep or maintain or to permit to be deposited, stored, kept or maintained junk or trash in or on any lot, parcel or tract of land or body of water, except within a legally established junkyard. It is not the intent hereof to prohibit the deposit of trash or junk in a usual location for waste collection provided it is not or will not become a nuisance and the same will be collected by the county or a county authorized commercial waste collector.
2.
Junkyards must be greater than 300 feet from the lot line of an existing abutting residential use. This does not prohibit a residential lot being located within 300 feet of an existing junkyard. No junkyard shall be established or enlarged without a permit from the county, and the permit shall not be issued until county review is completed.
3.
If a junkyard fronts upon any public or private street/road, then a sight impermeable fence or wall eight feet high shall be required parallel to such street/road.
4.
If the fence is a cyclone-wire type fence, then it shall have a top rail and be interwoven with wooden, metal, or plastic strips to create a solid sight impermeable barrier. If wire fencing is used, a two-foot concrete (on footing) or heavy sheet metal curb (imbedded at least two feet in the ground) shall be placed immediately adjacent to and inside such fence to prevent runoff of oil, transmission fluid and other contaminants onto adjacent properties or into adjacent waterways that may result from junking operations.
5.
All gates shall be of the cyclone-wire type, interwoven with wooden, metal, or plastic slats in order to screen the interior of the yard when the gates are closed.
6.
In addition, when either a fence or wall is installed as required for a junkyard, an appropriate hedge made up of native tree or plant species or other species approved by the county shall be planted outside the required walls or fences. Such tree or plant species shall be not less than four feet in height at the time of planting, shall be five feet on center, and not less than 2.5 feet from the wall or fence. In no event shall the junk or scrap be piled higher than the wall or fence unless the hedge around the entire site grows above the wall or fence and forms a solid screen; in that event the scrap or junk may be piled up to the height of the hedge.
7.
All walls, fences, interwoven material, curbs and hedges shall be continuously maintained in good condition and appearance and in such a manner that the purpose of screening and water runoff prevention is served.
8.
If an existing junk or scrap yard expands the operation by enlarging the size of the affected tract or relocates to an entirely new site, then all of the requirements of this subsection shall apply to the existing or new site. If any such use shall not comply as required by this subsection, such use shall be immediately discontinued.
B.
Removal of abandoned property. It shall be unlawful for any Pickens County property owner/renter to accumulate and store salvageable junk materials on their own property without complying with subsection 67-10.6 and obtaining the proper permit.
C.
Enforcement.
1.
A one-time fee of $1,000.00 is required for a permit to site a junkyard/salvage yard in Pickens County. The fee can be paid at the planning and development office.
2.
Any person or entity who violates any provision of this chapter shall be given 30-days' written notice to remedy any such violation.
3.
Each day any such violation continues after the 30-day written notice shall constitute a separate violation and shall be punishable by a fine of up to $1,000.00 per day for each violation.
67-10.7. Livestock animal units.
Livestock animal unit: A measure, which represents a common denominator for the purposes of defining the land carrying capacity for livestock. The animal unit accounts for the carrying capacity of one acre of land and is related to the amount of feed various species consume, and the amount of waste they produce. Table 6-1-3(a) indicates the number of common farm species, which are permitted per acre for free-range activity. (See also the definition for Livestock, concentrated operations.) The land use officer shall determine the acreage requirement for livestock not listed in the table.
Enclosure requirement. All lands devoted to the raising and keeping of livestock shall be enclosed by a permanent type of fence, adequately constructed to house the species of livestock being raised or kept. The enclosure is required to be regularly maintained to ensure that all animals are prohibited from encroaching on abutting property or property not allocated for housing of livestock.
TABLE 6-1-3(a)
NUMBER OF VARIOUS LIVESTOCK ALLOWED PER ACRE
(Free-Range Activity Only)
EXPAND
Livestock Type Number Per Acre
horses or llamas 2.0
dairy cow 1.0
mature beef 1.0
beef feeder — finishing 1.0
beef feeder — backgrounding 1.0
swine, > 55 lbs 3.0
goose or duck 5.0
sheep or goats 10
swine, nursery 10
turkey 55
chicken 100
rabbits (penned only; see Permitted Use Table, "rabbit farming")
  67-10.8. Halfway houses—Special requirements. In compliance with O.C.G.A. 36-66-4, any such halfway house location or relocation shall require a public hearing at least six months and not more than nine months prior to the date of final action on any zoning decision (i.e. rezoning, annexation, or conditional use review). A sign posted on the subject property and a published notice shall contain a prominent statement that the proposed zoning decision relates to or will relocate a halfway house. The published notice shall be at least six column inches in size and shall not be located in the classified advertising section of the newspaper. The latter posted and published notices shall appear at least 15 days and not more than45 days prior to the date of this public hearing. The above public hearing is in addition to the public hearing that may be required nearest to making a zoning decision per the requirements of the Land Use Procedures and Standards Ordinance, Pickens County.
67-10.9. Open air businesses—Special requirements. Year-around open air businesses/flea markets/farmer's markets, and similar facilities are permitted in the NC and HB districts provided that:
1.
Permanent sanitary facilities are required for patrons and shall be approved by the Pickens County Health Department or applicable authority.
2.
No overnight camping on the property is permitted.
67-10.10. Extended stay facilities—Special requirements. Extended stay facilities are unique in creating a commercial facility environment, like a motel or hotel, where overnight accommodation is provided for community visitors, yet such facilities also provide overnight accommodation to others, who may be working temporary or full-time jobs in the community or choosing such facility for residence as if it were considered a multi-family dwelling. The latter scenarios are thus residential in nature, with some units within the facility functioning and equipped as dwelling units. The following criteria thus apply:
1.
The minimum lot area is not less than two acres.
2.
All extended stay facilities shall have a maximum density of 60 guest units per gross acre.
3.
Not more than ten percent of individual guest rooms shall have registrants who reside in, or occupy any room or rooms within the same licensed facility for more than a 90-day period.
4.
No permanent business license shall be issued for the conduct of any business from any guest room, nor shall any home occupation function from such guest room.
5.
Extended stay hotels/motels shall have a landscape plan submitted and approved by the county zoning administration staff, such plan shall be implemented prior to the issuance of a business license.
6.
Each guest room shall be protected with a sprinkler system approved by the fire marshal or their designee and hard-wired smoke detector shall be provided and installed in each guest unit.
7.
All guest rooms which have facilities for both the storage and preparation of food shall not have less than 300 square feet of floor area and are limited to a maximum of two persons per such room; however, for all such guest rooms greater than 300 square feet, one additional person shall be allowable per each additional 75 square feet of floor area up to and including a maximum of four persons.
8.
An indoor or fenced outdoor active recreation areas shall be provided. The size of each recreation area shall be calculated at a ratio of five square feet per room with a minimum provision of 600 square feet.
9.
A minimum of 25 percent of the lot area shall be dedicated to either active or passive open space. The open space shall include active recreation, such as a children's playground area, and/or passive recreation, such as green space and walking paths.
10.
All such extended stay facilities shall provide a 50-foot undisturbed buffer from any property zoned for multi-family residential purposes and/or a 100-foot undisturbed buffer from any property zoned for single family residential purposes.
67-10.11. Commercial outdoor firing/shooting ranges—Special requirements.
(a)
Minimum undisturbed buffer of at least 500 feet shall be required along property lines adjacent to and/or abutting residential use properties and/or residential land use districts.
(b)
Area where firing activity takes place shall be at least 500 feet from all property lines.
(c)
Applicant shall list proposed hours of operation as part of the Conditional use application.
(d)
Protective natural or artificial barriers must be provided to prevent bullets, shells, or pellets from travelling to human-occupied areas.
(e)
Applicant shall provide a copy of liability insurance as part of the Conditional use application.
(Ord. of 5-2-2005; Res. of 8-26-2010; Res. of 8-25-2011, §§ 14—31, 33—35; Res. of 9-15-2016, § 1)
Sec. 67-11. - Nonconforming situations.
67-11.1. Nonconforming lots. A lot of record, as defined by this chapter, does not conform to the minimum lot size or minimum lot width for the use district in which it is located, or does not conform to a specific lot requirement of this chapter. Such lot may be used as a building site, provided that the access, height, buffer, setback, parking, and other dimensional requirements of the use district in which the lot of record is located are met and, provided further, that the lot meets all the current standards and requirements of the Pickens County Health Department, if applicable.
67-11.2. Expansion of nonconforming buildings and structures. A nonconforming building or structure, as defined by this chapter, may be expanded, enlarged, or extended if such expansion, enlargement, or extension is for a use that conforms to the requirements for the use district in which the building or structure it is located. Any such expansion, enlargement, or extension of a nonconforming building or structure shall meet the minimum yard, setback, buffer, height, bulk, and other dimensional requirements for the use district in which said nonconforming building or structure is located.
67-11.3. Nonconforming uses. A use of land, building, or structure which at the time of the enactment or amendment of this chapter does not comply with the provisions for the use district in which it is located, defined in this chapter as a nonconforming use, may be continued even though such use does not conform with the use provisions of the district in which said use is located, except that the use of a principal nonconforming building, structure or land shall not be:
a.
Changed to another nonconforming use. A change in tenancy or ownership shall not be considered a change to another nonconforming use, provided that the use itself remains unchanged.
b.
Re-established after discontinuance for one year. Vacancy and/or non-use of the building, regardless of the intent of the owner or tenant, shall constitute discontinuance under this provision. If a business registration is required for said nonconforming use and the business registration pertaining to said use has lapsed in excess of six months, said lapse of business registration shall constitute discontinuance.
c.
Expanded, enlarged or extended, in land area or in floor space or volume of space in a building or structure, except for a use which complies with the use district in which said use is located.
d.
Rebuilt, altered or repaired after damage exceeding 50 percent of its replacement cost at the time of damage as determined by the building official, except for a use which conforms with the use district in which said use is located, and provided such rebuilding, alteration or repair is completed within one year of such damage.
It shall be the responsibility of the owner of a nonconforming use to prove to the land use officer that such use was lawfully established and existed on the effective date of adoption or amendment of this chapter.
(Ord. of 5-2-2005; Res. of 8-25-2011, § 32)
Sec. 67-12. - Parking and loading.
67-12.1. Off-street parking required. Off-street automobile parking spaces shall be provided on every lot on which any building, structure, or use is hereafter established in all use districts, except as otherwise specifically exempted by this chapter. Required parking spaces shall be available for the parking of operable passenger vehicles for residents, customers, patrons, and employees, as appropriate given the subject use.
67-12.2. Location of off-street parking areas. All parking spaces required by this chapter shall be provided on the same lot with the main building or use, which it serves. Upon demonstration that the parking spaces required are not available and cannot reasonably be provided on the same lot as the building, structure or use it serves, the land use officer may permit the required parking spaces to be provided on any lot a substantial portion of which is within 400 feet of such building, structure, or use. This provision shall require submittal of evidence of ownership or valid agreement to lease the parking area off-site that is intended to be used to comply with this section.
67-12.3. Parking plan required. Before any building or land use permit is issued, the proposed parking lot layout and area must be found by the land use officer to be in compliance with all requirements of this chapter. A parking plan for all but detached single-family uses shall be submitted for approval by the land use officer. Occupancy of the land or use of a building shall not occur until the land use officer determines that parking facilities are available in accordance with the approved plan.
67-12.4. Minimum number of parking spaces required. On each lot where a building, structure, or use exists, off-street parking shall be provided according to Table 6-1-4. No existing facility used for off-street parking shall be reduced in capacity to less than the minimum required number of spaces, or altered in design or function to less than the minimum standards.
TABLE 6-1-4
MINIMUM NUMBER OF OFF-STREET PARKING SPACES REQUIRED
EXPAND
Use Parking spaces required (Per gross floor area devoted to the use, or per employee on largest shift, except as otherwise specified)
COMMERCIAL USES
Art gallery One per 400 square feet
Auto parts store One per 400 square feet plus one per employee
Bank, credit union, savings and loan One per 300 square feet (also see stacking requirements for drive-through facilities)
Bar or tavern One space per four seats
Barber shop or beauty parlor One and one-half per operator's chair, plus one per employee
Bed and breakfast inn Two for the owner-operator plus one per guest bedroom
Billiard hall/amusement arcade One per 200 square feet
Bowling alley Two for each alley, plus one per each employee
Convenience store One per 250 square feet plus one per employee
Dance hall or school One space per 150 square feet
Funeral home or mortuary One per four seats, plus one per two employees, plus one for each hearse, ambulance, or company vehicle
Furniture, carpet, appliance and home furnishing store One per 1,000 square feet plus one per employee and one per delivery truck
Greenhouse/nursery One space per 400 square feet, plus one space per 2,000 square feet of exterior nursery
Grocery or food store One per 200 square feet
Hardware store One per 400 square feet plus one per employee
Health or fitness club Ten plus one per each 250 square feet over 1000 square feet
Hotel or motel One per guest room, plus one per employee, plus one per specified requirements for restaurants and meeting rooms as applicable
Kennel One per 400 square feet, plus one per employee
Laundromat One per each two washer/dryer combinations
Motor-vehicle sales One per employee, plus one per 150 square feet of repair space, plus one per 600 square feet of showroom
Motor-vehicle service and repair Two per service bay
Nursery or greenhouse One per 1,000 square feet devoted to sales
Office One per 300 square feet
Open air business/flea market Two spaces per rentable booth or table site
Photographic studio One per 400 square feet
Restaurant, cafeteria, fast food (with seating) One space per four seats; one additional per 2 employees
Restaurant, fast food w/drive-in facility (no seating) One per employee on maximum shift
Retail store, general merchandise One space per 250 square feet
Roadside stand/produce stand Five spaces per stand
Self storage facility (mini-warehouse) One per facility manager, plus one per each forty storage units, with two spaces total minimum
Service station One per two employees plus three for each service bay
Shopping center Four and one-half spaces per 1,000 square feet
Theater, cinema One per three fixed seats
Veterinarian, animal hospital Four per practitioner
Wineries/apple house/equivalent Two spaces per 1,000 square feet
INDUSTRIAL USES
Manufacturing, processing, assembling Two per three employees
Warehouse One per two employees or one per 1,500 square feet, whichever is greater
Wholesale merchandise One per 2,000 square feet
INSTITUTIONAL USES
Church, temple, synagogue and place of worship One per four seats in room with greatest seating capacity
Day care center One per employee, plus one per eight children, plus one space for each vehicle associated with facility
Government office One per 300 square feet
Halfway house One per employee, plus one per two client beds
Hospital One per four beds, plus one per two employees
Institutional living/care facility One per two patient beds
Library or museum One per 300 square feet
Nursing home One per three patient beds
Post office One per 200 square feet
School — elementary One per employee plus one additional per ten employees
School — middle One per ten students or one per five seats in auditorium or main assembly area, whichever is greater
School — high One per three students plus one per full time employee
College Ten per classroom
Vocational/Technical 20 per classroom
RESIDENTIAL USES
Apartment, one bedroom One per unit
Apartment, two bedroom One and one-half per unit
Apartment, three bedroom Two per unit
Boarding or rooming house One space for each two guest rooms, plus one additional space for the owners, if resident on the premises
Group home One per employee, plus one per two bedrooms
Manufactured home park Two spaces per manufactured home space
Residence containing a non-residential use One per unit
Senior dwelling One space per dwelling unit
Single-family detached or attached (including manufactured home) Two per unit
Two family dwelling Two per unit
RECREATIONAL USES
Amusement park Per parking generation study funded by applicant and approved by the director
Assembly hall or auditorium One per four fixed seats, or one per 150 square feet of seating area, whichever is less
Basketball court Five per court
Billiard hall Two per table
Community center One per 250 square feet
Country club One per 400 square feet of gross floor area. Plus one and one-half per hole for golf course, two per tennis court, and one per 100 square feet of surface for swimming pools
Golf course Three per hole
Golf driving range, principal use One for every tee
Miniature golf Two per hole
Skating rink One per 250 square feet
Stadium or sport arena One per 12 feet of bench seating
Swimming pool — subdivision amenity One per 150 square feet of surface water area
Swimming pool — public One per 100 square feet of surface water area
Tennis or racquet ball court Three spaces per court
  67-12.5. Interpretations of parking requirements.
Fractions. Where a fractional space results during the calculation of required parking, the required number of parking spaces shall be construed to be the next highest whole number.
Parking space requirement not specified. Where the parking requirement for a particular use is not described in this section, and where no similar use is listed, the land use officer shall determine the number of spaces to be provided based on requirements for similar uses, location of the proposed use, the number of employees on the largest shift, the total square footage, potential customer use, and other expected demand and traffic generated by the proposed use.
67-12.6. Reduction of required parking for mixed or joint use of parking spaces. When more than one use is provided on a lot, and such uses operate more or less simultaneously, the total requirements for off-street parking spaces shall be the sum of the requirements for the various uses computed separately. The land use officer may authorize a reduction in the total number of required off-street parking spaces for two or more uses jointly providing parking facilities when their respective hours of need of maximum parking do not normally overlap, provided that the developer submits sufficient data to demonstrate that the hours of maximum demand for parking at the respective uses do not normally overlap. The required spaces assigned to one use may not be assigned to another use at the same time, except that one-half of the parking spaces required for churches, theaters or assembly halls whose peak attendance will be at night or on Sundays may be assigned to a use which will be closed at night or on Sundays.
(Ord. of 5-2-2005; Res. of 8-25-2011, § 36)
Sec. 67-13. - Loading.
67-13.1. Off-street loading areas required for specified uses. On the same lot with every building, structure or part thereof, erected or occupied for manufacturing, storage, warehouse, truck freight terminal, department store, wholesale store, market, hotel, hospital, mortuary, dry cleaning plant, retail business, or other uses similarly involving the receipt or distribution of vehicles, materials or merchandise, there shall be provided and maintained adequate space for the standing, loading and unloading of such materials to avoid undue interference with public use of streets, alleys, and parking areas.
67-13.2. Loading area specifications. Unless otherwise approved by the land use officer, loading spaces shall be a minimum of 14 feet wide, 40 feet long, with 14 feet of height clearance. Said loading area shall be located to the rear of the building unless site design precludes a rear location, in which case loading shall be to the side of a building.
67-13.3. Minimum number of off-street loading spaces required. One off-street loading space shall be provided for the first 10,000 square feet of gross floor area or fractional part thereof for industrial use and one off-street loading space for the first 5,000 square feet of gross floor area or fractional part thereof for retail or other non-industrial use for which a loading space is required. One additional space shall be required for each additional 25,000 square feet of gross floor area or fractional part thereof for industrial use and for each additional 10,000 square feet of gross floor area or fractional part thereof for retail or other non-industrial use.
(Ord. of 5-2-2005)
Sec. 67-14. - Board of appeals.
A.
Purpose. These regulations establish a board of appeals and provide a mechanism for relief in individual cases where certain dimensional requirements of this Code pose undue hardship. These regulations also provide for appeals from actions of the land use officer in the administration, enforcement and interpretation of this Code. The grant of authority and powers delegated by the governing authority is limited to the provisions herein and shall be sparingly used by the board of appeals.
B.
Board of appeals. A board of appeals is hereby established. Said board shall consist of five voting members, who are residents and registered voters of the county, each of whom shall serve for terms of three years without compensation. None of the members of the board of appeals shall be a member of the governing authority, but one member of the planning commission may serve on the board of appeals. The board members shall be appointed by the governing authority. If any vacancy should occur in the membership of the board for any cause, the governing authority shall fill such vacancy by making an appointment for the unexpired term. Any members of the board may be removed for due cause or upon expiration of term.
C.
Meetings. The board of appeals shall adopt rules of procedure as are necessary to carry out the purposes of its authority. The board shall establish a regular meeting date and time for its meetings. However, meetings shall be held only on an as-needed basis. All meetings shall be open to the public. The board shall appoint a secretary, who shall be the land use officer unless otherwise designated, to keep a record and minutes of its proceedings, showing the action of each board member upon each question. The board shall keep records of its examinations and other official actions, all of which shall be filed with the county clerk and which shall be public records. The land use officer shall serve as the advisor to the board, except in cases of an appeal from a decision of the land use officer. The board may adjourn any public hearing or meeting in order to obtain additional information or to serve further notice upon such other property owners as it decides may be interested in the application or appeal; provided however, that the board shall act on all applications within 64 days of the date the initial public hearing on the matter was held.
D.
Authority to grant variances. The board of appeals is authorized to receive, consider, grant, grant with conditions, or deny applications for variances to the dimensional requirements of this Code, after a public hearing and after making written findings of fact that the conditions for variances specified herein have been fulfilled. In granting a variance, the board may impose such requirements and conditions with respect to the location, construction, maintenance and operation of any use or building, in addition to those expressly set forth herein, as may be deemed necessary for the protection of adjacent properties and the public interest. However, a variance application may not be taken for consideration of a land use not otherwise allowed in a particular land use intensity district, nor for any request that proposes to increase the allowed density of any particular land use intensity district.
Decisions of the board of appeals shall be final; there shall be no appeal to the governing authority or any other administrative body, but the applicant aggrieved by a decision of the board of appeals may pursue appeals by writ of certiorari directly to the Pickens County Superior Court.
E.
Variance applications. A request for a variance may be initiated by a property owner or his authorized agent by filing an application with the land use officer. The application shall be accompanied by a site plan, drawn to scale, showing the dimensions and arrangement of the proposed development. The land use officer may require other drawings or materials essential to an understanding of the proposed use and variance requested and its relationship to the surrounding properties. Variance applications shall be accompanied by a fee as established by the governing authority from time to time.
F.
Conditions and criteria for granting variances. The board of appeals, in cases where specifically authorized, may grant a variance only after consideration and adoption of findings of fact that all of the following conditions exist and criteria are met:
1.
There are unusual, exceptional or extraordinary circumstances or conditions applying to the property that do not apply generally to other property in the same vicinity or use district, and such conditions are not the result of the owner's or occupant's own actions. Such conditions may include topography, unique natural conditions, surroundings of the subject property, or the size or peculiar shape of the lot.
2.
As a result of such unusual circumstance or conditions, there is an unnecessary hardship or practical difficulties that render it difficult to carry out the provisions of this Code.
3.
The authorization of such variance will not be materially detrimental to the public welfare or injurious to property in the vicinity or district in which property is located, and the variance will be in harmony with the general purposes and intent of the provisions of this Code.
4.
The variance approved is the minimum variance that will make possible the legal use of the land, building or structure.
G.
Staff investigation and report. The planning and development office shall make an investigation of all variance applications and shall prepare a report thereon, considering applicable criteria specified herein. Said investigation shall be submitted to the board of appeals. Said investigation shall also be made available to the applicant prior to any public hearing held on the matter. This provision shall not apply to appeals of administrative decisions of the planning and development office.
H.
Appeals of administrative decision. Any person who alleges there is an error in, or who is aggrieved by a decision of the land use officer in the administration, enforcement and interpretation of this Code, may file an appeal with the county clerk stating the grounds for such appeal. The board of appeals is hereby authorized to hear and decide said appeals, after proper application accompanied by a fee, public hearing, and adoption of relevant findings of fact.
An appeal from a ruling of the land use officer shall stay all proceedings in furtherance of the action being appealed. The board may affirm, overrule or modify, in whole or in part, the rulings of the planning and development office. In cases where an appeal is granted, the board shall have all necessary powers of the land use officer and may issue building permits and land use permits, or direct the issuance of building permits and land use permits, not otherwise inconsistent with this Code and any other code, resolution, or ordinance adopted by the governing authority.
I.
Special exceptions. The board of appeals is empowered to hear and decide special exceptions to the terms of this chapter provided that such exceptions shall impose appropriate conditions and safe guards as needed.
1.
Land use intensity district boundary interpretations.
2.
Questions related to interpretation of uses or use restrictions.
3.
Questions related to the existence of a nonconforming use.
J.
Notice of hearing. Upon the filing of any complete application for a variance with the planning and development office, or upon the filing of any complete application accompanied by a fee for appeal or special exception with the county clerk, a public hearing shall be scheduled and held on the proposed variance, appeal, or special exception. At least 15, but not more than 45 days prior to the date set by the board of appeals for the hearing a written notice shall be published in a newspaper of general circulation in Pickens County setting forth the time, place, and purpose of the hearing.
At least 15 days notice of the time and place of the hearing shall be sent to the applicant. In addition, the land use officer shall post, in a conspicuous place on the subject property a sign or signs which shall contain information as to the date, time, location, and purpose of the hearing before the board, at least 15 days before the hearing. However, acts of vandalism or natural occurrences which limit the effectiveness of posting the property for public notice shall not void the proceedings or actions taken under this section.
K.
Action on variances or appeals or special exceptions. The board shall make findings and render a decision in writing within 32 days after the initial public hearing on the proposed variance, appeal, or special exception. The board's secretary shall notify the applicant, in writing, of its decision within five days after the board has rendered its decision.
(Res. of 8-25-2011, § 38)
Editor's note— A resolution adopted Aug. 25, 2011, renumbered the former § 67-14 as § 67-15 and enacted a new § 67-14 as set out herein. The historical notation has been retained with the amended provisions for reference purposes.
Sec. 67-15. - Administration and procedures.
67-15.1. Procedures.
Authority to amend. Pickens County may from time to time amend the number, shape, boundary, or area of the land use intensity district map, or it may amend any ordinance or individual section of this Code. The procedure for amending the land use intensity district map and amendment to any ordinance or section shall be as contained in the Pickens County Land Use Procedures and Standards Ordinance found in Appendix A.
67-15.2. Administration.
A.
Enforcement officer. The provisions of this chapter shall be administered and enforced by the land development officer who is given the authority to perform these functions. The land development officer's duties shall include receiving applications, inspecting premises, issuing building permits and certificates of occupancy for uses and structures that meet the requirements of this chapter and other duties that are authorized by the governing authority.
B.
Building permit and manufactured home location permit.
1.
Building permit. A building permit, to indicate and insure compliance with all provisions of this chapter, shall be required for any proposed use of lands or buildings before any improvements or grading of lands or any alteration or construction of buildings commences.
2.
Manufactured home location permit. A location permit shall be required for the construction of a manufactured home stand, or the placement of a manufactured home on an individual lot.
3.
Application. All applications for building permits shall be made to the planning and development office and shall be accompanied by two copies of a dimensioned site plan.
C.
Site plan requirements. The site plan may be required to include the following:
1.
Name. Name(s) of the proposed development. Names, address(es), and phone number of the owner(s) and the designer(s) of the site plan and his seal.
2.
Date. Date, north arrow, and graphic scale.
3.
Survey boundaries. Surveyed boundaries of the entire tract and their relationship to adjoining properties, public rights-of-way, and easements.
4.
Location map. A general location map at a scale of one inch equals 2,000 feet indicating existing zoning on or adjacent to the site, adjoining roads, and the adjacent areas are required.
5.
Building locations. Location of all proposed buildings, their shape, size, and setback in appropriate scale.
6.
Parking and loading. All required parking and loading facilities for non-residential uses.
7.
Right-of-way. Show the location, with lengths and widths, and the name or purpose of all rights-of-way of streets, roads, alleys, railroads, public crosswalks, and applicable easements.
8.
Buffers. Show the location and design of the proposed buffer and landscaping for the proposed development.
9.
Environmentally sensitive areas. Show the location of major river corridors, steep slopes, and elevation of the 100-year floodplain as determined by the past history of flooding or the best available data.
10.
Proposed improvements. The names, where appropriate, and locations and dimensions of proposed streets, alleys, sidewalks, easements, buildings, parking and loading, dumpsters, recreation areas and facilities, yards and other open spaces.
11.
Adjacent developments. All other information concerning the lot or adjoining lots as may be essential to determine whether the proposed development meets the provisions of this chapter shall be included in the sketch plan.
D.
Issuance. If the proposed excavation, filling or construction as set forth in the application are in conformity with the provisions of this chapter, then the land development officer shall issue a building permit upon payment of the required fee. If a building permit is refused, the land development officer shall state such refusal in writing with cause. The land development officer shall not issue any permit if the land or building as proposed to be used, constructed or altered would be in violation to any provisions of this chapter or any codes and laws of Pickens County, or the state, or federal government, except as provided herein.
E.
Duration of permit validity. The permit shall become invalid if the work authorized by the permit is suspended or abandoned for a period of one year.
F.
Appeals from decisions. All questions arising in connection with the administration and enforcement of this chapter shall be presented to the board of appeals only on appeals from the decision of such official.
G.
Certificate of occupancy. Any tenant or owner, as applicable, is required to obtain a certificate of occupancy issued by the chief building official or his designee in advance of the occupancy or use of:
1.
Any building, structure, land, or premises.
2.
Any building or structure hereafter erected or moved.
3.
Any building hereafter altered, so as to affect the front, side, or rear yards thereof, or its height.
4.
Any building, structure, or premises in which there is a change of occupancy or use.
Within 48 hours after the application for a certificate of occupancy and payment of any required fees, the chief building official shall sign and issue a certificate of occupancy if the proposed use of land or building, as stated on the certificate of occupancy and signed by the owner or his appointed agent, is found to conform to the applicable provisions of this chapter, and if the building, as finally constructed, complies with the plans submitted for the building permit.
H.
Denial of certificate of occupancy. A certificate of occupancy shall not be issued unless the proposed use of a building or land conforms to the applicable provisions of this chapter, or unless the building, as finally constructed, complies with the plans upon which the building permit was issued. The chief building official shall state in writing the reasons for denying such certificate of occupancy.
I.
Records of applications and certificates. Records of application for all building permits, occupancy certificates with said permits, and occupancy certificates and denials shall be kept on file in the office of the chief building official and copies shall be furnished on request to any person having a proprietary or tenancy interest in the building or land involved.
(Ord. of 5-2-2005; Res. of 8-25-2011, §§ 37, 39)
Note— See the editor's note to § 67-14.
APPENDIX A
LAND USE PROCEDURES AND STANDARDS ORDINANCE
PICKENS COUNTY, GEORGIA
An ordinance of Pickens County, Georgia, establishing minimum procedural regulations, notice of public hearings, conduct of public hearings, standards, and factors governing the land use power of Pickens County, Georgia, and repealing all conflicting resolutions, ordinances, and amendments thereto, and for other purposes.
Section 1.0. Preamble and enactment clause.
For the purpose of insuring that due process is afforded to the general public when Pickens County regulates the use of property through the exercise of land use powers, and pursuant to the authority and mandates of the Constitution of the State of Georgia of 1983, Article IX, Section II, Paragraph IV and Chapter Sixty-Six of Title Thirty-Six of the Official Code of Georgia Annotated (O.C.G.A. § 36-66-1 et seq.), Pickens County does hereby adopt, order, and enact into law this ordinance.
Section 2.0. Definitions.
When used in this ordinance, the following terms shall have the definitions and meaning hereafter set forth:
Conditional use (special use). A use approved within a land use intensity district, generally considered compatible with the other uses allowed in the district, only after due consideration of objective criteria as applicable to the proposed conditional use.
Governing authority. The sole commissioner or board of commissioners of Pickens County, as applicable, which shall have the power to act as granted by state law and this ordinance.
Land use decision. The final legislative action by Pickens County, which results in:
a)
Adoption of a land use intensity district ordinance;
b)
Adoption of an amendment to a land use intensity district ordinance which changes the text of the land use intensity ordinance;
c)
Adoption of an amendment to a land use intensity district ordinance which changes property from one land use intensity district to another; or
d)
Approval of a conditional use of property.
Land use intensity districts. The power of Pickens County to provide within its territorial boundaries for the districting of property for various uses and the prohibition of other or different uses within such land use intensity districts and for the regulation of development and the improvement of real estate within such districts in accordance with the uses of property for which said land use intensity districts were established.
Land Use Intensity District Ordinance. An ordinance for Pickens County establishing procedures and land use intensity districts within its territorial boundaries which regulate the uses and development standards of property within such land use intensity districts. The term also includes the land use intensity district map (as hereinafter amended) adopted in conjunction with the Land Use Intensity District Ordinance of Pickens County, which shows the land use intensity districts and the classification of property therein.
Planning commission. The Pickens County Planning Commission or any other authority hereafter designated by the governing authority to participate in land use matters as authorized herein.
Section 3.0. Adoption.
At least one public hearing shall be held by the planning commission prior to the adoption/amendment of this ordinance and/or the land use intensity district ordinance by the governing authority of Pickens County and such proceeding shall comply with section 8.0 regarding public hearings; section 9.0 regarding hearing notice; and section 15.0 regarding conduct of hearings.
Section 4.0. Initiation of amendments.
This ordinance and the Land Use Intensity District Ordinance of Pickens County, Georgia may be amended from time to time subject to the following conditions:
Amendments to this ordinance, the land use intensity district ordinance, and/or land use intensity district map must be initiated either by the governing authority, the Pickens County Planning Commission/equivalent, or the property owner. The property owner's permission is required before a petition for changing the land use intensity district map can be filed by anyone other than Pickens County or the planning commission. Applications for amendment to the land use intensity district map or the text of this ordinance shall be accompanied by payment of a filing fee as established by Pickens County by resolution from time to time.
Section 5.0. Pre-application conference.
Prior to the filing of any application to amend the text of this ordinance, the land use intensity district map, or any other application pursuant to this Code, applicants are encouraged to schedule and attend a pre-application conference with the land use officer. The purpose of the pre-application conference is to provide applicants with the best available information regarding development proposals and processing requirements, and to ensure the availability of complete and accurate information for review of said application. Upon request of the applicant, the land use officer shall provide the applicant with a written summary of the pre-application conference and list any specific documents, information, or other information that must be submitted to satisfy application requirements.
Section 6.0. Map amendment application requirements.
Each application for a map amendment or conditional use permit shall be accompanied by a legal description of the property and a survey plat of the property, a letter of intent describing the proposed use of the property, an application form supplied by the land use officer, a filing fee as specified from time to time by resolution of Pickens County, and any other information as may be required by this ordinance or as specified by the land use officer to evaluate compliance with this ordinance.
Section 7.0. Complete application.
Any application for action under this ordinance must be complete before it shall be accepted for processing. Upon receipt of all application materials, the land use officer shall find the application complete and schedule it for public hearing and consideration.
Section 8.0. Public hearing.
Within no more than 60 days after the filing of a complete application for which a hearing is required by this ordinance, a public hearing shall be held on such application(s) before the planning commission as required by and in accordance with this ordinance, before the governing authority shall make a final land use decision on a proposed application.
Section 9.0. Public hearing notice.
For any proposed text amendment to this ordinance, any application for a land use intensity ordinance or map amendment, and any application for a conditional use permit, a public notice shall be published in a newspaper of general circulation in the local jurisdiction at least 15 days but not more than 45 days prior to the scheduled public hearing. Such notice shall state the purpose, location, time and date of the public hearing, the location of the property involved in the application, and the nature of said application. For map amendments, the public notice shall specifically include the current land use intensity district classification of the property and the proposed land use intensity district classification of the property. For conditional use applications, the public notice shall specifically include the proposed use of the subject property and the current land use intensity district classification of the property.
Section 10.0. Public notice sign on subject property.
Whenever a map amendment or an application for conditional use is proposed, the Land Use Officer shall cause to have posted in a conspicuous place on said property one or more signs(s), each of which shall be not less than 12 square feet in area, and each of which shall contain information as to the proposed change and the date, time and location of the public hearing before the public hearing body. For map amendments, the sign or signs shall specifically include the current land use intensity district classification of the property and the proposed land use intensity district classification of the property. For conditional use applications, the sign or signs shall specifically include the proposed use of the subject property and the current land use intensity district classification of the property. No public hearing shall take place until said sign or signs have been posted for at least 15 days, but not more than 45 days prior to the schedule public hearing to which said notice applies.
Section 11.0. Criteria to consider for map amendments.
In reviewing, recommending, and acting upon applications, respectively, for map amendments, the land use officer, the planning commission, and the governing authority shall consider the following criteria for approval, approval with conditions, or disapproval, as appropriate:
1.
Compatibility with adjacent uses and districts. Whether the proposed land use intensity district is suitable in light of the existing uses and land use intensity districts of surrounding and nearby properties, and whether the proposal will adversely affect the existing use or usability of adjacent or nearby properties.
2.
Property value. The existing value of the property contained in the petition under the existing land use intensity district classification, the extent to which the property value of the subject property is diminished by the existing land use intensity district classification, and whether the subject property has a reasonable economic use under the current land use intensity district.
3.
Suitability. The suitability of the subject property under the existing land use intensity district classification, and the suitability of the subject property under the proposed land use intensity district classification of the property.
4.
Vacancy and marketing. The length of time the property has been vacant or unused under the current land use intensity district classification; and any efforts taken by the property owner(s) to use the property or sell the property under the existing land use intensity district classification.
5.
Evidence of need. The amount of undeveloped land in the general area affected which has the same land use intensity district classification as the map change requested. It shall be the duty of the applicant to carry the burden of proof that the proposed application promotes the public health, safety, morality or general welfare.
6.
Public facilities impacts. Whether the proposal will result in a use which will or could cause an excessive or burdensome use of existing streets, transportation facilities, utilities, schools, parks, or other public facilities and services.
7.
Consistency with comprehensive plan. Whether the proposal is in conformity with the policy and intent of the locally adopted comprehensive plan.
8.
Other conditions. Whether there is any other existing or changing conditions affecting the use and development of the property, which give supporting grounds for either approval or disapproval of the proposal.
Section 12.0. Criteria to consider for conditional uses.
In reviewing, recommending, and acting upon applications, respectively, for conditional uses, the land use officer, the planning commission, and the governing authority shall consider the following criteria for approval with conditions, or disapproval, as appropriate:
1.
Access to the site is appropriate considering the anticipated volume of traffic resulting from the use.
2.
The amount and location of open space and the provision of screening is such that buffering of incompatible uses is achieved.
3.
Hours and manner of operation of the proposed use are not inconsistent with the adjacent or nearby uses.
4.
Public facilities and utilities are capable of adequately serving the proposed use.
5.
The proposed use will not have a significant adverse effect on the level of property values or the health, safety and general welfare and character of adjacent land uses or the general area.
6.
The physical conditions of the site, including size, shape, topography and drainage, are suitable for the proposed development.
7.
The proposed use is consistent with the goals and objectives of the comprehensive plan.
8.
Whether all pertinent and applicable requirements of this ordinance, and all applicable state and federal laws have been met.
9.
Any other factors deemed relevant to the land use officer, planning commission, or the governing authority.
Section 13. Staff investigation and report.
The land use officer shall make an investigation of the application and shall prepare a report thereon, considering applicable criteria specified herein. Said investigation shall be submitted to the planning commission and the governing authority. Said investigation shall also be made available to the applicant prior to any public hearing scheduled on the matter or in cases where a public hearing is not required, within a reasonable time prior to action.
Section 14. Planning commission review and recommendation.
The planning commission shall consider all applications to amend the text of this ordinance, applications to amend the land use intensity district ordinance and map, and applications for conditional use permits. It shall render a recommendation to the governing authority on all such applications, and the planning commission's recommendation shall be advisory only. The planning commission is delegated as the authority of Pickens County for the purpose of conducting the public hearing on all such applications and shall conduct its review in accordance with the procedures established herein. The planning commission may recommend approval, approval with conditions, or denial of the application. The land use officer shall notify the applicant in writing of the planning commission's recommendation within 30 days of the conclusion of the public hearing or within 30 days of its recommendation, if not made at the public hearing.
Section 15. Procedures for conducting public hearings.
This section establishes procedures which shall be applicable to the planning commission in the conduct of all public hearings. The planning commission shall follow such policies and procedures for the conduct of public hearings, except in cases where it is prudent to dispense with formalities where due process of the applicant or interested parties will be unaffected. Nothing contained herein shall be construed as prohibiting the planning commission from conducting the public hearing in an orderly and decorous manner to assure the public hearing on a proposed application is conducted in a fair and orderly manner. The below rules for the conduct of the public hearing may be summarized and verbally stated by a member of the planning commission or a staff representative prior to the conduct of the first public hearing scheduled for consideration. These rules shall be public record and shall be made available at the public hearing.
1.
Call of hearing. The presiding officer or authorized delegate of the planning commission shall indicate that a public hearing has been called for the consideration of said applications. Thereupon, the planning commission shall consider each application on an individual basis in the order of the published agenda or as otherwise called by the presiding officer or authorized delegate. The presiding officer may at any time accept into the record any written comments, petitions, plats, photographs or other documentary evidence from proponents or opponents to the land use or conditional use matter being considered.
2.
Report by land use officer. The presiding officer shall call upon the land use officer or other appropriate staff to make a report, if any, concerning the proposed application. The land use officer or other appropriate staff shall then give the report, if any, for said application.
3.
Presentation by applicant. The presiding officer shall call on the applicant or applicant's agent who shall present and explain his application. It shall be the duty of the applicant to carry the burden of proof that the proposed application promotes the public health, safety, morality or general welfare. The applicant for a proposed land use intensity amendment or conditional use, or his attorney at law or in fact, must be present at the public hearing to present the merits of the application. Failure of an applicant or his legal representative to attend the public hearing will result in the planning commission making an unfavorable advisory recommendation on the land use or conditional use matter.
4.
Determination of interested parties. Following the applicant's presentation, the presiding officer may ask for a show of hands of those persons who wish to appear in support of/or opposition to the petition. If it appears that the number of persons wishing to appear in support of/opposition to the petition is in excess of that which may reasonably be heard, the presiding officer may request that a spokesperson for the group be chosen to make presentations. Proponents and opponents of each decision shall have not less than ten minutes per side to present data, evidence and opinions on the proposed application.
5.
Public testimony. Prior to speaking, each speaker will identify himself or herself by name and state his or her current address. Each speaker shall speak only to the merits or liabilities of the proposed application under consideration and shall address his or her remarks only to the planning commission. Each speaker shall refrain from personal attacks on any other speaker or the discussion of facts or opinions irrelevant to the proposed application under consideration. The presiding officer may limit or refuse a speaker the right to continue, if the speaker, after first being cautioned, continues to violate these procedures.
6.
Applicant's rebuttal. After public testimony, the applicant or applicant's agent shall be allowed a short opportunity for rebuttal and final comment. Those speaking opposition shall only be granted additional speaking opportunity if the presiding officer determines that new evidence was presented during rebuttal.
7.
Close of public hearing. After the above procedures have been completed, the presiding officer will indicate that the public hearing is formally closed, and the public hearing shall not be reopened except upon formal vote of the planning commission; provided, however, that this provision shall not require the closure of a public hearing where at the discretion of the planning commission the hearing should be continued at a later time or date.
8.
Recess of hearing. The planning commission, for any reason it deems necessary or desirable, may recess or continue a hearing. Upon recessing or continuing a hearing, the planning commission shall announce the time, date and place when the hearing or hearings will be resumed and such public announcement shall be considered sufficient notice thereof to all persons.
9.
Vote. After the public hearing is closed, the planning commission may vote upon the proposed application. Prior to voting, the planning commission shall consider evidence and public testimony presented at the public hearing, and the planning commission shall apply the evidence to the applicable criteria specified in this ordinance for said application. It will not be required that the planning commission consider every criteria contained in this ordinance. At such public hearings as herein required to be held by the planning commission, the planning commission at the conclusion of the public hearing, or within a specified time thereafter, may by motion, send forth a written recommendation for granting the application, granting with conditions, or a recommendation for denial of the application, along with a summary of the proceedings of the hearing or transcript thereof. The recommendation shall be forwarded to the governing authority within 45 days after the close of the public hearing. Failure of the planning commission to send forth a timely written recommendation shall deem the recommendation as favorable to the requested amendment or conditional use request.
10.
Final approval or denial of an application. Upon receipt of the recommendation from the planning commission, the governing authority shall have 90 days to render a final decision of approval, approval with conditions, or disapproval. Upon making this decision, the applicant shall be notified of the decision within 30 days of the date such decision is rendered.
Section 16. Withdrawal of application.
Any application for an amendment to this ordinance, to amend the land use intensity district ordinance or map, or for a conditional use permit may be withdrawn at any time prior to the public hearing on said application, by the person or entity initiating such a request, upon written notice to the land use officer. No filing fee for said application will be refunded by the county in the event of such withdrawal.
Section 17. Limitations on new applications.
In a case where an application to amend the land use intensity district map is denied by the governing authority, the same property shall not again be eligible for consideration until a period of six months has elapsed from the date of said denial.
Section 18. Distribution.
Copies of this land use procedures and standards ordinance, as amended, shall be printed and copies thereof made available for distribution to the general public in the offices of the County Clerk of Pickens County, Georgia. Distribution to the general public shall be upon request of a member of the general public who shall be entitled to one copy. The governing authority of Pickens County, Georgia, is authorized to print copies of this Ordinance and any amendments thereto from time to time for purposes of public information.
Section 19. Separability.
Should any section or provision of this ordinance be declared by a court of competent jurisdiction to be unconstitutional or invalid, such declaration shall not affect the validity of the ordinance as a whole, or any part thereof, other than the part so declared to be unconstitutional or invalid.
(Ord. of 5-2-2005; Res. of 8-25-2011)
