ARTICLE VII. - PIERCE COUNTY INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT AND BUILDING AUTHORITY[8]

Footnotes:
--- (8) ---
Editor's note— Printed herein is (1965 Ga. Laws (Act No. 44), page 683; being an amendment to Article VII, Section V, Paragraph I of the Constitution of the State of Georgia of 1945, which constitutional amendment was continued by 1987 Ga. Laws (Act No. 131), page 3786. Amendments are indicated by parenthetical history notes following amended provisions. The absence of a history note indicates that the provision remains unchanged from the original. Obvious misspellings have been corrected without notation. For stylistic purposes, headings and catchlines have been made uniform, and expression of numbers in text as appears in the Code of Ordinances has been used. A consistent scheme of capitalization has also been used. Additions for clarity are indicated by brackets. Catchlines have been editorially supplied.

Sec. 1. - Constitution amended.
Article VII, Section V, Paragraph I of the Constitution is hereby amended by adding at the end thereof the following:
A.
Created. There is hereby created a body corporate and politic to be known as the 'Pierce County Industrial Development and Building Authority', which shall be an instrumentality of Pierce County and a public corporation and which in this amendment is hereafter referred to as the 'Authority'.
B.
Constitution. The authority shall consist of seven members who shall be eligible for reappointment. The board of commissioners of roads and revenues of Pierce County shall appoint five members of the authority, as follows: One member for five years, two members for four years, one member for three years, and one member for two years. The mayor and council of the City of Blackshear shall appoint one member for five years. The mayor and council of the City of Patterson shall appoint one member for five years. All members shall serve until their successors are duly appointed and qualified. Thereafter all members shall be appointed for terms of five years each and until their successors are duly elected and qualified. Vacancies for unexpired terms shall be filled in the same manner as regular appointments. The majority of the members shall constitute a quorum and the majority may act for the authority in any matter. No vacancy shall impair the power of the authority to act.
C.
Election of chairman, compensation, etc. The members of the authority shall elect one of their members as chairman and another as vice-chairman, and shall also elect a secretary and treasurer or a secretary-treasurer. The members shall receive no compensation for their services, but shall be reimbursed for their actual expenses incurred in the performance of their duties. The authority shall make by-laws and regulations for its government and may delegate to one or more of its members or its officers, agents, and employees such powers and duties as may be deemed necessary and proper. The authority shall have perpetual existence as hereinafter provided.
D.
Tax exempt. The property obligations and the interest obligations of the authority shall have the same immunity from taxation as the property obligations and interest on the obligations of Pierce County. The exemption from taxation herein provided shall not extend to tenants nor lessees of the authority.
E.
Definitions. As used herein, the following words and terms shall have the following meanings, unless a different meaning clearly appears from the context:
(1)
The word 'authority' shall mean the 'Pierce County Industrial Development and Building Authority', created hereby.
(2)
The word 'project' shall be deemed to mean and include property, real or personal, acquired or held by the authority for the assistance, promotion, establishment or development of a new industry or industries, or the assistance, promotion or expansion of existing industry, trade or commerce in Pierce County, or any combination thereof, the acquisition of any such property for any such purpose or purposes; the improvement of any such property or properties; or the construction, installation or expansion of one or more buildings, plants, or articles of equipment for the purpose of using, selling, donating, leasing or renting such land, properties, improvements, structures or equipment to public or private persons, firms, corporations or associations for such purposes.
(3)
The term 'cost of project' shall embrace: the cost of lands, buildings, improvements, machinery, equipment, properties, easements, rights, franchises, materials, labor and services acquired or contracted for; the cost of financing charges or interest prior to and during construction; architectural, accounting, engineering, inspection, fiscal or legal expenses; cost of plans or specifications; or any other expenses necessary or incident to construction or improvements, or to determining the feasibility or practicability of the project, administrative expenses, or the acquisition, construction, equipping or operating of any project or any part thereof.
F.
Powers. The authority shall have all of the powers necessary or convenient to carry out and effectuate the purposes and provisions of this amendment, including, but without limiting the generality of the foregoing, the power:
(1)
To sue and be used;
(2)
To adopt and amend a corporate seal;
(3)
To make and execute contracts and other instruments necessary to exercise the powers of the authority, any of which contracts may be made with Pierce County or may be made with any one or more municipal corporations in Pierce County. Pierce County and all municipal corporations located therein are hereby authorized to enter into contracts with the authority;
(4)
To receive and administer gifts, grants, and devises of any property and to administer trusts;
(5)
To acquire by purchase, gift or construction of any real or personal property desired to be acquired as part of any project or for the purpose of improving, extending, adding to, reconstructing, renovating or remodeling any project or part thereof already acquired, or for the purpose of demolition to make room for such project or any part thereof;
(6)
To sell, lease, exchange, transfer, assign, pledge, mortgage or dispose of, or grant options for any such purposes, any real or personal property or interest therein;
(7)
To mortgage, pledge, or assign any revenues, income, tolls, charges or fees received by the authority;
(8)
To issue bonds for the purpose of providing funds for carrying out the purpose of the authority;
(9)
To appoint officers and retain agents, engineers, attorneys, fiscal agents, accountants and employees and to provide their compensation and duties;
(10)
To construct, acquire, own, repair, remodel, maintain, extend, improve and equip projects located on land owned or leased by the authority, and to pay all or part of the cost of any such project from the proceeds of revenue-anticipation bonds of the authority or from any contribution or loans by persons, firms or corporations, or any other contribution, all of which the authority is hereby authorized to receive and accept and use;
(11)
To issue revenue-anticipation bonds for the purpose of paying all or any part of the cost of any project, including the cost of extending, adding to or improving such project, or for the purpose of refunding any such bonds of the authority theretofore issued. Such revenue-anticipation bonds shall be issued and validated under and in accordance with the applicable provisions of the Act of the General Assembly of 1937 (Ga. L. 1937, pp. 761-774), as amended [O.C.G.A. § 36-82-30 et seq.], providing for the issuance of revenue-anticipation bonds. As security for the payment of any revenue-anticipation bonds so authorized, any property, real or personal, of the authority may be pledged, mortgaged, conveyed, assigned, hypothecated or otherwise encumbered and the authority may execute any trust agreement or indenture containing any provisions not in conflict with law for the security of such bonds, which trust agreement or indenture may provide for foreclosure or forced sale of any property of the authority upon default on such bonds either in payment of principal or interest or upon default in the performance of any term or condition contained in such agreement or indenture. The State of Georgia in behalf of the State and Pierce County and each municipal corporation located therein hereby waives any right the state, Pierce County or any municipal corporation located therein may have to prevent the forced sale or foreclosure of any property of the authority so mortgaged or encumbered and any such mortgage or encumbrance may be foreclosed in accordance with law and the terms thereof. For purposes of the aforesaid judicial validation, the authority shall be regarded as being located in Pierce County, and the superior court of Pierce County shall have jurisdiction and the requisite notices shall be published in Pierce County. If no exception is filed to the decree validating such bonds within 20 days from the date upon which such decree is entered, such decree shall be final and no appeal may be taken therefrom;
(12)
To do all things necessary or convenient to carry out the powers expressly conferred by this amendment.
G.
Tax. The governing authority of Pierce County is hereby authorized to levy an annual ad valorem tax, not to exceed two mills, on all taxable property within Pierce County for the support of the authority and for its use and purposes. All funds raised by such tax shall be paid and appropriated by the governing authority of Pierce County to the authority and when paid to the authority, shall become a part of its funds and may be used by the authority for any of its purposes and powers as herein stated or as may be hereafter provided by law, which tax shall be in addition to all other taxes authorized by law.
H.
Sovereign immunity. The authority shall have the same immunity and exemption from liability for torts and negligence as the State of Georgia and the officers, agents, and employees of the authority when in the performance of the work of the authority shall have the same immunity and exemption from liability for torts and negligence as the officers, agents, and employees of the State of Georgia when in the performance of their public duties of work of the state. The authority may be sued the same as private corporations on any contractual obligation of the authority.
I.
Exemptions. The property of the authority shall not be subject to levy and sale under legal process except such property, income, or funds as may be pledged, assigned, mortgaged, or conveyed to secure an obligation of the authority, and any such property, funds or income may be sold under legal process or under any power granted by the authority to enforce payment of the obligation.
J.
Public purpose. This amendment is adopted for the purpose of promoting and expanding the public good and welfare and industry and trade within the territorial limits of Pierce County and reduce unemployment to the greatest extent possible, and this amendment and any law enacted with reference to the authority shall be liberally construed for the accomplishment of these purposes.
K.
Powers. The general assembly may by law further define and prescribe the powers and duties of the authority and exercise thereof, and may enlarge and restrict the same, and may likewise further regulate the management and conduct of the authority. The general assembly may also provide by law for the continuation of the authority in the event Pierce County is consolidated or merged with any other county or counties. The authority shall be an instrumentality of the State of Georgia, and the scope of its operations shall be limited to the territory embraced within Pierce County. The general assembly shall not extend the jurisdiction of the authority nor the scope of its operations beyond the limits of Pierce County.
L.
Debt. There shall be no limitation upon the amount of debt which the authority may incur. But no debt created by the authority shall be a debt of the State of Georgia, Pierce County, or any municipal corporation located in Pierce County.
M.
Dissolution. Should said authority for any reason be dissolved, title to all property of any kind and nature, real and personal, held by the authority at the time of such dissolution shall revert to Pierce County, subject to any mortgages, liens, leases or other encumbrances outstanding against or in respect to said property at that time.
N.
Effective. This amendment shall be self-executing and effective immediately upon proclamation of its ratification by the Governor and the first members of the authority shall be appointed within 30 days after such proclamation.
