ARTICLE 10. - OS OPEN SPACE DISTRICT

Sec. 10-1. - Scope.
The regulations set forth in this article or set forth elsewhere in the city code when referred to in this section, are the regulations of the OS Open Space District.
In addition to these regulations, all city development standards shall apply to any development within the open space district.
Sec. 10-2. - Purpose and intent.
The purpose and intent of this article in establishing the OS District is to protect public lands intended for passive and active recreation use, or for public gathering, or for protection of the natural environment, and which have been given to the public through deed, easement, lease, or other legal means.
Sec. 10-3. - Mayor and council's approval of any construction.
A.
Any new construction or reconstruction, and any new landscaping that takes place within the OS district shall be approved by the mayor and council.
B.
No person shall participate in any construction, reconstruction, landscaping, or placement of any building or structure within the OS district, unless such activity has been approved by the mayor and council.
C.
The city administrator shall refer plans for new construction in the OS district to the zoning official, or other neighborhood review committee appointed by the mayor, to review such plans and provide written recommendations and comments to the mayor and council, as are appropriate, within 30 days.
D.
The city administrator shall refer plans for new trees and landscaping to the zoning official, to review such plans and provide written comments to the mayor and council.
Sec. 10-4. - Permitted uses.
A.
Uses permitted within the open space district only include those related to public active and passive recreation, and to public gatherings and special events.
B.
No residential or commercial use is permitted. Vendors may be contracted by the city, to provide food and drink, or recreational activities, on behalf of the city. Special use permits may be approved by the mayor and council for vending related to active or passive recreation or for special events, for any length of time or frequency within a time period of 12 months, and which may be renewed.
Sec. 10-5. - Permitted buildings and structures.
A.
Buildings and structures shall be erected only for public recreation and public gathering and event purposes and shall be subject to city development standards.
B.
All buildings located within the OS district arc city property. No permanent construction by private persons is permitted. The city may enter into one or more leases or licenses with non-profit entities providing opportunities or activities related to recreation, public gatherings or special events that benefit the community.
