Chapter 1 - GENERAL PROVISIONS

Sec. 1-1. - Designation and citation of Code.
The ordinances embraced in this and the following chapters shall constitute and be designated "The Code of Polk County, Georgia," may be so cited.
State Law reference— Codification requirements, O.C.G.A. § 36-80-19.
Sec. 1-2. - Definitions and rules of construction.
In the construction of this Code and of all ordinances, the rules of construction and definitions set out in this section shall be observed. The rules of construction and definitions set out in this section shall not be applied to any section of this Code which shall contain any express provisions excluding such construction or where the subject matter or context of such section may be repugnant thereto.
Generally. The ordinary signification shall be applied to all words, except words of art or words connected with a particular trade or subject matter when they shall have the signification attached to them by experts in such trade or with reference to such subject matter. In all interpretations the courts shall look diligently for the intention of the council, keeping in view, at all times, the old law, the evil and the remedy. Grammatical errors shall not vitiate, and a transposition of words and clauses may be resorted to when the sentence or clause is without meaning as it stands.
State Law reference— Similar provisions, O.C.G.A. § 1-3-1(a), (b).
Liberal construction; minimum requirements; overlapping provisions. All general provisions, terms, phrases and expressions contained in this Code shall be liberally construed in order that the true intent and meaning of the board of commissioners may be fully carried out. In the interpretation and application of any provision of this Code, they shall be held to be the minimum requirements adopted for the promotion of the public health, safety, comfort, convenience and general welfare. Where any provision of this Code imposes greater restrictions upon the subject matter than the other provisions of this Code, the provision imposing the greater restriction or regulation shall be deemed to be controlling. The specific controls over the general.
As soon as possible. The term "as soon as possible" means within a reasonable time, having due regard to all the circumstances.
State Law reference— Similar provisions, O.C.G.A. § 1-3-3(5).
Board of Commissioners. The term "Board of Commissioners" means the Board of Commissioners of the county.
Code. The term "Code" means The Code of Polk County, Georgia, as designated in section 1-1. The Code consists of subparts A and B.
Computation of time. When a number of days is prescribed for the exercise of any privilege or the discharge of any duty, only the first or last day shall be counted. If the last day shall fall on Saturday or Sunday, the party having such privilege or duty shall have through the following Monday to exercise such privilege or to discharge the duty. When the last day prescribed for such action shall fall on a public or legal holiday as set forth in state law, the party having such privilege or duty shall have through the following business day to exercise such privilege or to discharge the duty. When the period of time prescribed is less than seven days, an intermediate Saturday, Sunday and legal holiday shall be excluded in the computation.
State Law reference— Similar provisions, O.C.G.A. § 1-3-1(d)(3).
Conjunctions. Where a provision involves two or more items, conditions, provisions or events connected by the conjunction "and," "or" or "either . . . or," the conjunction shall be interpreted as follows, provided in appropriate cases the terms "and" and "or" are interchangeable:
(1)
The term "and" indicates that all the connected items, conditions, provisions or events shall apply.
(2)
The term "or" indicates that the connected items, conditions, provisions or events may apply singly or in any combination.
(3)
The term "either . . . or" indicates that the connected items, conditions, provisions or events shall apply singly, but not in combination.
County. The term "county" means Polk County, Georgia.
Delegation of authority. Whenever a provision appears requiring a county officer or county employee to do some act, it is to be construed to authorize the officer or employee to designate, delegate and authorize subordinates to perform the required act.
Following. The term "following" means next after.
State Law reference— Similar provisions, O.C.G.A. § 1-3-3(8).
Gender. Words of one gender include words of all other genders.
State Law reference— Gender, O.C.G.A. § 1-3-1(d)(4).
Joint authority. A joint authority given to any number of persons or officers may be executed by a majority of them, unless it is otherwise declared.
State Law reference— Similar provisions, O.C.G.A. § 1-3-1(d)(5).
Keeper and proprietor. The terms "keeper" and "proprietor" means persons, whether acting by themselves or acting as a servant, agent or employee.
May. The term "may" is to be construed as being permissive.
State Law reference— Definition of "may," O.C.G.A. § 1-3-3(10).
Month. The term "month" means a calendar month.
State Law reference— Similar provisions, O.C.G.A. § 1-3-3(11).
Must. The term "must" is to be construed as being mandatory.
Number. The singular and plural number includes the other, unless expressly excluded.
State Law reference— Similar provisions, O.C.G.A. § 1-3-1(d)(6).
Oath. The term "oath" includes an affirmation.
State Law reference— Similar provisions, O.C.G.A. § 1-3-3(12).
O.C.G.A. The abbreviation "O.C.G.A." means the Official Code of Georgia Annotated, as amended.
Officials, employees, boards, commissions or other agencies. Whenever reference is made to officials, employees, boards, commissions or other agencies by title only, the reference refers to the officials, employees, boards, commissions or other agencies of the county.
Ordinance. The terms "ordinance" and "resolution" are interchangeable.
Owner. The term "owner," as applied to a building or land, includes any part owner, joint owner, tenant in common, tenant in partnership or joint tenant of the whole or of a part of the building or land.
Person. The term "person" includes any association, club, society, firm, corporation, limited liability company, partnership or body politic and corporate, as well as an individual.
State Law reference— Definition of "person," O.C.G.A. § 1-3-3(14).
Personal property. The term "personal property" includes every species of property except real property.
Preceding. The term "preceding" means next before.
State Law reference— Similar provisions, O.C.G.A. § 1-3-3(15).
Property. The term "property" includes real and personal property.
State Law reference— Similar provisions, O.C.G.A. § 1-3-3(16).
Public place. The term "public place" includes any place that the public is invited or permitted to go or congregate.
Real property. The term "real property" includes lands, tenements and hereditaments.
Shall. The term "shall" is to be construed as being mandatory.
Sidewalk. The term "sidewalk" means any portion of a street between the curbline and the adjacent property line, intended for the use of pedestrians, excluding parkways.
Signature or subscription. The terms "signature" and "subscription" include the mark of an illiterate or infirm person.
State Law reference— Similar provisions, O.C.G.A. § 1-3-3(19).
State. The term "state" means the state of Georgia.
Street or road. The terms "street" and "road" include any street, avenue, boulevard, road, alley, lane, viaduct and any other public highway in the county, including, but not limited to, the paved or improved surfaces thereof.
Tenant or occupant. The term "tenant" or "occupant," applied to a building or land, includes any person holding a written or oral lease of or who occupies the whole or a part of a building or land, either alone or with others.
Tense. The term "tense" means words used in the past or present tense include the future, as well as the past and present.
State Law reference— Tense of words, O.C.G.A. § 1-3-1(d)(7).
Week. The term "week" means seven days.
Will. The term "will" is to be construed as being mandatory.
Writing. The term "writing" includes printing and all numerals.
State Law reference— Similar provisions, O.C.G.A. § 1-3-3(23).
Year. The term "year" means a calendar year.
State Law reference— Similar provisions, O.C.G.A. § 1-3-3(24).
Sec. 1-3. - Catchlines of sections, effect of history notes, references in code.
(a)
The catchlines of the several sections of this Code in boldface type are intended as mere catchwords to indicate the contents of the sections and shall not be deemed or taken to be titles of such sections nor as any part of such sections nor, unless expressly so provided, shall they be so deemed when any of such sections, including the catchlines, are amended or reenacted.
(b)
The history or source notes appearing in parentheses after sections in this Code are not intended to have any legal effect but are merely intended to indicate the source of matter contained in the section. Editor's notes, cross references, and state law references which appear after sections or subsections of this Code or which otherwise appear in footnote form are provided for the convenience of the user of this Code and have no legal effect.
(c)
All references to chapters, articles, divisions, subdivisions or sections are to chapters, articles, divisions, subdivisions or sections of this Code, unless otherwise specified.
Sec. 1-4. - Effect of repeal of ordinances.
The repeal of an ordinance shall not revive any ordinance in force before or at the time the ordinance repealed took effect. The repeal of an ordinance shall not affect any punishment or penalty incurred before the repeal took effect or any suit, prosecution or proceeding pending at the time of the repeal for an offense committed or cause of action arising under the ordinance repealed.
Sec. 1-5. - Amendments to code; effect of new ordinances; amendatory language.
(a)
All ordinances adopted subsequent to this Code that amend, repeal or in any way affect this Code may be numbered in accordance with the numbering system of this Code and printed for inclusion in this Code. The subsequent ordinances as numbered and printed or omitted, in the case of repeal, shall be prima facie evidence of these subsequent ordinances or resolutions until such time that this Code and subsequent ordinances numbered or omitted are readopted as a new Code.
(b)
Amendments to any of the provisions of this Code may be made by amending those provisions by specific reference to the section number of this Code in the following language:
"Section ________ of The Code of Polk County, Georgia, is hereby amended to read as follows: . . .." The new provisions may then be set out in full as desired.
(c)
If a new section not heretofore existing in the Code is to be added, the following language may be used:
"The Code of Polk County, Georgia, is hereby amended by adding a section (or chapter, article, division or subdivision, as appropriate) to be numbered ________, that reads as follows: . . .." The new material may then be set out in full as desired.
(d)
All sections, subdivisions, divisions, articles or chapters desired to be repealed should be specifically repealed by section, subdivision, division, article or chapter number, as the case may be, or by setting them out at length in the repealing ordinance.
Sec. 1-6. - Supplementation of code.
(a)
Supplements to this Code shall be prepared and printed whenever authorized or directed by the county. A supplement to the Code shall include all substantive permanent and general parts of ordinances adopted during the period covered by the supplement and all changes made thereby in the Code. The pages of a supplement shall be so numbered that they will fit properly into the Code and will, where necessary, replace pages which have become obsolete or partially obsolete, and the new pages shall be so prepared that, when they have been inserted, the Code will be current through the date of the adoption of the latest ordinance included in the supplement.
(b)
In preparing a supplement to this Code, all portions of the Code that have been repealed shall be excluded from the Code by the omission thereof from reprinted pages.
(c)
When preparing a supplement to this Code, the person authorized to prepare the supplement may make formal, nonsubstantive changes in ordinances or resolutions and parts of ordinances or resolutions included in the supplement, insofar as it is necessary to do so to embody them into a unified Code. For example, the person may:
(1)
Organize the ordinance material into appropriate subdivisions.
(2)
Provide appropriate catchlines, headings and titles for sections and other subdivisions of the Code printed in the supplement and make changes in such catchlines, headings and titles.
(3)
Assign appropriate numbers to sections and other subdivisions to be inserted in the Code and, where necessary to accommodate new material, change existing section or other subdivision numbers.
(4)
Change the words "this ordinance" or words of the same meaning to "this chapter," "this article," "this division," etc., as the case may be, or to "sections _____ to _____" (inserting section numbers to indicate the sections of the Code that embody the substantive sections of the ordinance incorporated into the Code).
(5)
Make other nonsubstantive changes necessary to preserve the original meaning of ordinances inserted into the Code.
(d)
In no case shall the person make any change in the meaning or effect of ordinance material included in the supplement or already embodied in the Code.
Sec. 1-7. - General penalty; continuing violations.
(a)
In this section, the term "violation of this Code" means:
(1)
Doing an act that is prohibited or made or declared unlawful, an offense or a misdemeanor by ordinance or by rule or regulation authorized by ordinance;
(2)
Failure to perform an act that is required to be performed by ordinance or by rule or regulation authorized by ordinance; or
(3)
Failure to perform an act if the failure is declared a misdemeanor or an offense or unlawful by ordinance or by rule or regulation authorized by ordinance.
(b)
In this section, the term "violation of this Code" does not include the failure of a county officer or county employee to perform an official duty, unless it is provided that failure to perform the duty is to be punished as provided in this section or it is clear from the context that it is the intent to impose the penalty provided for in this section upon the officer or employee.
(c)
Except as otherwise provided:
(1)
A person convicted of a violation of this Code shall be punished by a fine not exceeding $1,000.00 or imprisonment for a term not exceeding 60 days, or any combination thereof.
(2)
With respect to violations of this Code that are continuous with respect to time, each day the violation continues is a separate offense.
(3)
With respect to violations of this Code that are not continuous with respect to time, each act is a separate offense.
(d)
The imposition of a penalty does not prevent revocation or suspension of a license, permit or franchise or other administrative sanctions.
(e)
Violations of this Code that are continuous with respect to time are a public nuisance and may be abated by injunctive or other equitable relief and by such other means as are provided by law. The imposition of a penalty does not prevent equitable relief.
(Ord. of 8-3-1999, § 1)
State Law reference— Limitations on penalties, O.C.G.A. § 36-1-20(b).
Sec. 1-8. - Severability of code.
The sections, paragraphs, sentences, clauses and phrases of this Code are severable, and if any phrase, clause, sentence, paragraph or section of this Code shall be declared unconstitutional, invalid or otherwise unenforceable by the valid judgment or decree of any court of competent jurisdiction, that unconstitutionality, invalidity or unenforceability shall not affect any of the remaining phrases, clauses, sentences, paragraphs or sections of this Code, since they would have been enacted without the incorporation in this Code of the unconstitutional, invalid or unenforceable phrase, clause, sentence, paragraph or section.
Sec. 1-9. - Provisions considered as continuations of existing ordinances.
The provisions appearing in this Code, insofar as they are the same as those of ordinances and resolutions existing at the time of adoption of this Code, shall be considered as continuations thereof and not as new enactments.
Sec. 1-10. - Prior offenses, penalties, contracts or rights not affected by adoption of code.
(a)
Nothing in this Code or the ordinance adopting this Code shall affect any offense or act committed or done or any penalty or forfeiture incurred or any contract or right established or accruing before the effective date of this Code.
(b)
The adoption of this Code shall not be interpreted as authorizing or permitting any use or the continuance of any use of a structure or premises in violation of any ordinance or resolution in effect on the date of adoption of this Code.
Sec. 1-11. - Certain ordinances not affected by code.
Nothing in this Code or the ordinance adopting this Code affects the validity of any of the following ordinances or portions of ordinances, which ordinances or portions of ordinances continue in full force and effect to the same extent as if published at length in this Code:
(1)
Promising or guaranteeing the payment of money or authorizing the issuance of bonds or other instruments of indebtedness.
(2)
Authorizing or approving any contract, deed, or agreement.
(3)
Granting any right or franchise.
(4)
Making or approving any appropriation or budget.
(5)
Providing for salaries or other employee benefits not codified in this Code.
(6)
Adopting or amending the comprehensive plan.
(7)
Levying or imposing any special assessment.
(8)
Dedicating, establishing naming, locating, relocating, opening, paving, widening, repairing or vacating any street, sidewalk or alley.
(9)
Dedicating, accepting or vacating any plat or subdivision.
(10)
Levying, imposing or otherwise relating to taxes not codified in this Code.
(11)
Pertaining to zoning or subdivisions.
(12)
That is temporary, although general in effect.
(13)
That is special, although permanent in effect.
(14)
The purpose of which has been accomplished.
Sec. 1-12. - Authority.
(a)
The governing authority of each county, for the purpose of protecting and preserving the public health, safety, and welfare, is authorized to adopt ordinances for the governing and policing of the unincorporated areas of the county, violations of which ordinances may be punished by fine or imprisonment or both. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, such ordinances may provide for traffic regulation, including adoption of the uniform rules of the road under O.C.G.A. title 40, ch. 6 (O.C.G.A. § 40-6-1 et seq.), may provide for the regulation and control of litter in the same manner as municipal ordinances under O.C.G.A. § 16-7-48, and may provide for the implementation and enforcement of any power or duty vested in the county governing authority.
(Ord. of 5-8-2007)
State Law reference— Ordinances for governing and policing of unincorporated areas of county, O.C.G.A. § 36-1-20.
Sec. 1-13. - Enforcement.
A county governing authority shall have the power to authorize any of the officers, agents, and employees of the county to serve, in any manner prescribed by applicable law, any process, summons, notice, or order on all persons, as defined in O.C.G.A. § 1-3-3, therein named, when:
(1)
The paper to be served arises out of or relates to an activity or condition conducted or maintained by such person within the territorial jurisdiction of the county in violation of an applicable law or ordinance covering the following: public housing, building, electrical, plumbing, heating, ventilating, air-conditioning, air and water pollution control, solid waste management, and other technical or environmental codes; county business, occupation, and professional license tax ordinances; county privilege license or permit ordinances; or ordinances providing for the protection of facilities for the treatment or wholesale or retail distribution of water from tampering or theft which may arise either from a single isolated act or omission or from an activity or condition;
(2)
The paper to be served originates in or is issued under the authority of the department or branch of county government employing such officer, agent, or employee; and
(3)
Each and every day the condition is maintained or the activity is conducted is made a separate county offense by applicable law or ordinance.
(Ord. of 5-8-2007)
State Law reference— Authorization for service of process, O.C.G.A. § 36-5-26.
Sec. 1-14. - Court.
Each magistrate court and each magistrate thereof shall have jurisdiction and power over the following matters:
(1)
The hearing of applications for and the issuance of arrest and search warrants;
(2)
Issuance of warrants and related proceedings as provided in O.C.G.A. title 17, ch. 6, art. 4 (O.C.G.A. § 17-6-4 et seq.), of relating to bonds for good behavior and bonds to keep the peace;
(3)
The holding of courts of inquiry; and
(4)
The trial of charges of violations of county ordinances and penal ordinances of state authorities.
(Ord. of 5-8-2007)
State Law reference— Jurisdiction, O.C.G.A. § 15-10-2.
Sec. 1-15. - Punishment.
(a)
This section governs trials of violations of county ordinances and ordinances of state authorities, which violations may be punished by incarceration or monetary penalty. Nothing in this chapter shall grant to any county or state authority more authority to enact or enforce such ordinances than the county or state authority has independently of this chapter. The punishment imposed for any ordinance violation shall not exceed a fine of $1,000.00 or six months' imprisonment or both, provided the judge shall probate not less than 120 days of any sentence imposed, except as otherwise provided by general law, and shall not exceed the maximum punishment specified by the ordinance. In the event a sentence is revoked, a defendant shall not serve more than 60 days in a county jail.
(Ord. of 5-8-2007)
State Law reference— Applicability of article; suspended sentences, O.C.G.A. § 15-10-60.
Sec. 1-16. - Definitions.
Unless otherwise stated in the ordinance, we have adopted the definitions set down in the O.C.G.A. § 16-1-3.
(Ord. of 5-8-2007)
Sec. 1-17. - Fee schedule; fees established by resolution.
Current fee amounts are published in the "Polk County Schedule of Fees" and are available for review in the county clerk's office and on the Polk County website.
(Ord. No. 2019-04, § 1, 2-5-2019; Res. No. 2019-08, § 1, 9-10-2019)
Sec. 1-18. - Fine schedule; fines established by resolution; with guidance from the Official Code of Georgia Annotated (O.C.G.A.)
Current fine amounts are published in the "Polk County Schedule of Fines" and are available for review in the County Clerk's Office and on the Polk County Website.
(Ord. No. 2019-01, § 1, 2-5-2019)
Sec. 1-19. - Fee and fine schedule future revisions.
The Polk County Board of Commissioners shall direct the county manager to initiate and complete a review of the published Fee and Fine Schedule on an annual basis as determined by the county manager. Future revisions made to the Fee and/or Fine Schedule shall be approved by resolution of the board of commissioners.
(Ord. No. 2019-04, § 1, 2-5-2019)
