ARTICLE IV. - FINANCE
DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Secs. 2-207—2-220. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - PURCHASES AND PROPERTY DISPOSITION

Sec. 2-221. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meaning ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Central supply means an area where materials and supplies purchased by the county for use by various departments may be secured. The purchasing agent purchases materials and supplies common to several or all departments and then dispenses such materials and supplies as needed, with the receiving department being charged the price paid by the county.
Materials and supplies means and includes such items as are normally used or consumed during the course of a year and for which a general appropriation has been made; the term shall include the purchase of automotive equipment, machinery, construction contracts, or other purchases of materials of a permanent or semipermanent nature.
Purchase or lease price exceeding $5,000.00 means and includes the price associated with the purchase or lease of any number of similar capital equipment units or varying unit parts, used in concert with one another, the composite budgeted total of which exceeds $5,000.00, whether purchased or leased at one time or at varying times during the fiscal year. This term shall also apply to any other phrase of similar purport which establishes the purchase or lease price requiring approval by the board of commissioners.
Purchasing agent means the individual recommended by the county manager and approved by the board of commissioners to perform the duties defined in this ordinance. In the absence of a purchasing agent, such duties shall be performed by the county manager or his designee.
(Ord. of 11-9-2004, § 1(2-57))
Sec. 2-222. - Purchasing department created; composition.
(a)
There is hereby created a purchasing department for the county. The purchasing department shall consist of a purchasing agent and such subordinate personnel as may be recommended by the county manager and approved by the board of commissioners from time to time.
(b)
In the absence of a purchasing agent, the county manager may designate an employee to serve in such position.
(Ord. of 11-9-2004, § 1(2-58))
Sec. 2-223. - Supervision of department.
The county manager shall have general supervision of the purchasing department.
(Ord. of 11-9-2004, § 1(2-59))
Sec. 2-224. - Reserved.
