ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 4-1. - Definitions.
(a)
Unless the context or the specific provisions of this chapter demand otherwise, the terms used herein shall have the meanings provided by state law in O.C.G.A. § 3-1-2.
(b)
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Adequate parking means one parking space for each 100 square feet of customer service area within the premises of applicant, but not less than five parking spaces. Such off-street parking shall have vehicular access to streets and shall be constructed of all-weather surface; provided, however, where no parking space can reasonably be provided on the same lot, any public or private off-street parking lot may be utilized to fulfill such parking requirement, if the public or private off-street parking lot is within 150 feet of the premises and if the patrons of the licensee are allowed to use such lot.
Brewpub means any eating establishment in which beer or malt beverages are manufactured or brewed, subject to the barrel production limitation prescribed in O.C.G.A. § 3-5-36 for retail consumption on the premises and solely in draft form. As used in this definition, the term "eating establishment" means an establishment which is licensed to sell distilled spirits, beer, malt beverages, or wines and which derives at least 50 percent of its total annual gross food and beverage sales from the sale of prepared meals or food; provided, however, that barrels of beer sold to licensed wholesale dealers for distribution to retailers and retail consumption dealers, as authorized pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 3-5-36(2)(C), shall not be used when determining the total annual gross food and beverage sales. Brewpubs shall be provided with adequate sanitary kitchen and dining room equipment and personnel to serve, and regular seating capacity for not less than 25 persons, open to the public, and kept, used, maintained, advertised and held out to the public as a place where meals are actually and regularly served, without sleeping accommodations.
Church means a permanent building in which persons regularly assemble for religious worship.
College means only such state, county, city, church, or other colleges which teach the subjects commonly taught in the common colleges of this state and shall not include private colleges where only specified subjects such as law, stenography, business, music, art, medicine, dentistry, vocational occupations, and other special subjects are taught.
Distance shall be measured by the most direct route of travel on the ground.
Family means any person related to the holder of a license issued under the provisions of this chapter within the first degree of consanguinity or affinity as determined according to the law of this state.
Hotel means a building or structure kept, used, maintained, advertised and held out to the public to be a place where sleeping accommodations are offered for adequate pay to travelers and guests, whether transient, temporary, or permanent, which has a minimum of 75 rooms, each having a minimum gross square footage of 200 square feet (including a private bathroom for each guest room), used for the sleeping accommodations of such guests and which regularly offers at least 60 percent of its rooms for travelers and guests on a short-term basis. A hotel may, but is not required to, offer public dining rooms, meeting rooms and other related facilities which are conducted on the same premises and as part of the hotel operation. Motels meeting the qualifications set out herein for hotels shall be considered to be a hotel hereunder.
License means the authorization by the governing body to engage in the sale of alcoholic beverages by the package or for the sale of alcoholic beverages for consumption on the premises, or both, as may be permitted by the terms of this chapter.
Licensee means a person, real or artificial, holding any class of license issued under the terms of this chapter.
Lounge means a separate room where alcoholic beverages are served by the drink which is either connected with or part of and is adjacent to a restaurant (as defined herein) and operated in conjunction therewith; or located in a hotel (as defined herein) and operated in conjunction with the hotel, on the same premises as the hotel, and under the same management as the hotel operations. All indoor portions of lounges shall be air conditioned, have a seating capacity for at least 25 patrons, and shall have all booths, stools and tables unobstructed and open to view.
Manager means that person who does or will actually manage or operate on a day-to-day basis the establishment licensed to sell alcoholic beverages hereunder.
Outlet means a store for the sale of alcoholic beverages. The term "pouring outlet" means any place where alcoholic beverages are poured or proposed to be poured.
Pour means:
(1)
To sell for beverage purposes.
(2)
To sell for the consumption on the premises.
(3)
To sell by the drink.
Premises means the locality, whether a room, shop or building, wherein alcoholic beverages are sold under the terms of this chapter.
Private club means any nonprofit fraternal association organized under the laws of this state which has been in existence at least one year prior to the filing of its application for a license to be issued pursuant to this chapter; has at least 75 regular dues paying members; owns, hires or leases a building or space within a building for the reasonable use of its members, which building or space has suitable kitchen and dining room space and equipment, and is staffed with a sufficient number of employees for cooking, preparing, and serving meals for its members and guests; and has no member, officer, agent or employee directly or indirectly receiving, in the form of salary or other compensation, any profits from the sale of alcoholic beverages beyond a fixed salary. The term "fixed salary" means the amount of compensation paid any member, officer, agent or employee of a bona fide private club as may be fixed for such person by its members at a prior annual meeting or by the governing body out of the general revenue of the club and shall not include any commission on any profits from the sale of alcoholic beverages. For the purposes of this definition, tips or gratuities which are added to the bills under club regulations shall not be considered profits from the sale of alcoholic beverages.
Private residence means a house or dwelling wherein not less than one, nor more than three, families customarily reside and shall not include an apartment house having facilities for housing four or more families, and also shall not include any residence which has been unoccupied for a period of at least six consecutive months immediately prior to filing of an application hereunder.
Restaurant means any public place kept, used, maintained, advertised and held out to the public as a place where meals are actually and regularly served, without sleeping accommodations, such place being provided with adequate and sanitary kitchen and dining room equipment and personnel to serve, and regular seating capacity for 25 persons. The serving of food shall be the principle business conducted with pouring being only incidental thereto, and the serving of food shall and must account for a majority of the income of said restaurant. The term "restaurant" also means dining rooms operated in connection with and in conjunction with a hotel or motel, provided such dining rooms meet all the other criteria established herein for restaurants.
Retail sales means selling or offering for sale alcoholic beverages to any member of the public.
School means only such state, county, city, church or other schools which teach the subjects commonly taught in the common schools of this state and shall not include private schools where only specialized subjects such as law, stenography, business, music, art, medicine, dentistry, vocational occupations and other special subjects are taught.
Special events facility means a facility that:
(1)
Hosts public or private events and gatherings on its premises for a monetary consideration on a rental, fee, percentage, or similar basis;
(2)
Is used for special occasions, including, but not limited to, receptions, meetings, banquets, conventions, parties, authorized catered events, or similar gatherings;
(3)
Is opened to or attended by invited or selected guests or paying patrons;
(4)
Has the capacity to seat a minimum of 35 guests inside;
(5)
Is located in a general or neighborhood commercial zone;
(6)
Is advertised and held out to the public as a place where special events may be held; and
(7)
Derives at least 50 percent of its total annual gross food and beverage sales from the sale of prepared meals or food.
Wine cafe means an establishment having a license to sell wine by the drink for consumption on the premises, also regularly serving prepared food, with a full service kitchen (a full service kitchen will consist of a three-compartment pot sink, a stove or grill permanently installed, and a refrigerator, all of which must be approved by the health and fire department), regularly serving food every hour they are open. To be a wine cafe for purposes of this chapter, an establishment must have regular seating capacity for not less than 25 persons, and the serving of food shall and must account for 20 percent of the gross income of the business conducted by the wine cafe. Further, to constitute a wine cafe, an establishment may not also sell tobacco products, lottery tickets, or gasoline. To constitute a wine cafe, the establishment shall maintain on the premises, and offer for consumption on the premises, not less than 25 different wines, from not less than ten different manufacturers. A wine cafe shall be permitted to sell beer for consumption on the premises, as an incidental part of the business of the wine cafe; provided, however, that sale of beer for consumption on the premises of a wine cafe shall account for not more than one percent of the gross income of the business conducted by the wine cafe.
(Code 2003, § 32-201(1)(A)(1); Ord. of 5-5-2008; Ord. of 8-3-2009; Ord. of 10-8-2013)
Secs. 4-2—4-20. - Reserved.
