ARTICLE XIII. - COIN-OPERATED AMUSEMENT MACHINES

Sec. 10-590. - Gambling devices prohibited.
Gambling devices, as that term is defined in O.C.G.A. § 16-12-20(2) are prohibited in the city, and the ownership, use, or transport thereof shall be a misdemeanor pursuant to state law, except as exempted pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 16-12-35 (b) through (d).
(Ord. of 10-7-2013, § 32-202(A))
Sec. 10-591. - Gambling places prohibited.
Gambling places, as that term is defined in O.C.G.A. § 16-12-20(3), are prohibited in the city, and the operation thereof shall be a misdemeanor pursuant to state law.
(Ord. of 10-7-2013, § 32-202(B))
Sec. 10-592. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Amusement game room means any location as provided in O.C.G.A. § 16-12-35(b), (c) or (d) where one or more bona fide coin-operated amusement machines are operated that permit noncash redemption as provided in O.C.G.A. § 16-25-35(d).
Bona fide coin-operated amusement machine means the same as that term is defined in O.C.G.A. § 50-27-70(b)(2)(A) and any applicable regulations of the State of Georgia. Examples of bona fide coin-operated amusement machines include, but are expressly not limited to, the following:
• Pinball machines;
• Console machines;
• Video games;
• Crane machines;
• Claw machines;
• Pusher machines;
• Bowling machines;
• Novelty arcade games;
• Foosball or table soccer machines;
• Miniature racetrack, football or golf machines;
• Target or shooting gallery machines;
• Basketball machines;
• Shuffleboard machines;
• Kiddie ride games;
• Skeeball machines;
• Air hockey machines;
• Roll down machines;
•Trivia machines;
• Laser games;
• Simulator games;
• Virtual reality machines;
• Maze games;
• Racing games;
• Coin-operated pool tables or coin-operated billiard tables as defined in O.C.G.A. § 43-8-1(3); and
• Any other similar amusement machine which can be legally operated in Georgia.
The term also means machines of any kind or character used by the public to provide music whose operation requires the payment of or the insertion of a coin, bill, other money, token, ticket, card, or similar object such as jukeboxes or other similar types of music machines.
The term "bona fide coin-operated amusement machine" does not include the following:
• Coin-operated washing machines or dryers;
• Vending machines which for payment of money dispense products or services;
• Gas and electric meters;
• Pay telephones;
• Pay toilets;
• Cigarette vending machines;
• Coin-operated scales;
• Coin-operated gurnball machines;
• Coin-operated parking meters;
• Coin-operated television sets which provide cable or network programming;
• Coin-operated massage beds; and
• Machines which are not legally permitted to be operated in Georgia.
Class B machine means a bona fide coin-operated amusement machine that allows a successful player to accrue points on the machine and carry over points won on one play to a subsequent play or plays in accordance with O.C.G.A. § 16-12-35(d)(2);and
(1)
Rewards a successful player in compliance with the provisions of O.C.G.A. § 16-12-35(d)(1) and (2); and
(2)
Does not reward a successful player with any item prohibited as a reward in O.C.G.A. § 16-12-35(i) or any reward redeemable as an item prohibited as a reward in O.C.G.A. § 16-12-35(i).
Location means a business within the city that has complied with the provisions of this article.
Location owner or location operator means an owner or operator of a business where one or more bona fide coin-operated amusement machines are available for commercial use and play by the public.
Operator means any person, individual, firm, company, association, corporation, or other business entity that exhibits, displays, or permits to be exhibited or displayed, in a place of business other than his own, any bona fide coin-operated amusement machine in the state.
Owner means any person, individual, firm, company association, corporation, or other business entity owning any bona fide coin-operated amusement machine in the state.
(Ord. of 10-7-2013, § 32-202(C))
Sec. 10-593. - License required.
No person, firm or corporation shall engage in the business of a location owner or location operator of an amusement game room, as those terms are herein defined, without first having obtained a license and without first having paid the applicable occupation tax required under this article.
(Ord. of 10-7-2013, § 32-202(D))
Sec. 10-594. - Issuance of license.
(a)
Application for a license for operating an amusement game room within the corporate limits of the city shall be made to the city clerk upon a form to be supplied by the city clerk for this purpose. The license application shall include the following information:
(1)
Name, address, and age of the applicant and the date of the application;
(2)
Address or place where the bona fide coin-operated amusement machine or machines are to be offered to the public for play and the other business or businesses operated at that place or places;
(3)
Name and address of the owner of the machine or machines and a copy ofthe owner's master license;
(4)
Name and address of any other business owned or operated by applicant within the corporate limits of the city;
(5)
List of any other licenses or permits from the city held by the applicant.
(b)
Upon issuing a license for an amusement game room, the city official or employee shall provide the licensee with a copy of this article. The city shall not require a fee for licensure or registration of an amusement game room. A license issued in accordance with this article shall be valid until December 31 of the year in which the license was issued. The owner or operator of an amusement game room shall be required to pay occupation taxes in accordance with chapter 24, article II, of this Code.
(Ord. of 10-7-2013, § 32-202(E))
Sec. 10-595. - Occupation tax required.
No person, firm or corporation shall engage in the business of an owner or proprietor of amusement game room, as the term is herein defined, without first having completed the occupation tax certificate form, paid the required occupational tax, and without first having obtained the license required under this article.
(Ord. of 10-7-2013, § 32-202(F))
Sec. 10-596. - Distance.
Every amusement game room in the city shall comply with the proximity provision for businesses licensed to sell alcohol as set out in section 4-27. After a hearing, the mayor and council may waive the applicability of this provision to an individual location if no alcohol is served at such location.
(Ord. of 10-7-2013, § 32-202(G))
Sec. 10-597. - Number of bona fide coin-operated amusement machines at a location.
No amusement game room in the city shall offer to the public more than six Class B bona fide coin-operated amusement machines that reward the player exclusively with noncash merchandise, prizes, toys, gift certificates, or novelties at the same business location.
(Ord. of 10-7-2013, § 32-202(H))
Sec. 10-598. - Notice requirements.
(a)
Every amusement game room shall post a conspicuous sign with the following or substantially similar language:
"GEORGIA LAW PROHIBITS PAYMENT OR RECEIPT OF MONEY FOR WINNING A GAME OR GAMES ON THIS AMUSEMENT MACHINE; PAYMENT OR RECEIPT OF MONEY FOR FREE REPLAYS WON ON THIS AMUSEMENT MACHINE; PAYMENT OR RECEIPT OF MONEY FOR ANY MERCHANDISE, PRIZE, TOY, GIFT CERTIFICATE, OR NOVELTY WON ON THIS AMUSEMENT MACHINE; OR AWARDING ANY MERCHANDISE, PRIZE, TOY, GIFT CERTIFICATE, OR NOVELTY OF A VALUE EXCEEDING $5.00 FOR A SINGLE PLAY OF THIS MACHINE."
(b)
Every amusement game room shall post its business license or occupation tax certificate issued by the city conspicuously and permanently.
(c)
The owner or operator of a business location which offers to the public any bona fide coin-operated amusement machine that rewards the player exclusively as described in O.C.G.A. § 16-12-35(d) shall inform all employees of the prohibitions and penalties set out in O.C.G.A. § 16-12-35(e), (f) and (g).
(d)
The owner or possessor of any bona fide coin-operated amusement machine that rewards the player exclusively as described in O.C.G.A. § 16-12-35(d) shall inform each location owner or location operator of the business location where such machine is located of the prohibitions and penalties set out in O.C.G.A. § 16-12-35(e), (f) and (g).
(Ord. of 10-7-2013, § 32-202(I))
Sec. 10-599. - Compliance with O.C.G.A. provisions relating to master licenses, location licenses, and stickers for individual machines.
Bona fide coin-operated amusement machines may be used in an amusement game room within the city only if the machines are owned by a person who holds a valid master license in accordance with Title 50, Chapter 27, Article 3 of the Official Code of Georgia Annotated, and each machine offered to the public for play has a valid permit sticker in accordance with O.C.G.A. § 50-27-78. In addition, the business owner where the machines are available for play by the public must pay a location license fee in order to obtain a valid location license in accordance with O.C.G.A. § 50-27-71(a.1). The city official in charge of issuing business licenses shall notify the state commissioner of revenue of any observed violation of O.C.G.A. § 50-27-71 or § 50-27-78.
(Ord. of 10-7-2013, § 32-202(J))
Sec. 10-600. - Gross receipts from bona fide coin-operated amusement machines at a location; provision of monthly verified reports; penalties.
(a)
No location owner or location operator shall derive more than 50 percent of such location owner's or location operator's monthly gross retail receipts for the business location in which the Class B machine or machines are situated from such Class B machines; provided, however, that nothing contained in this section shall be deemed to modify or waive the revenue requirements set out in section 4-1(b).
(b)
Each location owner or location operator shall provide to the city clerk a copy of each verified monthly report prepared in accordance with O.C.G.A. § 50-27-84, the provisions of said O.C.G.A. section being incorporated herein by reference. The location owner or location operator shall allow an annual audit of the reports to be conducted by the city clerk or his designee from the location owner or location operator.
(c)
For violation of this section, the city may fine an applicant or holder of a license, refuse to issue or renew a location license, or revoke or suspend a location license for single or repeated violations of this section in accordance with the provisions of section 10-601.
(Ord. of 10-7-2013, § 32-202(K))
Sec. 10-601. - Penalties for violations by owners or operators of amusement game rooms.
(a)
In addition to penalties set out in the O.C.G.A. provisions for failure to comply with the provisions of O.C.G.A. § 16-12-35 or the provisions of Title 50, Chapter 27, Article 3 of the Official Code of Georgia Annotated, the location owner or location operator of an amusement game room, after conviction in a court of competent jurisdiction, may be subject to the following penalties for violation of the provisions of this article:
(1)
First offense: Fine not to exceed Five Hundred ($750.00) Dollars for each violation.
(2)
Second and subsequent offenses: Fine not to exceed $1,000.00, and incarceration as permitted under section 4.13(c) of the City Charter for each violation.
The fines and penalties listed in this subsection (a) for violation of this article may be imposed by the judge of the municipal court of the city.
(b)
In addition to the penalties set forth in subsection (a) of this section, upon conviction of a violation of the provisions of O.C.G.A. § 16-12-35(e), (f), or (g), or upon conviction of a violation of the provisions of this article, the location owner or location operator may be subject to suspension or revocation of any alcoholic beverage license issued by the city for the location, and suspension or revocation of any other license issued by the city to the location owner or location operator, or for the location, in accordance with the following procedures:
(1)
The city clerk shall issue a notice of hearing before the mayor and city council, providing at least five days' prior written notice of a time, place and purpose of such hearing, including a specific statement of the charges upon which said suspension or revocation is being sought. Notice hereunder may be served personally to the license holder, or mailed via certified mail, return receipt requested, to the address of the location set out on the license application.
(2)
A hearing held before the council pursuant to this section shall be conducted informally, and the technical rules of evidence shall not apply. All testimony shall be under oath and shall be recorded. The holder of the license sought to be suspended or revoked shall be entitled to be represented by legal counsel, if desired, shall be able to cross-examine any witness produced by the city, and shall be able to present witnesses and evidence on such license holder's own behalf. Pursuant to such hearing, a decision to suspend or revoke the license or licenses under consideration shall be upon a majority vote of the council hearing the evidence. The license holder shall be promptly notified in writing of the council's finding and decision affecting such person's license or licenses.
(3)
In the event the holder of a license which is suspended or revoked by the city seeks to appeal said suspension or revocation to the appropriate tribunal, the cost of preparing a transcript of the hearing proceedings shall be borne by the license holder and must be paid in full at the delivery of said transcript.
(4)
Due cause for the suspension or revocation of any license shall include, but not be limited to, a violation of any laws or ordinances, both state and municipal, governing the offering and operation of coin-operated amusement machines in the State of Georgia, or a violation of regulations made pursuant to authority granted for the purpose of regulating such business. In addition, and in the event one of the licenses made the subject of the hearing is a license for the sale of alcoholic beverages issued under the provisions of chapter 4, due cause shall also include those matters set out in section 4-30(d).
(Ord. of 10-7-2013, § 32-202(L))
Sec. 10-602. - Operating regulations.
All businesses operating as an amusement game room under this article shall be subject to the following regulations:
(1)
Devices to be kept in plain view. All machines shall at all times be kept and placed in plain view immediately upon entering the premises where located, and be open and accessible to any person who may frequent or be in any place of business where such machines are kept or used.
(2)
Inspection. The chief of police shall inspect or cause the inspection of any place or building in which any such machines are operated or set up for operating, and shall inspect, investigate and test such machines as needed.
(Ord. of 10-7-2013, § 32-202(M))
Sec. 10-603. - Licenses and permits nontransferable.
(a)
Licenses required in this article are nontransferable. All businesses that have bona fide coin-operated amusement machines on the premises shall display, in plain view, the current license issued by the city.
(b)
The issued license shall not be transferred to another owner at the same site within the city. A new owner or proprietor must first obtain a new license if he is going to operate in the same or different location in the city.
(Ord. of 10-7-2013, § 32-202(N))
Sec. 10-604. - Enforcing officer.
The chief of police or his designee is hereby designated as the enforcement officer and shall execute all requirements of this article.
(Ord. of 10-7-2013, § 32-202(O))
