Chapter 103 - BUILDING CODES[1]

Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
State Law reference— Building codes, O.C.G.A. § 8-2-20 et seq.

Sec. 103-1. - State minimum standard codes.
The term "state minimum standard codes" means those codes set forth in O.C.G.A. § 8-2-20(9)(B)(i), subsections (I) through (VIII), and such subsequently adopted published editions, and such revisions and amendments thereto as may be made from time to time under the provisions of O.C.G.A. § 8-2-23; provided, however, that the term "state minimum standard codes" shall specifically not include the Georgia State Fire Code as adopted by the Safety Fire Commissioner pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 25-2-13, nor shall any state minimum standard code be less restrictive than the Georgia State Fire Code.
(Code 2003, § 36-101; Ord. of 3-7-2011)
Sec. 103-2. - Adoption of codes by municipalities.
Pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 8-2-25(b), the following additional state minimum standard codes are hereby adopted by reference, as if fully set out herein:
(1)
International Existing Building Code (ICC).
(2)
International Property Maintenance Code (ICC) with Georgia Amendments, and local amendments as more particularly described in section 103-4, and such subsequently adopted published editions, and such revisions and amendments thereto as may be made from time to time under the provisions of O.C.G.A. § 8-2-23.
(Code 2003, § 36-103; Ord. of 3-7-2011; Ord. of 8-5-2013)
Sec. 103-3. - Exemptions.
(a)
New construction and the repair or renovation of an existing building shall be exempt from the requirements of O.C.G.A. § 8-2-3(c) when:
(1)
The repair or renovation of the existing building does not include the replacement of the plumbing or sewage system servicing toilets, faucets or showerheads within such existing buildings;
(2)
When such plumbing or sewage system within such existing building, because of its capacity, design, or installation, would not function properly if the toilets, faucets or showerheads required by this chapter were installed;
(3)
Such system is a well or gravity flow from a spring and is owned privately by an individual for use in such individual's personal residence; or
(4)
Units to be installed are:
a.
Specifically designed for use by the handicapped;
b.
Specifically designed to withstand unusual abuse or installation in a penal institution; or
c.
Specifically designed as toilets for juveniles.
(b)
The owner, or his agent, of a building undergoing new construction or repair or renovation who is entitled to an exemption as specified in subsections (a)(2) through (4) of this section shall obtain the exemption by applying at the office of the building inspector for the City of Porterdale. A fee as set by resolution by the council shall be charged for the inspection and issuance of such exemption.
(Code 2003, § 38-105)
Sec. 103-4. - Adoption and amendments of IPMC.
(a)
A certain document, three copies of which are on file in the office of the city clerk of the City of Porterdale, Georgia, being marked and identified as the International Property Maintenance Code, 2006 edition, as published by the International Code Council, with Georgia Amendments as made and as may be made from time to time under the provisions of Georgia Law (hereinafter referred to collectively as the "IPMC"), is hereby adopted as the Property Maintenance Code of the City for Porterdale, Georgia, for regulating and governing the conditions and maintenance of all property, buildings and structures, providing the standards for supplied utilities and facilities and other physical things and conditions essential to ensure that structures are safe, sanitary and fit for occupation and use, providing for the condemnation of buildings and structures unfit for human occupancy and use, and providing for the issuance of permits and collection of fees thereof, and for the other purposes set forth therein, with the additions, insertions, deletions and changes prescribed in subsection (b) of this section.
(b)
The following sections of the IPMC are hereby revised as follows:
Section 101.1. Title. These regulations shall be known as the Property Maintenance Code of the City of Porterdale, hereinafter referred to as "this code."
Section 102.3. Application of other codes. Repairs, additions or alterations to a structure, or changes of occupancy, shall be done in accordance with the procedures and provisions of the latest edition of the International Building Code, as adopted and amended by the Georgia Department of Community Affairs; International Residential Code, 2006 Edition, with Georgia Amendments; International Fire Code, 2006 Edition, with Georgia Amendments; International Plumbing Code, 2006 Edition, with Georgia Amendments; International Fuel Gas Code, 2006 Edition, with Georgia Amendments; International Mechanical Code, 2006 Edition, with Georgia Amendments; National Electrical Code, 2011 Edition; and the International Energy Conservation Code, 2009 Edition, with Georgia Supplements and Amendments, and as same may be amended from time to time. Nothing in this code shall be construed to cancel, modify or set aside any provision of the Zoning Ordinance of Porterdale, Georgia.
Section 102.6. Historic Buildings. The provisions of this code relating to the construction, alteration, repair, enlargement, restoration, relocation or moving buildings or structures shall not be mandatory for existing buildings or structures identified and classified by the state or local jurisdiction as Historic Buildings when such buildings or structures are judged by the code official to be safe and in the public interest of health, safety, and welfare regarding any proposed construction, alteration, repair, enlargement, restoration, relocation or moving of buildings within fire districts. The applicant may be required to submit complete architectural and engineering plans and specifications bearing the seal of a registered professional engineer or architect.
The title of Section 103 is amended to state: Section 103. Administration and Enforcement.
Section 103.1. Code Official. The City Council shall appoint an individual as the Code Official, who shall have responsibility for the enforcement of this Property Maintenance Code. In the absence of a Code Official so appointed, the City Manager shall fulfill the duties of the Code Official.
Section 103.2. Reserved.
Section 103.4. Liability. The code official, officer or employee charged with the enforcement of this code, while acting for the jurisdiction, shall not thereby be rendered liable personally, and is hereby relieved from all personal liability for any damage accruing to persons or property as a result of an act required or permitted in the discharge of official duties.
Any suit instituted against any officer or employee because of an act performed by that officer or employee in the lawful discharge of duties and under the provisions of this code shall be defended by the legal representative of the jurisdiction until the final termination of the proceedings. The code official or any subordinate shall not be liable for the costs in an action, suit or proceeding that is instituted in pursuance of the provisions of this code; and any officer of the City of Porterdale, acting in good faith and without malice, shall be free from liability for acts performed under any of its provisions or by reason of any act or omission in the performance of official duties in connection therewith.
Section 103.5. Fees. The fees for activities and services performed by the code official, officer, or employee in carrying out its responsibilities under this code shall be $15.00 per hour for code enforcement and inspection service.
Section 103.6. Restrictions on Employees. An officer or employee connected with the City shall not be financially interested in the furnishing of labor, material, or appliances for the construction, alteration, or maintenance of a building, or in the making of plans or of specifications therefor, unless he is the owner of such building. Such officer or employee shall not engage in any work which is inconsistent with his or her duties or with the interests of the City.
Section 104.3. Inspections. The code official shall make all of the required inspections, or shall accept reports of inspection by approved agencies or individuals. All reports of such inspections shall be in writing and be certified by a responsible officer of such approved agency or by the responsible individual. The code official is authorized to engage such expert opinion as deemed necessary to report upon unusual technical issues that arise, subject to the approval of the appointing authority.
Section 104.3.1. Inspection upon interruption of utility service. In the event that any utility service (i.e., gas, electric, water, sewer) provided to a premises is interrupted for any reason under circumstances that provide probable cause to believe there is or has been a violation or violations of applicable codes, including local ordinances, other than for non-payment that is cured within twenty-one (21) days of the date of cessation of the service, before the provision of such service is restored to the premises, an inspection of the premises by the City of Porterdale code official, or his agent, shall be made. The owner, tenant or resident shall notify the City of Porterdale code official of the need for such inspection, and arrange for a day and time for the inspection to occur. The inspection shall certify that the premises meets the minimum requirements applicable to the premises under Chapters 3, 4, 5, and 6 of this code, and the provisions of sections 102.3 and 102.6 relating to alterations, repairs or rehabilitation work on existing buildings, as those standards relate to the provision of the interrupted utility service. The fee for each such inspection shall be $35.00, or as may be set by the City Council from time-to-time, which includes an initial inspection and follow-up inspection within fourteen (14) days if necessary. Any additional inspection shall require a new application. For purposes of this subsection, conditions which appear to be code violations which are in plain view may form the basis for probable cause.
Section 108.1. General. When a structure or equipment is found by the code official to be unsafe, or when a structure is found unfit for human occupancy, or is found unlawful, or a structure or premises is found to be a dangerous, such structure shall be condemned pursuant to the provisions of this code.
Section 108.1.1. Unsafe structures. An unsafe structure is one that is found to be dangerous to the life, health, property or safety of the public or the occupants of the structure by not providing minimum safeguards to protect or warn occupants in the event of fire, or because such structure contains unsafe equipment or is so damaged, decayed, dilapidated, structurally unsafe or of such faulty construction or unstable foundation, that partial or complete collapse is possible.
Section 108.1.2. Unsafe equipment. Unsafe equipment includes any boiler, heating equipment, elevator, moving stairway, electrical wiring or device, flammable liquid containers or other equipment on the premises or within the structure which is in such disrepair or condition that such equipment is a hazard to life, health, property or safety of the public or occupants of the premises or structure.
Section 108.1.3. Structure unfit for human occupancy. A structure is unfit for human occupancy whenever the code official finds that such structure is unsafe, unlawful or, because of the degree to which the structure is in disrepair or lacks maintenance, is insanitary, vermin or rat infested, contains filth and contamination, or lacks ventilation, illumination, sanitary or heating facilities or other essential equipment required by this code, or because the location of the structure constitutes a hazard to the occupants of the structure or to the public.
Section 108.1.4. Unlawful structure. An unlawful structure is one found in whole or in part to be occupied by more persons than permitted under this code, or was erected, altered or occupied contrary to law.
Section 108.1.5. Dangerous structure or premises. For the purposes of this code, any structure or premises that has any or all of the conditions or defects described below shall be considered dangerous:
a.
Any door, aisle, passageway, stairway, exit or other means of egress that does not conform to the approved building or fire code of the City of Porterdale as related to the requirements for existing buildings.
b.
The walking surface of any aisle, passageway, stairway, exit or other means of egress is so warped, worn, loose, torn or otherwise unsafe as to not provide safe and adequate means of egress.
c.
Any portion of a building, structure or appurtenance that has been damaged by fire, earthquake, wind, flood, deterioration, neglect, abandonment, vandalism or by any other cause to such an extent that it is likely to partially or completely collapse, or to become detached or dislodged.
d.
Any portion of a building, or any member, appurtenance or ornamentation on the exterior thereof that is not of sufficient strength or stability, or is not so anchored, attached or fastened in place so as to be capable of resisting natural or artificial loads of one and one-half the original designed value.
e.
The building or structure, or part of the building or structure, because of dilapidation, deterioration, decay, faulty construction, the removal or movement of some portion of the ground necessary for the support, or for any other reason, is likely to partially or completely collapse, or some portion of the foundation or underpinning of the building or structure is likely to fail or give way.
f.
The building or structure, or any portion thereof, is clearly unsafe for its use and occupancy.
g.
The building or structure is neglected, damaged, dilapidated, unsecured or abandoned so as to become an attractive nuisance to children who might play in the building or structure to their danger, becomes a harbor for vagrants, criminals or immoral persons, or enables persons to resort to the building or structure from committing a nuisance or an unlawful act.
h.
Any building or structure has been constructed, exists or is maintained in violation of any specific requirement or prohibition applicable to such building or structure provided by the approved building or fire code of the City of Porterdale, or of any law or ordinance to such an extent as to present either a substantial risk of fire, building collapse or any other threat to life and safety.
i.
A building or structure, used or intended to be used for dwelling purposes, because of inadequate maintenance, dilapidation, decay, damage, faulty construction or arrangement, inadequate light, ventilation, mechanical or plumbing system, or otherwise, is determined by the code official to be unsanitary, unfit for human habitation or in such a condition that is likely to cause sickness or disease.
j.
Any building or structure, because of a lack of sufficient or proper fire-resistance-rated construction, fire protection systems, electrical system, fuel connections, mechanical system, plumbing system or other cause, is determined by the code official to be a threat to life or health.
k.
Any portion of a building remains on a site after the demolition or destruction of the building or structure or whenever any building or structure is abandoned so as to constitute such building or portion thereof as an attractive nuisance or hazard to the public.
Section 108.2. Closing of vacant structures. If the structure is vacant and unfit for human habitation and occupancy, and is not in danger of structural collapse, the code official is authorized to post a placard of condemnation on the premises and order the structure closed up so as not to be an attractive nuisance. Upon failure of the owner to close up the premises within the time specified in the order, the code official shall cause the premises to be closed and secured through any available public agency or by contract or arrangement by private persons and the cost thereof shall be charged against the real estate upon which the structure is located and shall be a lien upon such real estate and may be collected by any other legal resource.
Section 108.2.1. Authority to disconnect service utilities. The code official shall have the authority to authorize disconnection of utility service to the building, structure or system regulated by this code and the referenced codes and standards set forth in section 102.3 of this code in case of emergency where necessary to eliminate an immediate hazard to life or property or when such utility connection has been made without approval. The code official shall notify the serving utility and, whenever possible, the owner and occupant of the building, structure or service system of the decision to disconnect prior to taking such action. If not notified prior to disconnection the owner or occupant of the building structure or service system shall be notified in writing as soon as practical thereafter.
Section 108.3. Notice. Whenever the code official has condemned a structure or equipment under the provisions of this section, notice shall be posted in a conspicuous place in or about the structure affected by such notice and served on the owner or the person or persons responsible for the structure or equipment in accordance with Section 107.3. If the notice pertains to equipment, it shall also be placed on the condemned equipment. The notice shall be in the form prescribed in Section 107.2.
Section 108.4. Placarding. Upon failure of the owner or person responsible to comply with the notice provisions within the time given, the code official shall post on the premises or on defective equipment a placard bearing the word "Condemned" and a statement of the penalties provided for occupying the premises, operating the equipment or removing the placard.
Section 108.4.1. Placard removal. The code official shall remove the condemnation placard whenever the defect or defects upon which the condemnation and placarding action were based have been eliminated. Any person who defaces or removes a condemnation placard without the approval of the code official shall be subject to the penalties provided by this code.
Section 108.5. Prohibited occupancy. Any occupied structure condemned and placarded by the code official shall be vacated as ordered by the code official. Any person who shall occupy a placarded premises or shall operate placarded equipment, and any owner or any person responsible for the premises who shall let anyone occupy a placarded premises or operate placarded equipment shall be liable for the penalties provided by this code.
Section 108.6. Abatement methods. The owner, operator or occupant of a building, premises or equipment deemed unsafe by the code official shall abate or cause to be abated or corrected such unsafe conditions either by repair, rehabilitation, or other approved corrective action.
Section 109.6. Hearing. Any person ordered to take emergency measures shall comply with such order forthwith. Any affected person shall thereafter be entitled to appeal as provided in Section 111 of this code.
Section 110. Reserved.
Section 111.1. Application for appeal. Any person directly affected by a decision of the code official or a notice or order issued under this code shall have the right to appeal to the City Manager provided that a written application for appeal is filed within ten (10) days after the day the decision, notice or order was served. An application for appeal shall be based on a claim that the true intent of this code or the rules legally adopted thereunder have been incorrectly interpreted, the provisions of this code do not fully apply, or the requirements of this code are adequately satisfied by other means.
Section 111.2. Notice of meeting. The City Manager shall hold a hearing on the appeal as provided in this Section within fifteen (15) days of the filing of an appeal.
Section 111.3. Open hearing. All hearings before the City Manager shall be open to the public. The appellant, the appellant's representative, the code official, and any person whose interests are affected shall be given an opportunity to be heard.
Section 111.3.1. Procedure. The City Manager shall adopt and make available to the public through the City Clerk procedures under which a hearing will be conducted. The procedures shall not require strict rules of evidence, but shall mandate that only relevant information be received.
Section 111.4. Decision on appeal. Within three (3) days of the date of the appeal hearing, the City Manager shall make written findings on the issues raised in the appeal, and may affirm, modify or reverse the decision of the code official.
Section 111.4.1. Records and copies. The City Manager shall send a copy of his or her written findings on the issues raised in the appeal to the appellant and to the code official in a manner authorized under Section 107 of this code.
Section 111.4.2. Administration. The code official shall take immediate action in accordance with the decision of the City Manager.
Section 111.5. Court review. Any person directly affected by the decision of the City Manager and dissatisfied with the final decision on appeal under this Section may appeal said decision to the Superior Court of Newton County.
Section 111.6. Stays of enforcement. Appeals of notice and order (other than Imminent Danger notices) shall stay the enforcement of the notice and order until the appeal is heard.
Section 201.3. Terms defined in other codes. Where terms are not defined in this code and are defined in the provisions of the latest edition of the International Building Code, as adopted and amended by the Georgia Department of Community Affairs; International Residential Code, 2006 Edition, with Georgia Amendments; International Fire Code, 2006 Edition, with Georgia Amendments; International Plumbing Code, 2006 Edition, with Georgia Amendments; International Fuel Gas Code, 2006 Edition, with Georgia Amendments; International Mechanical Code, 2006 Edition, with Georgia Amendments; National Electrical Code, 2011 Edition; and the International Energy Conservation Code, 2009 Edition, with Georgia Supplements and Amendments, such terms shall have the meanings ascribed to them as stated in those codes.
By adding the following definitions to the list of definitions contained in Section 202 of the IPMC:
ABANDONED MOTOR VEHICLE. Any wrecked or non-operable automobile, truck or other vehicle which does not bear a current license plate.
JUNK VEHICLE. Any vehicle, automobile, truck, van, trailer of any kind or type, or contrivance or part thereof, which is wrecked, dismantled, partially dismantled, stripped, partially stripped, inoperable, abandoned, discarded, or kept parked, stored or maintained on any premises or public right-of-way, without a current license plate and/or decal. "Junk vehicle" includes Abandoned Motor Vehicles.
WEEDS. All rank vegetative growth, including but not limited to kudzu, poison ivy, jimsonweed, burdock, ragweed, thistle, cocklebur, dandelion, plants of obnoxious odors, or other similar unsightly vegetative growth; however, this term shall not include cultivated flowers, fruits and vegetables, and gardens.
YARD TRIMMINGS. Yard trimmings, means leaves, brush, grass clippings, shrub and tree prunings, discarded Christmas trees, nursery and greenhouse vegetative residuals, and vegetative matter resulting from landscaping development and maintenance other than mining, agricultural, and silvicultural operations.
Section 302.4. Weeds. All premises and exterior property shall be maintained free from weeds or plant growth in excess of twelve (12) inches. All noxious weeds shall be prohibited.
Upon failure of the owner or agent having charge of a property to cut and destroy weeds after service of a notice of violation, they shall be subject to prosecution in accordance with Section 106.3 and as prescribed by the authority having jurisdiction. Upon failure to comply with the notice of violation, any duly authorized employee of the jurisdiction or contractor hired by the jurisdiction shall be authorized to enter upon the property in violation and cut and destroy the weeds growing thereon, and the costs of such removal shall be paid by the owner or agent responsible for the property.
Section 302.7.1. Fences and walls. Fences and walls shall be maintained in a structurally sound condition and in good repair. Fences shall be free from loose or rotting materials and shall have braces and supports attached or fastened in accordance with common building practices. Every exterior wall shall be free of holes and breaks, and any other condition which might admit rain or dampness to the interior portions of the walls or to the occupied spaces of the building. All siding materials shall be kept in repair.
Section 302.8. Junk and abandoned vehicles. Junk and abandoned vehicles shall not be kept, permitted, parked, stored or maintained on any premises or public street right-of-way, excepting as follows:
1.
No more than two (2) junk or abandoned vehicles which are kept within a fully enclosed building or approved auto makers car covers on property in residential zoning districts, provided the owner or occupant of the property is in the process of reconditioning the junk or abandoned vehicles for personal use;
2.
Junk or abandoned vehicles which are kept on property in zoning districts authorized by the Zoning Regulations for repairing, reconditioning, or remodeling junk or abandoned vehicles, and provided that such junk vehicles are not stored for the purpose of salvage or parts, and are in the continual process of repair, reconditioning, or remodeling;
3.
Junk or abandoned vehicles which are kept on property in zoning districts as authorized by the Zoning Regulations for a junk or salvage yard; or
4.
Junk or abandoned vehicles which are kept on residentially zoned property five (5) acres or greater in size.
Section 302.10. Trees.
Section 302.10.1. Hazardous Trees. Dead trees which are hazardous to persons, persons on adjacent property or to adjacent property shall not be allowed to exist or to be maintained on any premises. A finding by a registered forester or certified arborist shall constitute prima facie evidence that a tree is in danger of falling upon adjacent property or public streets due to death of the tree.
Section 302.10.2. Tree Stumps. Tree stumps greater than twelve inches (12") in height above ground level shall not be permitted or maintained on any premises for more than sixty (60) days after the tree has been cut.
Exceptions from 302.10.1 and 302.10.2: Property covered by a valid land disturbing permit, property one (1) acre or greater in size, and property in Agricultural District zoning.
Section 302.10.3. Tree Debris. Felled trees, slash, or removed tree limbs shall not be permitted or maintained on the ground on any premises for more than sixty (60) days. Excepted from the provisions of this subsection (3) are:
Exceptions: Property covered by a valid land disturbing permit, cut wood which is neatly stacked in lengths not exceeding three feet (3'), and which is stored in the side or rear yard, property one (1) acre or greater in size, and property in Agricultural District zoning, and composting activities which comply with state law.
Section 302.11. Open or Outdoor Storage and Care of Premises. It shall be unlawful for the owner or occupant of a residential building, structure, or property to utilize the premises of such residential property for the open storage of any junk or abandoned vehicle, appliance, building materials, rubbish, equipment, garbage, goods, glass, materials, merchandise, or similar items for more than twenty-four (24) hours. It shall be the duty and responsibility of every such owner or occupant to keep the premises of such residential property clean and to remove from the premises all such items as listed above, including but not limited to weeds, dead trees, garbage, etc.
Exception: Property where outdoor storage is authorized by the Zoning Regulations; cut wood which is neatly stacked in lengths, but not exceeding three feet (3'), and which is stored in the side or rear yard for the personal use of the owner or occupant; or residentially zoned property five (5) acres or greater in size.
Section 302.11.1. Outdoor Furniture. Furniture which is exposed to the elements, including but not limited to furniture placed on porches and front stoops, shall be of such make and design as to be suitable for outdoor use. For example, if upholstered, furniture shall be covered in weather resistant fabric designed for outdoor use, or made of wrought iron, plastic, or wood.
Section [F] 304.3. Premises identification. Buildings shall have approved address numbers placed in a position to be plainly legible and visible from the street or road fronting the property. In addition, buildings served by alleyways shall have approved address numbers place in a position to be plainly legible and visible from the alleyway serving the property. These numbers shall contrast with their background. Address numbers shall be Arabic numerals or alphabet letters. Numbers shall be a minimum of 4 inches (102 mm) high with a minimum stroke width of 0.5 inch (12.7 mm).
Section 304.14. Insect screens. During the period from March 20th to October 31st, every door, window, and other outside opening required for ventilation of habitable rooms, food preparation areas, food service areas or any areas where products to be included or utilized in food for human consumption are processed, manufactured, packaged or stored shall be supplied with approved tightly fitting screens of not less than 16 mesh per inch (16 mesh per 25 mm), and every screen door used for insect control shall have a self-closing device in good working condition.
Exception: Screens shall not be required where other approved means, such as air curtains or insect repellent fans, are employed.
Section 305.3.1. Toilet, bathroom, and kitchen floors. Every toilet, bathroom and kitchen floor surface shall be constructed and maintained so as to be substantially impervious to water and so as to permit such floor to be easily kept in a clean and sanitary condition.
Section 502.1. Dwelling units. Every dwelling unit shall contain its own bathtub or shower, lavatory, water closet and kitchen sink which shall be connected to and shall be supplied with hot water during periods of occupancy, and maintained in a sanitary, safe working condition. The lavatory shall be placed in the same room as the water closet or located in close proximity to the door leading directly into the room in which such water closet is located. A kitchen sink shall not be used as a substitute for the required lavatory. Every plumbing fixture and water and waste pipe shall be properly installed and maintained in good, sanitary working condition free from defects, leaks, and obstructions.
Section 602.2. Residential occupancies. Every dwelling unit shall be provided with heat, and shall have heating facilities which are properly installed, are maintained in safe and good working condition, and are capable of safely and adequately heating all habitable rooms and bathrooms in every dwelling unit located therein to a temperature of at least 70 degrees F at a distance of three (3) feet above floor level, under ordinary minimum winter conditions. Where a central heating system is not provided, each dwelling unit shall be provided with permanent heating facilities in compliance with the applicable state minimum standard codes.
Section 602.2.1. Unvented fuel burning heaters. Unvented fuel burning heaters shall be prohibited except for gas heaters listed for unvented use and the total input rating of the unvented heaters is less than thirty (30) BTU per hour per cubic foot of room content. Unvented fuel burning heaters shall be prohibited in bedrooms.
Section 602.2.2. Cord and plug heating equipment. Cord and plug connected electric heating equipment shall not be used to satisfy the requirements of this Section.
(Code 2003, § 36-102; Ord. of 8-5-2013)
