ARTICLE XI. - ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE CATERERS

Sec. 4-506. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Authorized catered function means an event at a location not otherwise licensed for consumption of alcoholic beverages by the drink at which alcoholic beverages are furnished, for consideration, and sold, dispensed or provided free of charge to persons present at the event, by the drink, pursuant to a permit obtained under this article. The term "authorized catered function" may include a function held inside a publicly or privately owned building or structure or a function held outside such a building or structure that is located within the city limits of the City of Porterdale. An authorized catered function shall be subject to, and authorized under rules and regulations adopted by, the city.
Food caterer means any person who, for consideration, prepares food for consumption off the premises.
Licensed alcoholic beverage caterer means any person licensed for the sale of alcoholic beverages by the state and who possesses a license by a local government in the state authorizing such person to sell or dispense alcoholic beverages by the drink off licensed premises and in connection with an authorized catered function.
(Code 2003, § 32-201(1)(I)(1); Ord. of 1-14-2014)
Sec. 4-507. - License required.
An alcoholic beverage caterer license may be obtained for the purpose of selling or dispensing alcoholic beverages by the drink on premises at which authorized catered functions are to be held. Such licenses shall be annual licenses and may be obtained only by the persons, firms, or corporations already licensed by the city for the sale of alcoholic beverages at retail or by the drink. The procedures for securing such licenses and the terms thereof, including license fees, shall be as provided in this chapter. The fee for obtaining an alcoholic beverage caterer license shall be in an amount as established from time to time by resolution of the city council, provided that the total of license fees shall not exceed $5,000.0 for any one licensed location.
(1)
A person or entity holding a valid license from the City of Porterdale to sell malt beverages or wine by the drink for consumption on the premises in the City of Porterdale may be issued an off-premises license which authorizes such license holder to sell malt beverages or wine by the drink off premises and in connection with an authorized catered function.
(2)
A person or entity holding a valid license from the city to sell malt beverages or wine by the package for consumption off the premises in the City of Porterdale may be issued an off-premises license which authorizes such license holder to sell malt beverages or wine by the drink off premises and in connection with an authorized catered function.
(3)
A person or entity holding a valid license from the City of Porterdale to sell distilled spirits by the drink for consumption on the premises where sold may be issued an off-premises license which authorizes such license holder to sell distilled spirits by the drink off premises and in connection with an authorized catered function.
(Code 2003, § 32-201(1)(I)(2); Ord. of 1-14-2014)
Sec. 4-508. - Permit.
Before a licensed alcoholic beverage caterer may sell or dispense alcoholic beverages at any authorized catered function, such caterer shall obtain a permit. The application for permit shall include the name of the alcoholic beverage caterer, the caterer's license number, and the date, address and time of the event. Permit applications must be filed not less than 14 days before the date of the event. No permit fee shall be charged for the alcoholic beverage caterers licensed by the city. For caterers licensed by jurisdictions other than the city, a fee of $50.00 per event shall be charged. No permit shall be issued to any person under this article who does not hold an alcoholic beverage caterer's license from a local jurisdiction in the State of Georgia. The permit shall be kept in the vehicle used to transport alcoholic beverages to the event at all times during which the permit is in effect.
(Code 2003, § 32-201(1)(I)(3); Ord. of 1-14-2014)
Sec. 4-509. - Excise tax.
(a)
Caterers licensed by a jurisdiction other than the city shall maintain a record of all alcoholic beverages transported into the city for the event, and shall pay an excise tax to the city as required in this chapter. Failure to report and remit the tax within seven days of the conclusion of the event shall be grounds for denial of subsequent permits to the caterer for similar events.
(b)
Caterers licensed by the city shall maintain a record of all alcoholic beverages transported for each event, by event, and shall make report and remittances of such taxes with their regular monthly reports to the city.
(Code 2003, § 32-201(1)(I)(4); Ord. of 1-14-2014)
Sec. 4-510. - Limitation on transportation, distribution, and sale.
No alcoholic beverages shall be transported, distributed, or sold to anyone other than licensed locations in the city, except to authorized catered functions, unless otherwise authorized by this article or by Georgia State Law.
(Code 2003, § 32-201(1)(I)(5); Ord. of 1-14-2014)
Sec. 4-511. - Hours of authorized events.
The hours and days of sale or distribution of alcoholic beverages under this article shall be the same as provided for sale by the drink under section 4-59.
(Code 2003, § 32-201(1)(I)(6); Ord. of 1-14-2014)
Sec. 4-512. - Age of employees.
No licensed alcoholic beverage caterer shall employ any person under 21 years of age to dispense, serve, sell, or handle alcoholic beverages at authorized catered functions.
(Code 2003, § 32-201(1)(I)(7); Ord. of 1-14-2014)
Sec. 4-513. - State rules and regulations.
All activities of alcoholic beverage caterers under this article shall be subject to and comply with the rules and regulations promulgated by the Georgia Revenue Commissioner under the authority of O.C.G.A. § 3-11-5.
(Code 2003, § 32-201(1)(I)(8); Ord. of 1-14-2014)
Secs. 4-514—4-524. - Reserved.
