ARTICLE VII. - REAL ESTATE[7]
Footnotes:
--- (7) ---
Editor's note— Ord. adopted July 15, 2021(1) , §§ 1—3, renumbered the former Art. VII, § 2-364, as Art. VIII, § 2-400 and enacted a new Art. VII, Div. 3, § 2-387 as set out herein. The previous subject matter pertained to boards and commissions. The historical notation has been retained with the amended provisions for reference purposes.

DIVISIONS 1, 2. - RESERVED

Secs. 2-364—2-386. - Reserved.
DIVISION 3. - SALE AND DISPOSITION

Sec. 2-387. - Sale of narrow strips of land.
(a)
Notwithstanding any provisions of this Code of Ordinances to the contrary, the city council may by resolution authorize the sale and conveyance of parcels of narrow strips of land, so shaped or so small as to be incapable of being used independently as zoned or under applicable subdivision or other development ordinances, or as streets, whether owned in fee by the city or used by easement, to abutting property owners where such sale and conveyances facilitate the enjoyment of the highest and best use of the abutting owner's property without first submitting the sale or conveyance to the process of an auction or the solicitation of sealed bids, provided, however, that each abutting property owner shall be notified of the availability of the property and shall have the opportunity to purchase said property under the provisions of this section 2-387.
(b)
Following passage of a resolution by the city council authorizing the sale and conveyance of a parcel of land, the city manager or his or her designee shall:
(1)
Order a survey of the subject matter property if no such survey previously has been made of the property. The survey shall be made so as to divide the property into segments equal to the percentage of the frontage of abutting property owners to the subject matter property. Where applicable, the division should be achieved by extending the existing the property lines of the adjoining properties. Areas and alignments should be adjusted as necessary to avoid severe acute angles, create useable area, and to result in a logical division.
If the property is impacted by a natural geographical feature or manmade feature (e.g., stream, ditch, drainage structure), the adjoining property owners may by mutual agreement decide on a logical line of division other than previously described.
(2)
Order an appraisal of the property to be sold, which appraisal shall be based on fee simple fair market value. If the property is too small to have a meaningful market value on its own, the proportional segments may be assigned the same value as an equal portion of the abutting property.
The city shall not sell property for less than the cost of the survey and appraisal. If the city manager or his or her designee determines that the cost of appraisal will exceed the value of the property to be sold, the city council may declare by resolution, that the value of the property to be sold is equal to an equally sized portion of the adjoining properties as currently assessed by the Newton County Tax Appraiser, and the independent appraisal requirement will be waived.
(3)
Submit the appraisal to the city council for approval of the proportionate division of the property and of the appraised value; and
(4)
Contact the abutting owners of the subject matter property in writing, informing the abutting owners of the property of the opportunity to purchase their proportionate interest in the property for the value of that interest as appraised or determined.
(c)
Negotiations and quitclaim deed.
(1)
If one or more of the abutting owners desire to negotiate with the city for a purchase price different from the price offered by the city based upon the appraisal or as determined, the abutting owner or owners will be required to obtain a separate appraisal report for negotiation purposes. If no agreement can be reached, the city manager and abutting owner shall obtain a value established by a review appraiser selected by the city manager. The cost of the review appraisal report shall be shared equally by the city and the abutting property owner or owners. The city manager shall submit the review appraisal price to the city council for approval. If the city council approves the review appraisal price, the city shall cause a quitclaim deed or deeds to be prepared and submitted to the mayor for execution. Upon payment by the abutting owner or owners to the city of an amount not less than the sum approved by council, the quitclaim deeds or deeds shall be delivered to the purchaser or purchasers.
(2)
In the event less than all of the abutting property owners desire to purchase their proportionate interest in the subject matter property, then the proportionate interest of the abutting owner or owners who dries or do not wish to purchase their interest in the subject matter property shall be offered to the abutting property owners who desire to purchase an interest in the subject matter property in proportions equal to the percentage of the frontage of the abutting property owners desiring to purchase the subject matter property.
( Ord. of 7-15-2021(1) , § 3)
Secs. 2-388—2-399. - Reserved.
