Chapter 7.5 - EMERGENCY SERVICES[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Cross reference— Civil emergencies, Ch. 19.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Secs. 7.5-1—7.5-30. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - ALARM SYSTEMS[2]

Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
Editor's note— Ord. No. 97-6, adopted Apr. 7, 1997, did not specifically amend the Code; hence, inclusion of the substantive provisions of such ordinance as Ch. 7.5, Art. II, §§ 7.5-31—7.5-33, was at the discretion of the editor.

Sec. 7.5-31. - Definitions.
[The following words, terms or phrases, as used in this article, shall have their given meanings:]
Alarm system. Any assembly of equipment, mechanical, electrical or battery-operated, arranged to signal the occurrence of a police, fire, hazard or medical emergency requiring immediate attention and to which police or fire units are expected to respond.
False alarm.
(1)
An alarm activated in the absence of an emergency, whether willfully or by inadvertence, negligence or unintentional act, including the malfunction of the alarm system, to which the police department responds. The definition excludes testing or repairing of telephone or electrical lines or equipment outside the premises; acts of God, such as earthquake, flood, windstorm, thunder or lightning; an attempted illegal entry of which there is visible evidence; a crime in progress; or, in the case of an emergency medical alarm, an actual medical emergency requiring police, fire and/or medical personnel. If doubt exists as to the cause of the false alarm, the chief of police or his designee shall have and make the final decision regarding the circumstances of the activation.
(2)
Multiple alarms received by the police department before the system can be deactivated within a reasonable period of time shall be considered a single alarm.
(3)
The definition of a false alarm also includes the intentional activation of a holdup alarm for other than a holdup in progress, the intentional activation of a burglary alarm for other than a burglary, the activation of a medical alarm for other than a medical emergency, or the intentional activation of a fire alarm for other than a fire or hazard.
Police department. The Powder Springs Police Department.
Police emergency. An incident requiring prompt response by the police department.
(Ord. No. 97-6, 4-7-97)
Sec. 7.5-32. - False alarms prohibited.
The owner of the property at which an alarm system is installed, and the owner or operator of the alarm system (if not the owner of the property), shall insure that his/her alarm system is functioning properly and that shall not cause false alarms to be transmitted.
Any police officer responding to an alarm which is determined to be false shall promptly notify the chief of police or his designee of such alarm in writing, and (if practical) leave notification of such false alarm at the scene of the alarm.
(Ord. No. 97-6, 4-7-97)
Sec. 7.5-33. - Penalties for false alarms.
(a)
First and second false alarms/activation per calendar month: Warning.
(b)
Third false alarm/activation per calendar month: Fifty-dollar ($50.00) fine.
(c)
Fourth and subsequent false alarm/activation per calendar month: One hundred-dollar ($100.00) fine per alarm.
(d)
Penalties provided for false alarms that are relayed or transmitted by an intermediary shall be the responsibility of the owner or user of the alarm system.
(e)
Any person found guilty of willful, false activation of alarm system shall be liable for a fine up to one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) plus the cost of prosecution or to imprisonment in the county prison for a term not to exceed thirty (30) days, or both, for each and every such activation.
(Ord. No. 97-6, 4-7-97)
