ARTICLE VI. - CROSS-CONNECTION CONTROL

Sec. 11-121. - Definitions.
The following definitions and terms shall apply in the interpretation and administration of this policy:
The city. The City of Powder Springs, Georgia.
Auxiliary intake. Any piping connection or other device whereby water may be secured from a course other than the public water supply.
Cross-connection. Any physical connection whereby the public water supply is connected with any other water supply system, whether public or private, either inside or outside of any building or buildings in such a manner that a flow of water into the public water supply is possible either through the manipulation of valves or because of ineffective check or backpressure valves, or because of any other arrangement.
Cross-connection control program policy. Authorized representative of the mayor and council of the City of Powder Springs who shall administer the cross-connection control policy.
Public works director. The public works director of the City of Powder Springs.
Inter-connection. Any system of piping or arrangement whereby the public water supply is connected directly with a sewer, drain, conduit, pool, storage reservoir, or other device which does or may contain sewage or other waste, or liquid which would be capable of importing contamination to the public water supply.
Person. Any and all persons, including any individual firm or association, and any municipal or private corporation organized or existing under the laws of this or any other state or country.
Public water supply. The City of Powder Springs Water System being recognized by the department of natural resources/environmental protection division as the public water supply.
(Ord. No. 98-20, § 1, 8-17-98)
Sec. 11-122. - Compliance with state laws.
The city is to comply with Chapter 391-3-5.13 of the Georgia Rules for Safe Drinking Water adopted in accordance with this policy, which pertain to cross-connections, and establish an effective, ongoing, backflow prevention program.
(Ord. No. 98-20, § 2, 8-17-98)
Sec. 11-123. - Cross-connection, auxiliary intake, by-pass, or interconnection not allowed.
No person shall cause a cross-connection, auxiliary intake, by-pass, or interconnection to be made or allowed to exist.
(Ord. No. 98-20, § 3, 8-17-98)
Sec. 11-124. - Backflow prevention by containment.
The public works director, as authorized by the mayor and council is primarily responsible for preventing the contamination or pollution of the public water supply by instituting a program of "backflow prevention by containment." Such responsibility begins at the point of origin of the public water supply and includes all of the distribution system, and terminates at the service connection for the consumer's water system.
(Ord. No. 98-20, § 4, 8-17-98)
Sec. 11-125. - Inspections.
It shall be the duty of the public works director to cause inspections to be made of all properties served by the public water supply where cross-connections with the public water supply are deemed possible. The frequency of inspections and re-inspections shall be based on the potential health hazards involved and shall be established by the executive director.
(Ord. No. 98-20, § 5, 8-17-98)
Sec. 11-126. - Cross-connection control program manager right to enter.
The cross-connection control program manager or authorized representative shall have the right to enter, upon receiving permission, at a reasonable hour, with prior notification, any property served by the public water supply for the purpose of inspecting the piping system thereof for cross-connections. Upon request the owner or occupant of any property so served shall furnish to the public works director or authorized representative any pertinent information, regarding the piping system, processes, chemicals used or stored on site, and any biological or radiation hazards. Refusal to allow inspection of the piping or to provide requested pertinent information shall result in the assumption that cross-connections and hazardous substances may exist on the premises.
(Ord. No. 98-20, § 6, 8-17-98)
Sec. 11-127. - Approved backflow prevention device required.
The public works director or authorized representative shall require the use of an approved backflow prevention device on the service line serving customers having or assumed to have cross-connections. The required backflow prevention device at the service connection shall provide maximum (Reduced Pressure Zone Assembly-RPZ) or intermediate (Double Check Valve Assembly-DCV) or minimum (Dual Check Valve Assembly-DuCV) protection as concluded by the cross-connection control program manager.
Backflow prevention devices shall be approved by the cross-connection control program manager as to manufacturer, model, and size. The method of installation of backflow prevention devices shall be approved by the cross-connection control program manger prior to installation and shall comply with the criteria set forth by the cross-connection control program manager. All expenses involved in the purchase, installation, maintenance and testing of the devices shall be borne by the owner or occupant of the property.
All backflow prevention devices shall be maintained in proper working order. City personnel shall have the right to inspect and test all backflow prevention devices for proper operation whenever deemed necessary by the cross-connection control program manager.
(Ord. No. 98-20, § 7, 8-17-98)
Sec. 11-128. - Backflow prevention devices tested.
The owner or occupant of property served by the public water supply shall on an annual basis have all backflow prevention devices required by the authority tested for proper operation and a copy of the test results furnish to the cross-connection control program manager. Annual testing and inspection of backflow prevention devices must be performed by a person pre-approved by the cross-connection control program manager. All expenses involved in the testing and repair of the devices shall be borne by the owner or occupant of the property. The cross-connection control program manager shall notify the owner or occupant in writing as to the date of the required testing and a deadline by which testing results must be sent to the authority.
(Ord. No. 98-20, § 8, 8-17-98)
Sec. 11-129. - Unscheduled testing.
Unscheduled testing performed by city personnel shall not disrupt water service without prior notification to the occupant or owner of the property. Where no duplicate backflow prevention device exists and water service is critical to the continuance of normal operation or protection of life, property, or equipment, the city shall notify, in writing the occupant of the premises of plans to discontinue water service to test the backflow prevention device.
(Ord. No. 98-20, § 9, 8-17-98)
Sec. 11-130. - Violations.
Any person who now has a cross-connection in violation of this policy shall be allowed a reasonable time within which to comply with the provisions of this policy. After an investigation of existing conditions and an appraisal of the time required to complete the work involved, the cross-connection control program manager shall set a required completion date for the installation of an appropriate backflow prevention device.
(Ord. No. 98-20, § 10, 8-17-98)
Sec. 11-131. - Refusal to comply.
Whenever any person neglects or refuses to comply with any of the provisions of this policy the public works director shall discontinue the public water supply service connection and service shall not be restored until the cross-connection, auxiliary intake, interconnection, or by-pass has been discontinued.
(Ord. No. 98-20, § 11, 8-17-98)
Secs. 11-132—11-139. - Reserved.
