ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 12-1. - License required; delinquency penalty; proration.
(a)
The provisions of sections 12-1 through 12-8 hereof shall apply to licensed businesses which are regulated and charged a regulatory fee but are not otherwise specifically regulated in this Code, including but not limited to garbage collectors, pawnshops, peddlers, wreckers, metal and scrap yard, taxi-cab, and bail bondsman. It shall be unlawful for any person, directly or indirectly, to conduct within the city any business or occupation, or use in connection therewith any premises, vehicle, machine, or device without a license therefor being first procured from the license and permit clerk and kept in effect at all times.
(b)
Any person failing to obtain or renew a license between January 1 and March 1 of each year shall be liable for an additional ten (10) percent of the amount required to be paid as a penalty for failure to obtain the appropriate license; provided, however, that the minimum penalty shall be one dollar ($1.00).
(c)
Any person failing to obtain or renew a license shall, in addition to the foregoing, be subject to punishment as provided in section 1-8.
(d)
Any person beginning a business, during a calendar year shall obtain a license for the remainder of the year and shall pay the full license fee before July 1 or half the license fee on or after July 1.
(Code 1972, § 5-401; Ord. No. 2017-010 , § 1, 5-1-17)
Cross reference— Effect of tax delinquency on license, § 8-20.
Sec. 12-2. - Exempt persons.
Any persons who may be exempt under state or other law from paying a license fee shall apply to the city clerk for a free permit to engage in or carry on any business, profession or occupation regulated by this chapter. Such person shall submit proper and lawful credentials exempting such person from the payment of a city license fee. Such person shall comply with the city rules and regulations pertaining to or governing such business, profession or occupation and shall be subject to the applicable penalties for violations of this chapter.
(Code 1972, § 5-404)
Sec. 12-3. - License application.
Any application for a license for such privilege shall be made in person or in writing and addressed to the city council and deposited with city clerk. The application shall disclose the name of applicant, applicant's personal address, business address, nature of privilege sought, where and how such privilege is to be exercised, names and addresses of applicant's employees for such privilege, and the name, kind, nature, and amount of insurance or bond coverage, if any, for such privilege. The license application shall include a zoning verification issued under the Unified Development Code by the city manager or his or her designee confirming that the use for which the license is sought is permitted under the zoning category for the property or location where the business, profession, or occupation is to be operated or carried out.
(Code 1972, § 5-412(b); Ord. No. 2004-36, § 2, 11-15-04)
Sec. 12-4. - License to be displayed.
All licenses issued under this chapter shall be posted conspicuously in the place of business of the person to whom the license is issued. Upon the failure of said person to so post the license, it may be suspended by the governing body and said person shall be subject to the punishment provided in section 10-8.
(Code 1972, § 5-402)
Sec. 12-5. - Revocation of license; transfer of license.
(a)
All licenses to carry on any business, profession or occupation for which a charge is made by the city shall be subject to revocation by the governing body for good cause shown. "Good cause," as used herein, shall mean the violation of any federal, state or local law, regulation or ordinance which regulates or relates to the operation, conditions of operation, or conduct of the business, profession, or occupation for which the license was issued.
The licensee shall be given not less than ten (10) days' advance written notice of the time, place and date of revocation hearing. Notice to the licensee shall specify the grounds upon which revocation is sought, and upon hearing the licensee shall be entitled to present evidence and to cross-examine witnesses.
(b)
Nothing herein shall prohibit the temporary suspension of any business, occupational or professional license by the city manager or the police chief for good cause shown until the next regular meeting of the governing body.
(c)
Licenses are not transferable.
(Code 1972, § 5-403; Ord. No. 89-36, 12-18-89)
Sec. 12-6. - Duplicate license.
A duplicate license shall be issued by the city clerk to replace a previously issued license which has been lost, stolen, defaced, or destroyed, without any wilful conduct on the part of the licensee, upon the filing of sworn affidavit attesting to such fact and the paying of a fee of two dollars ($2.00) to the city clerk.
(Code 1972, § 5-406)
Sec. 12-7. - Branch offices.
Each branch office, location, or establishment shall obtain a separate license; provided, however, that warehouses and distributing plants which are incidental to a business licensed under this chapter shall not be deemed branch offices.
(Code 1972, § 5-407)
Sec. 12-8. - License fee schedule on file; setting fee for unlisted business.
(a)
Business licensee fees for each calendar year shall be payable annually in advance, according to the schedule of fees provided by the governing body and on file in the office of the city clerk.
(b)
A condition to the issuance or renewal of any license shall be payment by the applicant of all past due license fees.
(Code 1972, § 5-405; Ord. No. 2017-010 , § 1, 5-1-17)
State Law reference— Professional occupation tax limited, O.C.G.A. § 48-13-5; bank and loan association occupation tax limited, O.C.G.A. § 7-1-758; levy of business, profession and occupation tax within state limitations authorized, O.C.G.A. § 48-13-7.
Secs. 12-9—12-12. - Reserved.
Editor's note— Ord. No. 2017-010 , § 1, adopted May 1, 2017, repealed § 12-9, which pertained to the conducting of business near church on Sunday and derived from the Code of 1972, § 6-106. Ord. No. 94-19, adopted November 21, 1994, repealed §§ 12-10—12-12, which pertained to financial institutions business license tax and derived from Ord. No. 83-9, §§ 1—3, adopted December 19, 1983.
Sec. 12-13. - Telephone companies.
(a)
Each telephone company operating in the city shall pay, on or before August 31 of each year, an occupational license tax for that calendar year in the amount of three (3) percent of recurring local service revenues received by such company from subscribers located within the city. The annual amount may be computed by annualizing the recurring local service revenues billed during the month of June preceding the date of payment.
(b)
"Recurring local service revenues" shall mean:
(1)
Monthly charges for local exchange service including:
a.
Charges for additional listings and joint users;
b.
The guarantee portion of the charge for semipublic pay station services;
c.
Charges for local message rate service, including mobile service local messages; and
d.
Subscriber station revenues from teletypewriter exchange service.
(2)
Charges for Morse transmission, signaling, data transmission, remote metering and supervisory control, where both terminal points are within the city.
(3)
All charges for local private line services (except audio and video program transmission services) where both terminals of the private line are within the city.
(4)
Nothing in this definition shall preclude the charging of a separate franchise fee for the transmission of audio or video programs to customers by CATV companies.
(c)
Due compensation for telephone companies with end user retail customers within the city.
(1)
The city hereby requires due compensation of three (3) percent of actual recurring local service revenues, as defined in subsections (8) and (9) of subsection (b) of Section 46-5-1 of the Official Code of Georgia Annotated; provided, however, that any company which pays in excess of three (3) percent of actual recurring local service revenues pursuant to an existing franchise agreement shall continue to pay in accordance with the agreement until the expiration of the franchise agreement or December 31, 2012, whichever occurs first, and any company which pays in excess of three (3) percent of actual recurring local service revenues in accordance with an occupational license tax arrangement shall continue to pay in accordance with such payment schedule until December 31, 2012.
(2)
Regarding any telephone company that does not have retail, end user customers located within the city's municipal boundaries, the payment by such company to a municipal authority in accordance with the rates set by regulations promulgated by the department of transportation for the use of its rights of way shall be considered the payment of due compensation.
(d)
Authorized designee. The city manager, or his or her designee, shall, on behalf of the city, exercise day-to-day administrative duties necessary to fulfill the regulatory authority of the city under O.C.G.A. § 46-5-1, et seq. and shall perform the following duties:
(1)
Review application information submitted by a telephone company to the city and, if an application is incomplete, notify the telegraph or telephone company within fifteen (15) business days of the receipt of such application, identifying in such notice all application deficiencies.
(2)
Report the receipt of a completed application to the council within sixty (60) calendar days of the receipt of such completed application.
(3)
Review payments of due compensation submitted by the company to ensure compliance with the provisions of the amended law and this section.
(4)
Provide a coordination function between a telephone company and all city departments on any matter relating to the amended law and this section.
(5)
Arrange and evaluate, no more than once a year, a comprehensive review of the records of a company which is reasonably related to the calculation and payment of due compensation.
(6)
Provide to all telegraph and telephone companies located in its rights of way written notice of annexations and changes in municipal corporate boundaries.
(Code 1972, § 3-415; Ord. No. 2009-04, §§ 1, 2, 2-2-09)
Sec. 12-14. - Going-out-of-business, etc., sales.
A "going-out-of-business" sale shall include a "fire sale", "bankrupt sale", "loss-of-lease sale", or any other sale made in anticipation of the termination of a business at its present location. It shall be unlawful for any person to falsely represent a sale as being a "going-out-of-business" sale. When any person, after advertising a "going-out-of-business" sale, adds to such person's stock or fails to go out of business within ninety (90) days, such person shall prima facie be deemed to have violated this section.
(Code 1972, § 5-408)
Sec. 12-15. - Franchise fee for state issued cable or video franchise.
(a)
The city hereby requires due compensation of five (5) percent of gross revenues generated within the city for an cable or video state franchise issued in its corporate boundaries by the State of Georgia.
(b)
Authorized designee. The city hereby authorizes the manager, or his or her designee, upon receipt of notice to the city of its right to designate a franchise fee for an applicant for or holder of an existing state franchise, to provide written notice to the secretary of state and each applicant for or holder of a state franchise within a service area that is wholly or partially located within the city limits of the five (5) percent franchise fee rate applicable to such applicant or holder of a state franchise.
(Ord. No. 2009-005, §§ 1, 2, 2-2-09; Ord. No. 2021-014 , § 1, 6-21-21)
Secs. 12-16—12-19. - Reserved.
