ARTICLE V. - VARIANCES

Sec. 3-201. - Variance.
(a)
Relief from the application of the provisions of this chapter to uses and activities upon privately owned real property may be granted by the mayor and City Council upon a finding that compliance with such provision will result in a hardship to the property or owner that is substantially unwarranted by the protection of the public health, safety or general welfare, and the need for consistency among all properties similarly situated.
(b)
Such relief may be granted only to the extent necessary to alleviate such unnecessary hardship and not as a convenience to the applicant nor to gain any advantage or interest over similarly situated properties.
(c)
A variance may be granted in whole or in part, or with conditions, in such individual case of unnecessary hardship upon a finding by the mayor and City Council that:
(1)
The application of the chapter would create an unnecessary hardship; and
(2)
Relief, if granted, would not cause substantial detriment to the public good or impair the purpose and intent of this chapter.
(d)
If denied, an application for a variance affecting the same property shall not be reconsidered for a period of twelve (12) months from the date of denial; provided, however, that the mayor and City Council may reduce the waiting period under extenuating circumstances or on its own motion.
(e)
In no case shall a variance be granted for a condition created by the applicant.
(Ord. No. 2009-66, § 1, 12-29-09)
Sec. 3-202. - Process.
(a)
An application for variance may be initiated by the owner of a majority interest in the property affected, or the authorized representative.
(b)
All applications shall be submitted to the office of the city manager or his/her designated department on the city's application forms.
(c)
All applications shall be accompanied by a nonrefundable fee as set by the mayor and City Council from time to time.
(d)
An application shall include an analysis of the standards for approval listed under this article.
(e)
Completed forms, plus any information the applicant feels to be pertinent, will be filed with the office of the city manager or his/her designated department.
(f)
The office of the city manager or his/her designated department shall review the application for completeness within five (5) working days of submission. Incomplete or improper applications will be returned to the applicant.
(g)
Upon receiving a complete application for variance, the city manager or his/her designee shall assemble such memos, papers, plans, or other documents as may constitute the record for the application or as may provide an understanding of the issues involved.
(h)
An application shall include such descriptions, maps, drawings or other information as needed to clearly illustrate or explain the action requested. The city manager or his/her designee may request such additional information from the applicant as necessary to provide a full understanding of the variance application.
(i)
Once the record has been assembled, the city manager or his/her designee shall schedule the variance application for consideration at the next meeting of the mayor and City Council for which adequate public notice can be given.
(j)
At least fifteen (15) days but not more than forty-five (45) days prior to each public hearing, notice shall be published in a newspaper of general circulation within the city. The notice shall state the time, place and purpose of the hearing.
(k)
The applicant shall be required to post and maintain signs supplied by the city on or near the right-of-way of the nearest public street, so as to be visible from the street for at least fifteen (15) days immediately preceding the date for any public hearing. One (1) such sign shall be placed in a conspicuous location along each street frontage of the property for which the variance has been requested. If the property has no street frontage, the sign shall be placed on each street where access to the property will be gained. Said signs shall remain posted until a final decision by the city has been rendered. It is the responsibility of the applicant to post the signs and to maintain the signs during the posting period. Failure to post and maintain the signs continuously may prohibit consideration of the variance application at any scheduled public hearing. In the event the signs are not posted continuously, the city, in its sole discretion, may require the reposting and readvertising prior to any future public hearing, for which the applicant shall pay an additional readvertising fee. The city may also in its sole discretion, continue, hold, approve, or dismiss the application. Any dismissal under the provisions of this paragraph shall be with prejudice unless specifically noted as being without prejudice by the city.
(l)
An affidavit by the applicant shall be submitted to the city manager or his/her designee that notice has been given to surrounding property owners as a convenience, as follows:
(1)
No less than fifteen (15) days prior to the first public hearing, the applicant shall mail a notice to all persons owning property located in whole or in part within two hundred (200) feet of any portion of the property that is the subject of the application. The written notice is to be mailed by "certified mail—return receipt requested" to the property owners as such names and addresses appear on the county's current ad valorem tax records.
(2)
The applicant shall submit an affidavit with a copy of the notice to the city manager or his/her designee no less than fifteen (15) days prior to the first public hearing, listing the property owners and certifying the date that the notices were mailed.
(3)
The notice is to state the time, place and purpose of the hearing.
(m)
Any applicant wishing to withdraw an application prior to the public hearing of the mayor and City Council shall file a written request for such withdrawal with the city manager or his/her designee. The application shall thereupon be removed from the agenda and the request shall have no further effect.
(n)
Work sessions of the mayor and council may be convened from time-to-time to discuss pending matters prior to public hearings. Work sessions at which variance applications are to be discussed shall be attended by the applicant or representative thereof with authority to make binding commitments to the city with respect to any stipulations that may be offered in connection with such application. Failure to attend the work session shall result in the application being tabled one time. Failure to attend the rescheduled work session shall result in denial of the application. The requirements of this subsection may be waived by the mayor and City Council, as the case might be, upon good cause shown.
(o)
The public hearing will be convened at the scheduled time and place by the mayor or an appointed designee, as appropriate, who will act as the presiding official. The presiding official may administer oaths and compel the attendance of witnesses by subpoena. The city manager or his/her designee shall submit the assembled record of the application. The city manager or his/her designee, or other appropriate party if the application was taken from an administrative action or interpretation, shall provide such information or explanation as appropriate to the circumstances of the application.
(p)
The public hearing shall be attended by the applicant or representative thereof with authority to make binding commitments to the city with respect to any stipulations that may be offered in connection with such application. Failure to attend the hearing shall result in the application being tabled one time. Failure to attend the rescheduled hearing shall result in denial of the application. The requirements of this subsection may be waived by the mayor and City Council, as the case might be, upon good cause shown.
(q)
The following rules shall apply to the conduct of the public hearing:
(1)
The presiding official shall conduct the public hearing informally, as strict adherence to the rules of evidence is not required. A goal is a fair hearing.
(2)
The applicant shall first present evidence in support of the application. After the applicant has completed the presentation of evidence, opponents shall present such relevant evidence as they think appropriate after being recognized by the presiding official.
(3)
All parties participating in the public hearing shall introduce only relevant evidence.
(4)
All parties particiapting shall have the right to present witnesses and to cross-examine witnesses.
(5)
The applicant shall have an opportunity to present rebuttal evidence, but such evidence shall be limited to points or issues raised by the opponents.
(r)
At any public hearing on the application, action shall be considered by vote of the members present. A motion to approve or deny an application must be approved by an affirmative vote of at least a majority of the sitting members in order for the motion to be approved. If a motion to approve fails, the application is automatically denied. If a motion to deny fails, another motion would be in order. A tie vote on a motion for approval shall be deemed a denial of the application. A tie vote on any other motion shall be deemed to be no action, and another motion would be in order. If no action is taken by the mayor and City Council, it shall be considered tabled and action deferred to the next regular meeting of the mayor and City Council.
(s)
In taking action on a variance application, the mayor and City Council may:
(1)
Approve;
(2)
Approve with changes or stipulations;
(3)
Deny;
(4)
Table the application for consideration at its next scheduled meeting; or
(5)
Allow withdrawal of the application at the request of the applicant.
(t)
The mayor shall have four (4) business days after meetings of the council in which to file the city clerk in writing his/her veto. Any application regarding which a veto has been filed shall be heard at a public hearing to be held no later than sixty (60) days from the date of the council meeting at which the application issue was heard and from which meeting the veto as ultimately issued. For said hearing, the application shall be republished and posted as described in this article.
(u)
A decision of the mayor and City Council shall be final and may be appealed only to a court of competent jurisdiction. Such appeal must be taken within thirty (30) days of the decision of the mayor and City Council. Reconsideration of an appeal under court order shall follow the same procedures of this article as though a new application.
(Ord. No. 2009-66, § 1, 12-29-09)
