ARTICLE III. - MINIMUM STANDARDS FOR ACCEPTANCE OF STREETS AND ROADS[3]

Footnotes:
--- (3) ---
State Law reference— State, county and municipal road systems, O.C.G.A. § 32-4-1 et seq.; regulation of maintenance and use of public roads generally, O.C.G.A. § 32-6-1 et seq.

Sec. 58-81. - Purpose.
The purpose of this article is to set minimum standards for streets and roadways to be accepted into the county road system by the commissioner so as to provide for the public economy, safety and orderly traffic flow and movement.
(Ord. of 2-2-1987, § I)
Sec. 58-82. - Applicability.
This article shall apply to streets and roads constructed and built by individuals and developers after February 2, 1987, who propose to induce the county to accept such streets and roadways into the public transportation system of the county. This article shall not work to restrict the political subdivision of the county from constructing its own roadways and streets in any instance and at any location wherein such construction is in the interest of the public and for enlarging, increasing or improving the flow of traffic and to provide needed accesses for ingress and egress for public purposes.
(Ord. of 2-2-1987, § II)
Sec. 58-83. - Acceptance not automatic.
The county shall not automatically accept streets and roadways constructed in compliance with the minimum conditions provided for under this article unless it can be reasonably expected and shown that such streets will be utilized for public purposes and such use will be of public significance and its acceptance will not work to defeat the public economy by requiring maintenance and upkeep in disproportionate amounts to the public good created by such acceptance. The owner of such property seeking to induce the county to accept such streets and roadways shall certify this conveyance to be his free act and deed and will dedicate such streets and roadways to the public use forever all such streets, alleys and easements, without restriction or reversion.
(Ord. of 2-2-1987, § III)
Sec. 58-84. - Adequate description of streets and roadways.
Any property conveyed under the provisions of this article to the county shall be accompanied by a recordable plat depicting the finished streets and rights-of-way at a scale of not less than one inch equaling 100 feet, and which plat shall show:
(1)
In case of a subdivision, the boundaries of the subdivision;
(2)
The names of such streets or roadways;
(3)
The names and record owners of any adjoining unplatted land in the case of a subdivision;
(4)
The easements for public utilities;
(5)
The location of existing roads or streets which adjoin or abut the streets or roadways proposed to be conveyed to the county; and
(6)
Those streets or roadways which extend to within
feet of the streets or roadways proposed to be conveyed to the county.
(Ord. of 2-2-1987, § IV)
Sec. 58-85. - Easements and installation of utilities.
Streets and roadways sought to be conveyed to the county under the provisions of this article shall not contain within their right-of-way easements for public utilities; and any installation of public utilities shall be paid in advance of the paving of such streets or roadways; and, in circumstances wherein pavement breaks are required for utility connections or extensions, such breaks shall be repaved by such utility company at its sole expense and in compliance with the rules and regulations established for paving.
(Ord. of 2-2-1987, § V)
Sec. 58-86. - Paving required; expense of developer or subdivider.
No streets or roadways shall be accepted by the county unless they are paved at the time of such proposed conveyance to the county, which paving meets the minimum standards as provided for in this article. The entire cost of such construction, grading, drainage, sloping, grassing, engineering, surveying and all other expense shall be at the sole cost and expense of such developer or subdivider.
(Ord. of 2-2-1987, § VI)
Sec. 58-87. - Minimum right-of-way widths.
(a)
Minimum right-of-way widths, in feet, shall be as follows:
(1)
Expressways .....200
(2)
Arterial streets .....100
(3)
Connector streets .....80
(4)
Minor streets: .....
a.
Residential .....50
b.
Commercial and industrial .....70
c.
Cul-de-sac and loop streets .....50
d.
Turnaround (diameter) .....100
e.
Marginal-access or frontage roads .....40
(5)
Alleys, service drives or private drives .....22
(b)
Street intersections shall be as nearly at right angles as possible, and no intersection shall be at an angle less than 75 degrees.
(Ord. of 2-2-1987, § VII)
Sec. 58-88. - Basic construction.
(a)
Grading. All streets, roads and alleys shall be graded by the subdivider to provide the necessary paving, roadway, drainage and safety requirements.
(b)
Storm drainage. An adequate drainage system, including necessary curbs, pipes, culverts, headwalls and ditches as appropriate, shall be provided for the proper drainage of all surface water. Pipe size will be determined by the use of the rational method or the peak discharge method.
(c)
Installation of utilities. After grading is completed and before any base is applied, all of the underground utilities (water mains, sewer mains, gas mains, and all related service connections) shall be installed completely throughout the length of the street; and all driveways for houses to be built by the subdivider shall be cut and drained.
(d)
Slopes and shoulder improvements. The minimum ratio for all fill or cut slopes (including drainage ditches) shall be 2:1; and the minimum width for all shoulders from back edge of the curb, if installed, shall be eight feet. All shoulders shall slope one-half inch to the foot. When all construction is completed, all slopes and shoulders shall be cleared of all rubbish and shall have a stand of grass to prevent undue erosion, either by sprigging or seeding.
(Ord. of 2-2-1987, § VIII)
Sec. 58-89. - Roadway surfacing and paving.
The minimum requirements to be adhered to for the surfacing and paving of streets proposed to be conveyed to the county shall adhere to the minimum requirements attached to the ordinance from which this article is derived as exhibit "A" or the minimum standards established by the state department of transportation for use in the state highway system.
(Ord. of 2-2-1987, § IX)
Sec. 58-90. - Minimum pavement width.
All residential streets paved after February 2, 1987, shall have a minimum pavement width of 27 feet from back of curb to back of curb, or 24 feet from edge of pavement to edge of pavement if no curb or gutters are installed. The outside pavement for a cul-de-sac turnaround shall be a minimum diameter of 80 feet.
(Ord. of 2-2-1987, § X)
Sec. 58-91. - Curbs and gutters.
When installed, regular six-inch or four-inch rollover concrete curb and gutter with a minimum overall width of 24 inches shall be installed on all residential streets.
(Ord. of 2-2-1987, § XI)
Sec. 58-92. - When roadways accepted by county.
Streets and roadways, when accepted by the county, shall be on appropriate right-of-way deeds that convey fee simple title to such rights-of-way, together with appropriate easements for ditches, slopes and drainage easements prepared by or at the expense of the developer or subdivider and approved by the county and without restriction or reservation.
(Ord. of 2-2-1987, § XII)
Sec. 58-93. - Modifications and amendments.
This article may be modified or amended by appropriate action of the commissioner.
(Ord. of 2-2-1987, § XIII)
Secs. 58-94—58-110. - Reserved.
