Chapter 2 - ADMINISTRATION[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Cross reference— The administrative ordinances or resolutions of the county not in conflict or inconsistent with the provisions of this Code saved from repeal, § 1-6(13); civic and cultural affairs, ch. 26; civil emergencies, ch. 30; planning, ch. 54; taxation, ch. 62.
State Law reference— County government generally, O.C.G.A. § 36-1-1 et seq.; board of commissioners authorized to adopt ordinances for the governing and policing of the unincorporated areas of the county, O.C.G.A. § 36-1-20(a); county a body corporate, O.C.G.A. § 36-1-3; claims against counties, O.C.G.A. § 36-11-1 et seq.; grants of state funds to counties, O.C.G.A. § 36-17-1 et seq.; organization of county government, O.C.G.A. § 36-5-20 et seq.; authority to control property of the county, O.C.G.A. § 36-5-22.1(a)(1); matters over which governing authority has jurisdiction, O.C.G.A. § 36-5-22.1; provisions applicable to counties and municipalities, O.C.G.A. § 36-60-1 et seq.; county property generally, O.C.G.A. § 36-9-1 et seq.; home rule for counties, Ga. Const. art. IX, § II, ¶ I; home rule for counties, Ga. Const. art. IX, § II, ¶ I; supplemental powers of municipalities and counties enumerated, Ga. Const. art. IX, § II, ¶ III; counties a body corporate and politic, Ga. Const. art. IX, § I, ¶ I; county officers; election; term; compensation, Ga. Const. art. IX, § I, ¶ III.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 2-1. - Cap on probate judge's fees.
(a)
Findings.
(1)
The judge of probate court of the county serves as the local custodian, local registrar and/or special abstracting agent for certain vital records in accordance with O.C.G.A. §§ 31-10-8 and 31-10-27.
(2)
The judge of probate court receives personal compensation in addition to his regular compensation as a public official of the county in the form of fees for recording and providing copies of vital records.
(3)
O.C.G.A. § 15-9-68 authorizes the governing authority of any county whose probate judge receives fees for serving as local custodian, local registrar or special abstracting agent pursuant to O.C.G.A. §§ 31-10-8 and 31-10-27 to limit the total amount of fees authorized to be retained as personal compensation for such services to an aggregate amount not less than an amount equal to the fees collected or $7,500.00, whichever is less, in any calendar year beginning on or after January 1, 1997.
(4)
O.C.G.A. § 15-9-68 further requires any probate judge who receives fees pursuant to O.C.G.A. §§ 31-10-8 and 31-10-27 to prepare and submit a report at least quarterly to the county governing authority specifying the amount received during the quarter for which the report is submitted.
(b)
Fee limitation. Fees received by the probate judge of the county shall be limited to the amount equal to the fees collected or $7,500.00, whichever is less, in any calendar year beginning on or after January 1, 1997.
(c)
Reports. The probate judge of the county shall prepare a report for each quarter beginning January 1, 1997, specifying the amounts received during the quarter for which the report is submitted. Each such report shall be submitted to the clerk of the commissioner of the county no later than 15 calendar days following the completion of the quarter and shall contain an affidavit sworn to by the probate judge certifying the accuracy of the report submitted. At his discretion, the probate judge may provide such reports on a more frequent basis.
(Res. of 12-3-1996)
Sec. 2-2. - Annexation dispute resolution.
(a)
The City of Hawkinsville and Pulaski County agree to implement the following process for resolving land use disputes over annexation, effective July 1, 1998:
(1)
a.
Prior to initiating any formal annexation activities, the city will notify the county government of a proposed annexation and provide information on location of property, size of area, and proposed land use or zoning classification of the property upon annexation.
b.
Within 30 working days following receipt of the information given pursuant to subsection (a)(1)a of this section, the county will forward to the city a statement either indicating that the county has no objection to the proposed land use for the property describing its bona fide objections to the city's proposed land use classification, providing supporting information, and listing any possible stipulations or conditions that would alleviate the county's objections.
(2)
If the county has no objection to the city's proposed land use or zoning classification, the city is free to proceed with the annexation. If the county fails to respond to the city's notice in writing within the deadline, the city is free to proceed with the annexation; and the county loses its right to invoke the dispute resolution process, stop the annexation, or object to land use changes after the annexation.
(3)
If the county notifies the city that it has a bona fide land use classification objection, the city will respond to the county in writing within 30 working days of receiving the county's objection by:
a.
Agreeing to implement the county's stipulations and conditions and thereby resolving the county's objections;
b.
Agreeing with the county and stopping action on the proposed annexation;
c.
Disagreeing that the county's objections are bona fide and notifying the county that the city will seek a declaratory judgment in court; or
d.
Initiating a 30-day (maximum) mediation process to discuss possible comprises.
(4)
If the city initiates mediation, the city and county will agree on a mediator and mediation schedule and determine participants in the mediation. The city and county agree to share equally any costs associated with the mediation.
(5)
If no resolution of the county's bona fide land use classification objections results from the mediation, the city will not proceed with the proposed annexation.
(6)
If the city and county reach agreement as described in subsection (a)(3)a or as a result of the mediation, they will draft an annexation agreement for execution by the city and county governments and the property owner.
(b)
Regardless of future changes in land use or zoning classification, any site-specific mitigation or enhancement measures or site-design stipulations included in the agreement will be binding on all parties for the duration of the annexation agreement. The agreement shall become final when signed by the city, the county and the property owner.
(Res. of 7-1-1998, § 6)
Secs. 2-3—2-30. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - COMMISSIONER[2]

Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
State Law reference— Code of ethics for government service, O.C.G.A. § 45-10-1; due notice requirements for other than regular meetings, O.C.G.A. § 50-14-1(d); requirement to prescribe the time, place and dates of regular meetings of governing authority, O.C.G.A. § 50-14-1(d); meetings to be open to public, O.C.G.A. § 50-14-1; exemptions from open meeting requirements, O.C.G.A. § 50-14-3.

Sec. 2-31. - Meetings.
Official public meetings with the commissioner are held on the first Monday of each month at 10:00 a.m. in the commissioner's office at the county courthouse.
State Law reference— Due notice requirements for other than regular meetings, O.C.G.A. § 50-14-1(d); requirement to prescribe the time, place and dates of regular meetings of governing authority, O.C.G.A. § 50-14-1(d); meetings to be open to public, O.C.G.A. § 50-14-1; exemptions from open meeting requirements, O.C.G.A. § 50-14-3.
Secs. 2-32—2-60. - Reserved.
ARTICLE III. - OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES[3]
Footnotes:
--- (3) ---
Editor's note— The county has adopted a retirement program and a deferred compensation plan for its employees. Official copies of the documentation are on file in the office of the county clerk.
Cross reference— Any ordinance fixing the salary of any county officer or employee saved from repeal, § 1-6(4).
State Law reference— Expenditure of county funds for insurance and employment benefits, O.C.G.A. § 36-1-11.1; employment of additional temporary personnel and equipment for assistance of county officers or departments, O.C.G.A. § 36-1-11; civil service system for county employees authorized, Ga. Const. art. IX, § II, ¶ I; civil service system, O.C.G.A. § 36-1-21; county manager authorized, O.C.G.A. § 36-5-22; Fair Employment Practices Act of 1978, O.C.G.A. § 45-19-20 et seq.; municipal or county governments not to require residence as condition of employment, O.C.G.A. § 45-2-5; Public Employee Hazardous Chemical Protection and Right to Know Act of 1988, O.C.G.A. § 45-22-1 et seq.; social security coverage for employees of the state and political subdivisions of the state, O.C.G.A. § 47-18-1 et seq.; Public Retirement Systems Standards Law, O.C.G.A. § 47-20-1 et seq.; authority to maintain and modify retirement or pension systems, Ga. Const. art. IX, § II, ¶ III(a)(14).

DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Secs. 2-61—2-80. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - DRUG AND ALCOHOL TESTING POLICY[4]

Footnotes:
--- (4) ---
Editor's note— Policy of 7-2-2007 amended division 2 in its entirety to read as herein set out. Former division 2, §§ 2-81—2-90, pertained to drugfree workplace policy, and derived from Policy of 11-5-1996, §§ 1.0—10.0.

Sec. 2-86. - Purpose.
The Pulaski Transit System provides public transit and paratransit services for the residents of Pulaski County, Georgia. Part of our mission is to ensure that this service is delivered safely, efficiently, and effectively by establishing a drug and alcohol-free work environment, and to ensure that the workplace remains free from the effects of drugs and alcohol in order to promote the health and safety of employees and the general public. In keeping with this mission, Pulaski County Transit declares that the unlawful manufacture, distribution, dispense, possession, or use of controlled substances or misuse of alcohol is prohibited for all employees.
Additionally, the purpose of this policy is to establish guidelines to maintain a drug and alcohol-free workplace in compliance with the Drug-Free Workplace Act of 1988, and the Omnibus Transportation Employee Testing Act of 1991. This policy is intended to comply with all applicable Federal regulations governing workplace anti-drug and alcohol programs in the transit industry. Specifically, the Federal Transit Administration (FTA) of the U.S. Department of Transportation has published 49 CFR Part 655, as amended, that mandates urine drug testing and breath alcohol testing for safety-sensitive positions, and prohibits performance of safety-sensitive functions when there is a positive test result. The U.S. Department of Transportation (USDOT) has also published 49 CFR Part 40, as amended, that sets standards for the collection and testing of urine and breath specimens.
Any provisions set forth in this policy that are included under the sole authority of Pulaski County and are not provided under the authority of the above named federal regulations are underlined.
(Policy of 7-2-2007, § A)
Sec. 2-87. - Applicability.
This Drug and Alcohol Testing Policy applies to all safety-sensitive employees (full- or part-time) when performing safety sensitive duties. A safety-sensitive function is the operation of a mass transit service including the operation of a revenue service vehicle (whether or not the vehicle is in revenue service), maintenance of a revenue service vehicle or equipment used in revenue service, security personnel who carry firearms, dispatchers or person controlling the movement of revenue service vehicles and any other transit employee who is required to hold a commercial drivers license. Maintenance functions include the repair, overhaul, and rebuild of engines, vehicles and/or equipment used in revenue service. A list of safety-sensitive positions who perform one or more of the above mentioned duties is provided in Attachment A. Supervisors are only safety sensitive if they perform one of the above functions.
(Volunteers are considered safety sensitive and subject to testing if they are required to hold a CDL, or receive remunerated for service in excess of actual expense.)
(Policy of 7-2-2007, § B)
Sec. 2-88. - Definitions.
Accident: An occurrence associated with the operation of a vehicle even when not in revenue service, if as a result:
(1)
An individual dies;
(2)
An individual suffers a bodily injury and immediately receives medical treatment away from the scene of the accident; or
(3)
One or more vehicles incurs disabling damage as the result of the occurrence and is transported away from the scene by a tow truck or other vehicle. For purposes of this definition, disabling damage is damage which precludes departure of any vehicle from the scene of the occurrence in its usual manner in daylight after simple repairs. Disabling damage includes damage to vehicles that could have been operated but would have been further damaged if so operated, but does not include damage which can be remedied temporarily at the scene of the occurrence without special tools or parts, tire disablement without other damage even if no spare tire is available, or damage to headlights, taillights, turn signals, horn, mirrors or windshield wipers that makes them inoperative.
Adulterated specimen: A specimen that contains a substance that is not expected to be present in human urine, or contains a substance expected to be present but is at a concentration so high that it is not consistent with human urine.
Alcohol: Means the intoxicating agent in beverage alcohol, ethyl alcohol, or other low molecular weight alcohols contained in any beverage, mixture, mouthwash, candy, food, preparation or medication.
Alcohol concentration: Is expressed in terms of grams of alcohol per 210 liters of breath as measured by an evidential breath testing device.
Canceled test: A drug test that has been declared invalid by a medical review officer. A canceled test is neither positive nor negative.
Covered employee: An employee who performs a safety-sensitive function including an applicant or transferee who is being considered for hire into a safety-sensitive function (See Attachment A for a list of covered employees). [A copy can be found in the city's office.]
Designated employer representative (DER): An employee authorized by the employer to take immediate action to remove employees from safety-sensitive duties and to make required decisions in testing. The DER also receives test results and other communications for the employer, consistent with the requirements of 49 CFR Parts 40 and 655.
Department of transportation (DOT): Department of the federal government which includes the, Federal Transit Administration, Federal Railroad Administration, Federal Highway Administration, Federal Motor Carriers' Safety Administration, Research and Special Programs, and the Office of the Secretary of Transportation.
Dilute specimen: A specimen with creatinine and specific gravity values that are lower than expected for human urine.
Disabling damage: Damage which precludes departure of any vehicle from the scene of the occurrence in its usual manner in daylight after simple repairs. Disabling damage includes damage to vehicles that could have been operated but would have been further damaged if so operated, but does not include damage which can be remedied temporarily at the scene of the occurrence without special tools or parts, tire disablement without other damage even if no spare tire is available, or damage to headlights, taillights, turn signals, horn, mirrors or windshield wipers that makes them inoperative.
Evidentiary breath testing device (EBT): A device approved by the NHTSA for the evidential testing of breath at the 0.02 and the 0.04 alcohol concentrations. Approved devices are listed on the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration (NHTSA) conforming products list.
Medical review officer (MRO): A licensed physician (medical doctor or doctor of osteopathy) responsible for receiving laboratory results generated by the drug testing program who has knowledge of substance abuse disorders, and has appropriate medical training to interpret and evaluate an individual's confirmed positive test result, together with his/her medical history, and any other relevant bio-medical information.
Negative dilute: A drug test result which is negative for the five drug/drug metabolites but has a specific gravity value lower than expected for human urine.
Negative test result: For a drug test means a verified presence of the identified drug or its metabolite below the minimum levels specified in 49 CFR Part 40, as amended. An alcohol concentration of less than 0.02 BAC is a negative test result.
Non-negative test result: Is a test result found to be adulterated, substitute, invalid, or positive for drug/drug metabolites.
Performing (a safety-sensitive function): A covered employee is considered to be performing a safety-sensitive function and includes any period in which he or she is actually performing, ready to perform, or immediately available to perform such functions.
Positive test result: For a drug test means a verified presence of the identified drug or its metabolite at or above the minimum levels specified in 49 CFR Part 40, as amended. A positive alcohol test result means a confirmed alcohol concentration of 0.04 BAC or greater.
Prohibited drug: Marijuana, cocaine, opiates, amphetamines, or phencyclidine at levels above the minimum thresholds specified in 49 CFR Part 40, as amended.
Revenue service vehicles: Include all transit vehicles that are used for passenger transportation service or that require a CDL to operate. Include all ancillary vehicles used in support of the transit system.
Safety-sensitive functions: Include (a) the operation of a transit revenue service vehicle even when the vehicle is not in revenue service; (b) the operation of a non-revenue service vehicle by an employee when the operation of such a vehicle requires the driver to hold a commercial drivers license (CDL); (c) maintaining a revenue service vehicle or equipment used in revenue service; (d) controlling the movement of a revenue service vehicle; and (e) carrying a firearm for security purposes.
Substance abuse professional (SAP): A licensed physician (medical doctor or doctor of osteopathy) or licensed or certified psychologist, social worker, employee assistance professional, or addiction counselor (certified by the National Association of Alcoholism and Drug Abuse Counselors Certification Commission or by the International Certification Reciprocity Consortium/Alcohol and other Drug Abuse) with knowledge of and clinical experience in the diagnosis and treatment of drug and alcohol related disorders.
Substituted specimen: A specimen with creatinine and specific gravity values that are so diminished that they are not consistent with normal human urine.
Test refusal: The following are considered a refusal to test if the employee:
• Fails to appear for any test (excluding pre-employment) within a reasonable time, as determined by the employer, after being directed to do so by the employer.
• Fails to remain at the testing site until the testing process is complete.
• Fails to provide a urine or breath specimen for any drug or alcohol test required by Part 40 or DOT agency regulations.
• In the case of a directly observed or monitored collection in a drug test, fails to permit the observation or monitoring of his/her provision of a specimen.
• Fails to provide a sufficient amount of urine or breath when directed, and it has been determined, through a required medical evaluation, that there was no adequate medical explanation for the failure.
• Fails or declines to take a second test the employer or collector has directed the employee to take.
• Fails to undergo a medical examination or evaluation, as directed by the MRO as part of the verification process, or as directed by the DER as part of the "shy bladder" or "shy lung" procedures.
• Fails to cooperate with any part of the testing process (e.g., refuse to empty pockets when so directed by the collector, behave in a confrontational way that disrupts the collection process).
• If the MRO reports that there is verified adulterated or substituted test result.
• Failure or refusal to sign Step 2 of the alcohol testing form.
Verified negative test: A drug test result reviewed by a medical review officer and determined to have no evidence of prohibited drug use above the minimum cutoff levels established by the department of health and human services (HHS).
Verified positive test: A drug test result reviewed by a medical review officer and determined to have evidence of prohibited drug use above the minimum cutoff levels specified in 49 CFR Part 40 as revised.
Validity testing: Is the evaluation of the specimen to determine if it is consistent with normal human urine. The purpose of validity testing is to determine whether certain adulterants or foreign substances were added to the urine, if the urine was diluted, or if the specimen was substituted.
(Policy of 7-2-2007, § C)
Sec. 2-89. - Education and training.
Every covered employee will receive a copy of this policy and will have ready access to the corresponding federal regulations including 49 CFR Parts 655 and 40, as amended. In addition, all covered employees will undergo a minimum of 60 minutes of training on the signs and symptoms of drug use including the effects and consequences of drug use on personal health, safety, and the work environment. The training also includes manifestations and behavioral cues that may indicate prohibited drug use.
All supervisory personnel or company officials who are in a position to determine employee fitness for duty will receive 60 minutes of reasonable suspicion training on the physical, behavioral, and performance indicators of probable drug use and 60 minutes of additional reasonable suspicion training on the physical, behavioral, speech, and performance indicators of probable alcohol misuse.
Information on the signs, symptoms, health effects, and consequences of alcohol misuse is presented in Attachment B of this policy.
(Policy of 7-2-2007, § D)
Sec. 2-90. - Prohibited substances.
Prohibited substances addressed by this policy include the following:
(1)
Illegally used controlled substance or drugs under the Drug-Free Workplace Act of 1988 any drug or any substance identified in Schedules I through V of Section 202 of the Controlled Substance Act (21 U.S.C. 812), and as further defined by 21 CFR 1300.11 through 1300.15 is prohibited at all times in the workplace unless a legal prescription has been written for the substance. This includes, but is not limited to: marijuana, amphetamines, opiates, phencyclidine (PCP), and cocaine, as well as any drug not approved for medical use by the U.S. Drug Enforcement Administration or the U.S. Food and Drug Administration. Illegal use includes use of any illegal drug, misuse of legally prescribed drugs, and use of illegally obtained prescription drugs. Also, the medical use of marijuana, or the use of hemp related products, as which cause drug or drug metabolites to be present in the body above the minimum thresholds is a violation of this policy.
Federal Transit Administration drug testing regulations (49 CFR Part 655) require that all covered employees be tested for marijuana, cocaine, amphetamines, opiates, and phencyclidine as described in section 2-93 of this policy. Illegal use of these five drugs is prohibited at all times and thus, covered employees may be tested for these drugs anytime that they are on duty.
(2)
Legal drugs: The appropriate use of legally prescribed drugs and non-prescription medications is not prohibited. However, the use of any substance which carries a warning label that indicates that mental functioning, motor skills, or judgment may be adversely affected must be reported to a Pulaski County supervisor and the employee is required to provide a written release from his/her doctor or pharmacist indicating that the employee can perform his/her safety-sensitive functions.
(3)
Alcohol: The use of beverages containing alcohol (including any mouthwash, medication, food, candy) or any other substances such that alcohol is present in the body while performing safety-sensitive job functions is prohibited. An alcohol test can be performed on a covered employee under 49 CFR Part 655 just before, during, or just after the performance of safety-sensitive job functions.
(Policy of 7-2-2007, § E)
Sec. 2-91. - Prohibited conduct.
(1)
All covered employees are prohibited from reporting for duty or remaining on duty any time there is a quantifiable presence of a prohibited drug in the body above the minimum thresholds defined in 49 CFR PART 40, as amended.
Each covered employee is prohibited from consuming alcohol while performing safety-sensitive job functions or while on-call to perform safety-sensitive job functions. If an on-call employee has consumed alcohol, they must acknowledge the use of alcohol at the time that they are called to report for duty or submit to an alcohol test if they maintain their ability to perform their safety sensitive function.
(2)
The covered employee will subsequently be relieved of his/her on-call responsibilities and subject to termination.
(3)
The transit department shall not permit any covered employee to perform or continue to perform safety-sensitive functions if it has actual knowledge that the employee is using alcohol.
(4)
Each covered employee is prohibited from reporting to work or remaining on duty requiring the performance of safety-sensitive function while having an alcohol concentration of 0.02 or greater.
(5)
No covered employee shall consume alcohol for eight hours following involvement in an accident or until he/she submits to the post-accident drug/alcohol test, whichever occurs first.
(6)
No covered employee shall consume alcohol within four hours prior to the performance of safety-sensitive job functions.
(7)
Consistent with the Drug-free Workplace Act of 1988, all Pulaski County employees are prohibited from engaging in the unlawful manufacture, distribution, dispensing, possession, or use of prohibited substances in the work place including Transit Department premises and transit vehicles.
(Policy of 7-2-2007, § F)
Sec. 2-92. - Drug statute conviction.
Consistent with the Drug Free Workplace Act of 1998, all employees are required to notify the Pulaski County management of any criminal drug statute conviction for a violation occurring in the workplace within five days after such conviction. Failure to comply with this provision shall result in termination.
(Policy of 7-2-2007, § G)
Sec. 2-93. - Testing requirements.
Analytical urine drug testing and breathe testing for alcohol will be conducted as required by 49CFR Part 40 as amended. All covered employees shall be subject to testing prior to performing safety-sensitive duty, for reasonable suspicion, following an accident, and random as defined in section 2-96, 2-97, 2-98, and 2-99 of this policy, and return to duty/follow-up.
All covered employees who have tested positive for drugs or alcohol will be tested prior to returning to duty after completion of the substance abuse professional's recommended treatment program and subsequent release to duty. Follow-up testing will also be conducted following return-to-duty for a period of one to five years, with at least six tests performed during the first year. The duration and frequency of the follow-up testing above the minimum requirements will be at the discretion of the substance abuse professional.
A drug test can be performed any time a covered employee is on duty. An alcohol test can be performed just before, during, or after the performance of a safety-sensitive job function
All covered employees will be subject to urine drug testing and breath alcohol testing as a condition of ongoing employment with Pulaski County. Any safety-sensitive employee who refuses to comply with a request for testing shall be removed from duty and subject to termination. Any covered employee who is suspected of providing false information in connection with a drug test, or who is suspected of falsifying test results through tampering, contamination, adulteration, or substitution will be required to undergo an observed collection. Verification of the above listed actions will be considered a test refusal and will result in the employee's removal from duty and immediate termination. Refer to section 2-88(3) for behavior that constitutes a refusal to test.
(Policy of 7-2-2007, § H)
Sec. 2-94. - Drug testing procedures.
Testing shall be conducted in a manner to assure a high degree of accuracy and reliability and using techniques, equipment, and laboratory facilities which have been approved by the U.S. Department of Health and Human Service (HHS). All testing will be conducted consistent with the procedures set forth in 49 CFR Part 40, as amended. The procedures will be performed in a private, confidential manner and every effort will be made to protect the employee, the integrity of the drug testing procedure, and the validity of the test result.
The drugs that will be tested for include marijuana, cocaine, opiates, amphetamines, and phencyclidine. After the identity of the donor is checked using picture identification, a urine specimen will be collected using the split specimen collection method described in 49 CFR Part 40, as amended. Each specimen will be accompanied by a DOT Chain of Custody and Control Form and identified using a unique identification number that attributes the specimen to the correct individual. The specimen analysis will be conducted at a HHS certified laboratory. An initial drug screen and validity test will be conducted on the primary urine specimen. For those specimens that are not negative, a confirmatory gas chromatography/mass spectrometry (GC/MS) test will be performed. The test will be considered positive if the amounts of the drug(s) and/or its metabolites identified by the GC/MS test are above the minimum thresholds established in 49 CFR Part 40, as amended.
The test results from the HHS certified laboratory will be reported to a medical review officer. A medical review officer (MRO) is a licensed physician with detailed knowledge of substance abuse disorders and drug testing. The MRO will review the test results to ensure the scientific validity of the test, and will determine whether there is a legitimate medical explanation for a confirmed positive, substitute, or adulterated test result. The MRO will attempt to contact the employee to notify the employee of the non-negative laboratory result, and provide the employee with an opportunity to explain the confirmed laboratory test result. The MRO will subsequently review the employee's medical history/medical records as appropriate to determine whether there is a legitimate medical explanation for a non-negative laboratory result. If no legitimate medical explanation is found, the test will be verified positive or refusal to test and reported to the Pulaski County Transit System Drug and Alcohol Program Manager (DAPM). If a legitimate explanation is found, the MRO will report the test result as negative to the DAPM and no further action will be taken.
If the test is invalid without a medical explanation, a retest will be conducted under direct observation.
Any covered employee who questions the results of a required drug test under sections 2-97 through 2-101 of this policy may request that the split sample be tested. The split sample test must be conducted at a second HHS-certified laboratory with no affiliation with the laboratory that analyzed the primary specimen. The test must be conducted on the split sample that was provided by the employee at the same time as the primary sample. The method of collecting, storing, and testing the split sample will be consistent with the procedures set forth in 49 CFR Part 40, as amended. The employee's request for a split sample test must be made to the medical review officer within 72 hours of notice of the original sample verified test result. Requests after 72 hours will only be accepted at the discretion of the MRO if the delay was due to documentable facts that were beyond the control of the employee. Pulaski County will ensure that the cost for the split specimen are covered in order for a timely analysis of the sample, however, Pulaksi County will seek reimbursement for the split sample test from the employee.
If the analysis of the split specimen fails to confirm the presence of the drug(s) detected in the primary specimen, if the split specimen is not able to be analyzed, or if the results of the split specimen are not scientifically adequate, the MRO will declare the original test to be canceled and will direct Pulaski County to retest the employee under direct observation.
The split specimen will be stored at the initial laboratory until the analysis of the primary specimen is completed. If the primary specimen is negative, the split will be discarded. If the primary is positive, the split will be retained for testing if so requested by the employee through the medical review officer. If the primary specimen is positive, it will be retained in frozen storage for one year and the split specimen will also be retained for one year.
Observed collections:
Consistent with 49 CFR part 40, as amended, collection under direct observation (by a person of the same gender) with no advance notice will occur if:
(1)
The laboratory reports to the MRO that a specimen is invalid, and the MRO reports to Pulaski County that there was not an adequate medical explanation for the result; or
(2)
The MRO reports to Pulaski County that the original positive, adulterated, or substituted test result had to be cancelled because the test of the split specimen could not be performed; or
(3)
The collector observes materials brought to the collection site or the employee's conduct clearly indicates an attempt to tamper with a specimen; or
(4)
The temperature on the original specimen was out of range.
In addition, Pulaski County may direct a collection under direct observation of an employee if the drug test is a return-to-duty test or a follow-up test.
(Policy of 7-2-2007, § I)
Sec. 2-95. - Alcohol testing procedures.
Tests for breath alcohol concentration will be conducted utilizing a National Highway Traffic Safety Administration (NHTSA)-approved Evidential Breath Testing device (EBT) operated by a trained breath alcohol technician (BAT). Alcohol screening tests may be performed using a non-evidential testing device which is also approved by NHTSA. If the initial test indicates an alcohol concentration of 0.02 or greater, a second test will be performed to confirm the results of the initial test. The confirmatory test must occur on an EBT. The confirmatory test will be conducted at least 15 minutes, but no more than 30 minutes after the completion of the initial test. The confirmatory test will be performed using a NHTSA-approved EBT operated by a trained BAT. The EBT will identify each test by a unique sequential identification number. This number, time, and unit identifier will be provided on each EBT printout. The EBT printout, along with an approved alcohol testing form, will be used to document the test, the subsequent results, and to attribute the test to the correct employee. The test will be performed in a private, confidential manner as required by 49 CFR Part 40, as amended. The procedure will be followed as prescribed to protect the employee and to maintain the integrity of the alcohol testing procedures and validity of the test result.
An employee who has a confirmed alcohol concentration of 0.04 or greater will be considered a positive alcohol test and in violation of this policy. The consequences of a positive alcohol test are termination. Even though an employee who has a confirmed alcohol concentration of 0.02 to 0.039 is not considered positive, the employee shall still be removed from duty for at least eight hours or for the duration of the work day whichever is longer and will be subject to disciplinary action to include termination. An alcohol concentration of less than 0.02 will be considered a negative test.
The transit department affirms the need to protect individual dignity, privacy, and confidentiality throughout the testing process. If at any time the integrity of the testing procedures or the validity of the test results is compromised, the test will be canceled. Minor inconsistencies or procedural flaws that do not impact the test result will not result in a cancelled test.
The alcohol testing form (ATF) required by 49 CFR Part 40 as amended, shall be used for all FTA required testing. Failure of an employee to sign step 2 of the ATF will be considered a refusal to submit to testing.
(Policy of 7-2-2007, § J)
Sec. 2-96. - Pre-employment testing.
All applicants for covered transit positions shall undergo urine drug testing prior to performance of a safety-sensitive function.
(1)
All offers of employment for covered positions shall be extended conditional upon the applicant passing a drug test. An applicant shall not be placed into a safety-sensitive position unless the applicant takes a drug test with verified negative result.
(2)
A non-covered employee shall not be placed, transferred or promoted into a covered position until the employee takes a drug test with verified negative results.
(3)
If an applicant fails a pre-employment drug test the conditional offer of employment shall be rescinded. Failure of a pre-employment drug test will disqualify an applicant for employment for a period of at least one year. The applicant must provide the employer proof of having successfully completed a referral, evaluation and treatment plan as described in CFR Section 655.62 of Subpart G. The cost for the assessment and any subsequent treatment will be the sole responsibility of the applicant.
(4)
When an employee being placed, transferred, or promoted from a non-covered position to a covered position submits a drug test with a verified positive result the employee shall be subject termination.
(5)
If a pre-employment/pre-transfer test is canceled, Pulaski County will require the applicant to take and pass another pre-employment drug test.
(6)
In instances where a covered employee is on extended leave for a period of 90 days or more regardless of reason, and is not in the random testing pool the employee will be required to take a drug test under 49 CFR Part 655 and have negative test results prior to the conduct of safety-sensitive job functions.
(7)
An applicant with a dilute negative test result will be required to retest.
(8)
Applicants are required to report previous DOT covered employer drug and alcohol test results—Failure to do so will result in the employment offer being rescinded. If the applicant has tested positive or refused to test on a pre-employment test for a DOT covered employer, the applicant must provide Pulaski County proof of having successfully completed a referral, evaluation and treatment plan as described in CFR Section 655.62 of Subpart G.
(Policy of 7-2-2007, § K)
Sec. 2-97. - Reasonable suspicion testing.
All Pulaski County covered employees will be subject to a reasonable suspicion drug and/or alcohol test when the employer has reasonable suspicion to believe that the covered employee has used a prohibited drug and/or engaged in alcohol misuse. Reasonable suspicion shall mean that there is objective evidence, based upon specific, contemporaneous, articulable observations of the employee's appearance, behavior, speech or body odor that are consistent with possible drug use and/or alcohol misuse. Reasonable suspicion referrals must be made by one or more supervisors who are trained to detect the signs and symptoms of drug and alcohol use, and who reasonably conclude that an employee may be adversely affected or impaired in his/her work performance due to possible prohibited substance abuse or alcohol misuse. A reasonable suspicion alcohol test can only be conducted just before, during, or just after the performance of a safety-sensitive job function. A reasonable suspicion drug test can be performed any time the covered employee is on duty.
Pulaski County shall be responsible for transporting the employee to the testing site. Supervisors should avoid placing themselves and/or others into a situation which might endanger the physical safety of those present. The employee shall be placed on administrative leave pending disciplinary action to include termination. An employee who refuses an instruction to submit to a drug/alcohol test shall not be permitted to finish his or her shift and shall immediately be placed on administrative leave pending disciplinary action to include termination.
A written record of the observations which led to a drug/alcohol test based on reasonable suspicion shall be prepared and signed by the supervisor making the observation. This written record shall be submitted to the management and shall be attached to the forms reporting the test results.
(Policy of 7-2-2007, § L)
Sec. 2-98. - Post-accident testing.
All covered employees will be required to undergo urine and breath testing if they are involved in an accident with a transit revenue service vehicle regardless of whether or not the vehicle is in revenue service that results in a fatality. This includes all surviving covered employees that are operating the vehicle at the time of the accident and any other whose performance cannot be completely discounted as a contributing factor to the accident.
In addition, a post-accident test will be conducted if an accident results in injuries requiring immediate transportation to a medical treatment facility; or one or more vehicles incurs disabling damage, unless the operators' performance can be completely discounted as a contributing factor to the accident.
(1)
As soon as practicable following an accident, as defined in this policy, the transit supervisor investigating the accident will notify the transit employee operating the transit vehicle and all other covered employees whose performance could have contributed to the accident of the need for the test. The supervisor will make the determination using the best information available at the time of the decision.
(2)
The appropriate transit supervisor shall ensure that an employee, required to be tested under this section, is tested as soon as practicable, but no longer than eight hours of the accident for alcohol, and within 32 hours for drugs. If an alcohol test is not performed within two hours of the accident, the supervisor will document the reason(s) for the delay. If the alcohol test is not conducted within eight hours, or the drug test within 32 hours, attempts to conduct the test must cease and the reasons for the failure to test documented.
(3)
Any covered employee involved in an accident must refrain from alcohol use for eight hours following the accident or until he/she undergoes a post-accident alcohol test.
(4)
An employee who is subject to post-accident testing who fails to remain readily available for such testing, including notifying a supervisor of his or her location if he or she leaves the scene of the accident prior to submission to such test, may be deemed to have refused to submit to testing.
(5)
Nothing in this section shall be construed to require the delay of necessary medical attention for the injured following an accident, or to prohibit an employee from leaving the scene of an accident for the period necessary to obtain assistance in responding to the accident, or to obtain necessary emergency medical care.
(6)
In the rare event that Pulaski County is unable to perform an FTA drug and alcohol test (i.e., employee is unconscious, employee is detained by law enforcement agency), Pulaski County may use drug and alcohol post-accident test results administered by local law enforcement officials in lieu of the FTA test. The local law enforcement officials must have independent authority for the test and the employer must obtain the results in conformance with local law.
(Policy of 7-2-2007, § M)
Sec. 2-99. - Random testing.
All covered employees will be subjected to random, unannounced testing. The selection of employees shall be made by a scientifically valid method of randomly generating an employee identifier from the appropriate pool of safety-sensitive employees.
(1)
The dates for administering unannounced testing of randomly selected employees shall be spread reasonably throughout the calendar year, day of the week and hours of the day.
(2)
The number of employees randomly selected for drug/alcohol testing during the calendar year shall be not less than the percentage rates established by federal regulations for those safety-sensitive employees subject to random testing by federal regulations. The current random testing rate for drugs established by FTA equals 25 percent of the number of covered employees in the pool and the random testing rate for alcohol established by FTA equals ten percent of the number of covered employees in the pool.
(3)
Each covered employee shall be in a pool from which the random selection is made. Each covered employee in the pool shall have an equal chance of selection each time the selections are made. Employees will remain in the pool and subject to selection, whether or not the employee has been previously tested. There is no discretion on the part of management in the selection.
(4)
Covered transit employees that fall under the Federal Transit Administration regulations will be included in one random pool.
(5)
Random tests can be conducted at any time during an employee's shift for drug testing. Alcohol random tests can be performed just before, during, or just after the performance of a safety sensitive duty. Testing can occur during the beginning, middle, or end of an employee's shift.
(6)
Employees are required to proceed immediately to the collection site upon notification of their random selection.
Pulaski County Transit is a zero tolerance company.
(Policy of 7-2-2007, § N)
Sec. 2-100. - Return-to-duty testing.
All covered employees who previously tested positive on a drug or alcohol test or refused a test, must test negative for drugs, alcohol (below 0.02 for alcohol), or both and be evaluated and released by the substance abuse professional before returning to work. For an initial positive drug test a Return-to-Duty drug test is required and an alcohol test is allowed. For an initial positive alcohol test a Return-to-Duty alcohol test is required and a drug test is allowed. Following the initial assessment, the SAP will recommend a course of rehabilitation unique to the individual. The SAP will recommend the return-to-duty test only when the employee has successfully completed the treatment requirement and is known to be drug- and alcohol-free and there is no undo concern for public safety.
(Policy of 7-2-2007, § O)
Sec. 2-101. - Follow-up testing.
Covered employees will be required to undergo frequent, unannounced drug and/or alcohol testing following their return-to-duty. The follow-up testing will be performed for a period of one to five years with a minimum of six tests to be performed the first year. The frequency and duration of the follow-up tests (beyond the minimums) will be determined by the SAP reflecting the SAP's assessment of the employee's unique situation and recovery progress. Follow-up testing should be frequent enough to deter and/or detect a relapse. Follow-up testing is separate and in addition to the random, post-accident, reasonable suspicion and return-to-duty testing.
(Policy of 7-2-2007, § P)
Sec. 2-102. - Result of drug/alcohol test.
Any covered employee that has a verified positive drug or alcohol test will be removed from his/her safety-sensitive position, informed of educational and rehabilitation programs available and referred to a Substance Abuse Professional (SAP) for assessment. No employee will be allowed to return to duty requiring the performance of safety-sensitive job functions without the approval of the SAP and the employer. A drug test with the result of negative dilute will be retested. A positive drug and/or alcohol test will also result in disciplinary action as specified herein:
(1)
As soon as practicable after receiving notice of a verified positive drug test result, a confirmed alcohol test result, or a test refusal, the Pulaski County Drug and Alcohol Program Manager will contact the employee's supervisor to have the employee cease performing any safety-sensitive function.
(2)
The employee shall be terminated and referred to a Substance Abuse Professional.
(3)
Refusal to submit to a drug/alcohol test shall be considered a positive test result and a direct act of insubordination resulting in immediate termination. A test refusal includes the following circumstances:
a.
A covered employee who consumes alcohol within eight hours following involvement in an accident without first having submitted to post-accident drug/alcohol tests.
b.
A covered employee who leaves the scene of an accident without a legitimate explanation prior to submission to drug/alcohol tests.
c.
A covered employee who provides an insufficient volume of urine specimen or breath sample without a valid medical explanation. The medical evaluation shall take place within five days of the initial test attempt.
d.
A verbal or written declaration, obstructive behavior, or physical absence resulting in the inability to conduct the test within the specified time frame.
e.
A covered employee whose urine sample has been verified by the MRO as substitute or adulterated.
f.
A covered employee fails to appear for any test within a reasonable time, as determined by the employer, after being directed to do so by the employer.
g.
A covered employee fails to remain at the testing site until the testing process is complete.
h.
A covered employee fails to provide a urine specimen for any drug test required by Part 40 or DOT agency regulations.
i.
A covered employee fails to permit the observation or monitoring of a specimen collection.
j.
A covered employee fails or declines to take a second test the employer or collector has directed him/her to take.
k.
A covered employee fails to undergo a medical examination or evaluation, as directed by the MRO as part of the verification process, or as directed by the DER as part of the "shy bladder" or "shy lung" procedures.
l.
A covered employee fails to cooperate with any part of the testing process (e.g., refuse to empty pockets when so directed by the collector, behave in a confrontational way that disrupts the collection process).
m.
Failure to sign Step 2 of the Alcohol Testing form.
(4)
An alcohol test result of ≥0.02 to ≤ 0.039 BAC shall result in the removal of the employee from duty for eight hours or the remainder or the work day whichever is longer. The employee will not be allowed to return to safety-sensitive duty for his/her next shift until he/she submits to an alcohol test with a result of less than 0.02 BAC.
(Policy of 7-2-2007, § Q)
Sec. 2-103. - Grievance and appeal.
The consequences specified by 49 CFR Part 40.149(c) for a positive test or test refusal is not subject to arbitration.
(Policy of 7-2-2007, § R)
Sec. 2-104. - Proper application of the policy.
Pulaski County is dedicated to assuring fair and equitable application of this substance abuse policy. Therefore, supervisors/managers are required to use and apply all aspects of this policy in an unbiased and impartial manner. Any supervisor/manager who knowingly disregards the requirements of this policy, or who is found to deliberately misuse the policy in regard to subordinates, shall be subject to termination.
(Policy of 7-2-2007, § S)
Sec. 2-105. - Information disclosure.
Drug/alcohol testing records shall be maintained by the Pulaski County Drug and Alcohol Program Manager and, except as provided below or by law, the results of any drug/alcohol test shall not be disclosed without express written consent of the tested employee.
(1)
The employee, upon written request, is entitled to obtain copies of any records pertaining to their use of prohibited drugs or misuse of alcohol including any drug or alcohol testing records. Covered employees have the right to gain access to any pertinent records.
(Policy of 7-2-2007, § T)
Sec. 2-106. - System contacts.
Any questions regarding this policy or any other aspect of the substance abuse policy should be directed to the following individual(s):
Pulaski County Drug and Alcohol Program Manager
Name: Marilyn Thompson
Title: County Clerk
Address: P O Box 29, Hawkinsville, GA 31036
Telephone Number: 478-783-4154
Medical Review Officer
Name: Dr. Bruce Fishman
Title: MD, MRO
Address: 2315 G.E. Palmdale Blvd., #B47, Palmdale, CA 93550
Telephone Number: 888-274-0127
Substance Abuse Professional
Name: Calvin L. Stephens
Title: Certified Addiction Counselor- Level II
Address: 2121 Bellvue Ave., Dublin, GA 31021
Telephone Number: 478-272-2051
HHS Certified Laboratory Primary Specimen
Name: National Toxicology
Address: 1100 California Ave., Bakersfield, CA 93304
Telephone Number: 800-350-3375
HHS Certified Laboratory Split Specimen
Name: National Toxicology
Address: 1100 California Ave., Bakersfield, CA 93304
Telephone Number: 800-350-3515
(Policy of 7-2-2007, § U)
Attachment B
Alcohol Fact Sheet
Alcohol is a socially acceptable drug that has been consumed throughout the world for centuries. It is considered a recreational beverage when consumed in moderation for enjoyment and relaxation during social gatherings. However, when consumed primarily for its physical and mood-altering effects, it is a substance of abuse. As a depressant, it slows down physical responses and progressively impairs mental functions.
Signs and Symptoms of Use:
• Dulled mental processes.
• Lack of coordination.
• Odor of alcohol on breath.
• Possible constricted pupils.
• Sleepy or stuporous condition.
• Slowed reaction rate.
• Slurred speech.
(Note: Except for the odor, these are general signs and symptoms of any depressant substance.)
• Health effects:
The chronic consumption of alcohol (average of three servings per day of beer [12 ounces], whiskey [one ounce], or wine [six-ounce glass]) over time may result in the following health hazards:
• Decreased sexual functioning.
• Dependency (up to ten percent of all people who drink alcohol become physically and/or mentally dependent on alcohol and can be termed "alcoholic").
• Fatal liver diseases.
• Increased cancers of the mouth, tongue, pharynx, esophagus, rectum, breast, and malignant melanoma.
• Kidney disease.
• Pancreatitis.
• Spontaneous abortion and neonatal mortality.
• Ulcers.
• Birth defects (up to 54 percent of all birth defects are alcohol related).
• Social issues:
• Two-thirds of all homicides are committed by people who drink prior to the crime.
• Two to three percent of the driving population is legally drunk at any one time. This rate is doubled at night and on weekends.
• Two-thirds of all Americans will be involved in an alcohol-related vehicle accident during their lifetimes.
• The rate of separation and divorce in families with alcohol dependency problems is seven times the average.
• Forty percent of family court cases are alcohol problem related.
• Alcoholics are 15 times more likely to commit suicide than are other segments of the population.
• More than 60 percent of burns, 40 percent of falls, 69 percent of boating accidents, and 76 percent of private aircraft accidents are alcohol related.
• The annual toll:
• 24,000 people will die on the highway due to the legally impaired driver.
• 12,000 more will die on the highway due to the alcohol-affected driver.
• 15,800 will die in non-highway accidents.
• 30,000 will die due to alcohol-caused liver disease.
• 10,000 will die due to alcohol-induced brain disease or suicide.
• Up to another 125,000 will die due to alcohol-related conditions or accidents.
• Workplace issues:
• It takes one hour for the average person (150 pounds) to process one serving of an alcoholic beverage from the body.
• Impairment in coordination and judgement can be objectively measured with as little as two drinks in the body.
• A person who is legally intoxicated is six times more likely to have an accident than a sober person.
(Policy of 7-2-2007, Att. B)
Attachment C
Minimum Thresholds
EXPAND
INITIAL TEST CUTOFF
LEVELS (ng/ml)
Marijuana metabolites 50
Cocaine metabolites 300
Opiate metabolites 2,000
Phencyclidine 25
Amphetamines 1,000
CONFIRMATORY TEST CUT/OFF LEVELS (ng/ml)
Marijuana metabolites 15
Cocaine metabolites 150
Opiates:
Morphine 2,000
Codeine 2,000
Phencyclidine 25
Amphetamines:
Amphetamines 500
Methamphetamine 500
  TEST RESULT SUMMARY & CORRESPONDING DISCIPLINE
EXPAND
Test Result Verified Result Employer Action
Negative Negative No Action
Negative-Dilute Negative No Action; or employer May retest
Temperature Out of Range Inconclusive Retest under Direct Observation
Evidence at Collection of Specimen Tampering/Substitution/Adulteration Inconclusive Retest under Direct Observation
Positive Inconclusive Removal from Duty (Enter discipline)
Positive-Dilute Positive Removal from Duty (Enter discipline)
Test Refusal/Adulteration/Substitution Rule Violation Test Refusal Removal from Duty (Enter discipline)
Insufficient Volume with Medical Explanation (Random, Reasonable Suspicion, Post Accident) Cancelled No Action
Insufficient Volume with Disability, No Evidence of Illegal Drug Use (Pre-Employment, Return to Duty, Follow-up) Negative No Action
Insufficient Volume w/no Medical Explanation Test Refusal Rule Violation Removal from Duty (Eenter discipline)
Fatal Flaw/Rejected for Testing Cancelled No Action
Invalid Result with Medical Explanation Cancelled No Action
Invalid Result with no Medical Explanation Cancelled Retest Under Direct Observation
Primary Positive-Split Fails to Reconfirm Drug Cancelled Employer/MRO notifies ODAPC
Primary Adulterated/Substituted-Split Fails to Reconfirm Cancelled Employer/MRO notifies ODAPC
Primary Invalid-Split Fails to Reconfirm Cancelled Retest Under Direct Observation
Primary Non-negative-Split Unavailable for Testing Cancelled Retest Under Direct Observation
Primary Positive-Split Fail to Reconfirm but is Adulterated Test Refusal Employee May Request Test of Primary for Adulterant
  (Policy of 7-2-2007, Att. C)
Secs. 2-107—2-120. - Reserved.
ARTICLE IV. - AUTHORITIES, BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS[5]
Footnotes:
--- (5) ---
Cross reference— Board of trustees for the public library, § 26-34.
State Law reference— Code of ethics for members of boards, commissions and authorities, O.C.G.A. § 45-10-3.

DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Secs. 2-121—2-140. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - JOINT RECREATION COMMISSION[6]

Footnotes:
--- (6) ---
Cross reference— Parks and recreation, ch. 50.
State Law reference— State parks, O.C.G.A. § 12-3-1 et seq.; establishment of recreation systems, O.C.G.A. § 36-64-1 et seq.; recreation boards, O.C.G.A. § 36-64-5; Georgia state games commission, O.C.G.A. § 50-12-40 et seq.; power to provide parks, recreation areas, programs and facilities, Ga. Const. art. IX, § II, ¶ III(a)(5).

Sec. 2-141. - Establish, membership.
Under the provisions of O.C.G.A. § 36-64-4, a joint city-county recreation commission is hereby established and provided for by the City of Hawkinsville concurrent with the action of the Commissioner of Roads and Revenues of Pulaski County, Georgia. The joint commission shall be a board of five persons serving without pay, three of whom shall be appointed by the county and two of whom shall be appointed by the city. The term of office of such commissioners shall be by appointment for such terms that the term of one member shall expire annually thereafter. Vacancies in the commission occurring otherwise than by expiration of terms shall be filled by another appointment for the unexpired term of that member either by the county or the city.
(Res. of 7-10-1973, § 1; Ord. No. 2012-2, 11-5-2012)
Sec. 2-142. - Officers; bylaws.
(a)
Immediately after their appointment, the members of the joint recreation commission shall meet and organize by electing one of their members president and such other officers as may be necessary.
(b)
The commission shall have power to adopt bylaws, rules and regulations for the proper conduct of recreation for the city and county.
(Res. of 7-10-1973, § 2)
Sec. 2-143. - Powers, duties.
The joint recreation commission shall provide, conduct and supervise public playgrounds, playfields, indoor recreation centers and other recreation facilities owned or controlled by the city or county or both. It shall have the power to conduct any form of recreation or cultural activity that will employ the leisure time of the people in a wholesome and constructive manner. It may conduct such activities on properties under its own control, on public properties with the consent of the authorities of the properties, and on private property with the consent of the owners.
(Res. of 7-10-1973, § 3)
Sec. 2-144. - Superintendent.
The joint recreation commission shall have the power to appoint or designate someone to act as superintendent, who is trained or properly qualified for the work and such other personnel as the commission deems proper.
(Res. of 7-10-1973, § 4)
Sec. 2-145. - Budget.
Annually the joint recreation commission shall submit a budget to the governing body of both the city and county for its approval. The commission may also solicit or receive any gifts or bequests of money or other personal property or any donation to be applied, principal or income, for either temporary or permanent use of playgrounds or other recreational purposes. The city and county shall divide the budget pro rata in accordance with a formula mutually agreeable to both governing bodies.
(Res. of 7-10-1973, § 5)
Sec. 2-146. - Annual report.
The joint recreation commission shall make an annual report to the governing body of each authority and such other reports as may be requested by either.
(Res. of 7-10-1973, § 6)
Sec. 2-147. - Meetings.
(a)
Regular meetings of the recreation commission shall be held at a designated place. Special meetings of the recreation commission may be held at any time at the call of the chairman of the recreation commission, or at the call of the superintendent of recreation, or by a majority of the members of the recreation commission.
(b)
Any six members of the recreation commission shall constitute quorum for the transaction of business.
(c)
The absence of three meetings per year of any member of the recreation commission, without due and acceptable excuse, shall constitute a vacancy on the recreation commission.
(Ord. of 5-4-2009(1), §§ 1—3)
Secs. 2-148—2-170. - Reserved.
DIVISION 3. - JOINT DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY[7]

Footnotes:
--- (7) ---
State Law reference— Development Authorities Law, O.C.G.A. § 36-62-1 et seq.; Georgia Development Authority Act, O.C.G.A. § 50-10-1 et seq.

Sec. 2-171. - Statement of need.
(a)
There is determined and declared to be a pressing, existing and future need for a development authority, as more fully described and defined in the Development Authorities Law (O.C.G.A. § 36-62-1 et seq.), to function in the county and the City of Hawkinsville for the purpose of developing and promoting for the public good and general welfare trade, commerce, industry and employment opportunities in the county and city, thereby promoting the general welfare of the citizenry.
(Res. of 3-13-1996)
Sec. 2-172. - Activated.
There is activated in the county and the City of Hawkinsville the public body corporate and politic known as the "Pulaski County-Hawkinsville Development Authority," which was created upon the adoption and approval of the Development Authorities Law (O.C.G.A. § 36-62-1 et seq.).
(Res. of 3-13-1996)
Sec. 2-173. - Board of directors.
There are elected as members of the board of directors of the joint development authority four members to be named by the county, each of whom is a taxpayer of the county, and four members to be named by the city, each of whom is a taxpayer of the city.
(Res. of 3-13-1996)
Sec. 2-174. - County members.
(a)
The commissioner shall serve a term concurrent with his term of office.
(b)
The remaining three members shall serve for terms of two and four years and thereafter for staggered terms of four years.
(Res. of 3-13-1996)
Sec. 2-175. - City members.
(a)
The chairman of the board of commissioners of Hawkinsville shall serve a term concurrent with that commissioner's term as chairman.
(b)
The remaining three members shall serve for terms of two and four years and thereafter for staggered terms of four years. If at the end of any term of office of any director, a successor shall not have been elected, the director whose term of office shall have expired shall continue to hold office until his successor shall be so elected.
(Res. of 3-13-1996)
Sec. 2-176. - Organization; duties and responsibilities.
The board of directors elected pursuant to this division shall organize itself, carry out its duties and responsibilities, and exercise its powers and prerogatives in accordance with the terms and provisions of the Development Authorities Law (O.C.G.A. § 36-62-1 et seq.).
(Res. of 3-13-1996)
Secs. 2-177—2-200. - Reserved.
DIVISION 4. - REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY[8]

Footnotes:
--- (8) ---
State Law reference— Georgia Development Authority Act, O.C.G.A. § 50-10-1 et seq.

Sec. 2-201. - Activated.
In accordance with the provisions of the Development Authorities Law of Georgia, codified in O.C.G.A. § 36-62-1 et seq., the commissioner declares that there is a need for a regional development authority to function in the Middle Georgia Region (also designated as region 6 by the governor's development council) and activates and creates, jointly with the counties of Dooley, Peach and Houston, pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 36-62-5.1, a development authority for the region.
(Res. of 3-7-1995, § 1)
Sec. 2-202. - Name.
The development authority activated in this division shall be known as the "Middle Georgia Regional Development Authority."
(Res. of 3-7-1995, § 2)
Sec. 2-203. - Membership.
The development authority shall consist of two members from each participating county. The two members from each county shall be appointed by the board of commissioners of each county and must be residents of the county they represent. Half the members shall serve for initial terms of two years, and half shall serve for initial terms of four years.
(Res. of 3-7-1995, § 3)
Secs. 2-204—2-230. - Reserved.
DIVISION 5. - REGIONAL SOLID WASTE MANAGEMENT AUTHORITY

Sec. 2-231. - Provisions saved from repeal.
The resolution and accompanying agreement which created the Heart of Georgia Regional Solid Waste Management Authority pursuant to 1990 Ga. Laws, page 412 is not repealed and shall continue in full force and effect.
Secs. 2-232—2-250. - Reserved.
DIVISION 6. - HOSPITAL AUTHORITY

Sec. 2-251. - Provisions saved from repeal.
The resolution adopted May 24, 1973, which created the Pulaski County Hospital Authority, is not repealed and shall continue in full force and effect.
