ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 66-1. - Authority of chapter.
Pursuant to the authority conferred by Ga. Const. Art. IX, § II, ¶ IV, as amended, and for the purposes of promoting the health, safety, morals or general welfare of the community of Putnam County and other purposes, this chapter regulates the location, construction and use of buildings, structures and land; and divides the unincorporated county into districts for such purposes and establishes boundaries therefore; provides for the method of administration and amendment; and prescribes penalties for the violation of its provisions.
(Res. of 7-17-2007(4))
Sec. 66-2. - Purpose of chapter.
This chapter is made and designed to lessen congestion in the streets; to secure safety from fire, panic and other dangers; to prevent flooding of improved property; to provide adequate light and air; to protect the aesthetic beauty of the county; to prevent the overcrowding of land; to avoid undue concentration of population; to facilitate the adequate provision of transportation, water, sanitation, schools, parks, housing, communications, health care and other public requirements; to promote the health, safety, morals, convenience, order, prosperity and welfare of the present and future inhabitants of the county; and to improve the quality of life through protection of the county's total environment including, but not limited to, the prevention of air, water and noise pollution. Such regulations are made with reasonable consideration, among other things, of the character of the district and its peculiar suitability for particular uses, and with a view to promoting desirable living conditions and the sustained stability of neighborhoods, protecting property against blight and depreciation, securing economy in governmental expenditures, conserving the value of buildings and encouraging the most appropriate use of land and other buildings and structures throughout the county.
(Res. of 7-17-2007(4))
Sec. 66-3. - Title of chapter.
This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the "Putnam County Zoning Ordinance of 2020."
(Res. of 7-17-2007(4); Ord. of 12-4-2020(1) )
Sec. 66-4. - Interpretation and application of chapter provisions.
In interpreting and applying this chapter's provisions, the requirements contained in this chapter are declared to be minimum requirements necessary to carry out the purposes of this chapter. Except as provided in this chapter, this chapter shall not be deemed to interfere with, abrogate, annul or otherwise affect in any manner whatsoever any easements, covenants or other agreements between parties. Whenever the provisions of this chapter impose greater restrictions upon the use of land or buildings or upon the height of buildings or require a larger percentage of lot to be left unoccupied than the provisions of other ordinances, rules, regulations, permits or any easements, covenants or other agreements between parties, the provisions of this chapter shall govern unless elsewhere provided in this chapter.
(Res. of 7-17-2007(4))
Sec. 66-5. - Compliance with chapter required.
No land, building or structure shall be used; no building or structure shall be erected; and no existing building, use or structure shall be moved, added to, enlarged or altered except in conformity with this chapter.
(Res. of 7-17-2007(4))
Sec. 66-6. - Jurisdiction of chapter.
This chapter shall apply only in the unincorporated areas of the county.
(Res. of 7-17-2007(4))
Sec. 66-7. - Repeal of conflicting ordinances and validity of prior approvals and actions.
(a)
This chapter is the Putnam County Zoning Ordinance of 2020, and all other conflicting ordinances or resolutions are hereby repealed; provided, however, that nothing in this section shall be construed as repealing or modifying the conditions of operation or conditions of zoning, or use, or building permits issued under previous zoning ordinances or resolutions; however, modification or repeal of these past conditions of approval may be accomplished as provided by this chapter.
(b)
All variances and exceptions heretofore granted by the planning and zoning commission or the board of commissioners, on appeal, shall remain in full force and effect, and all terms, conditions and obligations imposed shall remain in effect insofar as required for the initiation of any proceedings against these violations and for the prosecution of any violations heretofore commenced.
(c)
Should any section or provision of this chapter be declared by the courts to be unconstitutional or invalid, such declaration shall not affect the validity of the ordinance as a whole or any part thereof other than the part so declared to be unconstitutional or invalid.
(Res. of 7-17-2007(4); Ord. of 12-4-2020(1) )
Sec. 66-8. - Administration.
On a day-to-day basis the director of planning and development department shall administer this chapter's provisions.
(Res. of 7-17-2007(4))
Cross reference— Administration, ch. 2.
Sec. 66-9. - Effective date.
This chapter shall take effect and be in force from and after its adoption, the public welfare demanding it.
(Res. of 7-17-2007(4))
Secs. 66-10—66-19. - Reserved.
Sec. 66-20. - Definitions.
(a)
Generally. This section is intended to define terms frequently used throughout this chapter. It is not intended to be exhaustive, and definitions also may appear in article IV of this chapter (the performance standards). Words not specifically defined in this section shall be construed to have the customary or preferred meaning given by Webster's New Collegiate Dictionary, latest edition published.
(b)
Use and interpretation. The following shall apply to the use of all words in this chapter:
(1)
Words used in the present tense shall include the future tense.
(2)
Words used in the singular shall include the plural and vice versa.
(3)
The word "shall" is mandatory.
(4)
The word "may" is permissive.
(5)
The nouns "zone," "zoning district" and "district" have the same meaning and refer to the zoning districts established by this chapter.
(6)
The noun "use" shall mean the manner in which a structure, building or parcel of land actually is occupied.
(7)
The noun "map" means the "Official Zoning Districts Map of Putnam County, Georgia," (aka the "Official Zoning Map" (see section 66-32)) adopted contemporaneously with this chapter, but as amended from time to time as permitted in this chapter.
(8)
The word "structure" includes, but is not limited to, the word "building."
(9)
The word "lot" is a lot in a recorded subdivision and does not include the words "piece," "plot," and "parcel."
(10)
The word "should" is suggested but not mandatory.
(11)
The words "his" or "her" are not intended to be gender specific.
(c)
Specific definitions. The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this subsection, except where a more specific definition or use of the term may be found among articles I, II, III, and IV of this chapter as may be amended from time to time by the board of commissioners:
Accessory building means a subordinate building, the use of which is incidental to, and reasonably related to, a main building on the same lot or to the primary use of the property. The accessory building shall be of a size and nature customarily incidental and subordinate to the principal. Accessory buildings shall not include open air structures such as gazebos, pole barns, and pavilions. Signs and fences are not to be considered as accessory buildings. A "detached" accessory building shall be one that does not have a common wall, attached walkway, or roof connection with the main building on the same lot.
Accessory use means a subordinate use, which is customarily incidental to the principal use and which is located on the same lot with the principal use.
Acre means 43,560 square feet.
Adult day care center means a facility which provides adult day care services and/or adult day health services to three or more adults who are elderly, physically ill or infirm, physically handicapped, or mentally handicapped. This may also include recreational, cultural, and social activities for said persons.
Adult entertainment. Adult entertainment uses are defined as any establishment in which more than 20 percent of its stock in trade is offered for sale for any form of consideration, which includes arcades, book stores, cabarets, movie theaters and any similar establishment that are characterized by an emphasis on the depiction, description, display or featuring of specified anatomical areas or specified sexual activity appealing to prurient interests.
Specified anatomical areas means and includes (a) less than completely and opaquely covered: human genitals, pubic region, buttock, and female breasts below a point immediately above the top of the areola; and, (b) human male genitals in a discernibly turgid state, even if completely and opaquely covered.
Specified sexual activity means and includes (a) intercourse, oral copulation, masturbation or sodomy; or (b) excretory functions as a part of or in connection with any of the activities described in (a) above.
Agriculture or agricultural means a use used primarily for soil-dependent cultivation of agricultural crop production, the raising of livestock excluding poultry and other confined animal feeding operations, growth of a field, or forestry.
Agricultural processing means the preliminary processing and packaging of agricultural products, such as a packing shed. This definition does not include slaughterhouses, butcheries, tanneries, or rendering plants.
Agriculture, animal production means the raising of agricultural animals on pastureland or production of animal products on an agricultural or commercial basis. Animal production shall include those accessory uses and activities customarily associated with this type of operation, as determined by the planning director. Animal production shall not include concentrated animal feeding operations, slaughterhouses or butcheries.
Agriculture, aquaculture refers to and devoted to the hatching, raising, and breeding of fish, shrimp or other aquatic animals for commercial purposes. Animal aquaculture shall include those accessory uses, and activities customarily associated with this type of operation, as determined by the planning director.
Agriculture, crop production is the raising and harvesting of tree crops, row crops, or field crops on an agricultural or commercial basis. Crop production shall include accessory uses and activities customarily associated with these types of agricultural operations, as determined by the planning director. This definition excludes any agricultural uses that are more specifically defined in this section.
Agriculture, greenhouse production means ornamental plants or food crops grown for wholesale sale within an enclosed structure or under cover.
Agriculture, horticultural production refers to land used to grow horticultural and floricultural specialties (such as flowers, shrubs, or trees intended for ornamental or landscaping purposes) for wholesale or retail sale in order to be transplanted to a different location. This includes incidental accessory structures. This definition excludes crop and greenhouse production that have been identified elsewhere in this chapter.
Allowed use means a use by right, which is specifically authorized in a particular zoning district.
Amusement facility means an establishment in which 30 percent or more of the gross floor area is utilized by amusement machines or their patrons. This can be a primary or secondary use within the establishment. All amusement, recreational, and entertainment activities carried on wholly within a permanently enclosed building.
Amusement machines means any mechanical, electronic and/or coin-operated game and/or device for the amusement of patrons. This definition shall not be construed to include coin-operated music players, coin-operated mechanical kiddy rides or coin-operated television.
Alteration means any change in the supporting member of a building, any modification or change in construction, any addition which increases the area or height, any change in use of or moving of a building from one location to another, or any increase in the amount or volume of space used for any activity.
Animal, general means all nonhuman members of the animal kingdom including domestic, exotic, and livestock species.
Animal, agricultural means animals considered accessory to an agricultural use, whether used for personal enjoyment or for commercial purposes, including horses, mules, burros, sheep, cattle, rabbits, chickens, ducks, geese, pigs, and goats.
Animal, domestic means an animal that is tame or domesticated and not normally found in the wild state. A tame animal that is subject to the dominion and control of an owner and accustomed to living in or near human habitation without requiring extraordinary restraint or unreasonably disturbing such human habitation. This includes any animal customarily kept by humans for companionship, such as: dogs, cats, birds, rabbits, hamsters, mice, turtles, and the like.
Animal, exotic means any species or animal not considered domestic or livestock, including, but not limited to, nonpoisonous snakes, lizards, potbellied pigs elephants, camels, antelopes, anteaters, kangaroo, water buffalo and giraffe. (Conditional Use Only)
Animal care, general means animal care uses with either an outdoor facility or an overnight component, or both. Examples may include animal day cares, animal shelters, overnight boarding facilities, veterinary clinics with boarding or nighttime emergency services, and pet stores that sell cats, dogs, and/or birds larger than 12 inches.
Animal care, limited means animal care uses with neither an outdoor facility nor an overnight component. Examples may include animal grooming facilities and veterinary clinics without boarding.
Applicant/agent means the owner of record of land, or an agent appointed in writing by the owner.
Assembly halls include armories, union halls, conference halls, business meeting locations, civic halls, religious facilities, and internal gathering places for activities of a similar nature.
Assisted living facility means a residential facility providing living quarters restricted to individuals who require access to services but not daily nursing or medical intervention. Incidental uses and/or services may include protective supervision, personal care, social and recreational services, assistance with medical requirements, assistance with meals, and laundry and transportation service.
Automobile repair means any area of land, including structures thereon, used for the retail service of major repairs, minor repairs and painting of automobiles, including the incidental services of lubricating and cleaning. These establishments primarily provide service to automobiles, light and medium trucks, motorcycles, recreational vehicles, and related equipment. This definition includes body repair, paint, automotive glass, and transmission shops. This term excludes any dismantling or scrap and salvage service.
Automobile retail means an establishment that primarily sells auto parts, supplies, and accessories for automobiles, light and medium trucks, motorcycles, recreational vehicles, and related equipment. This definition includes businesses that may provide minor service such as diagnostic checks and battery installation.
Automobile maintenance means an establishment that provides direct services to motor vehicles where the driver or passengers generally wait in the vehicle or nearby while the service is performed. This includes auto wash services carried on wholly within a permanently enclosed building which is secured and shuttered during non-business hours. This definition includes tire repair shops, car washes, and oil change and lubrication facilities.
Automobile sales and rentals are an establishment that offers automobiles on-site for sale or long-term lease to the general public, whether at retail or through an auction. The automobiles must include only those customarily used for personal use, such as automobiles, light and medium trucks, motorcycles, recreational vehicles, as well as vehicles that are smaller than automobiles, such as all-terrain vehicles, golf carts, and similar. Manufactured home sales are included in this definition. This excludes commercial trucks or equipment and agricultural equipment. Motorized vehicles for sale will typically be stored outside. All other activities must be in an enclosed building.
Automobile service station means any area of land, including structures thereon, used for the retail sale of gasoline or oil, automotive accessories and incidental services, including facilities for lubricating, hand washing and cleaning, or otherwise servicing automobiles, but excluding painting, major repair or automatic washing. Minor auto repair and maintenance shall include the installation of tires, carburetors, ignition parts and other minor accessory parts as shall be incidental to the normal upkeep of an automobile but shall not include engine or body dismantling. This use also may include accessory convenience stores.
Bar/tavern/pub/cocktail lounge means a commercial structure open for public use in which alcoholic beverage sales may constitute more than 50 percent of the gross sale of goods. All such facilities must operate in compliance with O.C.G.A. § 3-3-40 et seq., as amended, or any other applicable state law.
Basement means an area below the first floor, having more than one-half of its clear floor-to-ceiling height below the average grade of the adjoining ground. Synonymous with the term "cellar."
Bed and breakfast means a lodging other than a hotel, motel, boardinghouse, inn, or portion thereof, where short-term lodging rooms and meals are provided to registered guests for compensation. There may be no more than ten guestrooms. The operator of the bed and breakfast must live on premises.
Bedroom means that room within a dwelling unit, which is normally used to provide sleeping accommodations for the residents of the unit, regardless of its daytime use.
Berm is an elongated raised earthen mound intended to be a permanent natural barrier mitigating the effects of sound and sight from one use to another. See also "buffer."
Block means a piece or parcel of land usually bounded on all sides by public streets or other transportation routes, such as railroad lines, or by physical barriers such as water bodies or public open spaces, and not transversed by a through street. Blocks may be divided into lots.
Board of commissioners means the local legislative body of Putnam County, Georgia, which is empowered to make changes to the official zoning maps and text amendments to the zoning ordinance.
Boardinghouse means an establishment, other than a hotel or motel, which furnishes lodging for compensation for up to ten persons and for the period of occupancy, may serve as a principal residence. These establishments may also provide complementary services, such as housekeeping, meals, and laundry services; provided, however, that cooking must be done in a central kitchen and not in individual rooms or suites. These establishments include, but are not limited to, fraternity houses, sorority houses, rooming houses, and similar facilities.
Boat sales mean establishments that offer boats and other marine vessels for sale or for long-term lease to the general public.
Boat yard means a land-based operation primarily for the repair and service of boats, including any incidental storage of boats in the process of being repaired. This term does not include boat building.
Brewery means a facility where malt beverages are brewed, bottled, packaged, and distributed for wholesale and/or retail distribution.
Brewery/distillery/winery means an industrial facility where malt, brewed or distilled beverages are produced (in spaces in excess of the micro-producer limits) on the premises and then sold or distributed for off premises consumption and must licensed by the Alcohol and Tobacco Division of the Georgia Department of Revenue.
Brewpub means any eating establishment in which beer or malt beverages are manufactured or brewed, subject to the barrel production limitation prescribed in O.C.G.A. § 3-5-36 for retail consumption on the premises and solely in draft form. As used in this chapter, the term "eating establishment" means an establishment which is licensed to sell distilled spirits, malt beverages, or wines and which derives at least 50 percent of its total annual gross food and beverage sales from the sale of prepared meals or food.
Buffer means that portion of a lot set aside as a natural undisturbed vegetative screen that may be replanted to achieve the desired screening purpose. A buffer may be used to separate differing use districts or to separate uses on one property from uses on another property of the same use district or a different use district. See also "berm."
Buildable area means the portion of a lot which is not located within any minimum required yard, landscape strip/area or buffer; that portion of a lot wherein a building or structure may be located.
Building means any structure used or intended for supporting or sheltering any use or occupancy.
Building code means any state minimum standard code as defined in O.C.G.A. § 8-2-20 and made effective by O.C.G.A. § 8-2-25.
Building, height of means the vertical distance measured from the average finished grade along all walls of a structure to the highest point of the coping, or gutter, or parapet of a flat roof or to the average height between eaves and ridge for gable, hip and gambrel roofs.
Building permit means a permit, issued by the department of planning and development, which authorizes actual construction, alteration, placement, or relocation of a physical structure on any property within the unincorporated limits of the county.
Building, principal means a building in which is conducted the principal use of the lot on which it is located.
Building setback line is a line establishing the minimum allowable distance between the main or front wall of any buildings and the street right-of-way line or another building wall and a side or rear property line when measured perpendicularly thereto. Porches, decks whether enclosed or not, shall be considered as a part of the building and shall not project into any required yards.
Business (or trade) school means a use providing education or training in business, commerce, language, or other similar activity or occupational pursuit, and not otherwise defined as a home occupation, college, or university.
Cabin or hunting lodge means a building used as temporary shelter for the recreational use of hunting that can be occupied for a total of up to 60 days in a calendar year.
Campaign contribution means a contribution as defined in O.G.G.A. § 21-5-3(6).
Campground or campsite means an area or place designated for camping activities. A place where people can use mobile or non-permanent lodging for recreation, educational, or vacation purposes. This site may include permanent toilet and shower facilities for campers to use. Short-term rental properties and RV parks are not included in this definition.
Carport means an accessory roofed structure providing space for one or more vehicles that may have one or more walls but no door to secure the contents. It is not a garage.
Catering service means an establishment that prepares and provides food and related services to off-premises locations.
Cemetery, family burial plot is a plot of ground, building, mausoleum, or other enclosure not located on property owned by a religious institution but used for the burial of deceased persons.
Cemetery, public means a plot of ground, building, mausoleum, or other enclosure not located on property owned by or adjacent to a religious institution but used for the burial of deceased persons. This may include commercial cemeteries.
Child day care center is a use operated by a person, society, agency, corporation, institution, or group that receives for group care fewer than 24 hours per day without transfer of legal custody, children under 18 years of age
Child home day care center is a private dwelling operated by any person who receives pay for supervision and care, fewer than 24 hours per day, without transfer of legal custody, three but not more than six children under 18 years of age who are not related to such person and whose parents or guardians are not residents in the same private dwelling.
Clinic means a use other than a hospital or nursing home, where persons are counseled, examined, and/or treated by one or more persons providing any form of healing or medical health service. Persons providing these services may offer any combination of counseling, diagnostic, therapeutic or preventative treatment, instruction, or services, and which may include medical, physical, psychological, or mental services and facilities for primarily ambulatory persons. This includes urgent care facilities.
Commercial truck or equipment rental or sales means a use that offers commercial trucks, such as tractor trailers or large utility, delivery, or moving trucks; farm equipment such as tractors; construction equipment; or utility or other trailers for sale, lease, or rental.
Commercial use means an occupation, employment, or enterprise that is carried on for profit by the owner, lessee, or licensee.
Comprehensive plan means the adopted Eatonton/Putnam County Comprehensive Plan.
Concept plan means a preliminary development plan indicating the boundaries of a tract or tracts under common ownership, and identifying proposed land use, land use intensity, and thoroughfare alignment.
Conditional rezoning means the attachment of special conditions to a rezoning by the board of commissioners that are not found in the text of this chapter and are considered appropriate to mitigate adverse effects of the proposed use.
Conditional use means a use or occupancy of a structure, or a use of land, permitted only upon issuance of a conditional use permit and subject to the limitations and conditions specified therein.
Confined Animal Feeding Operation (CAFO) means any animal feeding operation where animals are fed at the place of confinement and crop or forage growth in production is not sustained in the area of confinement, and the number of animals, including chickens, exceeds 999 at any given time.
Consumer goods rental means a use primarily engaged in the rental or leasing of new or used products such as electronics, appliances, formal wear, costume, recreational good, and the like to the general public, excluding vehicle or watercraft rentals.
Contractor services, general means a use engaged in the provision of construction activities, including, but not limited to, plumbing, electrical work, building, grading, paving, roofing, carpentry, landscaping, and other such activities, including the storage of material and equipment in outdoor storage areas.
Contractor services, limited means a use engaged in the provision of construction activities, including, but not limited to, plumbing, electrical work, building, grading, paving, roofing, carpentry, landscaping, and other such activities, that have an enclosed warehouse but no outdoor storage areas.
Convalescent service means a use providing bed care and in-patient services for persons requiring regular medical attention, but excluding a facility providing surgical or emergency medical services. This term excludes facilities providing care for alcoholism, drug addiction, mental disease, or communicable disease. Typical uses include nursing homes.
Convenience store means a use primarily engaged in the provision of frequently or recurrently needed goods for household consumption, such as prepackaged food and beverages, newspapers, and limited household supplies, to customers who generally purchase only a few items. This use shall be less than 2,000 square feet of gross floor area. This may include limited food preparation. Only fuel pumps for the selling of fuel for motor vehicles are permitted.
Convenience store, limited means a one-story, retail store containing less than 2,000 square feet of gross floor area that is designed and stocked to sell primarily food, beverages, and other household supplies to customers who purchase only a relatively few items. Fuel pumps are not permitted.
Convention center means a formal meeting place where the building or rooms are rented or leased to the members, representatives, or delegates of a particular group. These centers can usually accommodate large groups.
County means Putnam County, Georgia.
Covenant means a private agreement or contract running with and intended to burden and benefit a particular tract of land. Under no circumstances does the county enforce such covenants.
Coverage. See "lot coverage."
Crematorium means an establishment containing a furnace, which is used to reduce a dead body to ashes by burning.
Cultural facility means a space that is open to the public that provides cultural services and facilities including, but not limited to, museums, cultural centers, historical societies, theaters, and libraries operated by a public, private, or nonprofit organization
Customer means an individual or entity that buys goods, services, or repair on a single or daily transaction.
Density means, as used in principally multifamily residential districts, the number of dwelling units permitted per gross acre.
Developer is synonymous with the term "applicant."
Development means the culmination of a land improvement process through which an allowed use is created.
Development agreement means an express written agreement between the board of commissioners and a developer seeking approval of a zoning change, setting forth specific requirements, conditions and/or variances (and may include preliminary development plan) to a proposed zoning change under division 3 of this chapter.
Development permit means a permit issued pursuant to the Development Regulations of Putnam County, which authorizes initial clearing, grubbing, grading, dredging, excavating, filling, construction of roadways and drainage structures, or other site preparation for the use, construction upon or alteration of any property within the unincorporated limits of the county.
Director means the primary employee or designee authorized to administer and enforce this chapter. The term also includes "director of planning and development department" or the "director of the department of planning and development." The director is directly responsible to the county manager.
District means a section of the county within which the zoning regulations are uniform.
Dock, community means any docking facility that provides access for more than four families (greater than or equal to five watercraft slips and less than or equal to ten watercraft slips) and is not a marina.
Dock, private means a docking facility intended for the use of one family.
Dwelling means a building or portion of a building arranged or designed to provide living quarters for one or more families on a permanent or long-term basis.
Dwelling unit means one or more rooms connected together and constituting a separate, independent housekeeping establishment physically set apart from any other dwelling unit in the same structure.
Dwelling, duplex meansa single building designed, constructed, and used for two (2) dwelling units which are separated by common walls between the individual dwelling units.
Dwelling, family accessory dwelling unit means a dwelling unit providing complete, independent living facilities for one or more family members that is separate from and subordinate to the principal dwelling unit. This definition includes garage apartments.
Dwelling, manufactured home means a structure, transportable in one or more sections, which, in the traveling mode, is eight body feet or more in width or 40 body feet or more in length or, when erected on site, is 600 or more square feet and which is built on a permanent chassis and designed to be used as a dwelling with or without a permanent foundation when connected to the required utilities and includes the plumbing, heating, air-conditioning, and electrical systems contained therein; except that such term shall include any structure which meets all the requirements of this paragraph except the size requirements and with respect to which the manufacturer voluntarily files a certification required by the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) and complies with the standards established under the National Manufactured Housing Construction and Safety Standards Act of 1974, 42 U.S.C. Section 5401, et seq. The term "manufactured home does not include campers, travel trailers, recreational vehicles (RVs), motor homes or modular homes.
Dwelling, mobile home means a factory-built home built prior to enactment of the Federal Manufactured Housing Construction and Safety Standards Act, effective June 15, 1976. These are prohibited in Putnam County.
Dwelling, modular home means a factory fabricated transportable building not designed to be moved once erected, installed or completed consisting of units designed for incorporation into a permanent structure at a building site on a permanent foundation to be used for residential purposes and bearing a seal of compliance with the regulations of the International Code Congress, and the Georgia Industrialized Building Act, as such regulations may be amended from time to time and approved by the Georgia Department of Community Affairs. A modular home is considered a single family detached dwelling.
Dwelling, multifamily means a building containing at least three dwelling units designed for residential use by three or more families living independently of each other. This includes apartments but not group homes, row houses, condominiums, or single-family attached dwellings (townhouses).
Dwelling, security means a site-built, modular, or manufactured home intended to serve as a dwelling unit for person(s) providing 24-hour security to a business or development.
Dwelling, single family attached means dwelling units that are erected in a row as part of a single building, on adjoining lots, each separated from the adjoining unit or units by approved fire resistant party wall or walls extending from the basement or cellar floor to the roof along the dividing lot line. Each unit shall have its own front door, which opens to the outdoors. There is no access between adjoining units. This includes townhouses or condominiums.
Dwelling, single family detached means a site-built or modular residential detached structure designed for one dwelling unit. Each dwelling must comply with dimensional requirements specified by the zone in which it the structure is located, must be attached to a permanent foundation, and must be constructed in accordance with the standards established either by the State Minimum Standard Codes or other codes is locally-adopted or the State of Georgia Industrialized Buildings Act for modular homes. This definition does not include manufactured homes.
Dwelling, tenant means a residential dwelling unit located on a farm and occupied by a nontransient farm worker and his family, who is employed by the farm owner.
Dwelling, upper story residential means residential units (condo/apartment) above ground-floor commercial uses.
Emergency response facility means the provision of emergency service response, such as firefighting and mobile medical emergency services, including areas for the storage and maintenance of emergency vehicles, and equipment and facilities for the housing and feeding of emergency personnel while on duty.
Event venue means a structure or space being used as a gathering place for meetings, receptions, events, or similar functions.
Extractive industry means any activity constituting all or part of a process for the extraction or basic processing of minerals, ores, liquids, gases, or other natural resource for consumption in the regular operation of a business. Such uses also include quarrying, well operation, mining, and other procedures done at an extraction site.
Family means one or more persons related by blood, marriage or adoption or not more than six unrelated persons living as a single household.
Farm winery means any establishment meeting the definition provided by O.C.G.A. § 3-6-21.1.
Farmer's market means the seasonal selling or offering for sale at retail of home-grown vegetables or produce, occurring in pre-designated area, where the vendors are generally individuals who have raised the vegetables or produce or have taken the same on consignment for retail sale.
Floodplain means that area within the intermediate regional flood contour elevations (IRF) subject to periodic floods as designated by the Director of FEMA, based upon the U.S. Corps of Engineers' floodplain information reports and other federal, state or county hydrologic studies.
Floor area means the sum of all floors of a structure as measured to the outside surfaces of exterior walls or the center of common or connected walls, including common public areas such as lobbies, restrooms and hallways; but excluding attic space with headroom of less than seven feet, uncovered steps or fire escapes, open porches, accessory water or cooling towers, permanent mechanical and elevator housing, accessory off-street parking spaces, accessory off-street loading berths and basement storage area.
Fuel oil/gas distributors means uses that distribute fuel oil or bottled gases, such as propane or liquid petroleum for compensation.
Funeral service means an establishment engaged in undertaking services such as preparing the human dead for burial and arranging and managing funerals. The building may contain space and facilities for embalming and other procedures used in preparation of the dead for burial; the storage of caskets, funeral urns and other related funeral supplies; the storage of funeral vehicles; a funeral chapel.
Garage, private means an accessory building or a portion of a main building used for the parking or storage of automobiles of the occupants of the main building.
Grade means the average elevation of the finished surface of the ground adjacent to all sides of any structure.
Golf course, tennis center, swimming center, or country club means area and buildings containing golf courses, recreational facilities, a clubhouse, and other customary accessory uses, open only to members and their guests.
Greenhouse means a building or structure constructed chiefly of glass, glasslike or translucent material, cloth, or lath, which is devoted to the protection or cultivation of flowers or other tender plants.
Heavy equipment sales, rental, repair, or storage means an establishment engaged in the sale, leasing, repair or storage of heavy equipment of 12,000 or more pounds gross vehicular weight.
Helipad means a landing area used for landing and taking off of helicopters for the purpose of picking up or discharging of passengers or cargo, and containing no fueling, refueling, or service facilities.
Home occupation means an occupation customarily carried on by an occupant in a dwelling unit as a secondary use, which is clearly incidental to the residential use of the dwelling unit.
Hospice care facility, general means a use primarily engaged in providing inpatient nursing and rehabilitative services for more than six terminally ill patients. The care is generally provided for an extended period of time to individuals requiring nursing care. These establishments have a permanent core staff of registered or licensed practical nurses who, along with other staff, provide nursing and continuous personal care services.
Hospice care facility, limited means a use primarily engaged in providing inpatient nursing and rehabilitative services for up to six terminally ill patients. The care is generally provided for up to six months to individuals requiring nursing care. These establishments have a permanent core staff of registered or licensed practical nurses who, along with other staff, provide nursing and continuous personal care services.
Hospital means a licensed facility in which is provided inpatient health care for people, including general medical and surgical services, psychiatric care and specialty medical facilities. Outpatient facilities within such structures in which such services are provided are included. Other allowed activities include out-patient diagnostic and treatment centers, rehabilitation facilities, office, laboratories, teaching facilities, meeting areas, cafeterias, maintenance and parking facilities.
Hotel means a building in which lodging, or board and lodging, are provided for more than 20 persons and offered to the public for compensation, and in which ingress and egress to and from each sleeping room is made through the interior of the building.
Hunting club means areas reserved for public or private hunting of wildlife and accessory structures in support of those activities.
Individual water well or water supply system means a system of piping, pumps, tanks or other facilities, utilizing groundwater to supply a single-family dwelling.
Industrialized building means any structure or component thereof, which is manufactured in accordance with the Georgia Industrial Building Act and the rules of the commissioner of community affairs issued pursuant thereto and which must bear a seal of approval issued by the commissioner of the department of community affairs.
Inn means a building in which lodging, or board and lodging, are provided and offered to the public for compensation, having no more than 20 guestrooms.
Junked vehicle means any wrecked or nonoperable automobile, truck or other automotive vehicle, which does not bear a current license plate.
Junkyard means any use on public or private property involving the parking, storage or disassembly of junked vehicles, or wrecked or nonoperable automobiles, trucks or other automotive devices; storage, bailing or otherwise dealing in bones, animal hides, scrap iron and other metals; used paper, used cloth, used plumbing fixtures, old stoves, old refrigerators and old household appliances; and used brick, wood or other building materials. These uses shall be considered junkyards whether or not all or part of these operations are conducted inside a building or in conjunction with, in addition to or accessory to other uses of the premises.
Kennel, commercial means any location where sales, boarding, caring for and keeping of cats and dogs is carried on, and also raising, breeding, caring for or boarding dogs, cats or other small animals for commercial purposes.
Kennel, noncommercial means the keeping, breeding, raising, showing, or training of four or more dogs over six months of age for personal enjoyment of the owner or occupants of the property, and for which commercial gain is not an objective.
Landfill, private means an area of land on which or an excavation in which solid waste is placed for permanent disposal and which is not associated with a development permit, surface impoundment, injection well, or compost pile, as those terms are defined by current Georgia Law or current DNR regulations. Private landfills are prohibited anywhere in Putnam County.
Landing strip, private use means an airstrip restricted, except for aircraft emergencies, to use by the owner and, on an infrequent and occasional basis, by invited guests and by commercial aviation activities in connection with permitted uses of the land, including all necessary facilities for the housing and maintenance of aircraft.
Landscaping materials means living trees, shrubs, and ground cover, fences, and other similar natural, decorative and safety lighting features.
Livestock means grazing animals kept either in open fields or structures for training, boarding, home use, sales, or breeding and production, including, but not limited to: cattle; riding and draft horses and hogs.
Livestock sales means a commercial establishment wherein livestock is collected for sale or auctioning.
Loading dock means a space within the main building or on the same lot, providing for the standing, loading or unloading of trucks and other carriers.
Logging means the cutting and removal of trees from their growing site, and the attendant operation of cutting and skidding machinery but not the construction or creation of roads.
Lot means a tract of land in single ownership, which is legally transferable as a single unit of land. The term "lot" is not synonymous with the term "parcel." A lot must meet the requirements of the zoning district in which it is located and must front on a public street or on an approved private street.
Lot, corner means a lot abutting upon two or more streets at their intersection.
Lot, double frontage means a lot having a frontage on two streets, as distinguished from a corner lot.
Lot, frontage means the shortest property line of a lot coincident with a right-of-way line.
Lot, interior means a lot other than a corner lot in a subdivision that front on a subdivision street.
Lot, lease access means the land that Georgia Power owns from the lake or navigable stream to the 350-foot contour line.
Lot, on-lake means any lot that is directly adjacent to a Georgia Power lake or navigable stream or a lease access lot.
Lot coverage means the percentage of a lot, which may be covered with buildings or structures, excluding walks, drives and other similar uses and recreational facilities which are accessory to a permitted use.
Lot of record means a lot which is part of an approved subdivision, a plat of which has been recorded in the office of the clerk of the county superior court; or a parcel of land or a parcel not a part of an approved subdivision the deed of which has been recorded in the office of the clerk of the county superior court prior to the adoption of this chapter and which at the time of its recordation, conformed to all the applicable regulations precedent to the adoption of this chapter.
Lot width is the length of a line drawn parallel to the front property line that is measured at the front setback line.
Manufactured home. See "dwelling, manufactured home."
Manufactured home, installer means a person responsible for performing an installation and who is required to obtain a license pursuant to the provisions of O.C.G.A. § 8-2-164.
Manufactured home lot means a parcel of land in a manufactured home park for the placement of a single manufactured home and for the exclusive use of its occupants.
Manufactured home park means a parcel of land under single ownership on which three or more manufactured homes are located for the purpose of residential use.
Manufactured home, pre-owned means a dwelling unit meeting the definition of "manufactured home" that has been previously used as a residential dwelling and has been titled.
Manufactured home stand means that part of a manufactured home lot which has been reserved for the actual physical placement and tie down of a manufactured home for nontransient use.
Manufacturing, general means the mechanical transformation of predominantly previously prepared materials into new products, including assembly of component parts and the creation of products. Such uses are wholly confined within an enclosed building, do not include processing of hazardous gases and chemicals, and do not emit noxious noise, smoke, vapors, fumes, dust, glare, odor, or vibration that are discernible off the business site.
Manufacturing, heavy means the manufacture or compounding process of raw or partially processed materials. These activities may involve noise, odor, dust, or vibration that is noticeable off the business site and may involve outdoor operations as part of the manufacturing process.
Manufacturing, limited means the processing, fabrication, assembly, and packaging of products predominantly from previously manufactured parts and materials; to be considered limited manufacturing, the use must be small-scale (generally less than 10,000 square feet and with conventional business hours of operation) and low-impact (meaning no noise, odor, vibration, or other discernable impacts external to the building).
Marina means an area on a lake in which boats may be stored or serviced and from which boats and boating supplies, including food, fuel and recreational items, may be purchased or rented.
Maximum square feet means the total allowable floor area that may exist on a lot or in a development.
Meat processing and packaging means a facility where the preparation and storage of animal products for human consumption occurs, but does not include the slaughtering of animals.
Micro-producer means a manufacture of alcoholic beverages including malt beverages, wine, and distilled spirits. A limit of 15,000 barrels per year is established for the production of malt beverages, while production for wine and distilled spirits is limited to no more than 5,000 barrels per year. The maximum allowable space for this facility is 20,000 square feet. And where 25 percent or more of the facility's production is sold directly to the consumer on-site, within a retail shop, bar, tasting room, tap-room, restaurant or other similar facility.
Mini-warehouse means a building or group of buildings in a controlled-access and secured compound that contains varying sizes of individual, compartmentalized and controlled-access stalls or lockers for the dead storage of customers' goods or wares.
Mobile office/sales center means a temporary sales center, in a mobile or "spec" structure, that may be used to market homes during the development and building phase of a subdivision.
Model home means a dwelling used initially for display purposes, which typifies the type of units that will be constructed in the subdivision and complies with this chapter.
Modular home. See "dwelling, modular home."
Motel means a building in which lodging or board and lodging are provided for transient guests and offered to the motoring public for compensation in which ingress and egress to and from all rooms is made primarily from an exterior walkway rather than from an interior lobby.
Natural vegetation means natural vegetation shall connote a generally undisturbed, maintenance-free, self-perpetuating stand of vegetation comprised of indigenous shrubs, flowers, wild grasses and trees.
Natural vegetated area means an undeveloped area largely free from human disturbance where naturally occurring vegetation is allowed to remain undisturbed and can be enhanced and maintained by human intervention.
Non-conforming building or structure means any lawfully existing building or structure which does not conform to this chapter governing the type, bulk, location, height or size of buildings or structures permitted in the district prior to the adoption of or any amendments to this chapter but which is in full compliance with all applicable federal, state and local laws, rules and ordinances, and for which all required federal, state and local permits have been issued.
Non-conforming lot means a lot which does not conform to the lot requirements of the land use intensity district in which the lot is located as established by this chapter, but which was a lot of record prior to the effective date of the ordinance from which this chapter is derived or its amendment.
Non-conforming use means any building or use of land lawfully existing on or before the effective date of the ordinance from which this section is derived or as a result of subsequent amendments to the ordinance from which this chapter is derived, which does not conform with the use provisions of the use district in which it is located and would not otherwise be permissible under the ordinance from which this chapter is derived or its amendment.
Nonresidential use means all commercial, office, institutional, manufacturing, industrial, recreational, and similar uninhabited uses.
Nursery means an operation for the cultivating, harvesting, and sale of plants, bushes, trees, and other nursery items grown on site or established in the ground prior to sale, and for related accessory sales and uses, including appropriate structures.
Office means a use or occupancy by persons generally engaged in rendering personal, executive, sales, or administrative services or activities, including accountants, architects, professional engineers and land surveyors, doctors, lawyers, insurance offices, real estate offices, religious organizations, stock brokers and administrative agencies considered professional in character. The term, however, does not include repairs or sales of tangible personal property stored or located within the building nor any use that would create any loud noise or noxious odors.
Open space means a natural area providing limited human interaction, which may include playgrounds, walking trails, picnic areas, parks or similar uses.
Owner means any person, firm or corporation, or any other legal entities having legal title to the land.
Parcel means a development or undeveloped tract of land in a single ownership, which may be subdivided into individually owned lots. A parcel must meet the requirements of the zoning district in which it is located and must front on a public street or on an approved private street.
Parking means the act of transient parking of vehicles at a retail, commercial, industrial, or residential facility that has regular turnover.
Parking bay means an area where more than one vehicle is parked side by side and, in some configurations front-to-front as well as side-by-side that is most commonly associated with multifamily and commercial uses.
Parking lot/garage means any area designed for temporary accommodation of motor vehicles whether for a fee or as a service.
Parking space means an area where a vehicle is parked.
Patron means an individual or entity that enters into agreement to pay for goods, services, or repair. Once the agreement ends, the patronage also ends.
Permitted use means any use by right which is specifically authorized in a particular zoning district.
Personal care home means an establishment, whether operated for profit or not, which undertakes through its ownership or management to provide or arrange for the provision of housing, food service, and one or more personal services for two or more adults who are not related by blood or marriage to the owner or administrator of the home. The facility must comply with all regulations and requirements of the State of Georgia Department of Human Resources and of the federal government. Personal services include, but is not limited to, individual assistance with or supervision of self-administered medication and essential activities of daily living such as eating, bathing, grooming, dressing, and toileting. This term does not include buildings that are devoted to independent living units that include kitchen facilities where residents have the option of preparing and serving some or all of their own meals or boarding facilities which do not provide personal care. Personal care homes are categorized as follows:
Personal care home, congregate means an establishment for adults offering care to 16 or more persons.
Personal care home, family means an establishment for adults in a family-type residence, non-institutional in character, which offers care to two through six persons.
Personal care home, group means an establishment for adults in a residence or other type building(s), non-institutional in character, which offers care to seven through 15 persons.
Plat means a map, plan or layout of a county, city, town, section or subdivision indicating the surveyed location and boundaries of properties and meeting all requirements to be recorded in the plat records of the Putnam County Superior Court Clerk's Office.
Principal use means the primary purpose for which land, a structure or a building is used.
Private school means an educational use not operated by the Putnam County Board of Education.
Private utility means entities engaged in regularly supplying the public with some commodity or service which is of public consequence or need, not regulated and controlled by a state or federal regulatory commission and which do have the power of eminent domain. Privately owned landfills are treated as a private utility.
Property line, front means the line coincident with the street right-of-way line between the two corners of the property on the street right-of-way line. See "lot frontage" and "setback."
Property line, rear means the line most nearly parallel to the front property line and located between the side property lines.
Property line, side means the lines most nearly parallel to each other running between the front and rear property lines.
Produce stand means a detached accessory structure for the seasonal selling of agricultural produce produced on the premises. Space for parking must be available for customers' vehicles off the public right-of-way. This definition does not include farmers markets.
Public use means any building, structure, or use owned and/or operated by the Federal government, State of Georgia, county, city, or any authority, agency, board, or commission of the above governments, that is necessary to serve a public purpose, such as, but not limited to, the following: government administrative buildings, post offices, police and fire stations, libraries and publicly operated museums, public health facilities and public hospitals, public works camps, parks and community centers, public roads and streets, airports, water and sanitary sewerage intake, collection, pumping, treatment, and storage facilities, emergency medical facilities, and jails and correctional facilities.
Public utility means entities engaged in regularly supplying the public with some commodity or service which is of public consequence or need, regulated and controlled by a state or federal regulatory commission and which many have the power of eminent domain, including, but not limited to: electrical power suppliers, natural gas suppliers, "hard-wired" telephone service providers, cable television providers, and water and sewer service providers. Privately owned landfills are not "public utilities" as defined in this section, and nothing contained herein is intended to convey "public utility" status upon any business simply because it sells a commodity or service and is subject to state and federal regulation.
Public well or water supply system means a system for the provision of piped water to the public for human consumption, if such system has at least 15 service connections, or regularly serves an average of at least 25 individuals daily, at least 60 days out of the year.
Quarry means the removal of rock, minerals and other natural materials, together with the necessary accessory buildings, machinery and appurtenances thereto.
Racetrack means a measured course where animals or machines are entered in competition against one another or against time, including tracks used only in the training of animals.
Recreation, community means a recreational facility that is the principal use of a parcel of land and that is for use by residents and guests of the following: a particular residential development, planned development, church, private primary or secondary educational facility, community affiliated non-profit organization. "Community recreation" can include both indoor and outdoor facilities.
Recreation, indoor means an indoor (entirely within an enclosed structure) use providing for sports and recreational activities. Examples may include gymnasiums; fitness centers; dance/gymnastics/yoga/martial arts' studios; swimming pools; skating rinks; bowling alleys; "bounce houses"; climbing centers; trampoline centers; and billiards' halls.
Recreation, indoor (general) means indoor recreation in a building that is greater than 3,000 square feet.
Recreation, indoor (limited) means indoor recreation in a building that is 3,000 square feet or less.
Recreation, outdoor means an outdoor, or combination indoor/outdoor use, providing for sports and recreational activities. Examples may include neighborhood parks; arboretums and botanical gardens; stadiums, amphitheaters, and arenas; golf driving ranges; swimming pools; ball fields and courts; outdoor archery ranges; canoe, kayak, and water tube launches; and trail complexes.
Recreational vehicle means a vehicular-type unit primarily designed for recreation, camping, travel, or seasonal use which may have its own motive power or is mounted on or towed by another vehicle. The basic entities are travel trailers, folding camping trailers, park trailers, park campers, motor homes, and custom van conversions.
Recreational vehicle park means any use where two or more recreational vehicle sites are located, established, or maintained for occupancy by recreational vehicles or tents, as temporary living quarters for a period of less than 30 days per calendar year by the general public for recreation or vacation purposes.
Rehabilitation facility means a facility operated for the primary purpose of assisting in the rehabilitation of disabled individuals through an integrated program of medical, psychological, social, or vocational evaluation and services under competent professional supervision.
Religious facilities include churches, convents, monasteries and other places of worship. A building wherein persons regularly assemble for religious worship and which is maintained and controlled by a religious body organized to sustain public worship, together with all accessory buildings and uses customarily associated with such primary purpose. Includes synagogue, temple, mosque, or other such place for worship and religious activities.
Rental, long-term means the renting or leasing of a detached, attached or semi-detached single family dwelling unit, not including a boarding house, for long-term occupancy, where the term of occupancy, possession, or tenancy is for 30 or more consecutive calendar days. Renting or leasing, as used herein, means the payment of compensation, money, rent, or other, bargained for consideration in exchange for occupancy, possession or use of the property.
Rental, short-term means the renting or leasing of a detached, attached or semi-detached single-family dwelling unit, not including a boarding house, where the term of occupancy, possession, or tenancy is up to 30 consecutive calendar days. Renting or leasing, as used herein, means the payment of compensation, money, rent, or other, bargained for consideration in exchange for occupancy, possession or use of the property.
Residential district means any district the primary purpose of which is for residential dwelling units.
Restaurant means a facility, where food or drink are served for consumption, either on or off the premises by order from or service to persons either over an interior counter, outside the structure or from an outdoor service window or automobile service window, by delivery, or by order and service at the table inside an enclosed building. It may include inside and outside seating areas.
Retail sales or services, indoor means an establishment that provides goods and/or services directly to the consumer from an enclosed building. Some examples include grocery stores; book stores; gift shops; home improvement stores; furniture stores; pharmacies; jewelry stores; pet stores that sell only products, or only products and small animals that do not make noise or have odors that would be noticeable outside the walls of the building or tenant space (with examples of such animals including birds 12 inches and smaller, fish, amphibians, reptiles, small mammals such as hamsters or gerbils); small consumer repair shops such as, but not limited to, small appliance and equipment repair, locksmiths, and upholsters; and business services such as photocopying and mailing.
Retail sales or services, outdoor means an establishment that provides goods and/or services directly to the consumer outside of an enclosed building. Examples include the sale of storage buildings, gazebos, bulk landscape materials, and retail plant stores. Also, the keeping, in an unroofed area, of any material, merchandise, or vehicles in the same place for more than 24 hours. This facility may contain some indoor sales, but the principal use is outdoor storage.
Retirement community means a building or buildings designed for occupancy primarily for elderly persons, which may contain, for the convenience of its residents, common eating areas, personal/infirmary care, common recreational areas and accessory retail uses.
Riding stable, commercial means a lot with the principle use of a riding stable which may be private or open to the general public; boarding of livestock not involved with current breeding or training; training involving large groups of eight or more students; polo fields or arenas used for scheduled, public, or club events; and those uses permitted on a ranch.
Riding stable, private means a lot with the accessory use of a stable that can only be used as a private facility.
Right-of-way means a portion of land over which a local, state or federal government has designated a right of use.
Right-of-way, future means the rights-of-way of arterial and collector roads as shown on the comprehensive plan.
Road and street network, state system, as periodically categorized and defined by the Georgia Department of Transportation (GDOT):
Road or street, arterial means a high-capacity road with the primary function of delivering traffic from collector roads to freeways, and between urban centers at the highest level of service.
Road or street, collector means a low to moderate-capacity road which serves to move traffic from local streets to arterial roads; also designed to provide access to residential properties.
Road or street, freeway means streets used primarily for fast or heavy through traffic and which are divided with full control of access and no crossing at grade. The required future right-of-way for freeways will be based upon design criteria established by the Georgia Department of Transportation.
Road and street network, county system: The design and construction standards for these roads are found in the development regulations.
Alley means a service way providing a secondary means of access to abutting properties. An alley does not constitute "lot frontage."
Road or street, county arterial means a road that links places of importance such as schools, subdivisions, communities, etc. to towns, cities or other places of importance including arterial roads or other higher classified roads on the state system and serve as important intracounty travel corridors. An arterial on the county roadway network, whose average daily traffic (ADT) count is 2,000 or over shall be considered an arterial road. A list of county arterials is maintained by Putnam County Planning and Development.
Road or street, county collector means streets, which carry traffic from local streets to the major system of arterials or to activity centers. It carries a relatively high traffic volume.
Road or street, local street means it provides the principal means of vehicular access to abutting property and it connects to streets of higher classification such as the state and county systems.
Sanitarian means the legally entitled official of the Putnam County Health Department.
Sanitary disposal station means a facility provided for the emptying of waste-holding tanks.
Sawmill, portable/temporary means a sawmill moved onto one tract of land for purposes of clearing prior to actual permitted development.
Scrap and salvage service means a lot, land, or building, or part thereof primarily engaged in the storage, retail or wholesale sale, assembling, dismantling, sorting, distributing, or other processing of scrap, used equipment, mechanical components, or waste materials. This term excludes impound yards and towing facilities.
Service station means any area of land, including structures thereon, used for the retail sale of gasoline or oil, automotive accessories and incidental services, including facilities for lubricating, hand washing and cleaning, or otherwise servicing automobiles, but excluding painting, major repair or automatic washing. Minor auto repair and maintenance shall include the installation of tires, carburetors, ignition parts and other minor accessory parts as shall be incidental to the normal upkeep of an automobile, but shall not include engine or body dismantling. This use also may include accessory convenience stores.
Setback generally means the minimum required distance between a property line and a building or a structure. Depending on the shape of the property, there could be more than one side setback or no rear or more than one rear but there will always be a front setback.
Setback, front means a line drawn between the two side lot lines, parallel (or as close as practical) to the front property line the minimum distance required by the applicable zoning district.
Setback, rear means a line drawn between the two side lot lines, parallel (or as close as practical) to the front setback line the minimum distance required by the applicable zoning district.
Setback, side means a line drawn parallel to a side lot line the minimum distance required by the applicable zoning district.
Shooting range, indoor means an enclosed structure that is used for the purpose of organized sporting events or practice using arrows, rifles, shotguns, or pistols.
Shooting range, outdoor means an outdoor area that is used for the purpose of organized sporting events or practice using arrows, rifles, shotguns, or pistols.
Sign means any display of words, shapes or images designed to convey a message to the viewer, located on the exterior of any dwelling, building or structure, or located anywhere on a lot upon a dedicated supporting structure or device, including poles, banners, windows and similar devices.
Sign area. See chapter 48 for sign regulations.
Site built construction means a dwelling unit constructed on a building site from basic materials delivered to the site; and which is constructed in accordance with the International Building Code and CABO.
Site plan means a detailed scaled and dimensioned drawing based on a certified boundary survey, showing, but not limited to, the specific locations of all buildings, building elevations, structures, drainageways, roads, internal roadway circulation, means of ingress and egress, recreation areas, parking areas, landscape strips and buffers, public roads and facilities adjacent to the property for which the site plan has been drawn.
Slaughterhouse means a facility for the killing and butchering of animals for their meat and by-products.
Solar energy system means an energy conservation system, including appurtenances, which converts solar energy to a usable form of energy to be used on-site or to transfer to the public electric grid in order to sell electricity to a public utility entity. See chapter 53 for additional information.
Story. See definition in the International Building Code.
Sketch/concept plan means a drawing to scale, based on a certified boundary survey, reflecting the requirements of a rezoning or subdivision or development request.
Storage means the storage of goods or materials. The parking or storage of vehicles, equipment, and merchandise for a period of less than 48 hours does not constitute storage.
Street means a public or private thoroughfare used by vehicular traffic, which may contain public and private utilities and drainage structures.
Structure means anything constructed or erected with a fixed location on or in the ground or attached to something having a fixed location on the ground. Structures include, but are not limited to, the following: site-built buildings, manufactured, mobile and modular homes, swimming pools, and signs.
Subdivider. See "development regulations."
Subdivision is the division of land into two or more parcels. A "major" subdivision is the creation of five or more parcels.
Technical review process may be initiated for certain large scale developments and involves potentially affected federal, state, and county agencies and departments performing an impact analysis pertaining to their area of responsibility and/or expertise. The technical review process is initiated at the discretion of the director of planning and development and a list of participating agencies/departments will be maintained in the planning and development department.
Temporary building means a building used temporarily for the storage of construction materials and equipment incidental and necessary for on-site permitted construction of utilities, or other community facilities, or used temporarily in conjunction with the sale of property within a subdivision under construction. A temporary building is not allowed to serve as a residence at any time, without prior approval from the Director of Planning and Development.
Timber means the growing of trees for the production of timber.
Tiny house means an individual, single-family dwelling unit, less than 600 square feet placed or built on a permanent foundation. Tiny houses on wheels and recreational vehicles are not included in this definition.
Towing facility means establishments primarily engaged in towing light or heavy motor vehicles, both local and long distance. These establishments may provide incidental services, such as storage and emergency road repair services. Any vehicle storage shall be fenced and screened.
Traffic impact analysis or study means an evaluation performed and submitted by the developer to the Putnam County Director of Planning and Development in accordance with this chapter to assess the impact on the existing street system of traffic generated by the proposed development.
Transmission/communications tower means any structure that is designed and constructed primarily for the purpose of supporting one or more antennas, including self-supporting lattice towers, guy towers, or monopole towers. The term includes radio and television transmission towers, microwave towers, common carrier towers, cellular telephone towers, alternative tower structures, and the like. For the purposes of this section the term "communications tower" does not include any tower and antenna under 70 feet in total height which is owned and operated by an amateur radio operator licensed by the Federal Communications Commission, and any device designed for over-the-air reception of radio or television broadcast signals. See chapter 58 for additional information.
Truck stop means a facility for the sale of gasoline and related products for primary use by trucks with more than four wheels and two axles. Such facilities may include, if internal to a structure, restaurants, areas for bathing and retail sales of convenience goods. This establishment may include overnight parking.
Truck or freight terminal means a building or area in which freight brought by truck, air, or ship is assembled and/or stored for routing or reshipment. This facility does not include permanent or long-term accessory storage of goods but may include storage areas for trucks and repair of trucks associated with the facility. This definition includes truck terminals and packing and crating facilities.
Variance means granting a relief from the requirements of this chapter that permits construction in a matter otherwise prohibited by this chapter because of special circumstances applicable to the specific property and whereas strict application of the ordinance deprives such property of privileges commonly enjoyed by other properties in the same vicinity that is under identical zoning.
Variance area means a minimal relaxation or modification of the strict terms of the height, area, placement, setback, and buffer requirements as applied to a specific property when, because of particular physical surroundings, shape, or topographical condition of the property, not due to the fault of the owner of said property, compliance would result in a particular hardship upon the owner, as distinguished from a mere inconvenience or a desire to make a profit.
Vehicle and other storage means an establishment offering long- or short-term storage of operating vehicles/equipment or vehicles/equipment contracted for repair. This term excludes impound yards, towing facilities, and any dismantling, scrap and salvage service, or junked vehicle yards.
Wholesale and warehousing, general means an establishment involved in storage, or the sale and distribution of goods to other locations for ultimate use or sale, as well as similar uses involving high turnover or large-scale storage of goods and equipment. This may also include a cold storage plant, which is a use involved with the freezing or storing of frozen food products. Businesses may or may not be open to the general public. While retail sales are a permitted accessory use, sales are predominantly to businesses, contractors, and other wholesale customers. Products are generally delivered to the customer with limited will-call pick-up on site.
Wholesale and warehousing, limited means an establishment involved in smaller-scale storage or the sale and distribution of goods to other locations for ultimate use or sale. Limited wholesale and warehouse uses are generally less than 30,000 square feet in area, and generally operate less than 16 hours a day. Such uses may include distributor showrooms designed to display products for selection by customers. While retail sales are a permitted accessory use, sales are predominantly to businesses, contractors, and other wholesale customers. Products are generally delivered to the customer, although there may be provisions for customer pick-up.
Workshop, limited means an establishment, with 3,000 square feet or less of gross floor area, primarily engaged in light industrial tasks such as farm equipment repair, welding, woodworking, carpentry, or other similar trades.
Yard means that area of a lot between the principal building and adjoining lot lines, unoccupied and unobstructed by any portion of a structure from the ground upward. A yard shall not be confused with a setback. See "setback" for further information.
(Res. of 7-17-2007(4); Amend. of 3-18-2008; Amend. of 11-16-2010; Amend. of 4-17-2012(2); Amend. of 9-17-2013(2) ; Ord. of 9-15-2020(1) ; Ord. of 12-4-2020(1) ; Ord. of 12-3-2021(1) )
Secs. 66-21—66-30. - Reserved.
