MHP MANUFACTURED HOME PARK DISTRICT

Sec. 66-86. - Purpose.
Manufactured home park district, abbreviated in this division as MHP, is a parcel of land under single ownership on which three or more manufactured homes are located for the purpose of residential use and does not include sales, manufacture or storage of such units.
(Res. of 7-17-2007(4))
Sec. 66-87. - Uses allowed.
The uses allowed in the MHP zoning district as a matter of right are subject to section 66-34, general requirements of this article, to performance standards of article III, and to the requirements and development standards of this district. Uses not listed herein are not permitted in this district, except as provided in section 66-36, undefined uses, of this article. Consult article III, performance standards, or the other zoning districts if the use you seek is not listed in this district.
(a)
Allowed uses.
Religious facilities.
Dwelling, single-family detached dwelling for exclusive use of owner/manager residing on site.
Dwelling, manufactured homes.
Recreational vehicles, less than 30 days.
(b)
Accessory uses and structures incidental to any permitted use within the park.
Animals, domestic.
Home occupation.
Dock, community.
Recreation, community.
Child home day care center.
Laundry facility for the exclusive use of manufactured home park tenants.
Recreation, outdoor.
Convenience store, limited for the exclusive use of the MHP residents.
Solar energy system: See chapter 53.
Swimming pool, private.
Golf course, tennis center, swimming center, or country club.
Tiny house.
Water treatment plant, private.
(Res. of 7-17-2007(4); Amend. of 4-17-2012(2); Ord. of 12-4-2020(1) )
Sec. 66-88. - Development standards.
(a)
Development standards for total MHP area.
(1)
Minimum MHP lot area: Ten acres.
(2)
Maximum density: Five manufactured homes per acre.
(3)
Minimum MHP setback requirements (before individual lots are established):
From state/federal highway: 150 feet.
From county roadway: 100 feet.
Front: 50 feet.
Sides: 25 feet, 100 feet if the side abuts other R districts.
Rear: 40 feet, 100 feet if the side abuts other R districts.
Setback from Lake Sinclair, Lake Oconee, creek or river: 100 feet.
(4)
Minimum open space requirement: 15 percent, which may include recreational uses.
(5)
Internal street requirements: Streets within MHPs shall be privately owned, constructed and maintained. Streets shall be constructed in accordance with chapter 28, development regulations, for local streets and shall provide direct accessibility to each lot and residential unit. No lot or unit shall be accessible except by way of an internal street. Internal streets shall have a minimum of a 40-foot right-of-way and a minimum of 20 feet of paved surface.
(6)
Parking and traffic requirements:
a.
Minimum width of the entrance to the manufactured home park shall be 50 feet.
b.
Parking spaces: Two per manufactured home space.
c.
Internal driveways must be paved and have a minimum width of 12 feet.
(7)
Buffer or berm: 25 feet (or 50 feet when adjacent to other R or RM districts) densely planted with evergreen and hedge-type shrubs designed to provide full screening on the park.
(8)
Illumination: Street lighting shall be provided not less than every 250 feet to ensure the safe movement of pedestrians and vehicles at night. Such lighting shall not create a direct glare into surrounding residential areas.
(9)
Unit requirements: See chapter 18, buildings and building regulations.
(10)
Recreational vehicles: See RV park guidelines in article III, performance standards.
(11)
Commercial uses: If permitted accessory commercial uses are developed on the site, those uses must comply with the setback, buffer, minimum lot size and minimum lot width of the C-1 district in this article. Any portion of a manufactured home park tract used for such purposes cannot be counted as available acreage for purposes of calculating dwelling unit density. No more than ten percent of the park may be used for commercial purposes.
(12)
Maximum lot coverage by impervious surface: 35 percent.
(b)
Minimum development standards for each manufactured home lot: Each home shall be located on an individual lot. Each lot shall have all corners clearly marked. Each lot shall have the parking areas required in this section and, in addition, shall have a concrete patio of at least 100 square feet, which shall be convenient to the entrance of the home. In no event shall the home and parking areas cover more than one-third of the space of the individual lot.
(1)
Minimum lot area: 8,600 square feet.
(2)
Minimum lot width at building setback line: 50 feet.
(3)
Minimum lot depth: 80 feet.
(4)
Minimum required setbacks/yards:
a.
From right-of-way of interior streets: 25 feet.
b.
From adjacent units: 20 feet end-to-end, and 40 feet side-to-side.
(c)
Accessory buildings: Maximum of two per lot, excluding one garage, or carport and one well house.
(Res. of 7-17-2007(4); Amend. of 4-17-2012(2); Amend. of 9-17-2013(2) ; Ord. of 12-4-2020(1) )
