ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 10-1. - Definitions.
Words, terms and phrases used in this chapter, and/or the technical codes adopted by reference in this chapter, shall have the following meanings, unless the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Board of adjustment and appeals or the board of appeals means a hearing board consisting of the board of commissioners making determinations on appeals from the decisions and interpretations of the building official and considering requests for building variances from the construction standards in the technical codes.
Board of examiners means the board of examiners for gas serviceperson's responsible for examining all applicants for a gas serviceperson's license and certifying to the gas inspector any applicant eligible to receive such a license.
Building official or building inspector means the building inspector of the city his or her designee, or any other qualified person designated by the board of commissioners to administer and enforce the provisions of this chapter; and includes and may be substituted for the term "electrical official," "gas official," "plumbing official," or "housing official" in every case where the board of commissioners has either chosen not to specifically appoint such trade official or has failed to do so.
Consumer means any person using gas, including gas for residential, commercial or industrial purposes or any combination of such purposes.
Corporation counsel means the city attorney.
Gas means artificial gas, natural gas or mixed gas consisting of both artificial and natural gas, undiluted liquefied petroleum gas and butane gas.
Gas appliance means any domestic appliance, such as a stove, heater, burner, water heater or other appliance or device, used for burning gas or using gas in its operation.
Gas company means a person or firm holding and exercising a franchise, license or permit to distribute gas within the gas service area of the city. The term "gas company" includes the gas division of the utility department of the city.
Gas facility means piping, fittings, meters and other facilities used for the distribution, transmission or delivery of gas to, or for use in, gas appliances.
Gas inspector means the gas inspector of the city.
Gas serviceperson means any person who constructs, installs, extends, alters or repairs any gas facility or gas appliance.
Municipality or applicable jurisdiction means the city.
Permittee means a person having a valid permit issued under the city gas code.
Vent or vent connector means a pipe, flue or chimney designed or installed to carry the products of combustion from a gas appliance to the outside atmosphere.
(Code 1962, §§ 5-2, 11-2; Code 1986, §§ 5-42, 5-77)
Sec. 10-2. - References to officials in adopted technical codes.
Where reference is made to the duties of certain officials named within the technical codes which are adopted by reference in this chapter, then that designated official of the city or of the county, who has duties corresponding to those of the named official in said technical code, shall be deemed to be the responsible official insofar as enforcing the provisions of that technical code are concerned.
Sec. 10-3. - Fees for permits and inspections required by chapter.
The fees for permits and inspections required by this chapter or any code adopted by this chapter shall be such as are, from time to time, prescribed by the board of commissioners.
(Code 1986, § 5-1)
Secs. 10-4—10-28. - Reserved.
