ARTICLE II. - BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS[2]
Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
State Law reference— County governing authorities, O.C.G.A. § 36-5-20 et seq.; public officers and employees, O.C.G.A. § 45-1-1 et seq.

DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Sec. 2-19. - References to local act.
As used in this chapter, all references to the act establishing the board of commissioners shall mean that certain act designated as 2003 Ga. Laws (Act No. 289), p. 4358.
Sec. 2-20. - Exercise of governmental authority.
Except as otherwise provided in this Code or by state law, the governmental powers of the county shall be exercised by the board of commissioners in the manner provided by state law, by the legislative act creating the board of commissioners, and by the provisions of this chapter, all as may be amended from time to time.
State Law reference— Jurisdiction of county governing authorities, O.C.G.A. § 36-5-22.1.
Sec. 2-21. - Composition of board; qualifications; oath; bond; vacancies; compensation.
The county board of commissioners shall consist of five members as provided in the act creating the board. Each member shall meet the qualifications provided in the act and, before entering upon his duties as a board member, shall take the oath and provide the bond required by the act. Each member shall receive the compensation provided in the act. Vacancies in office shall be filled as provided in the act.
State Law reference— Qualifications for public office, O.C.G.A. § 45-2-1 et seq.; official oaths of public officers, O.C.G.A. § 45-3-1 et seq.; official bonds of public officers, O.C.G.A. § 45-4-1 et seq.; vacancies in office of county governing authority, O.C.G.A. § 36-5-21; compensation of county governing authorities and chief executive officers, O.C.G.A. § 36-5-24; cost of living or general performance based increases in compensation of county governing authorities, O.C.G.A. § 36-5-28 et seq.; periodic increases in compensation of county governing board members established by general or local law, O.C.G.A. § 36-5-29.
Sec. 2-22. - Authority of board.
The board of commissioners shall have all power conferred on it by the act establishing the board, state statute, and state constitution, as they may be amended from time to time.
Secs. 2-23—2-47. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - MEETINGS[3]

Footnotes:
--- (3) ---
State Law reference— Open meetings and notice of meetings required, O.C.G.A. § 50-14-1; meetings of governing bodies of counties and municipalities to be open, O.C.G.A. § 36-80-1; conduct of members of local authorities, O.C.G.A. § 36-62A-1 et seq.; procedure for closing meetings, O.C.G.A. § 50-14-4.

Sec. 2-48. - Regular meetings; calling special meetings; open to public.
(a)
Regular meetings. The board of commissioners shall hold regular meetings on the fourth Tuesday of each month in the courtroom of the Rabun County Courthouse located at 25 Courthouse Square, Clayton, Georgia.
(b)
Special meetings. The chairperson or any three members of the board of commissioners may convene the board whenever the chairperson or the two members deem that the public business demands it.
(c)
Work sessions. The board of commissioners may conduct work sessions at its pleasure for the purpose of reviewing matter brought to its attention, which shall be open to the public.
(d)
Open to public. All meetings at which official actions are to be taken shall be open to the public.
Sec. 2-49. - Rules of procedure.
The board of commissioners recognizes and respects the rights of citizens to attend meetings and to address and/or discuss actions and considerations of the board. As the elected governing authority of the county, the board has a duty to all of the people of the county, including those who may not be present. To promote an orderly and businesslike atmosphere in which to conduct the county's business, the board has adopted the following rules of procedure:
(1)
Call to order. The chairperson, or, in the chairperson's absence, the vice-chairperson, shall take the chair at the hour appointed for any regular, temporarily adjourned, special or called meeting, and shall immediately call the board to order.
(2)
Agenda.
a.
Anyone requesting to be placed on the agenda must contact the board of commissioners' office at least one week prior to the day of the meeting. The cutoff to be added to the agenda will be 5:00 p.m. on Monday prior to the next regularly scheduled meeting. An agenda request application must be completed either in person or via the telephone.
b.
Departmental items to be considered for the agenda must include a completed county department agenda request form by the department head. These forms are available in the county clerk's office and must be completed and submitted to the county clerk at least one week prior to the day of the meeting.
c.
A special time will be allowed before adjournment of the meeting for citizens' comments. This is an opportunity for the citizens to be heard. However, the board of commissioners will not take any action.
d.
Items brought before the board of commissioners for the first time and asked to be voted upon at that same meeting will be subject to public comment prior to the vote.
(3)
Attendance record. The county clerk shall enter in the minutes the names of commissioners who are present and those who are absent.
(4)
Quorum. A majority of all the members elected to the board of commissioners shall constitute a quorum at any regular or special meeting, and an affirmative vote of a majority of the board shall be sufficient to permit the conduct of all business. A majority of the board comprises three or more members.
(5)
Approval of minutes. Unless a reading of the minutes of a meeting is requested by a commissioner, such minutes may be approved without a reading if the county clerk has previously furnished each member with a copy not later than the Friday preceding the next meeting.
(6)
Reports by committees. Any business coming before the board may be referred to a committee of one or more commissioners or to a department head for further study. It shall be the duty of each such committee to make a timely report on matters referred to it.
(7)
Addressing the board.
a.
Statements and comments will be addressed to the board of commissioners. Questions shall be directed to the chair.
b.
Anyone addressing the board shall stand and state his name and address for the record. In cases of large attendance, participants or speakers may be asked to come to the front when recognized by the chair.
c.
Statements will be limited to three minutes. Any followup statement will be limited to one minute; provided, however, in zoning questions, each side is allotted ten minutes.
d.
When a person finishes a statement or question, the person shall be seated.
e.
A person shall not speak more than twice on an item before the commission unless that person is directly involved in the matter before the board.
f.
A group or association shall designate a spokesperson.
g.
The chair shall restate motions prior to calling for a vote.
h.
No further discussion from the audience will be permitted following a call for the vote.
i.
The chair or a commissioner can terminate discussion of any item or statement at any time it is deemed irrelevant or repetitious.
(8)
Recording vote. The yeas and nays of the board of commissioners present shall be recorded on the minutes on any vote taken.
(9)
Ordinances, resolutions and actions of board.
a.
Any requested action or resolution shall be presented in writing to the clerk of the board of commissioners and shall be subject to the same cutoff dates as mentioned in subsection (2) of this section for distribution to the board, county administrator and county attorney.
b.
Any resolution or ordinance proposed for codification shall be written in ordinance form.
c.
Copies of any proposed ordinance, other than a zoning amendment, shall be made available to each board member, the county attorney, county administrator and the county clerk, and be available for public inspection at least 15 days prior to adoption.
(10)
Meetings; consent agenda setting. Routine agenda items may be placed on the consent agenda for the regular meeting to be held on the fourth Tuesday of each month. All such items placed upon the consent agenda may be acted upon at one time by motion, second, and unanimous vote of the board of commissioners at its regular meeting. Any item that may require discussion may be removed from the consent agenda and added as a discussion item on the agenda.
(11)
Rezone presentation procedures. The following order will be observed:
a.
All individuals wishing to address the board of commissioners are required to sign up in advance of the meeting.
b.
The use of a spokesperson representing specific groups is encouraged to speed proceedings. Those identified as such will be allowed to speak in advance of other individuals at the appropriate time.
c.
Rezone petition presentation by the planning staff shall have unlimited time.
d.
Presentation by the applicant and comments from the public for the rezone petition shall be ten minutes.
e.
Comments from the public against the rezone petition shall be ten minutes.
f.
Rebuttal by the applicant. Time is included as part of the ten-minute allotment for petition.
g.
Should proponents or opponents of a rezone issue utilize less than ten minutes of their allotted ten-minute time frame, the chair shall have the discretion to open the floor for additional speakers.
h.
At the conclusion of the ten-minute time allocation for proponent and opponent speakers, subsequent speakers shall be restricted to one minute each. The chair shall have the discretion to terminate repetitious comments or comments that are deemed not to be germane and to provide an equal time allocation to each side.
i.
Questions by the board of commissioners of the planning staff, the applicant and/or public.
j.
Vote by the board of commissioners on the rezone petition.
(12)
Meetings; general conduct and management. The chair is responsible for the conduct of the meetings of the board of commissioners, and as such may exercise reasonable and appropriate discretion in the management of the meeting to maintain decorum, fairness, and allocation of time.
(Mo. of 3-14-1977)
State Law reference— Meeting agenda required, O.C.G.A. § 50-14-1.
Sec. 2-50. - Adoption of ordinances, resolutions, contracts and agreements.
Unless otherwise provided in this Code, all ordinances, resolutions, contracts and agreements of the county shall be prepared, approved, introduced and adopted in the following manner:
(1)
Preparation. All ordinances shall be prepared by the county attorney. No ordinance shall be prepared for presentation to the board of commissioners unless ordered by a majority vote of a quorum of the board, or requested in writing by the chairperson, or by the county attorney on such attorney's own initiative.
(2)
Administrative staff approval. All ordinances, resolutions, contract documents and agreements, before presentation to the board, shall have been approved as to form and legality by the county attorney.
(3)
Introduction. Ordinances, resolutions and other matters or subjects requiring action by the board of commissioners must be introduced and sponsored by a member of the board, except that the county attorney may present ordinances, resolutions and other matters or subjects to the board, and any commissioner may assume sponsorship thereof by moving that such ordinances, resolutions, matters, or subjects be adopted.
(4)
Adoption. The adoption of any ordinance, resolution, or other action of the board shall require a majority affirmance of the board of commissioners.
Sec. 2-51. - Minutes.
The board of commissioners shall appoint a county clerk, who shall keep a proper and accurate book of minutes. The book of minutes of the board of commissioners shall contain all the acts, orders, and proceedings of the board of commissioners in chronological order. The minutes books of the board of commissioners shall be open to the public for inspection at all times during regular office hours; and certified copies of any entries in the minutes books shall be furnished by the clerk to any person requesting same upon payment of a reasonable fee, to be paid into the county treasury as are other funds, to be assessed by the board of commissioners in an amount sufficient to defray the cost of preparing same.
State Law reference— Minutes of county governing authority, O.C.G.A. § 36-1-25.
Secs. 2-52—2-75. - Reserved.
DIVISION 3. - CHAIRPERSON

Sec. 2-76. - Election; term.
At the first annual meeting of the board of commissioners each year, the board shall elect from its members a chairperson of the board of commissioners, who shall serve for a term of one year.
Secs. 2-77—2-95. - Reserved.
