ARTICLE I. - BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS CREATED[1]

Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Editor's note— Printed herein is 2003 Ga. Laws (Act No. 289), p. 4358, establishing the county board of commissioners. The absence of a subsequent history note indicates that the provision remains unchanged from the original Act. Obvious misspellings have been corrected without notation. For stylistic purposes, a uniform system of headings, catchlines and citations to state statutes has been used. Enactment, severability, repealer, transitional, ratification, publication and effective date provisions have been omitted, and where a section has been amended or repealed by a later provision, only the current language has been printed. Additions made for clarity are indicated by brackets.

Sec. 1. - Established.
There shall be a Board of Commissioners of Rabun County as provided for in this Act. The board of commissioners shall be the successor to and continuation of the existing Board of Commissioners of Rabun County and shall continue to have the obligations and liabilities of the board of commissioners as it existed immediately prior to the effective date of this Act. The board of commissioners shall constitute the governing authority of Rabun County and shall exercise the powers, duties, and responsibilities vested in and upon said officers by the provisions of this Act. The term "board," whenever used in this Act, shall mean the Board of Commissioners of Rabun County, including the chairperson and all members.
Sec. 2. - Board membership.
(a)
The Board of Commissioners of Rabun County shall consist of four district commissioners and one at-large commissioner. The four district commissioners shall be residents of their respective commissioner districts described in subsection (b) of this section but shall be elected at large as provided in Section 3 of this Act. The at-large commissioner shall be elected at large as provided in Section 3 of this Act.
(b)
For the purpose of electing members of the board of commissioners, Rabun County shall be divided into four commissioner districts. The at-large commissioner shall be designated as representing District 1; and the other four districts shall be numbered as Districts 2, 3, 4, and 5. One member of the board shall be elected for each such district. Those districts shall consist of the described territory of Rabun County described as follows:
EXPAND
COMMISSIONER DISTRICT 1: At-large District Covering Entire County
COMMISSIONER DISTRICT 2: NORTH: Bordered by NC/GA State Line
SOUTH: Bordered by Centerline of Warwoman Road Beginning At US 441 Intersection and By Centerline of US 28 South of Warwoman Road Intersection
EAST: Bordered By SC/GA State Line
WEST: Bordered By Centerline of US 441 Beginning At Warwoman Road Intersection in Clayton
COMMISSIONER DISTRICT 3: NORTH: Bordered By Centerline of Warwoman Road Beginning At US 441 Intersection And By Centerline of US 28 South of Warwoman Road Intersection
SOUTH: Bordered By Habersham/Rabun County Line
EAST: Bordered By SC/GA State Line
WEST: Bordered By Centerline of US 441 Beginning At Warwoman Road Intersection In Clayton
COMMISSIONER DISTRICT 4: NORTH: Bordered By Centerline of US 76 W Beginning At US 441 Intersection In Clayton
SOUTH: Bordered By Habersham/Rabun County Line
EAST: Bordered By Centerline of US 441 Beginning At US 76 W Intersection In Clayton
WEST: Bordered By Towns - Habersham/Rabun County Line
COMMISSIONER DISTRICT 5: NORTH: Bordered By NC/GA State Line
SOUTH: Bordered By Centerline of US 76 W Beginning At US 441 Intersection In Clayton
EAST: Bordered By Centerline of US 441 Beginning At US 76 W Intersection In Clayton
WEST: Bordered By Towns/Rabun County Line
  (c)
For purposes of the commissioner districts described in subsection (b) of this section:
(1)
Any part of Rabun County which is not included in any commissioner district described in subsection (b) of this section shall be included within that commissioner district contiguous to such part which contains the least population according to the United States decennial census of 2000 for the State of Georgia; and
(2)
Any part of Rabun County which is described in subsection (b) of this section as being included in a particular commissioner district shall nevertheless not be included within such commissioner district if such part is not contiguous to such commissioner district. Such noncontiguous part shall instead be included within that commissioner district contiguous to such part which contains the least population according to the United States decennial census of 2000 for the State of Georgia.
(d)
At the 2004 general election the at-large commissioner and two district commissioners from districts 2 and 3 shall be elected to be voted on by the qualified voters of the entire county. Such members of the board shall take office on the first day of January following said election. The members from districts 2 and 3 and the at-large commissioner shall serve for a term of four years and until their successors are elected and qualified. Successors to such members and future successors shall be elected at the general election in the year in which their respective terms of office expire and shall take office on January 1 following said election for a term of four years and until their successors are duly elected and qualified.
(e)
The two commissioners who were elected at the 2002 general election under prior law and whose terms began January 1, 2003, shall continue to serve the terms of office to which they were elected. These two commissioners, Eston Melton and Virgil Kilby, shall be deemed to be district commissioners representing districts 4 and 5, respectively, as such districts are defined in subsection (b) of this section. Successors to such two district commissioners shall be elected at the general election next preceding the expiration of their terms of office and shall take office on January 1 following said election for a term of four years and until their successors are duly elected and qualified. In the event of a vacancy prior to the expiration of term of office of either of these existing commissioners, such vacancy shall be filled in accordance with Section 6 of this Act and by a resident of such vacated district, as such district is defined in subsection (b) of this section.
Sec. 3. - Eligibility.
Any person, to be eligible to serve as a member of the board, must be at least 25 years of age on the date of the election, must have resided in Rabun County for at least one year immediately preceding the date of the election, must be qualified to vote for the members of the General Assembly, and must receive the requisite number of the votes cast for that office by the electors of the entire county. Each district commissioner must be a resident of the commissioner district from which he or she offers for election. The at-large commissioner must be a resident of Rabun County.
Sec. 4. - Oath.
Before entering upon his or her duties as a member of the board, such member shall take an oath to faithfully perform his or her duties in accordance with the provisions of this Act, the Constitution, and the laws of the State of Georgia. Such oath shall be administered by any person authorized to administer oaths.
Sec. 5. - Bond required.
Before entering upon the discharge of his or her duties, each member of the board and the clerk hereinafter provided for shall each give bond in the sum of $10,000.00 with a reputable surety company authorized to do business in Georgia as surety, payable to the probate judge of Rabun County, for the use of Rabun County. Such bond shall be conditioned for the satisfactory performance, by each of the members and the clerk, of the duties of his or her office and for a true accounting of all moneys and effects of said county coming under his or her custody, possession, or control. Such bond shall be filed in the office of the probate judge and shall be recorded upon his or her minutes. The premium on each bond shall be paid from the funds of Rabun County.
Sec. 6. - Vacancy.
In the event a vacancy occurs on the board for any reason other than the expiration of the member's term of office, such vacancy shall be filled by a special election called by the probate judge, if the vacancy occurs with more than one year left in said term. The election shall be called and held under the laws relating to special elections, but the election shall be held not more than 60 days after the vacancy occurs. If there is less than one year left in said term, the four remaining members of the board shall appoint a member to fill the unexpired term.
Sec. 7. - Compensation.
The four members of the board other than the chairperson shall be compensated in the amount of $450.00 per month and the chairperson shall be compensated in the amount of $600.00 per month, such compensation to be paid in equal monthly installments from the funds of Rabun County. Each member of the board and the chairperson shall be compensated for actual expenses incurred while on official business of the county, which reimbursement for expenses shall be approved by the board prior to payment.
Editor's note— O.C.G.A. § 36-5-29 authorizes periodic increases in the compensation of members of a county governing authority established by local or general law.
Sec. 8. - Chairperson; supervisor of roads.
(a)
A chairperson shall be elected at the first meeting of the board in each year by the members of the board, and shall serve for a term of one year.
(b)
The board shall appoint a supervisor of roads, who shall serve at the pleasure of the board, shall perform such duties as may be assigned by the board, and shall be compensated in an amount set by the board.
Sec. 9. - Meetings.
The board shall hold a regular meeting once each month on a specific day in such month, which day shall be set by the board at its first regular meeting of each year. The board may, at its first regular monthly meeting following approval of this Act, set the days for its monthly meetings for the remainder of the calendar year. The board may continue its meetings from day to day and may hold other meetings as deemed advisable upon the call of the chairperson or upon the call of any three of the members. The board shall maintain an office at the courthouse of Rabun County.
Sec. 10. - Quorum.
Three members of the board shall constitute a quorum and no action shall be taken by the board without the concurring vote of at least three members of said board. The chairperson of said board shall preside at meetings and shall perform such duties and have such powers as are or may be conferred upon him or her by law or authorized by said board and shall at each regular meeting of said board submit a report of the condition of the county affairs and make to said board such recommendations as he or she may deem proper.
Sec. 11. - Clerk.
The board is authorized to employ a clerk to be compensated in an amount to be determined by the board, to be paid from the funds of Rabun County in equal monthly installments. It shall be the duty of the clerk to keep the minutes and records of all proceedings of the board and to discharge such other duties as the board may prescribe.
Editor's note— The schedule for payment of the clerk's compensation has been changed from time to time since enactment of this section and is no longer paid in monthly installments.
Sec. 12. - Powers.
(a)
In addition to all of the powers bestowed by the law of Georgia, the board shall have exclusive power and control over public roads and bridges; the levying and collection of taxes, fees, and penalties as allowable by law; the management, collection, control, and disbursing of county funds; the erection, repair, management, and maintenance of public buildings; the establishing, abolishing, and changing of election precincts and establishing the number and location of polling places in the several precincts; the auditing of books and records of all county officials; the settling of all claims against or for the county; the management, control, purchase, and sale of assets and property; the creation, hiring, management, and control over all county employees; and the creation of rules of procedure to govern the board, organize itself, and establish the powers and duties of the chairperson and remaining members.
(b)
The board shall establish rules and regulations for the expenditure of all funds, for securing written reports from all other county officers, which shall contain proposed salaries and expenses for office operations on an itemized basis, and for submitting an annual budget broken down into quarterly amounts. The board shall study and act on all budget requests, making changes that are fiscally sound and in the best interests of the county.
Editor's note— The power to change election precincts and establish the number and location of polling places within the precincts, among other powers and duties, was assigned to the Board of Elections and Registration of Rabun County by 2006 Ga. Laws (Act No. 495), p. 3712 [Article VII of the Local Acts].
Sec. 13. - County attorney.
The board shall have the authority to employ a competent attorney at law as county attorney to advise the board and represent Rabun County in such matters as the board may direct, which county attorney shall serve at the pleasure of the board and shall be compensated out of the funds of Rabun County as approved by the board. Whenever it is deemed necessary, said board may employ additional counsel to assist the county attorney, who shall be paid such compensation out of the funds of Rabun County as approved by the board.
Sec. 14. - Fiscal year.
The fiscal year of the county shall begin on the first day of July and end on the last day of June of the succeeding year. The board shall have a complete and independent audit in compliance with generally accepted audit standards performed annually by a qualified external auditor in accordance with Code Section 36-81-7 of the O.C.G.A [O.C.G.A. § 36-81-7]. The audit will be accepted by the board at a regular or special meeting and made available for inspection by any interested person during regular business hours.
Sec. 15. - Employee salaries.
The board shall establish the salary and pay scale of all employees of Rabun County, except elected officials whose salary is set by local or general law, and shall specifically set the salary and salary scale for all clerical employees of Rabun County. The board shall, in establishing such salaries and salary scales, take into consideration the prevailing compensation for such services being paid by private industry and business in Rabun County and by other counties within the State of Georgia and the recommendations of the office holder or person having immediate supervision of such employee. The decision and determination of the board in setting and establishing such salary and salary scale shall be final.
Sec. 16. - Insurance.
(a)
Rabun County is authorized in the discretion of the board to become a self-insurer against all claims incurred by reason of liability to a third party or parties and losses by reason of fire, windstorm, and providential cause and other comprehensive damages to its property and for each and every other contingency against which the board may in its discretion elect to insure.
(b)
Rabun County is authorized through the board to levy taxes for the funding and payment of costs for such self-insurance if the same is implemented and which funds may be established as continuing and perpetual reserves.
(c)
Nothing in this Act shall be construed as waiving any immunity or privilege of any kind now or hereafter enjoyed by Rabun County or any member of the board thereof or any supervisor, administrator, employee, or other elected or appointed officer nor of any public body, board, agency, or other instrumentality of said county, so that all such immunities and privileges from liability now held by such county shall continue to be of full force and effect after the passage of this Act.
(d)
Any self-insurance program thus inaugurated by Rabun County through the board shall be in the sole discretion of the board in all respects as to its coverage. The board is, however, specifically granted the authority to utilize such self-insurance program in providing liability insurance for members of such board, supervisors, administrators, employees, or other elected or appointed officers against personal liability as is provided in Article 2 of Chapter 9 of Title 45 of the O.C.G.A., as now or hereafter amended [O.C.G.A. § 45-9-20 et seq.].
(e)
Such self-insurance program may be implemented by resolution of the board, which resolution shall specifically set forth the purposes for which such self-insurance is maintained; the amount of funds allocated to such program for the year in which the same is established; the intent as to the future allocation of funds for such program; the amounts or percentages of such reserve thus established to be made available for the payment of claims against such reserve including, but not limited to, any such amount or percentage which may be allocated for payment of the claim of any one individual, the payment of the claim for any one incident, and, in the discretion of the board, payment of the claim for property damage or other specific damages.
(f)
The board may extend the provisions of such self-insurance program as to any part or all of its coverages to any other governmental agency of Rabun County including, but not limited to, the Hospital Authority of Rabun County. The board is further authorized in its discretion to participate with any such agency of Rabun County in the providing of such self-insurance program upon such basis as may be mutually agreeable between or among such participating agencies.
(g)
Nothing in this Act shall constitute a prohibition against Rabun County or any agency thereof from the purchasing of any contract of insurance whether liability, comprehensive, official bond, or other contract. It is the intent of this subsection that Rabun County may utilize such self-insurance program to provide partial coverage of its insurance needs and may purchase contracts of insurance for a portion of its insurance needs.
(h)
Rabun County is authorized by the General Assembly of Georgia to waive its immunity from legal complaint or claim up to the amounts of its reserve in such self-insurance program and in accordance with the limits of its coverage thereunder as set forth in its resolution establishing such program. Any such waiver of immunity must be by specific resolution of the board.
(i)
All such funds collected by the levy of taxes or other revenue by the board setting up such self-insurance program shall become and be the funds of Rabun County unless the same are paid or disbursed in accordance with the plan of self-insurance. The board establishing such plan of self-insurance may terminate the same at any time at its sole discretion, provided that, upon such termination, there shall be retained in the reserve account of said program a sum reasonably sufficient to pay any known claims which may at the time of termination be pending against Rabun County and which are within the class of claims and limits as to amount for which such self-insurance program is maintained. Any funds retained in the reserve subsequent to termination and not paid to a claimant shall be paid into the general fund of Rabun County upon resolution of such pending claim or when such claims become barred by the statute of limitations. All funds removed from such reserve upon partial or complete termination of such program shall be paid into the general fund of Rabun County and shall be disbursed and accounted for as are other funds.
