Chapter 4 - ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
State Law reference— Georgia Alcoholic Beverage Code, O.C.G.A. § 3-1-1 et seq.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 4-1. - Definitions.
The definitions set forth in O.C.G.A. § 3-1-2 ("Alcoholic Beverages - General Provisions - Definitions") shall be effective as definitions of the words, terms and phrases used in this chapter. All words, terms and phrases used herein, other than those specifically defined elsewhere in this chapter, shall have the respective meanings ascribed to them in O.C.G.A. § 3-1-2, and shall have the same scope and effect that the same words, terms and phrases have where used in O.C.G.A. § 3-1-2.
Sec. 4-2. - Unlawful possession.
It shall be a violation of this Code to possess alcoholic beverages other than malt beverages and wine in the city contrary to any provision of state law or of this Code.
(Code 1973, § 3-1)
Sec. 4-3. - Being under influence of liquor, drugs prohibited; possession in public place.
All persons found under the influence of intoxicating liquors or drugs or in possession of such liquors as are prohibited by law in any public place in the city shall be guilty of disorderly conduct and shall be punished as a misdemeanor.
(Code 1973, § 3-2)
Sec. 4-4. - Type of sale.
Malt beverage and wine sold in the city will be for off-premises consumption and for consumption on the premises only in restaurants, which are defined as any public place maintained and held out to the public as a place where meals are actually and regularly served, such place being provided with adequate and sanitary kitchen and dining room equipment.
(Code 1973, § 3-3; Ord. of 12-18-2006; Mo. of 4-18-2016)
Sec. 4-5. - Retail licensee qualifications.
The retail licensee must be a citizen of the United States.
(1)
The licensee shall not have been convicted within five years of the date of his application of felony, or any violation of the laws of this state, or any other state, relating to the sale of alcoholic beverages.
(2)
The licensee shall be responsible for the management and operation of the business for which the license is granted.
(3)
The applicant shall make a sworn statement of his qualifications according to the above and shall place same on file with the city clerk before any license is issued.
(4)
If the application covers a partnership, all members of the partnership must be qualified to obtain a license and must make sworn statements of these qualifications.
(5)
No person shall be granted a license to engage in the sale of malt beverages and wine at retail unless it shall appear to the satisfaction of the city council that such person shall be of good character, as evidenced by satisfying the qualifications prescribed in this chapter.
(6)
Any misstatement or concealment of fact in the application shall be grounds for revocation of the license issued and shall make the applicant liable to prosecution for perjury under the law of the state.
(Code 1973, § 3-4)
Sec. 4-6. - Regulations.
No holder of a license authorizing the sale of malt beverages and wine at retail in the city nor any agent or employee of the licensee shall do any of the following upon the licensed premises:
(1)
Knowingly sell beer or wine to a minor.
(2)
Knowingly sell beer or wine to any person while such person is in an intoxicating condition.
(3)
Sell beer and wine upon the licensed premises or permit beer or wine to be consumed thereon, unless a license from the city has been obtained specifically and expressly authorizing the sale of beer, malt beverages and wine for consumption on the premises, nor on any day or any time when such sale or consumption is prohibited by law.
(4)
It shall be unlawful for any person to sell or possess for the purposes of sale, any malt beverages or wine where such person does not have a license from the city to sell or possess for sale such beverages.
(5)
Malt beverages and wine shall be received at or delivered to the premises of the retail licensee by no other means than by a conveyance owned and operated by a wholesale dealer with a permit from the city to make deliveries in said city.
(6)
Transportation of malt beverages and wine by any other means shall be grounds for revocation of wholesale permit.
(7)
Dealers in malt beverages and wine shall not engage in the sale of such beverages on Sunday or any other days prohibited by state law.
(8)
Any violation of the provisions of this chapter shall be grounds for immediate revocation of a license by the city.
(Code 1973, § 3-5; Ord. of 12-18-2006)
Sec. 4-7. - Joint responsibility.
(a)
Except as otherwise authorized by law:
(1)
No person knowingly, directly or through another person, shall furnish, cause to be furnished, or permit any person in such person's employ to furnish any alcoholic beverage to any person under 21 years of age;
(2)
No person under 21 years of age shall purchase, attempt to purchase, or knowingly possess any alcoholic beverage;
(3)
No person under 21 years of age shall misrepresent such person's age in any manner whatever for the purpose of obtaining illegally any alcoholic beverage;
(4)
No person knowingly or intentionally shall act as an agent to purchase or acquire any alcoholic beverage for or on behalf of a person under 21 years of age; or
(5)
No person under 21 years of age shall misrepresent his identity or use any false identification for the purpose of purchasing or obtaining any alcoholic beverage.
(b)
The prohibitions contained in subsections (a)(1), (2), and (4) of this section shall not apply with respect to the sale, purchase, or possession of alcoholic beverages for consumption:
(1)
For medical purposes pursuant to a prescription of a physician duly authorized to practice medicine in this state; or
(2)
At a religious ceremony.
(c)
The prohibitions contained in subsections (a)(1), (2), and (4) of this section shall not apply with respect to the possession of alcoholic beverages for consumption by a person under 21 years of age when the parent or guardian of the person under 21 years of age gives the alcoholic beverage to the person and when possession is in the home of the parent or guardian and such parent or guardian is present.
(d)
The prohibition contained in subsection (a)(1) of this section shall not apply with respect to sale of alcoholic beverages by a person when such person has been furnished with proper identification showing that the person to whom the alcoholic beverage is sold is 21 years of age or older. For purposes of this subsection, the term "proper identification" means any document issued by a governmental agency containing a description of the person, such person's photograph, or both, and giving such person's date of birth and includes, without being limited to, a passport, military identification card, driver's license, or an identification card authorized under O.C.G.A. §§ 40-5-100 through 40-5-104. The term "proper identification" shall not include a birth certificate and shall not include any traffic citation and complaint form.
(e)
If such conduct is not otherwise prohibited pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 3-3-24, nothing contained in this section shall be construed to prohibit any person under 21 years of age from:
(1)
Dispensing, serving, selling, or handling alcoholic beverages as a part of employment in any licensed establishment;
(2)
Being employed in any establishment in which alcoholic beverages are distilled or manufactured; or
(3)
Taking orders for and having possession of alcoholic beverages as a part of employment in a licensed establishment.
(f)
Any retailer or retail consumption dealer, or any person acting on behalf of such retailer or retail consumption dealer, who upon requesting proper identification from a person attempting to purchase alcoholic beverages from such retailer or retail consumption dealer is tendered a driver's license which indicates that such driver's license is falsified, is not the driver's license of the person presenting it, or that such person is under the age of 21 years, the person to whom said license is tendered shall be authorized to either write down the name, address, and license number or to seize and retain such driver's license and in either event shall immediately thereafter summon a law enforcement officer who shall be authorized to seize the license either at the scene or at such time as the license can be located. The procedures and rules connected with the retention of such license by the officer shall be the same as those provided for the acceptance of a driver's license as bail on arrest for traffic offenses pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 17-6-11.
(Code 1973, § 3-6)
Sec. 4-8. - License fees, etc.
(a)
The applicant for a retail license shall pay to the city clerk at the time his license is received an annual license fee for operation for one year beginning on the day of February or one-half of the annual license fee amount if the license is issued during the last six months of the license year. Such licenses shall not be transferable from one person to another and shall not be transferable from one location to another except with the express approval of the licensing body of the city. The annual license fee shall be in an amount as established by the mayor and council from time to time.
(b)
In addition to the annual retail license fee in subsection (a) of this section, there is hereby levied a tax on the sale of beer and malt beverages at a rate on each container the greater of the following:
(1)
Where malt beverages, commonly known as tap or draft beer, are sold in or from a barrel or bulk container, a tax of $6.00 on each container sold containing not more than 15½ gallons and a proportionate tax at the same rate on all fractional parts of 15½ gallons;
(2)
Where malt beverages are sold in bottles, cans, or other containers, except barrel or bulk containers, a tax of $0.05 per 12 ounces and a proportionate tax at the same rate on all fractional parts of 12 ounces.
(c)
This assessment shall be paid and collected in the following manner: The payment of the prorated license fee based on sales shall be the responsibility of the wholesaler. Each wholesaler operating within the city at the time of delivery of such merchandise to the retailer will prepare an invoice delivery order in four copies. Two copies of this invoice will be retained by the retailer and two copies will be retained by the wholesaler. On the first day of each month following delivery, the wholesaler will forward to the city clerk an amount representing the prorated license fee based on sales for the previous month due the city in accordance with the above set out formula, attaching to said check or other means of payment the duplicate copy of the delivery invoice collected as herein provided. The retailer located within the city will, on the first day of each month, forward to the city clerk his duplicate copy of the invoice of delivery provided to him by the wholesaler for the previous month's deliveries. The city clerk, upon confirmation of the amount due the city, by comparing the invoices of delivery, will issue a receipt for payment for that month to the wholesaler. It shall be the responsibility of both wholesaler and retailer doing business within the city to maintain accurate records of all wholesale transactions and keep said records for a period of two years following the month of payment. This method of assessment of prorated license fee based on sales of malt beverages is in lieu of stamps affixed to individual containers. Any failure to comply with these provisions for assessment of fees may result in revocation of retail and/or wholesale license.
(Code 1973, § 3-7)
Sec. 4-9. - Wine excise tax.
In addition to the annual retail malt beverages and wine license fee required, there is hereby levied an excise tax computed at the rate of $0.22 per liter and a proportionate tax at the same rate on all fractional parts of a liter, which shall be paid to the governing authority on all wines, as defined under state law, sold, displayed or stored in the city. Said tax shall be paid to the governing authority by the wholesale distributor on all wines sold to retailers in the city, as follows: Each wholesale distributor selling, shipping, or in any way delivering wine to any retailer, shall collect the excise tax at the time of deliveries to each retailer on or before the 15th day of the month following. The $0.22 per liter tax shall be prorated down on one-half pints, pints, fifths, and half gallons so that each bottle or each individual size container shall be taxed on the basis of $0.22 per liter. It shall be unlawful and a violation of this article for any wholesale distributor to sell, ship or deliver in any manner any wine to a retailer without having collected said tax. It shall be unlawful and a violation of this article for any retailer to possess, own, hold, store, display or sell any wine on which such tax has not been paid. Each wholesaler shall be paid three percent of the amount of taxes collected as reimbursement for collection of said tax.
(Code 1973, § 3-8.1)
Sec. 4-10. - Hours of operation.
The hours of operation of retail licensees for the sale of malt beverages and wine shall be on a 24-hour basis except from Saturday at midnight until 6:00 a.m. Monday morning. The hours of operation of wholesale licensees for the distribution of malt beverages and wine within this city shall be between the hours of 7:00 a.m. and 12:00 p.m. There shall be no malt beverages or wine sold or distributed within the city on Sundays, or any other days prohibited by state law.
(Code 1973, § 3-9)
Sec. 4-11. - Authority to issue licenses.
All applications for such licenses shall be presented to the council for approval, and if approved, the licenses shall be issued by the city clerk upon the payment of the required fee.
(Code 1973, § 3-10)
Sec. 4-12. - Regulations.
All the provisions of this article are and shall be subject to the regulations hereinafter prescribed by ordinance of this body, as the same may be from time to time amended, setting forth the rules, terms and conditions upon which such licenses may be issued; the annual license fees; the prorated license fees, based on sales; the qualifications of licensees; the restrictions on the business locations of licensees; the hours of operation of such licensees; the control of customers doing business with licensees; and any and all other matters which this body may deem it advisable to set forth for the proper and regulation of the sale and consumption of malt beverages or wine in this city; and all such licenses as may be hereafter issued shall be expressly subject to the provisions of such ordinance or regulation as may be then or thereafter in force; and all such licenses shall be nontransferable, except with express approval of the council.
(Code 1973, § 3-11)
Sec. 4-13. - Prohibitions and regulations.
(a)
No licenses shall be issued for the sale or distribution of malt beverages or wine upon any location situated within 100 yards of a school or church building.
(b)
There shall be no advertising signs placed on or outside the building by the operator, or any other person, firm or corporation advertising the sale of malt beverages or wine.
(Code 1973, § 3-12)
Sec. 4-14. - Sales of alcoholic beverages on election days.
Pursuant to the authority granted under O.C.G.A. § 3-3-20, the city authorizes the sale or offer of sale of alcoholic beverages on election days by persons or businesses otherwise licensed by this city to sell alcoholic beverages; provided, however, nothing herein shall authorize the sale of alcoholic beverages within 250 feet of a polling place during such time as the polls are opened.
(Code 1973, § 3-13)
Secs. 4-15—4-31. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - DISTILLED SPIRITS[2]

Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
State Law reference— Local excise tax on sale of distilled spirits, O.C.G.A. § 3-4-80 et seq.; local excise tax on sales of distilled spirits by the drink, O.C.G.A. § 3-4-130 et seq.

Sec. 4-32. - Definitions
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Governing authority means the mayor and council of the City of Reynolds.
(Code 1973, § 3A-1)
Sec. 4-33. - License qualifications.
No retail liquor license shall be granted to any person, as defined herein, unless such person is of legal age and has been a resident of the city. The same requirements for a corporation.
(Code 1973, § 3A-2)
Sec. 4-34. - Licensee limits.
(a)
Only two retail liquor licenses shall be issued to any one person in the city, and no person who holds a retail liquor license in any other county or municipality of the state, shall be eligible to receive a retail liquor license. The term "persons" as used in this section shall include all members of such licensee's family and "family" shall be deemed to include any person related to the holder of such license within the first degree of consanguinity or affinity as computed according to the canon law.
(b)
No employee of the city shall be eligible to receive a retail liquor license.
(Code 1973, § 3A-3)
Sec. 4-35. - Prohibited locations.
No retail liquor license shall be granted to any person unless the entire business premises of the proposed location is situated not less than 100 yards from the property line of any church and not less than 200 yards from the property line of any school ground or college campus, the same to be measured by way of the most direct route of travel on the ground. Each application for a retail liquor license shall include a scale drawing of the location of the proposed premises showing the distance to the nearest church or school or a certificate of a registered surveyor that such location complies with this article with reference to this section.
(Code 1973, § 3A-4)
Sec. 4-36. - Separate retail liquor license required.
A separate retail liquor license shall be required for each place of business.
(Code 1973, § 3A-5)
Sec. 4-37. - Detailed building plans required.
No retail liquor license shall be issued to any person unless the building in which the business will be located is complete and detailed plans of said building and outside premises are attached to the application, or unless proposed plans and specifications and a building permit for a proposed building to be built or renovated are attached to the application. The completed building or the proposed building shall comply with ordinances of the city, regulations of the state revenue commissioner and the laws of the state. The proposed building shall also be subject to final inspection and approval when completed by the building inspector. Each such building shall contain sufficient lighting so that the building itself and the premises on all sides of the building are readily visible at all times from the street on which the building is located so as to reveal the inside retail area of the building and so as to reveal all of the outside premises of said building. Each applicant for a retail liquor license shall attach to his application evidence of ownership of the building or proposed building or a copy of the lease if the applicant is leasing the building.
(Code 1973, § 3A-6)
Sec. 4-38. - Sales in original unbroken package only.
All licensed retailers shall sell or offer to sell in the original unbroken package only and shall sell no package containing less than one-half pint, or the nearest metric equivalent.
(Code 1973, § 3A-7)
Sec. 4-39. - Displays.
No retailer shall sell or offer for sale or display or keep in stock, at his place of business where liquor is offered for sale, any other product or commodity except the following:
(1)
Wines, when properly licensed;
(2)
Beverages containing no alcohol commonly used to dilute distilled spirits;
(3)
Malt beverages or beer, when properly licensed;
(4)
Tobacco products;
(5)
Ice to be sold in sealed containers only and not to be opened on the premises; and
(6)
Paper, Styrofoam or plastic cups. Beverages containing no alcohol and commonly used to dilute distilled spirits may be dispensed through the use of vending machines, but no alcoholic beverages shall be dispensed through such vending machines.
(Code 1973, § 3A-8)
Sec. 4-40. - Sale or delivery only at place of business.
No retailer shall sell or deliver any liquor to any person except in said retailer's place of business.
(Code 1973, § 3A-9)
Sec. 4-41. - Sales prohibited on certain days.
No retailer shall be in his place of business, or open his place of business, or furnish, sell or offer for sale any liquor at any of the following times:
(1)
At any time on Thanksgiving Day, Christmas Day, or Sundays;
(2)
At any time in violation of a local ordinance or regulation or of a special order of the governing authority; or
(3)
Furnishing alcoholic beverages to, and purchase of alcoholic beverages by, persons under 21 years of age prohibited.
(Code 1973, § 3A-10)
Sec. 4-42. - Prohibited conduct.
No retailer shall give, sell or offer to sell any liquor to any person who is under the age of 21 years, or who is noticeably intoxicated, or who is of unsound mind, or who is an habitual drunkard whose intemperate habits are known to said retailer. At any time a state driver's license shall be considered the only legal proof of age which would relieve a person making a sale from responsibility thereof.
(Code 1973, § 3A-11)
Sec. 4-43. - Display of notice.
The holder of a license to sell liquor shall post in the most conspicuous place in his establishment a sign printed in letters at least four inches high reading as follows: "SALE OF LIQUOR TO MINORS STRICTLY PROHIBITED."
(Code 1973, § 3A-12)
Sec. 4-44. - Place of storage.
No licensed retailer shall keep any liquor stored in any bonded or other type warehouse in the city, nor shall he enter into any type of arrangement whereby liquor ordered by him is stored for him by any licensed wholesaler. A retailer shall keep no inventory or stock of liquor at any place except his licensed place of business, and within his licensed place of business his storage space for liquor shall be immediately adjacent to the retail area.
(Code 1973, § 3A-13)
Sec. 4-45. - Application; process.
Application for a retail liquor license shall be made on forms furnished by the governing authority as follows:
(1)
A retail liquor license shall be valid only for the calendar year indicated thereon and no such licenses may be renewed. A licensee who desires to continue in business during the next or subsequent calendar year must make a new application for such year on or before November 1 of the preceding year.
(2)
In addition to the completion and submission of the application form as required by the city, each applicant shall attach thereto a completed application form with all attachments and requirements for a state license.
(3)
Before any retail liquor license is granted, applicant must post with the governing authority, along with his application, a personal performance bond; said bond to be conditioned requiring the faithful observance and performance by the licensee of the rules and regulations contained in the article. Upon the violation of this article, or any part thereof, the amount of the bond to be forfeited will be determined by the governing authority in accordance with the nature of the violation after a hearing is held by said governing authority. Written notice of such hearing shall be given to the alleged violator not less than three days prior thereto. Said bond shall be payable to the city in the amount of $500.00, said bond to be approved by the governing authority and shall be executed in a form specified by the governing authority.
(4)
A notice of each application shall be advertised in the official Gazette of Taylor County once a week for two weeks immediately preceding the meeting of the governing authority at which the application is to be acted upon.
(Code 1973, § 3A-14)
Sec. 4-46. - License fee.
(a)
The annual fee for a retail liquor license shall be in an amount as established by the mayor and council from time to time, and shall be paid prior to the issuance of any license, said fee to accompany the application and shall be either in cash or a bank certified check. Said fee shall accompany the application and shall be either cash or bank certified check. Said license shall be charged at the full amount regardless of when application for such license shall be submitted.
(b)
In addition to the annual retail liquor license fee required, there is hereby levied an excise tax computed at the rate of $0.22 per liter on distilled spirits which shall be paid to the governing authority on all liquors sold, displayed or stored in the city. Said tax shall be paid to the governing authority by the wholesale distributor on all liquors sold to retailers in the city, as follows: Each wholesale distributor selling, shipping, or in any way delivering liquor to any retailer, shall collect the excise tax at the time of deliveries to each retailer on or before the 15th day of the month following. The $0.22 per liter on distilled spirits shall be prorated down on one-half pints, pints, fifths, and half gallons so that each bottle or each individual size container shall be taxed on the basis of $0.22 per liter. At such time as metric measurements are authorized by law or regulation, the container sizes herein specified in gallons or portions thereof shall mean such sizes or the nearest metric equivalent measure approved by the Federal Alcohol Administration of the United States Treasury Department or any successor agency thereto. It shall be unlawful and a violation of this article for any wholesale distributor to sell, ship or deliver in any manner any liquor to a retailer without having collected said tax. It shall be unlawful and a violation of this article for any retailer to possess, own, hold, store, display or sell any liquor on which such tax has not been paid. Each wholesaler shall be paid three percent of the amount of taxes collected as reimbursement for collection of said tax.
(Code 1973, § 3A-15)
Sec. 4-47. - Transfers of distilled spirits only from licensed wholesalers.
No licensed retailer shall buy or arrange to buy or in any way effect the transfer of any distilled spirits to him or for his account except from a licensed wholesaler.
(Code 1973, § 3A-16)
Sec. 4-48. - Financial responsibility.
Any applicant for a retail liquor license must show, to the satisfaction of the governing authority, financial responsibility. Financial statements must be submitted with each completed application as prescribed by the governing authority. Forms of the same are to be furnished by the governing authority along with or included in application forms for license.
(Code 1973, § 3A-17)
Sec. 4-49. - Applicant qualifications.
Any applicant for a retail liquor license must be of good character, and all managers, clerks or other employees shall be of like character. Corporate or firm applicants shall be of good business reputation.
(1)
No license shall be granted to an applicant who has been convicted under any federal, state, or local law for a criminal offense involving alcoholic beverages, gambling, or tax law violations, if such conviction tends to indicate that the applicant would not maintain the operation for which he is seeking a license in conformity with federal, state, or the laws of the city.
(2)
The governing authority, in their discretion, may consider any extenuating circumstances which may reflect favorably or unfavorably on the applicant, application or the proposed location of the business. If in their judgment circumstances are such that the granting of the license would not be in the best interest of the general public, such circumstances may be grounds for denying the application.
(Code 1973, § 3A-18)
Sec. 4-50. - Application presentation in person.
All applications for a retail liquor license shall be presented in person.
(Code 1973, § 3A-19)
Sec. 4-51. - License not transferable or assignable.
No retail liquor license shall be transferable or assignable to any other person, and in the event that licensed business is sold or closed, it shall be the duty of the licensee to immediately surrender the license to the governing authority. No retail liquor license shall be transferred from one location to another except upon the majority vote of the governing body.
(Code 1973, § 3A-20)
Sec. 4-52. - Copy of this article required on premises.
Each holder of a license for the sale of liquor shall keep a copy of this article in his premises and shall instruct any person working there with respect to the terms hereof and each licensee or his agents selling liquor shall at all times be familiar with the terms hereof. The licensee shall be held responsible for any acts of his employees in any violation of this article or of the laws of the state or the rules and regulations of the state revenue commissioner.
(Code 1973, § 3A-21)
Sec. 4-53. - Inspection.
The business premises of the holder of a retail license for the sale of liquor shall be open to inspection at any and all times by officers or officials authorized to conduct such inspections.
(Code 1973, § 3A-22)
Sec. 4-54. - False statements.
The making of any statement on an application for a license to sell liquor which shall be later found to be false shall constitute grounds for revocation of said license.
(Code 1973, § 3A-23)
Sec. 4-55. - Persons under 18 years of age not to be allowed or required to serve, sell, or take orders for alcoholic beverages.
(a)
No person shall allow or require a person in his employment under 18 years of age to dispense, serve, sell, or take orders for any alcoholic beverages.
(b)
This section shall not prohibit persons under 18 years of age who are employed in supermarkets, convenience stores, breweries, or drugstores from selling or handling alcoholic beverages which are sold for consumption off the premises.
(Code 1973, § 3A-24)
Sec. 4-56. - No illegal gambling or betting.
There shall be no illegal gambling, betting, games of chance, punchboards, slot machines, pin-ball machines, or the operation of any scheme for hazarding money or any other thing of value in any place of business licensed under this article, or in any room adjoining the same, owned, leased or controlled by a licensee. Any violation of this section shall be cause for suspension or revocation of a license.
(Code 1973, § 3A-25)
Sec. 4-57. - Display of license.
Licenses under this article shall be displayed prominently at all times on the premises for which same was issued.
(Code 1973, § 3A-26)
Sec. 4-58. - Compliance; violation.
No person shall engage in the sale of liquor in the city without first complying with the rules and requirements set out in this article. Any person violating the rules and regulations set out in this article shall be subject to revocation of his license and punishment as prescribed by the governing authority. In addition to the rules and requirements hereinabove set out, each licensee doing business in the city under this article shall comply with all laws of the state, federal laws and the rules and regulations of the state revenue commissioner relating to the sale and distribution of distilled spirits in the state, and any violation of same shall subject said licensee to immediate suspension or revocation of his retail liquor license and also shall subject said licensee to criminal prosecution by the proper authority as provided by law and the ordinances of the city.
(Code 1973, § 3A-27)
