Chapter 10 - AMUSEMENTS AND ENTERTAINMENTS[1]
modified
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Cross reference— Businesses, ch. 22.
State Law reference— Amusement Ride Safety Act, O.C.G.A. § 34-12-1 et seq.; authority to license, tax and regulate billiard rooms, O.C.G.A. § 43-8-2; state licensing of coin-operated amusement machines, O.C.G.A. § 48-17-1 et seq.; free replay lawful, O.C.G.A. § 16-12-35.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Secs. 10-1—10-30. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - ADULT ENTERTAINMENT

Sec. 10-31. - Purpose.
(a)
In order to protect against conditions associated with nude dancing/adult entertainment establishments, the city enacts the provisions of this article.
(b)
The main purpose of this article is to protect the city and its citizens against the tendency for such criminal behaviors as disorderly conduct, prostitution, drug trafficking and use, and other criminal activities.
(Ord. of 3-1-94)
Sec. 10-32. - Constitutionality.
This article is designed to meet the three-pronged constitutionality test as outlined in Paramount Pictures Corp. v. Busbee, 250 Ga. 252 (1982). This article is designed to:
(1)
Further the city's interest of decreasing criminal activity and undesirable conditions associated with establishments that serve alcohol and also allow and/or encourage nudity;
(2)
The city's interest is unrelated to the suppression of nude dancing per se; and
(3)
The restrictions outlined in this article are no greater than is essential to the furtherance of the city's interest.
(Ord. of 3-1-94)
Sec. 10-33. - Legislative findings.
(a)
Based on the experiences, studies and findings of other municipalities and urban counties, including without limitation College Park, Georgia; Richmond County, Georgia; Atlanta, Georgia; and Savannah, Georgia; all of which are relevant to the problems and conditions that could prevail in this city, the mayor and councilmembers find that live, public human nudity (either partial or total) under certain circumstances, particularly in circumstances related to the sale and/or consumption of alcoholic beverages, tends to beget criminal behavior and to create undesirable community conditions.
(b)
Among the acts of criminal behavior identified with nudity and alcohol are prostitution, violent and sex-related offenses, drug trafficking and use, illegal dispensing of alcoholic beverages, and disorderly conduct.
(c)
Among the undesirable community conditions identified with nudity and alcohol are depression of property values in surrounding neighborhoods, increased expenditure for and allocation of law enforcement personnel to preserve law and order, increased burden on the judicial system as a consequence of the criminal behavior hereinabove described, and acceleration of community blight by the concentration of such establishments in particular areas.
(d)
In the interest of public health, safety and welfare, the limitation of nudity and sex-related conduct in establishments holding an alcoholic beverage license is a matter of governmental interest and concern because it will discourage and reduce the criminal behavior and undesirable community conditions normally associated with alcoholic beverage license-holding establishments that allow and/or encourage nudity or sex-related conduct. The sale or use of alcohol is prohibited in any such establishment.
(Ord. of 3-1-94; Ord. of 8-17-99)
Sec. 10-34. - Regulated.
The following enactments shall be mandated against adult entertainment establishments that choose to operate without a license to serve alcoholic beverages. "Adult establishment" shall be defined as a business that provides adult entertainment in the form of nude dancing and/or any other activity of a sexual nature, or provides for the viewing and/or purchase of adult products and/or pornography.
(1)
Such business shall not be located within 1,000 feet of any parcel of land zoned for multifamily and/or single-family uses. Such business shall not be located within 1,000 feet of any parcel of land upon which a church, school, governmental building simultaneously owned and occupied by such government, library, civic center, public park or neighborhood playground is located. Such business shall not be located within 1,000 feet of any alcoholic beverage source.
(2)
Employees of such establishments must be at least 18 years of age. A manager must be on duty and responsible for activities at the establishment at all times. The manager, waitresses, adult entertainers, and any other persons who are employed or working at such establishments must apply for an adult entertainment license at city hall. The applicants will be required to provide proof of age and fingerprints and undergo a criminal background investigation. Any employee who is convicted of a sex-related crime, or drug-related or alcohol-related felony while employed as an adult use establishment employee shall not thereafter work on any premises requiring licenses under this section for a period of five years from the date of such conviction.
(3)
This article will prohibit the employment or use of any person, in any capacity, in the sale or service of beverages and/or food while such person is unclothed or in such attire, costume or clothing, as to expose to view any portion of the female breast below the top of the areola or of any portion of the male or female pubic hair, anus, cleft of the buttocks, vulva and genitals.
(4)
Live entertainment where any person appears in the manner described in subsection (3) may not perform and/or simulate acts of sexual intercourse, masturbation, sodomy, bestiality, oral copulation, flagellation or any sexual act prohibited by law. Also prohibited shall be the caressing or fondling of the breast, buttocks, anus and/or genitals. Also prohibited will be the displaying of the male or female pubic hair, anus, vulva or genitals.
(5)
Nude dancers/entertainers may not dance among the audience. The entertainer must perform on a stage separate from the audience and built at least two feet above the audience level. No adult entertainer shall be allowed to walk or mingle among the audience unless the performer is fully clothed.
(6)
No advertisements, handbills, marquees or any other form of advertisement may use sexual language or display nudity where the advertisement may be viewed by the public.
(7)
Proper care must be exercised to assure that no nudity is in view of the public.
(8)
Adult entertainers/dancers may not solicit tips from the customers.
Sec. 10-35. - Definitions.
modified
Adult book store. An establishment, having as a substantial or significant portion of its stock in trade, books, magazines and other periodicals which are distinguished or characterized by their emphasis on matter depicting, describing or relating to nudity or sexual conduct. As used within this section "nudity" means the showing of the human male or female genitals, pubic area or buttocks with less than a full opaque covering, or the depiction of covered male genitals in a discernibly turgid state, and "sexual conduct" means acts of masturbation, homosexuality, sodomy, sexual intercourse, or physical contact with a person's clothed or unclothed genitals, pubic area, buttocks, or, if such person be female, breast.
Adult cabaret. A cabaret which features go-go dancers, exotic dancers, strip dancers or other similar entertainment, dancers or employees.
Adult entertainment. See "adult entertainment establishment," "adult book store," "adult motion picture theatre," "adult mini motion picture theatre," and "adult cabaret."
Adult entertainment establishment. Any building or structure which contains, or is used for commercial entertainment, whether a place where musical entertainment is carried out consisting of a series of unrelated episodes and dances, all with the purpose of depicting or suggesting sex-centered subjects or objects, or a place where the patron is charged a fee to dance or view a series of dance routines, strip performances or other gyrational choreography provided by the establishment that depicts or suggests sex-centered subjects or objects. Nothing herein defined shall in any way or form legitimize any activity prohibited by state law or city ordinance.
Adult mini motion picture theatre. An enclosed building with a capacity for less than 50 persons, used for presenting material distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on matter depicting, describing or relating to nudity or sexual conduct. As used within this section "nudity" means the showing of the human male or female genitals, pubic area or buttocks with less than a full opaque covering, or the depiction of covered male genitals in a discernibly turgid state, and "sexual conduct" means acts of masturbation, homosexuality, sodomy, sexual intercourse, or physical contact with a person's clothed or unclothed genitals, pubic area, buttocks, or, if such person be female, breast, or an enclosure where coin or slug operated, or electrically, electronically, or mechanically controlled still or motion picture machines, projectors, or other image-producing devices are maintained to depict nudity or sexual conduct, as heretofore defined.
Adult motion picture theatre. An enclosed building with a capacity of 50 or more persons used for presenting material distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on matter depicting, describing or relating to "nudity" or "sexual conduct," as heretofore defined under this chapter, for observation by patrons therein.
Night club. A restaurant, dining room, bar or other similar establishment providing food or refreshments wherein floor shows or other forms of entertainment, but not adult entertainment, as that term is defined herein, are provided for the guests.
(Ord. of 8-17-99)
