ARTICLE V. - SEWER USE[3]
DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Sec. 82-121. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Biochemical oxygen demand (BOD) means the quantity of oxygen used in the biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory procedures in five days at 20 degrees Celsius, expressed in milligrams per liter.
Building drain means that part of the lowest horizontal piping of a drainage system which receives the discharge from soil, waste and other drainage pipes inside the walls of buildings and conveys it to a septic tank, grinder pump station or building sewer. The building drain shall extend to and end at a point five feet outside the inner face of the building wall, or end at the septic tank or grinder pump station.
Building sewer means the extension from the building drain, septic tank or grinder pump station to the public sewer or other place of disposal; also called house connection or service connection.
Combined sewer means a sewer receiving both surface runoff and sewage.
Commercial user or contributor means a premises or person who discharges industrial wastes which are similar to domestic wastes in nature, and do not exceed those parameters which define normal sewage, including volume.
Customer means every person who is responsible for contracting, expressly or implicitly, with the city in obtaining, having or using sewer connections with, or sewer tap to, the sewer system of the city and in obtaining, having or using water and other related services furnished by the city for the purpose of disposing of wastewater and sewage through such system. Such term shall include the occupants of each unit of a multiple-family dwelling unit building as a separate and distinct customer.
Easement means an acquired legal right for specific use of land owned by others.
Floatable oil means oil, fat or grease in a physical state such that it will separate by gravity from wastewater by treatment in an approved pretreatment facility. Wastewater shall be considered free of floatable oil if it is properly pretreated, and the wastewater does not interfere with the collection system.
Flush toilet means the common sanitary flush commode in general use for the disposal of human excrement.
Garbage means solid wastes from the domestic and commercial preparation, cooking and dispensing of food and from the handling, storage and sale of produce.
Grease or oil means oil, fat or grease in a physical state such that it will separate by gravity from wastewater.
Grinder pump station means a subsurface impervious tank with grinder pump, motor and piping, designed to temporarily retain sewage or similar waterborne waste, masticate the waste and pump it to the public sewer.
Health officer means the director of the county board of health or other person designated by the board of commissioners and their duly appointed assistants.
Industrial user or contributor means an industry which discharges wastewaters having the characteristics of industrial wastes, as distinct from commercial or domestic wastes, and having a BOD of 200 mg/l or greater and/or a total suspended solids of 200 mg/l or greater.
Industrial wastes means the wastewater from industrial processes as distinct from domestic or sanitary wastes.
Infiltration/inflow means groundwater and surface water which leaks into the sewers through cracked pipes, joints, manholes or other openings.
Natural outlet means any outlet, including storm sewers and combined sewer overflows, into a watercourse, pond, ditch, lake or other body of surface water or groundwater.
Normal sewage means wastewaters having characteristics of domestic wastewaters such that the BOD and suspended solids concentrations do not exceed 200 mg/l, total phosphorus is less than 15 mg/l, total Kjeldahl nitrogen is less than 20 mg/l, flow is less than 25,000 gpd, and no other pollutant or chemical constituents are present in amounts which will interfere with the treatment processes.
pH means the logarithm of the reciprocal of the hydrogen ion concentration.
Pit privy means a shored, vertical pit in the earth completely covered with a flytight slab on which is securely located a flytight riser covered with a hinged flytight seat and lid.
Properly shredded garbage means the waste from the preparation, cooking and dispensing of food that has been shredded to such a degree that all particles will be carried freely under the flow conditions normally prevailing in public sewers, with no particle greater than one-half inch in any dimension.
Public sewer means a sewer in which all owners of abutting properties have equal rights and which is controlled by public authority.
Sanitary sewer means a sewer that carries liquid and water-carried wastes from residences, commercial buildings, industrial plants and institutions together with minor quantities of groundwater, stormwater, and surface water that are not intentionally admitted.
Scavenger waste means putrid or offensive matter such as the contents of all privies, septic tanks or cesspools.
Septic tank means a subsurface impervious tank designed to temporarily retain sewage or similar waterborne waste.
Sewage means the spent water of a community. The equivalent term is "wastewater."
Sewage works (sewerage) means all facilities for collecting, pumping, treating and disposing of sewage.
Sewer means a pipe or conduit for carrying sewage.
Sewer surcharge means a charge for sewer service and treatment service for wastes having characteristics different from normal sewage and for which additional charges must be assessed in order to make compensation for additional expenses incurred.
Slug means any discharge of water, sewage or industrial waste which in concentration of any given constituent or in quantity of flow exceeds, for any period or duration longer than 15 minutes, more than five times the average 24-hour concentration discharged during normal operation and which adversely affects the collection system and/or performance of the wastewater facilities.
Standard Methods means the examination and analytical procedures set forth in the most recent edition of "Standard Methods for the Examination of Water and Wastewater," published jointly by the American Public Health Association, the American Water Works Association and the Water Pollution Control Federation.
Storm drain (storm sewer) means a sewer which carries stormwater and surface water and drainage, but excludes sanitary sewage and industrial wastes other than unpolluted cooling water.
Street means the right-of-way of streets, avenues, drives, boulevards, roads, alleys, lanes and viaducts, and all other public highways.
Subsurface absorption field means a subsurface system of trenches, piping and other materials constructed to drain the clarified discharge from a septic tank and distribute it underground to be absorbed or filtered.
Superintendent means the utilities superintendent or his authorized deputy, agent or representative.
Total solids means the sum of suspended matter, settleable matter and dissolved matter, both volatile and nonvolatile.
Total suspended solids (TSS) means solids that either float on the surface of or are in suspension in water, sewage or other liquids which are removable by laboratory filtering as prescribed in Standard Methods.
Unpolluted water means water of quality equal to or better than the effluent criteria in effect, or water that would not cause violation of receiving water quality standards and would not be benefited by discharge to the sanitary sewers and wastewater treatment facilities provided.
Wastewater means the spent water of a community. From the standpoint of source, it may be a combination of the liquid and water-carried wastes from residences, commercial buildings, industrial plants and institutions, together with any groundwater, surface water, and stormwater that may be present.
Wastewater facilities means the structures, equipment and processes required to collect, carry away and treat domestic and industrial wastes and dispose of the effluent.
Watercourse means a channel, either natural or artificial, in which flow of water occurs, either continuously or intermittently.
All other words shall be construed as having the meaning defined in "Glossary-Water and Sewer Control Engineering," published by the Water Pollution Control Federation, Washington, D.C., or by their general usage if undefined.
(Ord. No. 88-011, §§ 1.01—1.49, 10-10-88; Ord. No. 92-018, 8-25-92)
Cross reference— Definitions generally, § 1-2.
Sec. 82-122. - Discharge of chemicals and industrial wastes into sewer system.
Chemicals or chemical compounds and/or industrial wastes shall not be permitted to be discharged into the public sewer system or at the sewage treatment plant.
(Ord. No. 88-011, § 6.01, 10-10-88; Ord. No. 92-018, 8-25-92)
Sec. 82-123. - Right of entry by city for inspection, observation, measurement, sampling and testing.
The city manager and other duly authorized employees of the city bearing proper credentials and identification shall be permitted to enter all properties for the purpose of inspection, observation, measurement, sampling and testing in accordance with the provisions of this article. The city manager or his representative shall have no authority to inquire into any processes, including metallurgical, chemical, oil refining, ceramic, paper or other industries beyond that point having a direct bearing on the kind and source of discharge to the sewers or waterways of facilities for waste treatment.
(Ord. No. 88-011, § 8.01, 10-10-88)
Sec. 82-124. - Observance of safety rules; indemnification of company against liability claims.
While performing the necessary work on private properties referred to in this article, the city manager or duly authorized employees of the city shall observe all safety rules applicable to the premises established by the company, and the company shall be held harmless for injury or death to the city employees. The city shall indemnify the company against loss or damage to its property by the city employees against liability claims and demands for personal injury or property damage asserted against the company and growing out of the gauging and sampling operations, except as such may be caused by negligence or failure of the company to maintain safe conditions as required in section 82-237.
(Ord. No. 88-011, § 8.02, 10-10-88)
Sec. 82-125. - Use by city of negotiated easement; purpose.
The city manager and other duly authorized employees of the city bearing proper credentials and identification shall be permitted to enter all private properties through which the city holds a duly negotiated easement for the purpose of, but not limited to, inspection, observation, measurement, sampling, repair and maintenance of any portion of the sewage works lying within such easement. All entry and subsequent work, if any, on such easement shall be done in full accordance with the terms of the duly negotiated easement pertaining to the private property involved.
(Ord. No. 88-011, § 8.03, 10-10-88)
Sec. 82-126. - Reserved.
Sec. 82-127. - Violations of article; notice; correction deadline.
Any person found to be violating any provisions of this article and/or the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency and/or the state department of natural resources environmental protection division rules, regulations, and/or laws which apply, except division 3 of this article shall be served by the city with written notice stating the nature of the violation and providing a reasonable time limit for satisfactory correction thereof. The offender shall, within the period of time stated in such notice, permanently cease all violation.
(Ord. No. 88-011, § 10.01, 10-10-88)
Sec. 82-128. - Penalty for failure to correct violation of article.
Any person who shall continue any violation beyond the time limit provided for in section 82-127, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, on conviction, shall be fined, for each violation, in the amount not exceeding $1,000.00. Each day in which such violation shall continue shall be deemed a separate offense.
(Ord. No. 88-011, § 10.02, 10-10-88)
Sec. 82-129. - Liability of violators of article.
Any persons violating any of the provisions of this article shall become liable to the city for any expense, loss or damage occasioned the city by reason of such violations.
(Ord. No. 88-011, § 10.03, 10-10-88)
Sec. 82-130. - Upgrades; property of city; destruction or removal punishable by state law.
Any electrical upgrade, grinder pump or upgrades/equipment, otherwise required by the city and paid for under the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency Federal Grant C1306910-02, shall remain the property of the city. Destruction or removal of such upgrades shall be punishable under O.C.G.A. § 16-8-5.
(Ord. No. 90-003, § 10.04, 4-9-90)
Sec. 82-131. - Damage to upgrades by negligence; billing of repair costs; failure to pay.
Damage to such upgrades resulting from negligence or lack of due care on the part of the property owner shall result in the cost of the repair being billed to the property owner. These costs shall be billed to the property owner as part of his monthly water bill. Failure to pay such bill will result in termination services pursuant to section 82-32.
(Ord. No. 90-003, § 10.05, 4-9-90)
Sec. 82-132. - Hearings—Arbitration of differences or grievances between user and city.
Upon formal request by the sewer user, the mayor and council may hear any requested arbitration of differences or grievances between the sewer user and the city clerk on matters concerning interpretation and execution of the provisions of this article.
(Ord. No. 88-011, § 11.01, 10-10-88; Ord. No. 90-003, § 11.01, 4-9-90)
Sec. 82-133. - Same—Appointment of hearing board.
If deemed necessary by the mayor and council, an independent hearing board may be appointed for arbitration purposes. Such a board shall consist of at least three persons, one of which shall be a lawyer and the other two shall have technical knowledge of the provisions of this article. The cost of arbitration shall be equally divided by the city and the sewer user.
(Ord. No. 88-011, § 11.02, 10-10-88; Ord. No. 90-003, § 11.01, 4-9-90)
Sec. 82-134. - Payment schedule for sewer system installation.
Upon written notification of a personal situation to the city manager, the manager may arrange with the customer a payment schedule with the city for the installation of the appropriate sewer system.
(Ord. No. 90-003, § 13.01, 4-9-90)
Secs. 82-135—82-150. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - USE OF PUBLIC SEWERS REQUIRED

Sec. 82-151. - Deposit of excrement, garbage or other waste on private or public property.
It shall be unlawful for any person to place, deposit or permit to be deposited in any unsanitary manner on public or private property within the city, or in any area under the jurisdiction of the city any human or animal excrement, garbage or other objectionable waste.
(Ord. No. 88-011, § 2.01, 10-10-88; Ord. No. 96-006, § 2.01, 3-25-96)
Sec. 82-152. - Discharge of polluted waters to storm sewers or other natural outlets.
It shall be unlawful to discharge to any storm sewer or natural outlet within the city or in any area under the jurisdiction of the city or in any area under the jurisdiction of the city any normal sewage, industrial wastewater or other polluted waters except where suitable treatment has been provided in accordance with subsequent provisions of this article.
(Ord. No. 88-011, § 2.02, 10-10-88; Ord. No. 96-006, § 2.02, 3-25-96)
Sec. 82-153. - Construction or maintenance of private disposal system; city approval required.
It shall be unlawful to construct or maintain any privy, privy pit, privy vault, cesspool or other facility intended or used for disposal of sewage, where public sewers are reasonably available without the expressed written approval of the city.
(Ord. No. 88-011, § 2.03, 10-10-88; Ord. No. 96-006, § 2.03, 3-25-96)
Sec. 82-154. - Tie into system required of all property owners.
All property owners will be required to tie into the sewer system. Those property owners covered under U.S. Environmental Protection Agency Grant Number C1306910-02 who elect to tie in during the construction of this project will have their property connected at the expense of the city. Those property owners who are not covered under such grant or who were covered under the grant but did not elect to tie into the system during the construction will be required to do so at the property owner's expense.
(Ord. No. 88-011, § 2.04, 10-10-88; Ord. No. 96-006, § 2.04, 3-25-96)
Sec. 82-155. - Installation and connection of toilet facilities required for those not covered by EPA grant.
All owners of properties situated within the city (and not covered within the scope of the United States Environmental Protection Agency Grant Number C130169) or any area under the jurisdiction of such city, and abutting on any street, alley or right-of-way in which there is now or shall be located a public sanitary sewer of the city are hereby required at their expense to install suitable toilet facilities therein and to connect such facilities directly with the proper public sewer in accordance with the provisions of this article within 90 days after the date of written notice from the city manager to the property owner requiring such property owner to make connection thereto, utilizing the method of connection described in the written notice to be one of the following, provided that such public sewer shall be within 100 feet of the property line:
(1)
For properties served by conventional gravity sewers eight inches and larger in diameter, any septic tank, pit privy, privy vault, cesspool or similar private sewage disposal facility shall be abandoned, cleaned of sludge, have any permanent bottom barrier broken, and be filled with clean bank run gravel or dirt within 90 days of notification to do so by the city or other county or state agency having jurisdiction over such matters and construct a building sewer connecting to the building drain and public sewer.
(2)
For properties served by small diameter gravity lines less than eight inches in diameter, use of septic tanks will be required. Existing septic tanks shall be cleaned and inspected, repaired or replaced as required, disconnected from the subservice absorption field, and a building sewer shall be constructed between the outlet of the septic tank and public sewer at the property owner's expense. At the time when connection is made to the public sewer, the property owner shall transfer ownership of the septic tank and building sewer to the city, at which time the city will become responsible for the maintenance and periodic cleaning of the septic tank and building sewer.
(3)
For properties served by low pressure sewers, any septic tank, pit, privy, privy vault, cesspool or similar private sewage disposal facility shall be abandoned, cleaned of sludge, have any permanent bottom barrier broken, and be filled with clean bank run gravel or dirt at the owner's expense. A grinder pump station shall be installed, furnished by the city and paid for by the property owner, and a building sewer shall be constructed between the grinder pump station and the public sewer. An electric wiring connection shall be made between the grinder pump station and the property owner's electrical system. The property owner shall be responsible for payment of all electrical usage costs. At the time when connection is made to the public sewer, the property owner shall transfer ownership of the grinder pump station and building sewer to the city, at which time the city will become responsible for maintenance of the grinder pump station and building sewer. When it is determined by the city that the grinder pump is no longer necessary and the pump can be removed, the property owner's sewerage will be connected to the public sewer at no cost to the property owner.
(4)
It shall be the responsibility of the property owner to have a licensed plumber or septic tank service contact the city on all problems associated with the septic tanks and outlet drains. The cost of the plumber or septic tank service shall be borne by the responsible party. The city shall only be responsible for problems indicated inside the septic tank and/or outlet drain from the septic tank to the public sewer.
(Ord. No. 88-011, § 2.05, 10-10-88; Ord. No. 89-009, § 2.05, 6-26-89; Ord. No. 90-022, § 2.05, 12-17-90; Ord. No. 95-002, 4-10-95; Ord. No. 96-001, 1-8-96; Ord. No. 96-006, § 2.05, 3-25-96)
Sec. 82-156. - Connection of toilet facilities to public sewer by those covered by EPA grant; notice.
The owner of all houses, buildings or properties completed and ready to be used for human occupancy, employment, recreation or other purposes, included as part of the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency Grant Number C1306910-02, situated with the city or any area within the jurisdiction of the city, and abutting on any street, alley or right-of-way in which there shall be located a public sanitary sewer of the city shall hereby be required, at the expense of the city, to connect his toilet facilities directly to the proper public sewer in accordance with the provisions of this article within 90 days after the date of written notice from the city manager to the property owner requiring such property owner to make connection thereto, utilizing the method of connection described in the written notice, to be either a conventional gravity sewer or a low pressure sewer system as specified under such grant. Where the city determines that an existing septic tank is not in compliance with the current standards, such septic tank will be replaced at the city's expense.
(Ord. No. 88-011, § 2.06, 10-10-88; Ord. No. 96-006, § 2.06, 3-25-96)
Sec. 82-157. - Connection required of property owners within 100 feet of sewer.
The owner of any house, building or property completed and ready to be used for human occupancy prior to the availability of a public sewer, not covered by EPA grant #C130169-02 and whose property line falls within 100 feet of any public sewer may elect to connect to public sewer, upon its availability, at the property owner's expense. All connections must be made in accordance with the methods of connection described in this article. Such property owners will be required to pay the monthly sewer rate in accordance with section 82-263 regardless of whether or not the property owner elects to connect to public sewerage.
(Ord. No. 89-009, § 2.07, 6-26-89)
Secs. 82-158—82-175. - Reserved.
DIVISION 3. - PRIVATE SEWAGE DISPOSAL

Sec. 82-176. - Connection to private system where public sewer unavailable.
Where a public sanitary sewer is not available under provisions of section 82-154, the building sewer shall be connected to a private sewage system complying with the provisions of this article. No permit shall be issued for any private disposal system employing subsurface soil absorption facilities where the area of the lot is less than 20,000 square feet.
(Ord. No. 88-011, § 3.01, 10-10-88)
Sec. 82-177. - Permit—Required; application; fees.
Before commencement of construction of a private sewage disposal system such as septic tank with subsurface absorption field, pit privy, privy vault or cesspool including those for a single-family dwelling, the owner shall first obtain a written permit signed by the city manager. The application for such permit shall be made on a form furnished by the city which the applicant shall supplement by any plans, specifications and other information as are deemed necessary by the city manager. A permit and inspection fee shall be paid to the city at the time the application for permit is filed.
(Ord. No. 88-011, § 3.02, 10-10-88)
Sec. 82-178. - Same—Effective upon inspection and approval by city.
A permit for private sewage disposal system shall not become effective until the installation is completed to the satisfaction of the city. The city's authorized representatives shall be allowed to inspect the work at any stage of construction, and, in any event, the applicant for the permit shall notify the city when the work is ready for final inspection and before any underground portions are covered. The inspection shall be within two working days of the receipt of notice by the city manager.
(Ord. No. 88-011, § 3.03, 10-10-88)
Sec. 82-179. - Type, capacities, location and layout; compliance with state and local agencies.
The type, capacities, location and layout of a private sewage system shall comply with all recommendations of the state department of human resources, county health department or other local or state agencies having jurisdiction. No septic tank or cesspool shall be permitted to discharge to any natural outlet.
(Ord. No. 88-011, § 3.04, 10-10-88)
Sec. 82-180. - Operation and maintenance by owner.
The owner shall operate and maintain the private sewage disposal facilities in a sanitary manner at all times at no expense to the city.
(Ord. No. 88-011, § 3.05, 10-10-88)
Sec. 82-181. - Connection to public sewer required upon availability.
At such time as a public sewer becomes available to a property served by a private sewage disposal system, as provided in section 82-179, a connection shall be made to the public sewer in compliance with section 82-154.
(Ord. No. 88-011, § 3.06, 10-10-88)
Sec. 82-182. - Division provisions not to nullify additional requirements.
No statement contained in this division shall be construed to nullify any additional requirements that may be imposed by the appropriate state or county regulatory agencies having jurisdiction over such matters.
(Ord. No. 88-011, § 3.07, 10-10-88)
Sec. 82-183. - Discharge of septic tank effluent or cesspool overflow.
The discharge of septic tank effluent or cesspool overflow to any open drain, ditch, or well penetrating waterbearing formations is prohibited.
(Ord. No. 88-011, § 3.08, 10-10-88)
Secs. 82-184—82-200. - Reserved.
DIVISION 4. - BUILDING SEWERS AND CONNECTIONS

Sec. 82-201. - Permit—Required.
No person shall uncover, make any connections with or opening into, alter or disturb any public sewer or appurtenance without first obtaining a written permit from the city.
(Ord. No. 88-011, § 4.01, 10-10-88)
Sec. 82-202. - Same—Classes.
There shall be two classes of building sewer permits:
(1)
Residential and commercial service; and
(2)
Service to establishments producing industrial wastes.
In either case, the owner or his agent shall make application on a special form furnished by the city. The permit application shall be supplemented by any plans, specifications or other information considered pertinent in the judgment of the city. When the application is filed, a permit and inspection fee for the building sewer shall be paid to the city, as provided in the schedule of fees and charges and on file with the city clerk.
(Ord. No. 88-011, § 4.02, 10-10-88)
Sec. 82-203. - Costs and expenses for installation and connection to be borne by property owner; indemnification of city.
All costs and expenses incident to the installation and connection of the building sewer for properties served by conventional gravity sewers, of the septic tank and building sewer for properties served by small diameter gravity lines, and of the grinder pump station and building sewer for properties served by low pressure sewers, which are not included as part of the sanitary sewer system as approved under U.S. Environmental Protection Agency Grant Number C130691-02, shall be borne by the property owner. The property owner shall indemnify the city from any loss or damage that may directly or indirectly be occasioned by installation of the building sewer, septic tank, or grinder pump station.
(Ord. No. 88-011, § 4.03, 10-10-88)
Sec. 82-204. - Separate, independent sewer for each building.
A separate and independent sewer shall be provided for every building. Where one building stands to the rear of another on a single lot and no private sewer is available or can be constructed to the rear building through an adjoining alley, courtyard or driveway, the city may grant permission for the building sewer from the front building to be extended to the rear building and the whole considered as one building sewer, upon a showing by the applicant that it is not feasible that the two buildings so connected will ultimately be on separate building lots.
(Ord. No. 88-011, § 4.04, 10-10-88)
Sec. 82-205. - Use of old building sewers.
Old building sewers may be used in connection with new buildings only when they are found on examination and test by the city to meet all of the requirements of this article.
(Ord. No. 88-011, § 4.05, 10-10-88)
Sec. 82-206. - Size, slope, alignment, materials and methods.
The size, slope, alignment, materials of construction of a building sewer, and the methods to be used in excavating, placing of the pipe, jointing, testing and backfilling the trench shall all conform to the requirements of the building and plumbing code or other applicable rules and regulations of the city. In the absence of code provisions or in amplification thereof, the materials and procedures set forth in appropriate specifications of the A.S.C.E. and W.P.C.F. Manual of Practice No. 9 "Design and Construction of Sanitary Sewers" shall apply.
(Ord. No. 88-011, § 4.06, 10-10-88)
Sec. 82-207. - Elevation standards.
Whenever possible, the building sewer shall be brought to the building at an elevation below the lowest level (first floor or basement as applicable). No building sewer shall be made parallel to or within three feet of any bearing wall, which might thereby be weakened. The depth shall be sufficient to afford protection from live loads (automobiles, etc.) which may be superimposed. The building sewer shall be made at uniform grade and in straight alignment insofar as possible. The building sewer shall be constructed to such point as directed by the city.
(Ord. No. 88-011, § 4.07, 10-10-88)
Sec. 82-208. - Connections of surface runoff or groundwater to building sewers.
No person shall maintain or make a connection of swimming pools, roof downspouts, exterior foundation drains, areaway drains or other sources of surface runoff or groundwater to a building sewer and/or building drain which in turn is connected directly or indirectly to the city's sanitary sewer system.
(Ord. No. 88-011, § 4.08, 10-10-88; Ord. No. 90-010, § 4.08, 8-13-90)
Sec. 82-209. - Inspection of sewer prior to covering or connection.
Before any underground portions are covered, the applicant of the building sewer permit shall notify the city when the building sewer is ready for inspection and connection to public sewer. The connection shall be made to the public sewer by an authorized representative of the city and only after inspection.
(Ord. No. 88-011, § 4.09, 10-10-88)
Sec. 82-210. - Guarding of excavations; restoration of public property.
All excavations for building sewer installation shall be adequately guarded with barricades and lights so as to protect the public from hazards. Streets, sidewalks, parkways and other public property disturbed in the course of the work shall be restored in a manner satisfactory to the city.
(Ord. No. 88-011, § 4.10, 10-10-88)
Sec. 82-211. - Record to be kept of new connections.
The city shall keep a permanent and accurate record of the location, depth and direction of all new sewer connections, including such landmarks as may be necessary to make an adequate description.
(Ord. No. 88-011, § 4.11, 10-10-88)
Sec. 82-212. - Sewer service charge.
A sewer service charge will be placed on each user of the public sewers which will be based on the volume of water used each month.
(Ord. No. 88-011, § 4.12, 10-10-88)
Sec. 82-213. - Work to meet OSHA requirements.
All work pertaining to this division shall meet pertinent OSHA requirements.
(Ord. No. 88-011, § 4.13, 10-10-88)
Sec. 82-214. - Service to unincorporated areas.
The city may provide service to adjacent unincorporated areas provided an appropriate intermunicipal agreement is executed between the city and the county.
(Ord. No. 88-011, § 4.14, 10-10-88)
Secs. 82-215—82-230. - Reserved.
DIVISION 5. - DISCHARGE RESTRICTIONS

Sec. 82-231. - Prohibited use of sanitary sewer.
No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any stormwater, surface water, groundwater, roof runoff, or subsurface drainage into the sanitary sewer.
(Ord. No. 88-011, § 5.01, 10-10-88)
Sec. 82-232. - Prohibited waters or wastes.
No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any of the following waters or wastes to any public sewers:
(1)
Any gasoline, benzene, naphtha, fuel oil or other explosive liquid, solid or gas.
(2)
Any waters or wastes containing toxic or poisonous solids, liquids or gases in sufficient quantity, either singly or by interaction with other wastes, to injure or interfere with any sewage treatment process, to constitute a hazard to humans or animals, to create a public nuisance or to create any hazard in the receiving waters of the treatment plant.
(3)
Any waters or wastes having a pH less than 6.0 or greater than 9.0 containing heavy concentrations of salts or having any other corrosive property capable of causing damage or hazard to structures, equipment and personnel of the sewage works.
(4)
Solids or viscous substances in quantities or of such size capable of causing obstruction in the flow of sewage or other interference to the proper operation of the sewage works such as, but not limited to, ashes, cinders, sand, mud, straw, shavings, metal, glass, rags, feathers, tar, plastics, wood, unground garbage, whole blood, paunch manure, hair and fleshings, entrails and paper dishes, cups, milk containers, etc., either whole or ground by garbage grinders.
(Ord. No. 88-011, § 5.02, 10-10-88)
Sec. 82-233. - Prohibited discharges.
No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged the following described substances, materials, waters or wastes if it appears likely in the opinion of the city, that such waste can harm either the sewers, sewage treatment process or equipment; have an adverse effect on the receiving stream; or can otherwise endanger life, limb, public property or constitute a nuisance. In forming its opinion as to the acceptability of these wastes, the city will give consideration to such factors as the quantities of subject wastes in relation to flows, and velocities in the sewers, materials of construction of the sewers, nature of the sewage treatment process, capacity of the sewage treatment plant, degree of treatability of wastes in the sewage treatment plant, and other pertinent factors. The substances prohibited are:
(1)
Any liquid or vapor having a temperature higher than 104 degrees Fahrenheit or 40 degrees Celsius.
(2)
Any water or wastes containing fats, wax, grease or oils whether emulsified or not in excess of 100 mg/l or containing substances which may solidify or become viscous at temperatures between 32 and 150 degrees Fahrenheit or 0 to 65 degrees Celsius.
(3)
Any garbage that has not been properly shredded. The installation and operation of any garbage grinder equipped with a motor of three-quarters horsepower or greater shall be subject to the review and approval of the city.
(4)
Any waters or wastes containing strong acid, iron pickling wastes or concentrated plating solutions, whether neutralized or not.
(5)
Any waters or wastes containing concentrations of heavy metals in excess of the following:
EXPAND
Chromium (III) 0.5 mg/l
Lead 0.3 mg/l
Tin 0.5 mg/l
Copper 0.5 mg/l
Nickel 0.5 mg/l
Cyanide 0.5 mg/l
Cadmium 0.3 mg/l
  A combination of such metals shall not exceed 0.5 mg/l in the effluent, or which, when blended with other wastes in the sewers, will have a combined concentration in excess of 0.1 mg/l when it reaches the treatment plant, section 82-234 notwithstanding, or wastes exerting an excessive chlorine requirement to such a degree that any such material received in composite sewage at the sewage treatment works exceeds the limits established by the city for such materials. Notwithstanding the preceding upper limits, the state environmental protection division and the city may require pretreatment of such waste discharges in accordance with section 82-234 to the lowest practical and reasonable levels to comply with appropriate state or federal regulatory agency requirements, either for the treatment facility influent or effluent, or if otherwise found necessary to provide satisfactory and acceptable treatment of all wastewater.
(6)
Any waters or wastes containing phenols or other taste or odor producing substances in such concentrations exceeding limits which may be established by the city as necessary after treatment of the composite sewage to meet requirement of the state, federal, or other public agencies having jurisdiction of such discharge to the receiving waters.
(7)
Any radioactive wastes or isotopes of such half-life or concentration as may exceed limits established by the city in compliance with applicable state and federal regulations.
(8)
Any waters or wastes having a pH outside of the range of 6.0 to 9.0.
(9)
Materials which exert or cause:
a.
Unusual concentration of inert suspended solids; such as, but not limited to fuller's earth, lime slurries, and lime residues or dissolved solids such as, but not limited to, sodium chloride and sodium sulfate.
b.
Excessive discoloration such as, but not limited to, dye wastes and vegetable tanning solutions.
c.
The admission into the public sewers of any waters having a five-day biochemical oxygen demand greater than 200 milligrams per liter; containing more than 200 milligrams per liter of suspended solids; containing more than 700 milligrams per liter of chemical oxygen demand; or having an average daily flow of five percent of the average daily sewage flow to the plant will be subject to the review and approval of the city. Where necessary in the opinion of the city in consultation with the city engineer, the owner shall provide at his expense, such preliminary treatment as may be necessary to reduce the biochemical oxygen demand to 200 milligrams per liter and the suspended solids to 200 milligrams per liter; reduce objectionable characteristics or constituents to within the maximum limits provided; or control the quantities and rates of discharge of such water or wastes. Plans and specifications and any other pertinent information relating to proposed preliminary treatment facilities shall be submitted for the approval of the city engineer. No construction of such facilities shall be commenced until such approval is obtained in writing.
d.
Unusual volume of flow or concentrations of wastes constituting slugs.
(10)
Waters or wastes containing substances which are not amenable to treatment or reduction by the sewage treatment processes employed or are amenable to treatment only to such degree that the sewage treatment plant effluent cannot meet the requirements of state or federal agencies having a jurisdiction over discharge to the receiving waters.
(11)
The discharge of oxygen demanding substances and suspended solids in excess of 300 mg per liter to the sewer system is prohibited unless agreed to by separate contract with the discharger.
(12)
Notwithstanding subsections (1)—(11) of this section, the substances prohibited and concentrations specified in the National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System permit to be issued by the state department of natural resources, environmental protection division, shall supplement and take precedence over limits specified in this section.
(Ord. No. 88-011, § 5.03, 10-10-88)
Sec. 82-234. - Wastes having deleterious or hazardous effects; remedies by city.
(a)
If any waters or wastes are discharged or are proposed to be discharged to the public sewers which waters contain the substances or possess the characteristics enumerated in section 82-233, which in the judgment of the city or the state department of natural resources, environmental protection division may have a deleterious effect upon the sewage works, processes, equipment, or receiving water, or which otherwise create a hazard to life or constitute a public nuisance, the city may:
(1)
Reject wastes;
(2)
Require pretreatment to an acceptable condition with discharge to the public sewers;
(3)
Require control over the quantities and rates of discharge; and/or
(4)
Require payment to cover the added cost of handling and treating the wastes not covered by existing taxes or sewer charges, under the provisions of section 82-239.
(b)
If pretreatment or equalization of waste flows is required, the design and installation of the plant and equipment shall be subject to the review and approval of the state department of natural resources, environmental protection division and the city, subject to the requirements of all applicable codes, ordinances and laws.
(Ord. No. 88-011, § 5.04, 10-10-88)
Sec. 82-235. - Reserved.
Editor's note— Ordinance No. 2004-001, adopted February 9, 2004, did not specifically amend the Code. Therefore, § 82-235 was deleted and similar provisions were redesignated as a new division 7, §§ 82-271—82-276 at the discretion of the editor. Formerly, such section pertained to grease, oil and sand interceptors; maintenance and records and derived from Ord. No. 88-011, § 5.05, 10-10-88.
Sec. 82-236. - Preliminary treatment for flow equalizing facilities; maintenance.
Where preliminary treatment for flow equalizing facilities is provided for any waters or wastes, they shall be maintained continuously in satisfactory and effective operation by the owner at his expense.
(Ord. No. 88-011, § 5.06, 10-10-88)
Sec. 82-237. - Installation of control manhole; location and maintenance.
(a)
It shall be required by the city that the owner of any property serviced by a building sewer carrying industrial wastes install a suitable control manhole through which all industrial plant effluent shall flow. When deemed necessary, the city may require additional meters and other appurtenances in the building sewer to facilitate observation, sampling and measurement of the waste.
(b)
Such manhole shall be accessibly and safely located and shall be constructed in accordance with plans approved by the city. The manhole shall be installed by the owner at his expense and shall be maintained by him so as to be safe and accessible at all times.
(Ord. No. 88-011, § 5.07, 10-10-88)
Sec. 82-238. - Standards for measurements, tests and analyses of wastewater.
All measurements, tests and analyses of the characteristics of waters and wastes to which reference is made in this article shall be determined in accordance with the latest edition of "Standard Methods for the Examination of Water and Wastewater," published by the American Public Health Association, and shall be determined at the control manhole provided, or upon suitable samples taken at such control manhole. Sampling shall be carried out by customarily accepted methods to reflect the effect of constituents upon the sewage works and to determine the existence of hazards to life, limb and property.
(Ord. No. 88-011, § 5.08, 10-10-88)
Sec. 82-239. - Agreements between city and industrial concerns; effect of division.
No statement contained in this division shall be construed as preventing any agreement or arrangement between the city and any industrial concern whereby industrial waste of unusual strength or character may be accepted by the city for treatment, subject to payment by the industrial concern.
(Ord. No. 88-011, § 5.09, 10-10-88)
Sec. 82-240. - Uncontaminated cooling or condensing water; discharger requires permit.
Uncontaminated cooling or condensing water shall be discharged to the storm drain system. The owner of such facility discharging cooling or condensing water shall be responsible for obtaining a NPDES permit from the state environmental protection division.
(Ord. No. 88-011, § 5.10, 10-10-88)
Sec. 82-241. - Industries to comply with CFR requirements.
Industries shall comply with all the requirements of 40 CFR 403.
(Ord. No. 88-011, § 5.11, 10-10-88)
Sec. 82-242. - Connections of sanitary sewers to storm sewers.
No sanitary sewer services nor sanitary sewer extensions shall be connected to storm sewer systems.
(Ord. No. 88-011, § 5.12, 10-10-88)
Secs. 82-243—82-260. - Reserved.
DIVISION 6. - USER CHARGE SYSTEM

Sec. 82-261. - User charges.
(a)
Established. All persons discharging wastewater into the city public sewers shall be charged a sewer service charge which shall recover the operation and maintenance costs of the wastewater treatment facilities and sewer system, the local share of the capital costs of the treatment facility, and the costs of other capital improvements of the sewerage facilities.
(b)
Basis of user charges. The required annual revenue from sewer charges shall include the following:
(1)
Billing costs;
(2)
Operational and maintenance costs; and
(3)
Debt service.
However, any residential users which have a private well for water purposes shall be permitted to connect a water meter, upon written request, according to the city's specification, at their own expense, to the private well in order for the city to have the means to measure the actual water used for sewer billing purposes. Any costs associated with the maintenance and repair of such meter shall be the sole responsibility of the residential user and not the city. The sewer user charge for residential and commercial users shall be based on water used in each billing period. Between the months of April and September the sewer portion of the total residential utility bill shall not exceed a maximum rate of $25.00. For residential users without water service the sewer user charge will be a flat rate based on the assumed average of 7,500 gallons per month of water used and will be assessed per residence. Industrial users shall be charged on the basis of water used monthly or sewage metered monthly throughout the year. In addition, for high strength wastes, a surcharge will be applied as established in section 82-262.
(c)
Billing charge. A billing charge divided equally among the billing periods will be assessed.
(d)
Operation and maintenance. The required annual revenue for operation and maintenance will be obtained from user charges and industrial surcharges. Anticipated income from industrial surcharges will be deducted from the required O&M revenue and the remainder of the required revenue will be collected from users at the calculated O&M user charge rate as follows:
User Charge Rate for O&M =  OM - S
Q
EXPAND
Where: OM = Annual Operation & Maintenance
S = Industrial Surcharge
Q = Annual Treatment Facility Flow
  There is no minimum charge for the O&M User Charge.
(e)
Debt service. The required annual revenue for debt service will be obtained from service charges as set in a rate ordinance.
(f)
Grinder pump charges. Any resident served by a grinder pump unit whose electrical power is provided at city expense will be assessed an additional monthly charge based upon the average monthly cost paid by the city to operate such pump. This fee will be set forth as prescribed in section 82-263.
(Ord. No. 88-011, § 7.01, 10-10-88; Ord. No. 89-015, 10-9-89; Ord. No. 91-001, 1-31-91)
Sec. 82-262. - Industrial wastewater surcharges.
(a)
Established. All industrial contributors whose wastewater discharges exceed 200 mg/l BOD, and/or 200 mg/l suspended solids and/or 700 mg/l COD, and/or 100 mg/l oil or grease, shall be assessed a surcharge in addition to the user charge. The charge shall be based on the proportionally high BOD, suspended solids, COD, and/or oil or grease concentration the industry contributes to the wastewater treatment facility in excess of 200 mg/l BOD, 200 mg/l suspended solids, 700 mg/l COD, and 100 mg/l grease or oil.
(b)
Basis of surcharge. The annual operation and maintenance costs for the first year of operation of the wastewater treatment facility will be allocated as follows:
EXPAND
Flow cost = 50 percent O&M cost
BOD cost = 40 percent O&M cost
SS cost = 10 percent O&M cost
COD cost =  0 percent O&M cost
OG cost =  0 percent O&M cost
  The expected average daily load at the plant for the subsequent year will be determined based on previous experience.
(c)
Rate of surcharge. The surcharge rate is determined as follows:
BODR = BOD Surcharge/lb. =    BOD O&M Cost
365 × BOD lb./day plant
TSSR = TSS Surcharge/lb. =    TSS O&M Cost
365 × TSS lb./day plant
CODR = COD Surcharge/lb. =    COD O&M Cost
365 × COD lb./day plant
OGR = Oil and Grease Surcharge/lb. =    OG O&M Cost
365 × OG lb./day plant
(d)
Surcharge calculation. The surcharge shall be calculated as follows:
Surcharge = Q × 8.33 [(BODi - 200) × BODR + (TSSi - 200) × TSSR + (CODi - 700) × CODR + (OGi - 100) × OGR]
Where:
EXPAND
Q = Industry flow in billing period
BODi = Industry average BOD in billing period
TSSi = Industry average TSS in billing period
CODi = Industry average COD in billing period
OGi = Industry average oil and grease in billing period
BODR = BOD surcharge rate from subsection (c) of this section
TSSR = TSS surcharge rate from subsection (c) of this section
CODR = COD surcharge rate from subsection (c) of this section
OGR = Oil and grease surcharge rate from subsection (c) of this section
  (e)
Surcharge rate amendment. The surcharge rate will be analyzed at the same time as user charges are being reviewed and if adjustment of the rates is justified, new rates will be set by council action.
(f)
Monitoring. Monitoring of industrial wastewater will be performed by the city at the control manhole, as required by this article. Monitoring will primarily include measurement of flow and analysis of a composite sample for a five-day BOD, and for total suspended solids of industrial discharges with concentrations of nonsanitary/domestic flows. When discharge of unusual concentrations of other pollutants, such as phosphorus and nitrogen compounds, or toxic pollutants is possible, the city will periodically have additional analyses performed to determine the concentrations of those pollutants which it is possible for the industry to discharge. Flow will be metered as the water used by the industry or the wastewater discharged by the industry. Wastewater discharge will be metered only when the industry has provided an effluent flow meter including recorder and totalizer. The frequency of analysis for biochemical oxygen demand and total suspended solids will be based on daily discharge and will be as follows:
EXPAND
Industry flow-gpd ..... Analysis frequency
25,000 to 100,000 ..... Monthly
100,000 to 300,000 ..... Semimonthly
300,000 to 1,000,000 ..... Weekly
Over 1,000,000 ..... Semiweekly
  (g)
Costs for monitoring, sampling and analyses. All costs associated with the monitoring, sampling and analyses shall be paid for by the user in addition to normal charges.
(Ord. No. 88-011, § 7.02, 10-10-88)
Sec. 82-263. - Rate ordinance.
(a)
Sewer rates. Sewer rates payable under this article shall be as provided in the schedule of fees and charges on file in the office of the city clerk.
(b)
Adoption. A rate ordinance based on section 86-261 shall be adopted to recover costs for administration, operation and maintenance, debt service and miscellaneous expenses of the sewer system.
(c)
Amendments. The rate ordinance shall be reviewed annually and amended, as necessary, to generate adequate revenue to offset all expenses of the sewer system.
(d)
Notification. All users shall be notified at least annually of the rates in effect for sewer service including the breakdown of the portion of the rate which is attributable to the operation of the city sewer system. Such notification shall be published in the legal organ of this community.
(Ord. No. 88-011, § 7.03, 10-10-88)
Secs. 82-264—82-270. - Reserved.
DIVISION 7. - GREASE, OIL AND SAND INTERCEPTOR ORDINANCE[4]

Sec. 82-271. - Introduction.
Grease, oil and sand interceptors shall be provided when, in the opinion of the city manager, they are necessary for the proper handling of liquid wastes containing FOG (fats, oil and grease) or any flammable wastes, sand or other harmful ingredients; except that such interceptors shall not be required for residential living quarters or dwelling units. All interceptors shall be located as to be readily and easily accessible for cleaning and inspection. Grease and oil separators shall conform to City of Rincon's Grease Interceptor Standards.
All interceptors shall be supplied, installed and properly and continuously maintained in a satisfactory and effective operational manner by the owner at his expense.
In addition it is prohibited that any water or waste containing fats, wax, grease, or oils whether emulsified or not, in excess of 100 mg/L or containing substances which may solidify or become viscous at temperatures between 32° F and 150° F.
The purpose of this grease trap standard is to provide specific guidelines for grease trap location, design, installation, construction and maintenance in conjunction and compliance with the above requirements. Failure to comply with this standard shall be considered violations of applicable section of existing combined sewer use and pretreatment ordinance and consequently will be subject to applicable penalties and/or denial or discontinuance of service as specified in section 82-273 of the division.
(Ord. No. 2004-001, § I, 2-9-04)
Sec. 82-272. - Definitions.
The following are in addition to the definitions currently provided in the existing combined sewer use and pretreatment ordinance:
Food service establishment. Any commercial facility discharging kitchen or food preparation wastewaters including restaurants, motels, hotels, cafeterias, hospitals, schools, bars, etc. and any other facility which, in the administrator's opinion, would require a grease trap installation by virtue of its operation.
Grease interceptor/grease trap. The device which is utilized to effect the separation of grease and oils in wastewater effluents from food service establishments. Such traps or interceptors may be of the outdoor or underground type normally referred to as large grease interceptors, or the "under the counter" package units normally referred to as the smaller grease traps. However, for purposes of this standard, the words "trap" and "interceptor" are generally used interchangeable. The "under-the-counter" units shall be designed, installed and maintained in accordance to the Plumbing and Drainage Institute Standard PDI-G101.
(Ord. No. 2004-001, § II, 2-9-04)
Sec. 82-273. - General requirements.
The following design, administrative, operational, and other requirements are applicable to all food service establishments, new or existing. Particular requirements for grease trap/interceptor construction, specifically pertaining to both new and existing food service establishments, can be found in section 82-274 of this standard.
(1)
All food service establishments shall have grease-handling facilities approved by the City of Rincon. Establishments whose grease handling facilities are not in accordance with this standard shall be given a compliance schedule with a deadline not to exceed six months from initial notification date.
(2)
All food service establishment grease-handling facilities/operations shall be subject to periodic review, evaluations, and inspection by the City of Rincon representatives at any time. Results of inspections will be made available to facility owners, with overall ratings assigned and recommendations for correction/improvement (if necessary) delineated.
(3)
Any facility receiving three consecutive unsatisfactory evaluations shall be subject to penalties/restrictions as provided for in the use and rate resolution for non compliance with the resolution requirements.
(4)
Violations of this City of Rincon standard will be considered grounds for discontinuance of water and/or sewer service.
(5)
Food service establishments whose operations cause or allow excessive grease to discharge or accumulate in the sewer collection system are liable to the wastewater quality control department for all costs related to wastewater quality control department service calls for line blockages, line cleanings, line and pump repairs, etc. Including all labor, materials, equipment, and overhead. Failure to pay all service related charges may also be grounds for water/sewer service discontinuance.
a.
Maintenance contracts and/or records of grease removal frequencies for grease handling facilities may be required at the discretion of the wastewater quality control department to be submitted periodically to ensure routine and adequate system maintenance.
b.
In the maintaining of the grease interceptors, the owner(s) shall be responsible for the proper removal and disposal by appropriate means of the captured material and shall maintain on site records of the dates, and means of disposal which are subject to review by the wastewater quality control department. Any removal and hauling of the collected materials not performed by owner(s) personnel must be performed by currently licensed waste disposal firms.
(6)
Any food service establishment whose effluent is suspected or perceived by the wastewater quality control department to contain a concentration of greater than 100 mg/l of oil and grease may be required to routinely sample their grease trap effluent and have it analyzed for oil and greases at the expense of the owner and furnish a copy of the analysis to the wastewater quality control department.
(7)
All grease traps/interceptors shall be designed and installed in accordance with this standard to allow for complete access to inspection, maintenance, etc.
(Ord. No. 2004-001, § III, 2-9-04)
Sec. 82-274. - Construction standards.
(a)
New facilities.
(1)
All newly constructed food service establishments shall be required to install a grease interceptor, approved by the City of Rincon. Grease interceptor shall be sized at ten gallons per food service seat, with no interceptor less than 1,000 gallons total capacity.
(2)
All grease trap/interceptor plans and specifications must be reviewed and approved by the City of Rincon prior to installation.
(3)
The construction and location criteria for grease interceptors shall be in accordance with Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) Guidance Document, "On-Site Wastewater Treatment and Disposal Systems," Chapter 8. Typical construction detail drawings for acceptable grease traps are attached to this standard.
(4)
All grease interceptors, whether singular or in series, must be directly accessible from the surface and must be fitted with an extended outlet sanitary tee that terminates six inches—12 inches above the tank floor. The minimum access opening dimensions shall be 18 inches × 18 inches.
(5)
All grease interceptors service fixtures where the total sewage flow exceeds 1,500 GPD must either be two-chambered or individual tanks in series. If two-chambered, the dividing wall must be equipped with an extended elbow or sanitary tee terminating six inches—12 inches above the tank floor. An extended outlet sanitary tee must also be provided at the outlet of the second chamber. Both chambers must be directly accessible from the surface. See attached drawings included in this standard.
(6)
Above criteria (1)—(5) apply primarily to outdoor type grease trap units.
(7)
Maintenance of grease traps/interceptors must include thorough pump-out and/or cleaning as needed, with a minimum frequency of four times per year. Maintenance contracts may be required to be submitted to the wastewater quality control department as called for in section 82-273(6) of this standard. The owner, however, is ultimately responsible for the proper maintenance of the grease trap facility(s).
(8)
No new food service facility will be allowed to initiate operations until grease handling facilities are installed and approved by the City of Rincon.
(b)
Existing facilities.
(1)
All existing food service establishments shall have grease-handling facilities approved by City of Rincon. Food service establishments without any grease handling facilities will be given a compliance deadline not to exceed six months from date of notification to have approved and install grease-handling equipment in compliance with this standard. Failure to do so will be considered a violation of the existing Combined Sewer Use and Pretreatment Ordinance and will subject the establishment to penalties and/or service discontinuance.
(2)
a.
For cases in which "outdoor" type grease interceptors are infeasible to install, existing food service establishments will be required to install adequate and approved "under-the-counter" grease traps for use on individual fixtures, including dishwashers, sinks, and other potentially grease containing drains. In such cases, units will be considered acceptable only if approved flow control fittings are provided to the grease interceptor inlet to prevent overloading of the grease trap and to allow for proper interceptor operation.
In such cases as the above, the owner(s) will be notified of the existing system deficiencies and given a compliance deadline not to exceed six months to have approved and installed grease-handling facilities or appurtenances. The Rincon City Manager must give approval of flow control devices and grease trap design prior to installation.
b.
For cases in which "outdoor" units are feasible to install, construction requirements will be as specified in section 82-274(a) of this standard, i.e. new facilities.
(3)
In most cases, wastewater from garbage grinders should not be discharged to grease traps/interceptors.
(4)
In the maintaining of existing grease traps/interceptors, the owner(s) shall be responsible for the proper removal and disposal by appropriate means of the captured material and shall maintain records of the dates and means of disposal which are subject by the water quality control wastewater department.
(5)
In the event of an existing food service establishments grease handling facilities are either under designed, substandard, or poorly operated, the owners(s) will be notified, in writing, of the required improvements and given a compliance deadline not to exceed six months to conform with these requirements of this grease standard.
(6)
Exclusive use of enzymes or other grease solvents, emulsifiers, etc. is not considered acceptable grease trap maintenance practice.
(7)
Grease consuming bacteria may be considered for interim approval for grease trap maintenance, provided approval is obtained for the water quality control wastewater department and providing that this control method is considered effective and satisfactory to the water quality control wastewater inspector. Exclusive use of bacteria may not be sufficient for long term grease trap maintenance, especially for non-biodegradable waste fractions.
(c)
New food service establishments in existing buildings. New food service establishments locating in existing buildings will be required to comply with the grease trap standards applicable to new facilities, i.e., outdoor type grease trap units (minimum size 1,000 gallons) shall be installed. (section 82-274(a))
(Ord. No. 2004-001, § IV, 2-9-04)
Sec. 82-275. - Enforcement.
Enforcement of this standard shall be in accordance with the provisions of the most current City of Rincon Combined Sewer Use and Pretreatment Ordinance. Failure to comply with this standard may be grounds for penalty imposition and/or discontinuance of service. Additionally, failure to comply may result in notification to the county health department for request of enforcement action which may lead to revocation of food service permits.
(Ord. No. 2004-001, § V, 2-9-04)
Sec. 82-276. - Penalties for non-compliance.
Any business that does not install the filter within six months will be fined $100.00 per each day of noncompliance, up to $1,000.00.
(Ord. No. 2004-001, § VI, 2-9-04)
