ARTICLE III. - WATER SERVICE

Sec. 82-61. - Charges for initial service.
(a)
Each residential consumer subscribing to use the water service of the city shall pay a connection fee which shall be set by the city council and shall be available for public consideration at the city hall.
(b)
Each commercial establishment subscribing to use the water service of the city shall be required to pay a connection fee as provided in the schedule of fees and charges on file in the office of the city clerk.
(c)
Current charges in subsections (a) and (b) of this section are subject to increases in cost. Any increase in charges shall be approved by the city council, and public notice shall be given.
(Code 1984, § 8-102)
Sec. 82-62. - Free service.
The minimum charge, as provided in the schedule of fees and charges, shall be made for such connections subscribed for. Water furnished for a given lot shall be used on that lot only and except for fire protection, the city shall not, under any condition, furnish water free of charge to anyone.
(Code 1984, § 8-104; Ord. No. 96-009, 5-13-96)
Sec. 82-63. - Suspension of service.
(a)
When water service is discontinued and all bills paid, the security deposit shall be returned to the consumer by the city.
(b)
Upon discontinuance of service for nonpayment of bills, the security deposit will be applied by the city toward the settlement of the account. Any balance will be refunded to the consumer. However, if the security deposit is insufficient to cover the bill, the city may proceed to collect the balance in the usual way provided by law for collection of debts.
(c)
The city reserves the right to discontinue its service without notice for the following additional reasons:
(1)
To prevent further abuse.
(2)
Consumer's willful disregard of the city's ordinance.
(3)
Emergency repairs.
(4)
Insufficiency of water supply due to circumstances beyond the city's control.
(5)
Legal processes.
(6)
Direction of public authority.
(7)
Strike, riot, fire or flood and unavoidable accidents.
(Code 1984, § 8-105)
Sec. 82-64. - Access to premises and extensions of system.
(a)
Duly authorized agents of the city shall have access at all hours to the premises of the consumer for the purpose of installing or removing city property, inspecting piping, reading and testing meters, or for any other purpose with connection with the water and its facilities.
(b)
Extensions to the system shall be made only when the consumer shall grant or convey, or shall cause to be granted or conveyed, to the city, a permanent easement of the right-of-way across the property by the water lines.
(Code 1984, § 8-107)
Sec. 82-65. - Consumer's responsibility and liability.
(a)
Permitted and prohibited uses. Water furnished by the city shall be used for consumption by the consumer, members of his household and employees only. The consumer shall not sell water to any other person or permit any other person to use such water. Water shall not be used for irrigation, fire protection, nor other purposes, except when the water is available in sufficient quantity without interfering with the regular domestic consumption in the area served. Disregard for this rule shall be of sufficient cause for refusal or discontinuance of service.
(b)
Placement of meter and meter boxes. Where the meter and meter boxes are placed on the premises of the consumer, a suitable place shall be provided by the consumer, unobstructed and accessible at all times to the meter reader.
(c)
Furnishing of cutoff valve. The consumer shall furnish and maintain a private cutoff valve on the consumer's side of the meter.
(d)
Installation and maintenance of piping and apparatus. The consumer's piping and apparatus shall be installed and maintained by consumer at the consumer's expense in the safe and sufficient manner and in accordance with the sanitary regulations of the state health department.
(e)
Private wells. In order to be received as a consumer and entitled to receive water from the city's water system, all applicants must also prove that any private wells located on their property are not physically connected to the lines of the city's water system. All applicants, by becoming consumers of the city, covenant and agree that so long as they continue to be consumers of the city they will not permit the connection of any private wells on their property to the city's water system.
(f)
Notice of discontinuance; responsibility for consumed water; application for service deadline. Not less than three days' notice must be given, in person or in writing at the city hall to discontinue water service or to charge occupancy. The outgoing party shall be responsible for all water consumed up to the time of departure or the time specified for departure, whichever period is longer. The owner shall apply for water service within 48 hours after occupying the premises and failure to do so will make him liable for paying the water consumed since the last meter reading.
(g)
Responsibility of the consumer and city for repairs to existing piping and apparatus. In the event that the city is required to make repairs to water piping and/or related apparatus located on a consumer's property, the city will make such repairs subject to the following conditions. The city will not be responsible for the replacement of any existing structures, pavement, driveways, parking lots, or other related items that are damaged or removed incident to such repair work. It will be the consumer's obligation, once the necessary repairs are completed, to replace or repair any such items due to the needed repairs, at the consumer's sole expense.
(Code 1984, § 8-108; Ord. No. 99-009, 12-13-99)
Sec. 82-66. - Complaints and adjustments.
(a)
If the consumer believes his bill to be in error, he shall present his claim in person, at the city hall before the bill becomes delinquent. Such claim shall not be effective in preventing discontinuance of services as authorized in this article. The consumer may pay such bill under protest and payment shall not prejudice his claim.
(b)
The city will make a special water meter reading at the request of the consumer for a fee as provided in the schedule of fees and charges on file in the office of the city clerk; provided, however, that if such special reading discloses the meter was overread, no charge would be made.
(c)
Water meters will be tested at the request of the consumer upon payment to the city of the actual cost of making the test; provided, however, that if the meter is found to overregister beyond three percent of the correct volume, no charge will be made.
(d)
If the seal of the meter is broken by other than the city's representative or if the meter fails to register correctly or is stopped for any cause, the consumer shall pay an amount estimated from the record of his previous bill and/or from other proper data.
(Code 1984, § 8-109)
Sec. 82-67. - Private wells.
(a)
No new private, shallow wells shall be permitted to be installed within the city except for irrigation purposes.
(b)
No new private, deep well shall be permitted within the city, except when the city is unable to supply water under the reasons enunciated in Rincon City Code section 82-63(c)(3) through (7) and when, upon petition by the landowner, the city council, at their discretion, determine that a new private deep well is needed and then only if certain conditions are satisfied which are as follows:
(1)
The city and landowner have entered into a written contract governing the following:
a.
Ownership of the well;
b.
The costs of the well and who shall be responsible for said cost;
c.
The geographical placement of the well and water supply lines related to the well;
d.
The construction of the well and water supply lines;
e.
The duration of the well as a non-irrigation well and the time frame for converting the well into an irrigation well;
f.
Access to the well by the city;
g.
The monthly usage fees and who shall be entitled to collect said fees;
h.
Fees to be paid by the landowner to the city;
i.
Who shall be responsible for the maintenance of the well and water supply lines;
j.
The connection of the property or properties served by the well or containing the well to the city's public water system upon resolution of the city's inability to supply water; and
k.
Any other terms or conditions that the city council, in it's discretion, deems necessary.
(2)
The new deep private well shall be metered along with all service connections.
(3)
The new deep private well shall be limited in capacity to 100,000 gallons per day.
(4)
The new deep private well shall provide water to no more than ten service connections at any one time.
(5)
The new deep private well shall provide water to no more than 24 individuals at any one time.
(c)
No private wells shall be permitted to be connected to the city's water system.
(d)
Any existing well which is tied into the city's water system shall be disconnected within 30 days at the owner's expense after receiving written notice from the city. If the city finds any private well connected after the 30-day notification period, the city shall disconnect the private well at the resident's expense and shall also levy a fine of $250.00 against the owner of the property.
(Ord. No. 90-013, § 8-110, 9-24-90; Ord. No. 2004-002, 4-19-04)
Sec. 82-68. - Alternate water sources.
An ordinance entitled "Alternate Water Sources" is hereby created in accordance with the conditional requirements that were stipulated with the current water withdrawal permits(s) issued by the Georgia Department of Natural Resources (Environmental Protection Division), effective with the date specified; that all new developments served by the City of Rincon water and sewer system shall install a system of purple pipe for the distribution of reclaimed water to be used for irrigation purposes. The distribution system must be approved by the City of Rincon prior to its construction.
For purposes of this ordinance, "new developments" shall mean all residential and commercial subdivisions which contain at least two or more lots, whether classified as a minor subdivision or a major subdivision. This ordinance shall only apply to new developments where water and sewer lines are constructed, developed, and/or moved in order to provide water and sewer services to the lots of the subdivision.
The passage of this ordinance shall not prohibit the developer, builder, and/or the owner of the development from entering into a Reuse Water Agreement with the City of Rincon as an alternative means of handling the amount of reclaimed water generated by the development. The agreement shall provide an alternative means of distributing the reclaimed water generated by the development either through a monetary contribution, through the use of reclaimed water as irrigation water on a suitable alternate parcel of land, or any other legal means agreed to by the City of Rincon.
(Ord. No. O-2007-009 , 5-29-07)
Secs. 82-69—82-95. - Reserved.
