ARTICLE II. - CITY COUNCIL[2]
Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
Cross reference— Civil emergencies, ch. 26; elections, ch. 34.

DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Sec. 2-31. - Chairman.
The mayor shall act as chairman of the council and is responsible for the orderly conduct of the meeting. In order to fulfill this duty, the mayor shall enforce the rules of procedure that are adopted by the city council. The chairman shall be impartial and conduct the meetings in a fair manner. The chairman may not introduce motions or second a motion, except that the chairman may introduce or second a motion to go into executive session as authorized by section 1-11. The chairman shall not vote except to break a tie.
Sec. 2-32. - Vice-chairman.
(a)
The council shall select a vice-chairman from the councilmembers at the first meeting in January following the previous November election. The vice-chairman shall fulfill the duties of the chairman if the chairman is not in attendance.
(b)
If the chairman and the vice-chairman are absent and a quorum is present, the remaining councilmembers shall select a councilmember to serve as temporary chairman of the meeting until either the chairman or vice-chairman is present at the meeting. A minimum of four members is required to constitute a quorum.
Sec. 2-33. - Committees.
The chairman, with the concurrence of the council, may create committees of members of the council to study any issue before the council. Any such committees may make recommendations to the city council, but no committee shall be empowered to make any final decision on any matter before it for consideration. In addition to councilmembers, committees may include other city officials, staff or citizens at large. Whenever a committee is created, its duties, any litigation on the scope of its duties, and the times, places and periods of time for which the committee may operate shall be determined by the chairman with the concurrence of the council. The chairman shall serve as an ex officio member of all committees.
Sec. 2-34. - Open meetings.
All meetings of the city council shall be held in accordance with the provisions of O.C.G.A. § 50-14-1 et seq. The public shall at all times be afforded access to all meetings other than executive sessions.
Sec. 2-35. - Reserved.
Sec. 2-36. - Regular meetings.
Regular meetings of the city council shall be held at 7:00 p.m. on the second and fourth Mondays of each month. All regular meetings shall be held in the city hall. A notice containing the foregoing information shall be posted and maintained in a conspicuous place available to the general public at the regular meeting place of the council.
Sec. 2-37. - Special meetings and rescheduled regular meetings.
A regular meeting may be canceled, rescheduled or moved to a new location within the city by the chairman for any reason. Other special meetings may be called as provided in the Charter. Whenever a rescheduled regular meeting or any other special meeting is to be held at a time or place other than the regularly scheduled time or place, written notice of the change shall be posted for at least 24 hours at the place of the regular meetings. In addition, written or oral notice shall be given by the manager at least 24 hours in advance of the meeting to either the legal organ of the city or a newspaper having a general circulation at least equal to that of the legal organ and to each member of the city council.
Sec. 2-38. - Emergency sessions.
When emergency circumstances occur, the council may hold a meeting with less than 24 hours' notice to the public. When such meetings are to be held, the city manager shall provide notice to the legal organ of the city or a newspaper with a general circulation at least equal to that of the legal organ and to each member of the city council as soon as possible. The notice shall include the subjects expected to be considered at the meeting. In addition, the minutes shall reflect the reason for the emergency meeting and the nature of the notice given to the media.
Sec. 2-39. - Executive sessions.
(a)
Executive sessions of the city council may be held for the purpose of conducting business excepted from public access requirements as authorized by O.C.G.A. §§ 50-14-2 and 50-14-3. Where a meeting of the council is devoted in part to matters within the authorized exceptions to public access requirements, any portion of the meeting not subject to any such exceptions shall be open to the public. No executive session shall be held except pursuant to a majority affirmative vote of the city council taken in a public meeting.
(b)
The minutes of the public meeting shall reflect the names of the councilmembers present, those voting for the executive session and the specific reasons for the executive session. Minutes of the executive session may be maintained by the city manager at the direction of the chairman. Any such minutes shall be maintained in a confidential file and shall not be subject to disclosure, except that disclosures of such portions of minutes identifying real estate to be acquired by the council, or not required for disclosure under law, may only be delayed until such time as the acquisition of the real estate has been completed, terminated or abandoned or court proceedings have been initiated.
Sec. 2-40. - Quorum.
A quorum must be present for conducting meetings of the council. A quorum is four of all of the members of the council then in office. It is the duty of the chairman to enforce this rule. Any councilmember may raise a point of order directed to the chairman if he believes that a quorum is not present. If, during the course of a meeting, a councilmember leaves and a quorum no longer exists, the meeting cannot continue.
Sec. 2-41. - Voting; majority.
Passage of a motion shall require the affirmative vote of a majority of councilmembers present and voting at a meeting at which a quorum is present. Unless otherwise specified in these procedures, a majority shall mean more than half of the councilmembers present excluding abstentions. In the event of a tie vote, the chairman shall vote break the tie.
Sec. 2-42. - Abstentions.
A councilmember shall vote on all motions unless he has a conflict of interest that would prevent him from making a decision in a fair and legal manner. Abstaining councilmembers should remain in the meeting room to maintain the quorum.
(Ord. No. 2021-0726-01, § 1, 7-26-21)
Sec. 2-43. - Agenda.
(a)
The city manager, with the advice of the chairman and the councilmembers, shall prepare an agenda of subjects to be acted on for each meeting. The agenda shall be made available to the councilmembers at least one business day before every council meeting.
(b)
Members of the public may request that a particular subject be placed on the agenda for the following meeting. To be considered, this request must be submitted in writing to the city manager and received at least three business days before the meeting.
(c)
The order of the agenda may be changed during a meeting by a majority vote of the council. A new subject that requires urgent attention may be added to the agenda during a meeting by a majority vote of the council.
(d)
A copy of the agenda and a list of those members present shall be made available to the public for inspection within two business days of the adjournment of any meeting.
Sec. 2-44. - Minutes.
(a)
The city manager, or his designee, shall promptly record the minutes for each council meeting. The minutes serve as the official written record of the council meeting and shall be open for public inspection once approved as official by the council but in no case later than immediately following the next regular meeting of the council. The minutes shall specify the names of councilmembers present at the meeting, a description of each motion or other proposal made at the meeting, the councilmember who proposed each motion, the councilmember who seconded each motion, and a record of all votes. In the case of a roll call vote, the name of each councilmember voting for or against a proposal shall be recorded. More detailed information may be included in the minutes at the request of the council or the mayor.
(b)
The mayor and council must approve the minutes before they can be considered as an official record of the council. A copy of the minutes from the previous meeting shall be distributed to the councilmembers at least one business day before the following meeting. The minutes of the previous meeting shall be corrected and approved by the council at the beginning of each meeting. A majority vote is required for approval. Conflicts about the content of the minutes shall be decided by majority vote. Upon being approved, the minutes shall be signed by the chairman and attested to by the city manager.
Sec. 2-45. - Order of business.
All regular council meetings shall follow an established order of business. The order is as follows:
(1)
Call to order.
(2)
Consent agenda.
(3)
Ceremonial proclamations and ceremonial resolutions.
(4)
Invited guests.
(5)
Citizen comments.
(6)
Reports from committees and departments.
(7)
Old business.
(8)
New business.
(9)
Council comments to the public.
(10)
Adjournment.
(Ord. No. 2020-1012-01, § 1, 10-26-20)
Sec. 2-46. - Decorum.
(a)
All councilmembers must conduct themselves in a professional and respectful manner. All remarks should be directed to the chairman and not to individual councilmembers, staff or citizens in attendance. Personal remarks are inappropriate. A councilmember is not allowed to speak at a meeting until he has been recognized by the chairman. All comments made by a councilmember shall address the motion that is being discussed.
(b)
The chairman shall enforce these rules of decorum. If a councilmember believes that a rule has been broken, he can raise a point of order. A second is not required. The chairman can rule on the question or he may allow the council to debate the issue and decide the issue by majority vote.
Sec. 2-47. - Public participation.
Public participation in meetings of the city council shall be permitted in accordance with the provisions of this section.
(1)
Citizen comments. Citizens' comments must be limited to their chosen topic.
(2)
Public participation on agenda items. By a majority vote, the council may allow public comment on an agenda item at the time the item is being considered by the council. These comments must be limited to the subject that is being debated. Members of the public may speak for five minutes and may speak only once. These limits may be waived by a majority vote of the council. Anyone wishing to speak at any council meeting must be recognized by the mayor before addressing the council. This requirement may be waived by a majority vote of the city council.
(3)
Decorum. Members of the public shall not make inappropriate or offensive comments at a council meeting and are expected to comply with the rules of decorum that are established for councilmembers. Individuals who violate any rules of the council may be ruled out of order by the chairman or on a point of order made by a councilmember. A majority vote of the council will rule on the point of order. An individual who violates the rules of decorum may be removed from the meeting at the direction of the chairman.
(4)
Public hearings. The council may schedule public hearings for the purpose of soliciting public comment on any subject of interest to the council. Hearings may be held immediately prior to or following a meeting of the council or at such other places and times as the council may determine. No official action shall be taken at any such public hearing.
(Ord. No. 2012-0611, § 1, 6-11-12)
Sec. 2-48. - Amendments to rules.
Any amendments to the rules of order must be submitted by a councilmember in writing to the city manager three business days before a regular meeting of the council. The proposed amendment shall be included in the agenda for that meeting and distributed to all councilmembers. All amendments require a majority vote of the council to be adopted.
Sec. 2-49. - Suspending the rules of order.
Rules of order may be suspended in the case of an emergency. A motion to suspend the rules requires a second, is debatable and requires a majority vote of the council. Rules governing quorum, voting methods and requirements, the notification to councilmembers of meetings, and rules necessary for compliance with state law cannot be suspended.
Sec. 2-50. - Visual and sound recordings.
Visual and sound recordings shall be permitted for all public meetings.
(Ord. No. 2014-1208, § 1, 12-8-14)
Secs. 2-51—2-70. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - PARLIAMENTARY PROCEDURE

Sec. 2-71. - Rules of procedure.
Unless otherwise provided in this Code, procedures for meetings of the city council shall follow "Parliamentary Procedure: A Guide for City Officials" published by the Georgia Municipal Association, June 2007, as amended by the mayor and council, a copy of which shall be attached to this Code as "Appendix C Parliamentary Procedure".
(Ord. No. 2013-1118-02, § 1, 11-18-13)
Editor's note— Parliamentary Procedure has been incorporated herein by reference as if fully set out at length, and a copy shall be posted in the office of the city manager for public inspection.
Sec. 2-72. - Motions.
In order for the council to take any official action on any subject, a councilmember must propose a motion. A proposed motion will not be acted upon by the council until another councilmember agrees to second the motion. A councilmember may withdraw a motion that he has made at any time before the council has voted on that motion.
Sec. 2-73. - Debate.
After the motion is seconded, the council shall debate the motion. The debate shall be managed by the mayor in a manner that is fair to all members of the council. Councilmembers may participate in the debate only when they are recognized by the mayor.
(Ord. No. 2012-0611, § 2, 6-11-12)
Sec. 2-74. - Time limits.
(a)
A presentation by the mayor or a councilmember regarding an agenda item shall be no more than five minutes. A majority vote of the city council is required to extend the presentation time.
(b)
After a motion and a second, the non-presenting councilmembers, and the mayor if the mayor did not present the agenda item, will be afforded up to five minutes to discuss or pose questions as to the agenda item. The presenting councilmember or mayor shall have no more than five minutes to address the concerns of other members of the mayor and council as to the agenda item. A majority vote of the city council is required to extend any discussion time.
(c)
During the public comments section of the agenda, the mayor and each councilmember may speak no more than five minutes each on the public comments. A majority vote of the city council is required to extend any discussion time.
(Ord. No. 2012-0611, § 3, 6-11-12)
Secs. 2-75—2-95. - Reserved.
DIVISION 3. - LEGISLATION

Sec. 2-96. - Legislative authority generally.
The city council shall exercise the legislative functions of the city, and may pass any ordinance or resolution that it deems best for the government of the city; however, such ordinance or resolution is not in conflict with the Charter of the city, the constitution or the laws of the state, or the constitution or the laws of the United States.
Sec. 2-97. - Ordinances, resolutions, contracts and interlocal agreements.
Unless otherwise provided in this Code, all ordinances, resolutions, contracts and interlocal agreements of the city shall be prepared, approved, introduced and adopted in the manner provided in this division.
Sec. 2-98. - Preparation of ordinances.
Whenever possible, all ordinances shall be prepared by the city attorney.
Sec. 2-99. - Required elements of ordinances.
All ordinances passed by the council shall contain the following items, which shall be set forth in the ordinance in the following order:
(1)
Ordinance number.
(2)
Title and purpose.
(3)
Enacting clause.
(4)
Body of ordinance by sections.
(5)
Severability clause.
(6)
Penalty clause.
(7)
Repealing clause.
(8)
Adoption date.
(9)
Effective date.
(10)
Authentication of city manager.
Sec. 2-100. - Introduction of ordinances, resolutions and other matters.
Ordinances, resolutions and other matters of subjects requiring action by the council must be introduced and sponsored by a member of the council, the mayor or the city attorney.
Sec. 2-101. - Reading of ordinances.
Ordinances will be posted for public inspection at a meeting where considered by the council for adoption. It shall not be necessary for an ordinance to be read in its entirety in order for it to be valid.
Sec. 2-102. - Subject matter of ordinances.
No ordinance shall relate to more than one subject, which shall be clearly expressed in its title; and no ordinance, or section of such ordinance, shall be amended or repealed unless the new ordinance contains the title of the ordinance or section amended or repealed. When practicable, all ordinances shall be introduced as amendments to this Code.
Sec. 2-103. - Adoption of ordinances, resolutions, contracts.
An ordinance, resolution or contract shall be deemed adopted or approved when it receives an affirmative vote of a majority of the whole council.
Sec. 2-104. - Effective date of ordinances.
Ordinances shall take effect immediately upon adoption.
Secs. 2-105—2-135. - Reserved.
