APPENDIX A. - CODE OF ETHICS AND PROHIBITED PRACTICES

Section 1. - Conflict of interest.
No elected official, appointed officer, or employee of the city or any agency or political entity to which this code of ethics applies shall knowingly:
(a)
Engage in any business or transaction or have a financial or other personal interest, direct or indirect, which is incompatible with the proper discharge of his official duties or which would tend to impair his independence of judgement or action in the performance of his official duties;
(b)
Engage in or accept private employment or render services for private interests when such employment or service is incompatible with the proper discharge of his official duties or would tend to impair his independence of his judgment or action in the performance of his official duties;
(c)
Disclose confidential information concerning the property, government, or affairs of the governmental body by which he is employed without proper legal authorization, or use such information to advance the financial or other private interest of himself or others;
(d)
Accept any valuable gift, whether in the form of service, loan, thing, or promise, from any person, firm, or corporation which to his knowledge is interested, directly or indirectly, in any manner whatsoever in business dealings with the governmental body by which he is employed; provided, however, that an elected official who is a candidate for public office may accept campaign contributions and services in connection with any such campaign;
(e)
Represent private interests in any action or proceeding against the council by which he is employed;
(f)
Vote or otherwise participate in the negotiation or the making of any contract with any business or entity in which he has a financial interest.
Section 2. - Disclosure.
Any elected official, appointed officer, or employee of the consolidated government who shall have any private financial interest, directly or indirectly, in any contract or matter pending before or within any department of the city shall disclose such private interest to the council. The mayor or any councilman who has a private interest in any matter pending before the council shall disclose such private interest and such disclosure shall be entered on the records of the council and he shall disqualify himself from participating in any decision or vote relating thereto. Any elected official, appointed officer, or employee of any agency or political entity to which this code of ethics applies who shall have any private financial interest, directly or indirectly, in any contract or matter pending before or within such agency or entity shall disclose such private interest to the governing body of such agency or entity.
Section 3. - Use of public property.
No elected official, appointed officer, or employee of the city or any agency or entity to which this code of ethics applies shall use property owned by such governmental body for personal benefit, convenience, or profit except in accordance with policies promulgated by the council or the governing body of such agency or entity.
Section 4. - Contracts voidable and rescindable.
Any violation of this code of ethics which occurs with the knowledge, express or implied, of another party to a contract or sale shall render said contract or sale voidable as to that party, at the option of the council.
Section 5. - Ineligibility of elected officials.
Except where authorized by law, neither the mayor nor any councilman shall hold any other elective or appointive office in the city or otherwise be employed by said government or any agency thereof during the term for which he was elected.
Section 6. - Political activities of certain officers and employees.
No appointive officer and no employee of the city shall continue in such employment upon qualifying as a candidate for nomination or election to any public office.
Section 7. - Penalties for violations.
(a)
Any city officer or employee who wilfully conceals such financial interest or wilfully violates any of the requirements of this section shall upon conviction be guilty of malfeasance in office or position and shall be deemed to have forfeited his office or position.
(b)
Any officer or employee of the city who shall forfeit his office or position, as described in subsection (a), shall be ineligible for appointment or election to or employment in a position in the city government for a period of three years thereafter.
