ARTICLE 7. - MUNICIPAL SERVICES AND REGULATORY FUNCTIONS

Section 7.10. - Streets.
The council is hereby vested with the power to layout, open, widen, change, straighten, alter, improve, vacate, abandon, and otherwise to exercise complete control over the streets, alleys, squares and sidewalks of the City of Rossville, Georgia. The council shall provide for the removal of any and all obstacles and nuisances in regard to the streets, alleys, or sidewalks or other public places within the city and shall adopt appropriate ordinances to accomplish this purpose.
Section 7.11. - Municipal utilities.
The council shall have the power and authority to acquire, own, hold, build, maintain and operate a system of waterworks, electric lights, sewerage, and gas distribution; to establish rates and charge fees for services rendered in any of said systems; to finance any of said systems through appropriate bond issues in accordance with the laws of Georgia; to exercise the power of eminent domain in regard to any of said systems, both within and without the corporate limits; and to contract to furnish the services of any of said systems to consumers outside the corporate limits of the City of Rossville, Georgia.
Section 7.12. - Sewers and drains.
The council shall have the power and authority to provide for the establishment, extension, and maintenance of a system of sewers and drains, together with a sewerage disposal system. This power includes the authority to extend said system beyond the corporate limits. For these purposes the city is granted the power of eminent domain both within and without its corporate limits. The council may provide by ordinance for reasonable connection fees for tapping on to the water and sewer lines of said city, and may compel citizens to tap into the same when such service is made available. They may cause said connection to be made when the owners refuse, and issue executions to be made for the amount so expended, which execution shall create a lien on the property connected with said water and sewerage systems from the date of the order or connection.
Section 7.13. - Right-of-way.
The City of Rossville shall have the right, easement and franchise of laying the necessary mains, pipes, conduits, and drains, for waterworks and sewerage system purposes along the highways in the county of Walker without cost; it shall have full power and authority to enact and enforce such rules, regulations and ordinances as may be necessary to protect the water basin and watershed, from which the water supply is taken, from contamination and to protect said water works and sewerage system, including the mains, pipes, and conduits whether the same be situated within or without the corporate limits of said city.
Section 7.14. - Eminent domain.
The council is hereby empowered to acquire, construct, build, operate and maintain public ways, parks, public grounds, cemeteries, markets, market houses, public buildings, libraries, sewers, drains, sewage treatment, waterworks, electrical systems, gas systems, airports, hospitals, and charitable, educational, recreational, sport, curative, corrective, detentional, penal and medical institutions, agencies and facilities, and any other public improvements inside or outside the city, and to regulate the use thereof, and for such purposes, property may be taken under chapter [section] 36-202 of the Georgia Code, subject to such amendments as shall be enacted, or any other applicable Georgia law.
Sections 7.15—7.19. - Reserved.
Section 7.20. - Power to regulate and license.
The council shall have the power and authority to provide by ordinance for the registration and licensing of any trade, business, occupations, vocation, profession or any and every other undertaking pursued for the purpose of personal gain or profit of whatever nature, engaged in or carried on within the limits of the City of Rossville, regardless of whether or not the subject has an office or establishment within said city. The council shall be authorized to fix the amounts, terms, and manner of issuing and revoking licenses, provided that this authority is subject to the Constitutions and laws of the United States and the State of Georgia. This power is conferred for the purpose of regulation under the police powers of the city and for the purpose of raising revenue for the operation of the city government through the imposition of a tax or fee for the privilege of operating within the city. This authority extends over individuals, partnerships, associations, corporations, and their agents, and any other legal entity capable of transacting business.
Section 7.21. - Franchises.
The council shall have authority to exercise control over the use of streets of the City of Rossville. The power is hereby conferred upon the council to grant franchises for the use of said city's streets and alleys for the purpose of railroads, street railways, telephone companies, electrical companies, gas companies, and transportation companies. This franchise right extends to, but is not limited to, the erection of poles, stringing of wires, laying of pipes, lines or conduits both above and below the ground surface. The council shall determine the duration, provisions, terms, whether the same shall be exclusive or nonexclusive, and the consideration of such franchises; provided, however, that no franchise shall be granted for a period in excess of twenty (20) years and no franchise shall be granted unless the city receives just and adequate compensation therefor. The council shall provide for the registration of all franchises with the city clerk in the registration book to be kept by him/her. The council may provide by ordinance for the registration within a reasonable time of all franchises previously granted.
Section 7.22. - Building, housing, electrical, and plumbing regulations.
The council shall have the power and authority to enact such reasonable rules and regulations as it may deem necessary or expedient regarding the construction and maintenance of buildings, remodeling of buildings, plumbing, and electrical wiring and equipping of buildings, in order to promote the safety and welfare of its citizens and to guard against fire or other property damage. This power may, in the discretion of the council, be exercised by adoption of any such standard building, housing, gas, heating and air-conditioning, electrical, and plumbing codes as may be deemed appropriate. The council shall be empowered to engage the necessary personnel to enforce such rules and regulations as adopted, and to charge reasonable fees of inspections and permits; and may require the obtaining of a permit as a condition precedent to any construction, building, electrical or plumbing work. The council may enact all ordinances necessary to enforce such rules and regulations.
