Chapter 7 - LAND DEVELOPMENT AND ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION
Article 7.1 - Standard Construction Specifications

Section 7.1.1 - Purpose and Scope.
The standard construction specifications are intended to provide the standards to any person, firm, corporation or agent involved in land-disturbing activities to use in the design and construction of streets, utilities and other facilities and services within the City of Roswell.
(2003-12-30, Added, 12/08/2003)
Section 7.1.2 - Adoption of Standards.
There is hereby adopted the Standard Construction Specifications of the City of Roswell, Georgia, as amended by resolution of mayor and city council from time to time. A current copy of the standard construction specifications is on file in the office of the engineering division manager and is attached to Ordinance 2003-12-30 as Exhibit "A".
(2003-12-30, Added, 12/08/2003)
Section 7.1.3 - Jurisdiction and Enforcement.
(a)
Jurisdiction. These specifications shall govern all construction activities of residential, industrial, commercial, apartments, condominiums and semi-public and public places. These standards shall apply to both public and private street development.
(b)
Enforcement. Unless otherwise specified within the construction specifications, the engineering manager or his designee shall have general charge and supervision of the standard construction specifications and shall require all builders and contractors to conform with these specifications.
(2003-12-30, Added, 12/08/2003)
Section 7.1.4 - Conflicts.
Whenever the provisions of this chapter and those of some other ordinance or statute of the City of Roswell apply to the same subject matter, the ordinance requiring the most restrictive standard shall apply.
(2003-12-30, Added, 12/08/2003)
Section 7.1.5 - Appeals.
Appeals to these design standards or an interpretation of these standards by a city official shall be made to the mayor and city council. Such appeal shall be made in writing and shall be filed with the City Clerk of Roswell within thirty (30) days of the decision.
(2003-12-30, Added, 12/08/2003)
Section 7.1.6 - Violation and Penalty.
Any person, firm, corporation or agent who shall violate a provision of these specifications and plans or fails to comply with any section and/or provision of the Code of Ordinances of the City of Roswell, as amended or any regulations which are cited and/or referred to in this chapter shall be punished by a fine not exceeding one thousand dollars ($1,000.00), by imprisonment not exceeding ninety (90) days and/or to work on the public streets or public works of the City of Roswell for a period not exceeding ninety (90) days, either or both such fine, imprisonment or work on the streets or public works, in the discretion of the court.
(2003-12-30, Added, 12/08/2003)
Article 7.2 - Post-Development Stormwater Management

Section 7.2.1 - General Provisions.
7.2.1.1
Purpose and Intent. The purpose of this ordinance is to protect, maintain and enhance the public health, safety, environment and general welfare by establishing minimum requirements and procedures to control the adverse effects of increased post-development stormwater runoff and nonpoint source pollution associated with new development and redevelopment. It has been determined that proper management of post-development stormwater runoff will minimize damage to public and private property and infrastructure, safeguard the public health, safety, environment and general welfare of the public, and protect water and aquatic resources. This ordinance seeks to meet that purpose through the following objectives:
(1)
Establish decision-making processes surrounding land development activities that protect the integrity of the watershed and preserve the health of water resources;
(2)
Require that new development and redevelopment maintain the pre-development hydrologic response in their post-development state as nearly as practicable in order to reduce flooding, streambank erosion, nonpoint source pollution and maintain the integrity of stream channels and aquatic habitats;
(3)
Allow in appropriate situations the use of existing conditions curve numbers for redevelopment sites if it can be shown through rigorous and detailed downstream engineering analysis that no existing downstream drainage problems exist or are anticipated as a result of the redevelopment;
(4)
Establish design and application criteria for the construction and use of structural stormwater control facilities that can be used to meet the minimum post-development stormwater management standards;
(5)
Encourage the use of nonstructural stormwater management and stormwater better site design practices, such as the preservation of greenspace and other conservation areas, to the maximum extent practicable. Coordinate site design plans, which include greenspace, with the county's greenspace protection plan;
(6)
Establish provisions for the long-term responsibility for and maintenance of structural stormwater control facilities and nonstructural stormwater management practices to ensure that they continue to function as designed, are maintained, and pose no threat to public safety; and,
(7)
Establish administrative procedures for the submission, review, approval and disapproval of stormwater management plans, and for the inspection of approved active projects, and long-term follow up.
7.2.1.2
Applicability.
(1)
This ordinance shall be applicable to all land development, including but not limited to site plan applications, subdivision applications and grading applications, unless exempt pursuant to subsection (2) below. These standards apply to any new development or redevelopment site that meets one (1) or more of the following criteria unless requirements are waived by the public works / environmental director or designee:
a.
New development that involves the creation of five thousand (5,000) square feet or more of impervious cover, or that involves other land development activities of one (1) acre or more;
b.
Redevelopment that includes the creation, addition or replacement of five thousand (5,000) square feet or more of impervious cover, or that involves other land development activity of one (1) acre or more;
c.
Any new development or redevelopment, regardless of size, that is defined by the engineering division manager or the director of public works to be a hotspot land use;
d.
Land development activities that are smaller than the minimum applicability criteria set forth in items a. and b. above, if such activities are part of a larger common plan of development, even though multiple, separate and distinct land development activities may take place at different times on different schedules;
e.
New development that involves the creation or replacement of between one thousand (1,000) square feet and five thousand (5,000) square feet of impervious cover for non-residential property shall provide water quality protection only using approved low impact development methods; or
f.
Redevelopment that involves the creation or replacement of between one thousand (1,000) square feet and five thousand (5,000) square feet of impervious cover for non-residential property shall provide water quality protection only using approved low impact development methods.
(2)
The following activities are exempt from this ordinance:
a.
Individual single-family or duplex residential lots that are not part of a subdivision or phased development project;
b.
Additions or modifications to existing single-family or duplex residential structures;
c.
Agricultural or silvicultural land management activities within areas zoned for these activities; and,
d.
Repairs to any stormwater management facility or practice deemed necessary by the director of public works.
7.2.1.3
Designation of Ordinance Administrator. The public works/environmental director or his designee is hereby appointed to administer and implement the provisions of this article of this ordinance.
7.2.1.4
Stormwater Design Manual. The City of Roswell will utilize the policy, criteria and information including technical specifications and standards in the latest edition of the Georgia Stormwater Management Manual and any relevant local regulations or procedures adopted by the public works/environmental department for the proper implementation of the requirements of this ordinance. The manual may be updated and expanded periodically, based on improvements in science, engineering, monitoring and local maintenance experience.
(2012-10-15, §§ 1, 2, Amended, 10/08/2012; 2003-12-30, Renumbered, 12/08/2003; 2002-12-04, Amended, 02/06/2003)
State Law reference— Stormwater systems and codes are authorized under local home rule powers in Georgia Constitution art. IX § II, par. III(a)(6) and (12).
Section 7.2.2 - Definitions.
Applicant means a person submitting a post-development stormwater management application and plan for approval.
Channel means a natural or artificial watercourse with a definite bed and banks that conducts continuously or periodically flowing water.
Conservation easement means an agreement between a land owner and the (local jurisdiction) or other government agency or land trust that permanently protects open space or greenspace on the owner's land by limiting the amount and type of development that can take place, but continues to leave the remainder of the fee interest in private ownership.
Detailed downstream engineering analysis means that a rigorous and detailed downstream analysis can be conducted by an engineer in order to show that additional detention is unnecessary for a redevelopment site.
Detention means the temporary storage of stormwater runoff in a stormwater management facility for the purpose of controlling the peak discharge.
Detention facility means a detention basin or structure designed for the detention of stormwater runoff and gradual release of stored water at controlled rates.
Developer means a person who undertakes land development activities.
Development means a land development or land development project.
Drainage easement means an easement appurtenant or attached to a tract or parcel of land allowing the owner of adjacent tracts or other persons to discharge stormwater runoff onto the tract or parcel of land subject to the drainage easement.
Erosion and sedimentation control plan means a plan that is designed to minimize the accelerated erosion and sediment runoff at a site during land disturbance activities.
Extended detention means the detention of stormwater runoff for an extended period, typically twenty-four (24) hours or greater.
Extreme flood protection means measures taken to prevent adverse impacts from large low-frequency storm events with a return frequency of one hundred (100) years or more.
Flooding means a volume of surface water that is too great to be confined within the banks or walls of a conveyance or stream channel and that overflows onto adjacent lands.
Georgia Stormwater Management Manual shall mean the latest version of the manual promulgated by the Atlanta Regional Commission, as amended and approved by the City of Roswell.
Greenspace or open space means permanently protected areas of the site that are preserved in a natural state.
Hotspot means an area where the use of the land has the potential to generate highly contaminated runoff, with concentrations of pollutants in excess of those typically found in stormwater.
Hydrologic Soil Group (HSG) means a Natural Resource Conservation Service classification system in which soils are categorized into four runoff potential groups. The groups range from group A soils, with high permeability and little runoff produced, to group D soils, which have low permeability rates and produce much more runoff.
Impervious cover means a surface composed of any material that significantly impedes or prevents the natural infiltration of water into soil. Impervious surfaces include, but are not limited to, rooftops, buildings, streets and roads, and any concrete or asphalt surface.
Industrial stormwater permit means a National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System (NPDES) permit issued to an industry or group of industries which regulates the pollutant levels associated with industrial stormwater discharges or specifies on-site pollution control strategies.
Infiltration means the process of percolating stormwater runoff into the subsoil.
Inspection and maintenance agreement means a written agreement providing for the long-term inspection and maintenance of stormwater management facilities and practices on a site or with respect to a land development project which when properly recorded in the deed records constitutes a restriction on the title to a site or other land involved in a land development project.
Jurisdictional wetland means an area that is inundated or saturated by surface water or groundwater at a frequency and duration sufficient to support a prevalence of vegetation typically adapted for life in saturated soil conditions, commonly known as hydrophytic vegetation.
Land development means any land change, including, but not limited to, clearing, digging, grubbing, stripping, removal of vegetation, dredging, grading, excavating, transporting and filling of land, construction, paving, and any other installation of impervious cover.
Land development activities means those actions or activities which comprise, facilitate or result in land development.
Land development project means a discrete land development undertaking.
Low impact development methods means a stormwater management approach to manage rainfall in a way which more closely mimics the natural hydrologic system at the site prior to any development. Techniques include those which infiltrate, store, filter, evaporate and detain stormwater close to the location where the rain fell.
New development means a land development activity on a previously undeveloped site.
Nonpoint source pollution means a form of water pollution that does not originate from a discrete point such as a sewage treatment plant or industrial discharge, but involves the transport of pollutants such as sediment, fertilizers, pesticides, heavy metals, oil, grease, bacteria, organic materials and other contaminants from land to surface water and groundwater via mechanisms such as precipitation, stormwater runoff, and leaching. Nonpoint source pollution is a by-product of land use practices such as agricultural, silvicultural, mining, construction, subsurface disposal and urban runoff sources.
Nonstructural stormwater management practice or nonstructural practice means any natural or planted vegetation or other nonstructural component of the stormwater management plan that provides for or enhances stormwater quantity and/or quality control or other stormwater management benefits, and includes, but is not limited to, riparian buffers, open and greenspace areas, overland flow filtration areas, natural depressions, and vegetated channels.
Off-site facility means a stormwater management facility located outside the boundaries of the site.
On-site facility means a stormwater management facility located within the boundaries of the site.
Overbank flood protection means measures taken to prevent an increase in the frequency and magnitude of out-of-bank flooding (i.e. flow events that exceed the capacity of the channel and enter the floodplain), and that are intended to protect downstream properties from flooding for the two-year through 25-year frequency storm events.
Owner means the legal or beneficial owner of a site, including but not limited to, a mortgagee or vendee in possession, receiver, executor, trustee, lessee or other person, firm or corporation in control of the site.
Permit means the permit issued by the City of Roswell to the applicant which is required for undertaking any land development activity.
Person means, except to the extent exempted from this ordinance, any individual, partnership, firm, association, joint venture, public or private corporation, trust, estate, commission, board, public or private institution, utility, cooperative, city, county or other political subdivision of the State, any interstate body or any other legal entity.
Post-development refers to the time period, or the conditions that may reasonably be expected or anticipated to exist, after completion of the land development activity on a site as the context may require.
Pre-development refers to the time period, or the conditions that exist, on a site prior to the commencement of a land development project and at the time that plans for the land development of a site are approved by the plan approving authority. Where phased development or plan approval occurs (preliminary grading, roads and utilities, etc.), the existing conditions at the time prior to the first item being approved or permitted shall establish pre-development conditions.
Project means a land development project.
Redevelopment means a land development project on a previously developed site, but excludes ordinary maintenance activities, remodeling of existing buildings, resurfacing of paved areas, and exterior changes or improvements which do not materially increase or concentrate stormwater runoff, or cause additional nonpoint source pollution.
Regional stormwater management facility or regional facility means stormwater management facilities designed to control stormwater runoff from multiple properties, where the owners or developers of the individual properties may assist in the financing of the facility, and the requirement for on-site controls is either eliminated or reduced.
Runoff means stormwater runoff.
Site means the parcel of land being developed, or the portion thereof on which the land development project is located.
Stormwater better site design means nonstructural site design approaches and techniques that can reduce a site's impact on the watershed and can provide for nonstructural stormwater management. Stormwater better site design includes conserving and protecting natural areas and greenspace, reducing impervious cover and using natural features for stormwater management.
Stormwater management means the collection, conveyance, storage, treatment and disposal of stormwater runoff in a manner intended to prevent increased flood damage, streambank channel erosion, habitat degradation and water quality degradation, and to enhance and promote the public health, safety and general welfare.
Stormwater management facility means any infrastructure that controls or conveys stormwater runoff.
Stormwater management measure means any stormwater management facility or nonstructural stormwater practice.
Stormwater management plan means a document describing how existing runoff characteristics will be affected by a land development project and containing measures for complying with the provisions of this ordinance.
Stormwater management system means the entire set of structural and nonstructural stormwater management facilities and practices that are used to capture, convey and control the quantity and quality of the stormwater runoff from a site.
Stormwater retrofit means a stormwater management practice designed for a currently developed site that previously had either no stormwater management practice in place or a practice inadequate to meet the stormwater management requirements of the site.
Stormwater runoff means the flow of surface water resulting from precipitation.
Structural stormwater control means a structural stormwater management facility or device that controls stormwater runoff and changes the characteristics of that runoff including, but not limited to, the quantity and quality, the period of release or the velocity of flow of such runoff.
Subdivision means the division of a tract or parcel of land resulting in one (1) or more new lots or building sites for the purpose, whether immediately or in the future, of sale, other transfer of ownership or land development, and includes divisions of land resulting from or made in connection with the layout or development of a new street or roadway or a change in an existing street or roadway.
(2012-10-15, § 3, Amended, 10/08/2012; 2002-12-04, Amended, 12/16/2002)
Section 7.2.3 - Permit Procedures and Requirements.
7.2.3.1
Permit Application Requirements. No owner or developer shall perform any land development activities without first meeting the requirements of this ordinance prior to commencing the proposed activity.
Unless specifically exempted by this ordinance, any owner or developer proposing a land development activity shall submit to the City of Roswell a permit application on a form provided by the City of Roswell for that purpose.
Unless otherwise exempted by this ordinance, a permit application shall be accompanied by the following items in order to be considered:
(1)
Stormwater concept plan and consultation meeting certification in accordance with section 7.2.3.2;
(2)
Stormwater management plan in accordance with section 7.2.3.3;
(3)
Inspection and maintenance agreement in accordance with section 7.2.3.4, if applicable;
(4)
Performance bond in accordance with section 7.2.3.5, if applicable; and,
(5)
Permit application and plan review fees in accordance with section 7.2.3.6.
7.2.3.2
Stormwater Concept Plan and Consultation Meeting. Before any development permit application is submitted, the land owner or developer shall meet with the City of Roswell public works/environmental director or designee for a consultation meeting on a concept plan for the post-development stormwater management system to be utilized in the proposed land development project. This consultation meeting shall take place at the time of the preliminary plan of subdivision or other early step in the development process. The purpose of this meeting is to discuss the post-development stormwater management measures necessary for the proposed project, as well as to discuss and assess constraints, opportunities and potential ideas for stormwater management designs before the formal site design engineering is commenced. To accomplish this goal the following information should be included in the concept plan which shall be submitted in advance of the meeting:
(a)
Existing Conditions/Proposed Site Plans. Existing conditions and proposed site layout sketch plans, which illustrate at a minimum: existing and proposed topography; perennial and intermittent streams; mapping of predominant soils from soil surveys (when available); boundaries of existing predominant vegetation and proposed limits of clearing and grading; and location of existing and proposed roads, buildings, parking areas and other impervious surfaces.
(b)
Natural Resources Inventory. A written or graphic inventory of the natural resources at the site and surrounding area as it exists prior to the commencement of the project. This description should include a discussion of soil conditions, forest cover, topography, wetlands, and other native vegetative areas on the site, as well as the location and boundaries of other natural feature protection and conservation areas such as wetlands, lakes, ponds, floodplains, stream buffers and other setbacks (e.g., drinking water well setbacks, septic setbacks, etc.). Particular attention should be paid to environmentally sensitive features that provide particular opportunities or constraints for development.
(c)
Stormwater Management System Concept Plan. A written or graphic concept plan of the proposed post-development stormwater management system including: preliminary selection and location of proposed structural stormwater controls; location of existing and proposed conveyance systems such as grass channels, swales, and storm drains; flow paths; location of floodplain/floodway limits; relationship of site to upstream and downstream properties and drainages; and preliminary location of proposed stream channel modifications, such as bridge or culvert crossings.
Local watershed plans, the greenspace projection plan, and any relevant resource protection plans will be consulted in the discussion of the concept plan.
7.2.3.3
Stormwater Management Plan Requirements. The stormwater management plan shall detail how post-development stormwater runoff will be controlled or managed and how the proposed project will meet the requirements of this ordinance, including the performance criteria set forth in section 7.2.4 below.
This plan shall be in accordance with the criteria established in this section and must be submitted with the stamp and signature of a professional engineer (PE) licensed in the State of Georgia, and qualified in the field of water resources who must verify that the design of all stormwater management facilities and practices meet the submittal requirements outlined in the submittal checklist(s) found in the stormwater design manual.
The stormwater management plan must ensure that the requirements and criteria in this ordinance are being complied with and that opportunities are being taken to minimize adverse post-development stormwater runoff impacts from the development. The plan shall consist of maps, narrative, and supporting design calculations (hydrologic and hydraulic) for the proposed stormwater management system. The plan shall include all of the information required in the stormwater management site plan checklist found in the stormwater design manual. This includes:
(a)
Common address and legal description of site.
(b)
Vicinity map.
(c)
Existing Conditions Hydrologic Analysis. The existing condition hydrologic analysis for stormwater runoff rates, volumes, and velocities, which shall include: a topographic map of existing site conditions with the drainage basin boundaries indicated; acreage, soil types and land cover of areas for each subbasin affected by the project; all perennial and intermittent streams and other surface water features; all existing stormwater conveyances and structural control facilities; direction of flow and exits from the site; analysis of runoff provided by off-site areas upstream of the project site; and methodologies, assumptions, site parameters and supporting design calculations used in analyzing the existing conditions site hydrology. For redevelopment sites, predevelopment conditions shall be modeled using the established guidelines for the portion of the site undergoing land development activities.
(d)
Post-Development Hydrologic Analysis. The post-development hydrologic analysis for stormwater runoff rates, volumes, and velocities, which shall include: a topographic map of developed site conditions with the post-development drainage basin boundaries indicated; total area of post-development impervious surfaces and other land cover areas for each subbasin affected by the project; calculations for determining the runoff volumes that need to be addressed for each subbasin for the development project to meet the post-development stormwater management performance criteria in section 7.2.4; location and boundaries of proposed natural feature protection and conservation areas; documentation and calculations for any applicable site design credits that are being utilized; methodologies, assumptions, site parameters and supporting design calculations used in analyzing the existing conditions site hydrology. If the land development activity on a redevelopment site constitutes more than fifty (50) percent of the site area for the entire site, then the performance criteria in section 7.2.4 must be met for the stormwater runoff from the entire site.
(e)
Stormwater Management System. The description, scaled drawings and design calculations for the proposed post-development stormwater management system, which shall include: A map and/or drawing or sketch of the stormwater management facilities, including the location of nonstructural site design features and the placement of existing and proposed structural stormwater controls, including design water surface elevations, storage volumes available from zero to maximum head, location of inlet and outlets, location of bypass and discharge systems, and all orifice/restrictor sizes; a narrative describing how the selected structural stormwater controls will be appropriate and effective; cross-section and profile drawings and design details for each of the structural stormwater controls in the system, including supporting calculations to show that the facility is designed according to the applicable design criteria; a hydrologic and hydraulic analysis of the stormwater management system for all applicable design storms (including stage-storage or outlet rating curves, and inflow and outflow hydrographs); documentation and supporting calculations to show that the stormwater management system adequately meets the post-development stormwater management performance criteria in section 7.2.4; drawings, design calculations, elevations and hydraulic grade lines for all existing and proposed stormwater conveyance elements including stormwater drains, pipes, culverts, catch basins, channels, swales and areas of overland flow; and where applicable, a narrative describing how the stormwater management system corresponds with any watershed protection plans and/or local greenspace protection plan.
(f)
Post-Development Downstream Analysis. A downstream peak flow analysis which includes the assumptions, results and supporting calculations to show safe passage of post-development design flows downstream. The analysis of downstream conditions in the report shall address each and every point or area along the project site's boundaries at which runoff will exit the property. The analysis shall focus on the portion of the drainage channel or watercourse immediately downstream from the project. This area shall extend downstream from the project to a point in the drainage basin where the project area is ten (10) percent of the total basin area. In calculating runoff volumes and discharge rates, consideration may need to be given to any planned future upstream land use changes. The analysis shall be in accordance with the stormwater design manual.
(g)
Construction-Phase Erosion and Sedimentation Control Plan. An erosion and sedimentation control plan in accordance with the Roswell, Georgia Erosion and Sedimentation Control Ordinance or NPDES Permit for Construction Activities. The plan shall also include information on the sequence/phasing of construction and temporary stabilization measures and temporary structures that will be converted into permanent stormwater controls.
(h)
Landscaping and Open Space Plan. A detailed landscaping and vegetation plan describing the woody and herbaceous vegetation that will be used within and adjacent to stormwater management facilities and practices. Additional landscaping may be required outside these facilities, and the stormwater landscaping plan must be consistent with the plan for the entire development. The landscaping plan must also include: the arrangement of planted areas, natural and greenspace areas and other landscaped features on the site plan; information necessary to construct the landscaping elements shown on the plan drawings; descriptions and standards for the methods, materials and vegetation that are to be used in the construction; density of plantings; descriptions of the stabilization and management techniques used to establish vegetation; and a description of who will be responsible for ongoing maintenance of vegetation for the stormwater management facility and what practices will be employed to ensure that adequate vegetative cover is preserved.
(i)
Operations and Maintenance Plan. Detailed description of ongoing operations and maintenance procedures for stormwater management facilities and practices to ensure their continued function as designed and constructed or preserved. These plans will identify the parts or components of a stormwater management facility or practice that need to be regularly or periodically inspected and maintained, and the equipment and skills or training necessary. The plan shall include an inspection and maintenance schedule, maintenance tasks, responsible parties for maintenance, funding, access and safety issues. Provisions for the periodic review and evaluation of the effectiveness of the maintenance program and the need for revisions or additional maintenance procedures shall be included in the plan.
(j)
Maintenance Access Easements. The applicant must ensure access from public right-of-way to stormwater management facilities and practices requiring regular maintenance at the site for the purpose of inspection and repair by securing all the maintenance access easements needed on a permanent basis. Such access shall be sufficient for all necessary equipment for maintenance activities. Upon final inspection and approval, a plat or document indicating that such easements exist shall be recorded and shall remain in effect even with the transfer of title of the property.
(k)
Inspection and Maintenance Agreements. Unless an on-site stormwater management facility or practice is dedicated to and accepted by the City of Roswell as provided in section 7.2.3.4 below, the applicant must execute an easement and an inspection and maintenance agreement binding on all subsequent owners of land served by an on-site stormwater management facility or practice in accordance with section 7.2.3.4.
(l)
Evidence of Acquisition of Applicable Local and Non-local Permits. The applicant shall certify and provide documentation to the City of Roswell that all other applicable environmental permits have been acquired for the site prior to approval of the stormwater management plan.
7.2.3.4
Stormwater Management Inspection and Maintenance Agreements. Prior to the issuance of any permit for a land development activity requiring a stormwater management facility or practice hereunder and for which the City of Roswell requires ongoing maintenance, the applicant or owner of the site must, unless an on-site stormwater management facility or practice is dedicated to and accepted by the City of Roswell, execute an inspection and maintenance agreement, and/or a conservation easement, if applicable, that shall be binding on all subsequent owners of the site.
The inspection and maintenance agreement, if applicable, must be approved by the City of Roswell prior to plan approval, and recorded in the deed records upon final plat approval.
The inspection and maintenance agreement shall identify, by name or official title, the person(s) responsible for carrying out the inspection and maintenance. Responsibility for the operation and maintenance of the stormwater management facility or practice, unless assumed by a governmental agency, shall remain with the property owner and shall pass to any successor owner. If portions of the land are sold or otherwise transferred, legally binding arrangements shall be made to pass the inspection and maintenance responsibility to the appropriate successors in title. These arrangements shall designate for each portion of the site, the person to be permanently responsible for its inspection and maintenance.
As part of the inspection and maintenance agreement, a schedule shall be developed for when and how often routine inspection and maintenance will occur to ensure proper function of the stormwater management facility or practice. The agreement shall also include plans for annual inspections to ensure proper performance of the facility between scheduled maintenance and shall also include remedies for the default thereof.
In addition to enforcing the terms of the inspection and maintenance agreement, the City of Roswell may also enforce all of the provisions for ongoing inspection and maintenance in section 7.2.6 of this ordinance.
The mayor and council of the City of Roswell, in lieu of an inspection and maintenance agreement, may accept dedication of any existing or future stormwater management facility for maintenance, provided such facility meets all the requirements of this ordinance and includes adequate and perpetual access and sufficient area, by easement or otherwise, for inspection and regular maintenance.
The city shall not be legally responsible for the inspection or maintenance of any stormwater management facilities including detention facilities or channels unless the same have been expressly dedicated to and accepted by the city for such purposes.
7.2.3.5
Performance and Maintenance Bonds (Reserved).
7.2.3.6
Application Procedure.
(1)
Applications for land development permits shall be filed with the City of Roswell.
(2)
Permit applications shall include the items set forth in section 7.2.3.1.
(3)
The City of Roswell shall inform the applicant whether the application, stormwater management plan and inspection and maintenance agreement are approved or disapproved within forty-five (45) working days.
(4)
If either the permit application, stormwater management plan or inspection and maintenance agreement are disapproved, the City of Roswell shall notify the applicant of such fact in writing. The applicant may then revise any item not meeting the requirements hereof and resubmit the same.
(5)
Upon a finding by the City of Roswell that the permit application, stormwater management plan and inspection and maintenance agreement, if applicable, meet the requirements of this ordinance, the City of Roswell may issue a permit for the land development project, provided all other legal requirements for the issuance of such permit have been met.
(6)
Notwithstanding the issuance of the permit, in conducting the land development project, the applicant or other responsible person shall be subject to the following requirements:
a.
The applicant shall comply with all applicable requirements of the approved plan and this ordinance and shall certify that all land clearing, construction, land development and drainage will be done according to the approved plan;
b.
The land development project shall be conducted only within the area specified in the approved plan;
c.
The City of Roswell shall be allowed to conduct periodic inspections of the project;
d.
No changes may be made to an approved plan without review and written approval by the City of Roswell; and,
e.
Upon completion of the project, the applicant or other responsible person shall submit the engineer's report and certificate and as-built plans required by section 7.2.5.2.
7.2.3.7
Application Review Fees. The fee for review of any stormwater management application shall be based on the fee structure established by the City of Roswell.
7.2.3.8
Modifications for Off-Site Facilities. The stormwater management plan for each land development project shall provide for stormwater management measures located on the site of the project, unless provisions are made to manage stormwater by an off-site or regional facility. The off-site or regional facility must be located on property legally dedicated for the purpose, must be designed and adequately sized to provide a level of stormwater quantity and quality control that is equal to or greater than that which would be afforded by on-site practices and there must be a legally-obligated entity responsible for long-term operation and maintenance of the off-site or regional stormwater facility. In addition, on-site measures shall be implemented, where necessary, to protect upstream and downstream properties and drainage channels from the site to the off-site facility.
A stormwater management plan must be submitted to the City of Roswell which shows the adequacy of the off-site or regional facility.
To be eligible for a modification, the applicant must demonstrate to the satisfaction of the City of Roswell that the use of an off-site or regional facility will not result in the following impacts to upstream or downstream areas:
(1)
Increased threat of flood damage to public health, life, and property;
(2)
Deterioration of existing culverts, bridges, dams, and other structures;
(3)
Accelerated streambank or streambed erosion or siltation;
(4)
Degradation of in-stream biological functions or habitat; or
(5)
Water quality impairment in violation of state water quality standards, and/or violation of any state or federal regulations.
(2012-10-15, § 4, Amended, 10/08/2012; 2004-01-01, Added, 01/05/2004, 7.2.3.4 - last paragraph added; 2002-12-04, Amended, 12/16/2002)
Section 7.2.4 - Post-Development Stormwater Management Performance Criteria.
The following performance criteria shall be applicable to all stormwater management plans, unless otherwise provided for in this ordinance:
7.2.4.1
Water Quality. All stormwater runoff generated from a site shall be adequately treated before discharge. It will be presumed that a stormwater management system complies with this requirement if:
(1)
It is sized to treat the prescribed water quality treatment volume from the site, as defined in the Georgia Stormwater Management Manual;
(2)
Appropriate structural stormwater controls or nonstructural practices are selected, designed, constructed or preserved, and maintained according to the specific criteria in the Georgia Stormwater Management Manual; and,
(3)
Runoff from hotspot land uses and activities identified by the director of public works are adequately treated and addressed through the use of appropriate structural stormwater controls, nonstructural practices and pollution prevention practices.
7.2.4.2
Stream Channel Protection. Protection of stream channels from bank and bed erosion and degradation shall be provided by using all of the following three (3) approaches:
(1)
Preservation, restoration and/or reforestation (with native vegetation) of the applicable stream buffer;
(2)
Twenty-four-hour extended detention storage of the one-year, 24-hour return frequency storm event;
(3)
Erosion prevention measures such as energy dissipation and velocity control.
7.2.4.3
Overbank Flooding Protection. Downstream overbank flood and property protection shall be provided by controlling (attenuating) the post-development peak discharge rate to the pre-development rate for the 25-year, 24-hour return frequency storm event. If control of the one-year, 24-hour storm under section 4.2 is exempted, then peak discharge rate attenuation of the two-year through the 25-year return frequency storm event must be provided.
7.2.4.4
Extreme Flooding Protection. Extreme flood and public safety protection shall be provided by controlling and safely conveying the 100-year, 24-hour return frequency storm event such that flooding is not exacerbated.
7.2.4.5
Structural Stormwater Controls. All structural stormwater management facilities shall be selected and designed using the appropriate criteria from the Georgia Stormwater Management Manual. All structural stormwater controls must be designed appropriately to meet their intended function. For other structural stormwater controls not included in the Georgia Stormwater Management Manual, or for which pollutant removal rates have not been provided, the effectiveness and pollutant removal of the structural control must be documented through prior studies, literature reviews, or other means and receive approval from the City of Roswell before being included in the design of a stormwater management system. In addition, if hydrologic or topographic conditions, or land use activities warrant greater control than that provided by the minimum control requirements, the City of Roswell may impose additional requirements deemed necessary to protect upstream and downstream properties and aquatic resources from damage due to increased volume, frequency, and rate of stormwater runoff or increased nonpoint source pollution loads created on the site in question.
Applicants shall consult the Georgia Stormwater Management Manual for guidance on the factors that determine site design feasibility when selecting and locating a structural stormwater control.
7.2.4.6
Stormwater Credits for Nonstructural Measures. The use of one (1) or more site design measures by the applicant may allow for a reduction in the water quality treatment volume required under section 7.2.4.1. The applicant may, if approved by the City of Roswell, take credit for the use of stormwater better site design practices and reduce the water quality volume requirement. For each potential credit, there is a minimum set of criteria and requirements which identify the conditions or circumstances under which the credit may be applied. The site design practices that qualify for this credit and the criteria and procedures for applying and calculating the credits are included in the Georgia Stormwater Management Manual.
7.2.4.7
Drainage System Guidelines. Stormwater conveyance facilities, which may include but are not limited to culverts, stormwater drainage pipes, catch basins, drop inlets, junction boxes, headwalls, gutter, swales, channels, ditches, and energy dissipaters shall be provided when necessary for the protection of public right-of-way and private properties adjoining project sites and/or public right-of-ways. Stormwater conveyance facilities that are designed to carry runoff from more that one (1) parcel, existing or proposed, shall meet the following requirements:
(1)
Methods to calculate stormwater flows shall be in accordance with the stormwater design manual;
(2)
All culverts, pipe systems and open channel flow systems shall be sized in accordance with the stormwater management plan using the methods included in the stormwater design manual; and,
(3)
Design and construction of stormwater conveyance facilities shall be in accordance with the criteria and specifications found in the stormwater design manual.
7.2.4.8
Dam Design Guidelines. Any land-disturbing activity that involves a site which proposes a dam shall comply with the Georgia Safe Dams Act and Rules for Dam Safety as applicable.
7.2.4.9
Detailed Downstream Analysis Guidelines. For a redevelopment site subject to the Post Development Stormwater Ordinance, flexibility in determining curve numbers to quantify hydraulic values can be considered. In some basins and for some sites it may be possible to show through a rigorous and detailed engineering analysis that detention or additional detention should not be required for a particular site. The criteria that must be evaluated and submitted to the public works/environmental department includes:
(a)
Analysis and review of habitable and non-habitable built structures downstream of the subject property for riverine flooding;
(b)
Analysis of the infrastructure for conveyance and current condition; and
(c)
Completion of a field investigation of the downstream receiving waters to evaluate scouring and stream bank and stream bed stability.
The public works/environmental department will evaluate the engineering submittal to decide if additional detention and/or channel protection will be required. Water quality treatment utilizing low impact development methods will be required regardless of outcome of decision regarding additional detention and/or channel protection.
The detailed downstream analysis shall be conducted from the downstream point on the subject property to the ten-percent analysis point or to a point where the drainage basin downstream equals ten (10) times the subject site drainage basin or to a point where receiving waters are met which have a minimum six hundred forty (640) acres of drainage area.
(2012-10-15, § 5, Amended, 10/08/2012; 2003-12-30, Renumbered, 12/08/2003; 2002-12-04, Amended, 12/16/2002)
Section 7.2.5 - Construction Inspections of Post-Development Stormwater Management System.
7.2.5.1
Inspections to Ensure Plan Compliance During Construction. Periodic inspections of the stormwater management system construction shall be conducted if required by the staff of the City of Roswell Engineering Division or conducted and certified by a professional engineer who has been approved by the engineering division manager. Inspections shall follow procedures established in the City of Roswell subdivision regulations and construction inspections shall utilize the approved stormwater management plan for establishing compliance. In no instance shall such inspection impose any duty or liability upon the City of Roswell, its agents, officers, or employees.
7.2.5.2
Final Inspection and As Built Plans. Upon completion of a project and before a certificate of occupancy shall be granted the applicant is responsible for certifying that the completed project is in accordance with the approved stormwater management plan. All applicants are required to submit actual "as built" plans for any stormwater management facilities or practices after final construction is completed. The plan must show the final design specifications for all stormwater management facilities and practices and must be certified by a professional engineer. As built plans must be approved by the public works/environmental director or designee. A final inspection by the City of Roswell is required before the release of any performance securities can occur.
(2012-10-15, § 6, Amended, 10/08/2012; 2003-12-30, Renumbered, 12/08/2003; 2002-12-04, Amended, 12/16/2002)
Section 7.2.6 - Ongoing Inspection and Maintenance of Stormwater Facilities and Practices.
7.2.6.1
Long-Term Maintenance Inspection of Stormwater Facilities and Practices. Stormwater management facilities and practices included in a stormwater management plan which are subject to an inspection and maintenance agreement must undergo ongoing inspections to document maintenance and repair needs and ensure compliance with the requirements of the agreement, the plan and this ordinance.
A stormwater management facility or practice shall be inspected on a periodic basis by the responsible person in accordance with the approved inspection and maintenance agreement. In the event that the stormwater management facility has not been maintained and/or becomes a danger to public safety or public health, the City of Roswell shall notify the person responsible for carrying out the maintenance plan by registered or certified mail to the person specified in the inspection and maintenance agreement. The notice shall specify the deficiencies which must be corrected to comply with the agreement and the plan and shall specify the time within which such measures shall be completed. If the responsible person fails or refuses to meet the requirements of the inspection and maintenance agreement, the City of Roswell, may correct the violation as provided in subsection 7.2.6.4 hereof.
Inspection programs by the City of Roswell may be established on any reasonable basis, including but not limited to: routine inspections; random inspections; inspections based upon complaints or other notice of possible violations; and joint inspections with other agencies inspecting under environmental or safety laws. Inspections may include, but are not limited to: reviewing maintenance and repair records; sampling discharges, surface water, groundwater, and material or water in stormwater management facilities; and evaluating the condition of stormwater management facilities and practices.
7.2.6.2
Right-of-Entry for Inspection. The terms of the inspection and maintenance agreement shall provide for the City of Roswell to enter the property at reasonable times and in a reasonable manner for the purpose of inspection. This includes the right to enter a property when it has a reasonable basis to believe that a violation of this ordinance is occurring or has occurred and to enter when necessary for abatement of a public nuisance or correction of a violation of this ordinance.
7.2.6.3
Records of Maintenance Activities. Parties responsible for the operation and maintenance of a stormwater management facility shall provide records of all maintenance and repairs to the City of Roswell.
7.2.6.4
Failure to Maintain. If a responsible person fails or refuses to meet the requirements of the inspection and maintenance agreement, the City of Roswell, after thirty (30) days' written notice (except, that in the event the violation constitutes an immediate danger to public health or public safety, twenty-four (24) hours' notice shall be sufficient), may correct a violation of the design standards or maintenance requirements by performing the necessary work to place the facility or practice in proper working condition. The City of Roswell may assess the owner(s) of the facility for the cost of repair work which shall be a lien on the property, and may be placed on the ad valorem tax bill for such property and collected in the ordinary manner for such taxes.
(2003-12-30, Renumbered, 12/08/2003; 2002-12-04, Amended, 12/16/2002)
Section 7.2.7 - Violations, Enforcement and Penalties.
Any action or inaction which violates the provisions of this ordinance or the requirements of an approved stormwater management plan or permit may be subject to the enforcement actions outlined in this section. Any such action or inaction which is continuous with respect to time is deemed to be a public nuisance and may be abated by injunctive or other equitable relief.
7.2.7.1
Notice of Violation. If the City of Roswell determines that an applicant or other responsible person has failed to comply with the terms and conditions of a permit, an approved stormwater management plan or the provisions of this ordinance, it shall issue a written notice of violation to such applicant or other responsible person. Where a person is engaged in activity covered by this ordinance without having first secured a permit therefor, the notice of violation shall be served on the owner or the responsible person in charge of the activity being conducted on the site.
The notice of violation shall contain:
(1)
The name and address of the owner or the applicant or the responsible person;
(2)
The address or other description of the site upon which the violation is occurring;
(3)
A statement specifying the nature of the violation;
(4)
A description of the remedial measures necessary to bring the action or inaction into compliance with the permit, the stormwater management plan or this ordinance and the date for the completion of such remedial action;
(5)
A statement of the penalty or penalties that may be assessed against the person to whom the notice of violation is directed; and,
(6)
A statement that the determination of violation may be appealed to the City of Roswell by filing a written notice of appeal within thirty (30) days after the notice of violation (except, that in the event the violation constitutes an immediate danger to public health or public safety, twenty-four (24) hours' notice shall be sufficient).
7.2.7.2
Penalties. In the event the remedial measures described in the notice of violation have not been completed by the date set forth for such completion in the notice of violation, any one (1) or more of the following actions or penalties may be taken or assessed against the person to whom the notice of violation was directed. Before taking any of the following actions or imposing any of the following penalties, the City of Roswell shall first notify the applicant or other responsible person in writing of its intended action, and shall provide a reasonable opportunity, of not less than ten (10) days (except, that in the event the violation constitutes an immediate danger to public health or public safety, twenty-four (24) hours' notice shall be sufficient) to cure such violation. In the event the applicant or other responsible person fails to cure such violation after such notice and cure period, the City of Roswell may take any one (1) or more of the following actions or impose any one (1) or more of the following penalties:
(1)
Stop Work Order. The City of Roswell may issue a stop work order which shall be served on the applicant or other responsible person. The stop work order shall remain in effect until the applicant or other responsible person has taken the remedial measures set forth in the notice of violation or has otherwise cured the violation or violations described therein, provided the stop work order may be withdrawn or modified to enable the applicant or other responsible person to take the necessary remedial measures to cure such violation or violations.
(2)
Withhold Certificate of Occupancy. The City of Roswell may refuse to issue a certificate of occupancy for the building or other improvements constructed or being constructed on the site until the applicant or other responsible person has taken the remedial measures set forth in the notice of violation or has otherwise cured the violations described therein.
(3)
Suspension, Revocation or Modification of Permit. The City of Roswell may suspend, revoke or modify the permit authorizing the land development project. A suspended, revoked or modified permit may be reinstated after the applicant or other responsible person has taken the remedial measures set forth in the notice of violation or has otherwise cured the violations described therein, provided such permit may be reinstated [upon such conditions as the City of Roswell may deem necessary to enable the applicant or other responsible person to take the necessary remedial measures to cure such violations].
(4)
Civil Penalties. Any person failing to comply with this ordinance shall be in violation of this ordinance and shall be subject to the penalties specified in section 1.1.3 of the Roswell Code of Ordinances in addition to any provided in this article.
(2003-12-30, Renumbered, 12/08/2003; 2002-12-04, Amended, 12/16/2002)
Article 7.3 - Soil Erosion, Sedimentation and Pollution Control[1]

Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Editor's note— Ordinance No. 2010-06-12, § 1(Exh. A), adopted June 21, 2010, repealed art. 7.3 and enacted a new article as set out herein. The former art. 7.3, §§ 7.3.1—7.3.10, pertained to erosion and sedimentation and derived from 2002-07-02, adopted July 1, 2002; 2002-11-02, adopted Nov. 4, 2002; 2002-12-02, adopted Dec. 9, 2002; 2003-02-01, adopted Feb. 3, 2003; 2003-12-30, adopted Dec. 8, 2003; 2004-06-18, adopted June 21, 2004; 2007-03-03, adopted March 5, 2007; and 2008-01-01, adopted Jan. 7, 2008.
State Law reference— O.C.G.A. § 2-6-1 et seq. establish a soil erosion and sediment control program.

Section 7.3.1 - Title.
This article will be known as "City of Roswell Soil Erosion, Sedimentation and Pollution Control Ordinance."
(2010-06-12, § 1(Exh. A), Added, 06/21/2010)
Section 7.3.2 - Definitions.
The following definitions shall apply in the interpretation and enforcement of this article, unless otherwise specifically stated:
Best management practices (BMPs): These include sound conservation and engineering practices to prevent and minimize erosion and resultant sedimentation, which are consistent with, and no less stringent than, those practices contained in the Manual for Erosion and Sediment Control in Georgia published by the commission as of January 1 of the year in which the land-disturbing activity was permitted.
Board: The Board of Natural Resources.
Buffer: The area of land immediately adjacent to the banks of state waters in its natural state of vegetation, which facilitates the protection of water quality and aquatic habitat.
Certified personnel: A person who has successfully completed the appropriate certification course approved by the Georgia Soil and Water Conservation Commission.
City: The City of Roswell, Georgia.
City administrator: The person appointed to such office by the mayor and the city council of Roswell.
City engineer: The person designated as such by the mayor and city council of Roswell.
Commission: The Georgia Soil and Water Conservation Commission (GSWCC).
CPESC: Certified professional in erosion and sediment control with current certification by Certified Profession in Erosion and Sediment Control Inc., a corporation registered in North Carolina, which is also referred to as CPESC or CPESC, Inc.
Cut: A portion of land surface or area from which earth has been removed or will be removed by excavation; the depth below original ground surface to the excavated surface. Also known as "excavation".
Department: The Georgia Department of Natural Resources (DNR).
Design professional: A professional licensed by the State of Georgia in the field of: engineering, architecture, landscape architecture, forestry, geology, or land surveying; or a person that is a certified professional in erosion and sediment control (CPESC) with a current certification by Certified Professional in Erosion and Sediment Control Inc.
Director: The director of the environmental protection division or an authorized representative.
District: The Fulton County Soil and Water Conservation District.
Division: The environmental protection division (EPD) of the department of natural resources.
Drainage structure: A device composed of a virtually nonerodible material such as concrete, steel, plastic or other such material that conveys water from one place to another by intercepting the flow and carrying it to a release point for storm water management, drainage control, or flood control purposes.
Erosion: The process by which land surface is worn away by the action of wind, water, ice or gravity.
Erosion, sedimentation and pollution control plan: A plan required by the Erosion and Sedimentation Act, O.C.G.A. Chapter 12-7, that includes, as a minimum protections at least as stringent as the state general permit, best management practices, and requirements in section 7.3.4 C.
Fill: A portion of land surface to which soil or other solid material has been added; the depth above the original ground surface or an excavation.
Final stabilization: All soil disturbing activities at the site have been completed, and that for unpaved areas and areas not covered by permanent structures and areas located outside the waste disposal limits of a landfill cell that has been certified by EPD for waste disposal, one hundred (100) percent of the soil surface is uniformly covered in permanent vegetation with a density of seventy (70) or greater, or equivalent permanent stabilization measures (such as the use of rip rap, gabions, permanent mulches or geotextiles) have been used. Permanent vegetation shall consist of: planted trees, shrubs, perennial vines; a crop of perennial vegetation appropriate for the time of year and region; or a crop of annual vegetation and a seeding of target crop perennials appropriate for the region. Final stabilization applies to each phase of construction.
Finished grade: The final elevation and contour of the ground after cutting or filling and conforming to the proposed design.
Grading: Altering the shape of ground surfaces to a predetermined condition; this includes stripping, cutting, filling, stockpiling and shaping or any combination thereof and shall include the land in its cut or filled condition.
Ground elevation: The original elevation of the ground surface prior to cutting or filling.
Land disturbing activity: Any activity which may result in soil erosion from water or wind and the movement of sediments into state waters or onto lands within the state, including, but not limited to, clearing, dredging, grading, excavating, transporting, and filling of land but not including agricultural practices as described in section 7.3.3, paragraph 5.
Larger common plan of development or sale: A contiguous area where multiple separate and distinct construction activities are occurring under one (1) plan of development or sale. For the purposes of this paragraph, "plan" means an announcement; piece of documentation such as a sign, public notice or hearing, sales pitch, advertisement, drawing, permit application, zoning request, or computer design; or physical demarcation such as boundary signs, lot stakes, or surveyor markings, indicating that construction activities may occur on a specific plot.
Local issuing authority (LIA): The governing authority of any county or municipality which is certified pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 12-7-8(a).
Mayor and city council: The mayor and city council of Roswell, Georgia.
Metropolitan River Protection Act (MRPA): A state law referenced as O.C.G.A. § 12-5-440 et seq. which addresses environmental and developmental matters in certain metropolitan river corridors and their drainage basins.
Natural ground surface: The ground surface in its original state before any grading, excavation or filling.
Nephelometric turbidity units (NTU): Numerical units of measure based upon photometric analytical techniques for measuring the light scattered by finely divided particles of a substance in suspension. This technique is used to estimate the extent of turbidity in water in which colloidally dispersed or suspended particles are present.
NOI: A notice of intent form provided by EPD for coverage under the state general permit.
NOT: A notice of termination form provided by EPD to terminate coverage under the state general permit.
Operator: The party or parties that have: (A) operational control of construction project plans and specifications, including the ability to make modifications to those plans and specifications; or (B) day-to-day operational control of those activities that are necessary to ensure compliance with an erosion, sedimentation and pollution control plan for the site or other permit conditions, such as a person authorized to direct workers at a site to carry out activities required by the erosion, sedimentation and pollution control plan or to comply with other permit conditions.
Outfall: The location where storm water in a discernible, confined and discrete conveyance, leaves a facility or site or, if there is a receiving water on site, becomes a point source discharging into that receiving water.
Permit: The authorization necessary to conduct a land-disturbing activity under the provisions of this article.
Person: Any individual, partnership, firm, association, joint venture, public or private corporation, trust, estate, commission, board, public or private institution, utility, cooperative, state agency, municipality or other political subdivision of the state, any interstate body or any other legal entity.
Phase or phased: Sub-parts or segments of construction projects where the sub-part or segment is constructed and stabilized prior to completing construction activities on the entire construction site.
Point source: Any discernible, confined, and discrete conveyance, including but not limited to, any pipe, ditch, channel, tunnel, conduit, well, discrete fissure or container from which pollutants are or may be discharged. This term also means sheetflow which is later conveyed via a point source to waters of the state.
Pollution: The manmade or man-induced alteration of the chemical, physical, biological, or radiological integrity of water due to a point source.
Project: The entire proposed development project regardless of the size of the area of land to be disturbed.
Properly designed: Designed in accordance with the design requirements and specifications contained in the Manual for Erosion and Sediment Control in Georgia (Manual) published by the Georgia Soil and Water Conservation Commission as of January 1 of the year in which the land-disturbing activity was permitted and amendments to the manual as approved by the commission up until the date of NOI submittal.
Roadway drainage structure: A device such as a bridge, culvert, or ditch, composed of a virtually nonerodible material such as concrete, steel, plastic, or other such material that conveys water under a roadway by intercepting the flow on one (1) side of a traveled roadway consisting of one (1) or more defined lanes, with or without shoulder areas, and carrying water to a release point on the other side.
Sediment: Solid material, both organic and inorganic, that is in suspension, is being transported, or has been moved from its site of origin by wind, water, ice, or gravity as a product of erosion.
Sedimentation: The process by which eroded material is transported and deposited by the action of water, wind, ice or gravity.
Soil and water conservation district approved plan: An erosion, sedimentation and pollution control plan approved in writing by the Fulton County Soil and Water Conservation District.
Stabilization: The process of establishing an enduring soil cover of vegetation by the installation of temporary or permanent structures for the purpose of reducing to a minimum the erosion process and the resultant transport of sediment by wind, water, ice or gravity.
State general permit: The National Pollution Discharge Elimination System (NPDES) general permit or permits for storm water runoff from construction activities as is now in effect or as may be amended or reissued in the future pursuant to the state's authority to implement the same through federal delegation under the Federal Water Pollution Control Act, as amended, 33 U.S.C. Section 1251 et seq., and O.C.G.A. § 12-5-30(f).
State waters: Any and all rivers, streams, creeks, branches, lakes, reservoirs, ponds, drainage systems, springs, wells, and other bodies of surface or subsurface water, natural or artificial, lying within or forming a part of the boundaries of the state which are not entirely confined and retained completely upon the property of a single individual, partnership, or corporation.
Structural erosion, sedimentation and pollution control practices: Practices for the stabilization of erodible or sediment-producing areas by utilizing the mechanical properties of matter for the purpose of either changing the surface of the land or storing, regulating or disposing of runoff to prevent excessive sediment loss. Examples of structural erosion and sediment control practices are riprap, sediment basins, dikes, level spreaders, waterways or outlets, diversions, grade stabilization structures and sediment traps, etc. Such practices can be found in the publication Manual for Erosion and Sediment Control in Georgia.
Trout streams: All streams or portions of streams within the watershed as designated by the wildlife resources division of the state department of natural resources under the provisions of the Georgia Water Quality Control Act, O.C.G.A. § 12-5-20, in the rules and regulations for water quality control, Chapter 391-3-6 at www.gaepd.org. Streams designated as primary trout waters are defined as water supporting a self- sustaining population of rainbow, brown or brook trout. Streams designated as secondary trout waters are those in which there is no evidence of natural trout reproduction, but are capable of supporting trout throughout the year. First order trout waters are streams into which no other streams flow except springs.
Vegetative erosion and sedimentation control measures: Measures for the stabilization of erodible or sediment-producing areas by covering the soil with:
(1)
Permanent seeding, sprigging or planting, producing long-term vegetative cover;
(2)
Temporary seeding, producing short-term vegetative cover; or
(3)
Sodding, covering areas with a turf of perennial sod-forming grass.
Such measures can be found in the publication Manual for Erosion and Sediment Control in Georgia.
Watercourse: Any natural or artificial watercourse, stream, river, creek, channel, ditch, canal, conduit, culvert, drain, waterway, gully, ravine, or wash in which water flows either continuously or intermittently and which has a definite channel, bed and banks, and including any area adjacent thereto subject to inundation by reason of overflow or floodwater.
Wetlands: Those areas that are inundated or saturated by surface or ground water at a frequency and duration sufficient to support, and that under normal circumstances do support a prevalence of vegetation typically adapted for life in saturated soil conditions. Wetlands generally include swamps, marshes, bogs, and similar areas.
Words used in the present tense include the future tense; and the singular includes the plural, unless the context clearly indicates the contrary. The term "shall" is always mandatory and not discretionary; the word "may" is permissive. Except as specifically defined herein, all words used in this article have their common dictionary definition.
(2010-06-12, § 1(Exh. A), Added, 06/21/2010)
Section 7.3.3 - Exemptions.
This article shall apply to any land-disturbing activity undertaken by any person on any land except for the following:
1.
Surface mining, as the same is defined in O.C.G.A. § 12-4-72, "The Georgia Surface Mining Act of 1968";
2.
Granite quarrying and land clearing for such quarrying;
3.
Such minor land-disturbing activities as home gardens and individual home landscaping, repairs, maintenance work, fences, and other related activities which result in minor soil erosion;
4.
The construction of single-family residences, when such construction disturbs less than one (1) acre and is not a part of a larger common plan of development or sale with a planned disturbance of equal to or greater than one (1) acre and not otherwise exempted under this paragraph; provided, however, that construction of any such residence shall conform to the minimum requirements as set forth in O.C.G.A. § 12-7-6 and this paragraph. For single-family residence construction covered by the provisions of this paragraph, there shall be a buffer zone between the residence and any state waters classified as trout streams pursuant to Article 2 of Chapter 5 of the Georgia Water Quality Control Act. In any such buffer zone, no land-disturbing activity shall be constructed between the residence and the point where vegetation has been wrested by normal stream flow or wave action from the banks of the trout waters. For primary trout waters, the buffer zone shall be at least fifty (50) horizontal feet, and no variance to a smaller buffer shall be granted. For secondary trout waters, the buffer zone shall be at least fifty (50) horizontal feet, but the Director may grant variances to no less than twenty-five (25) feet. Regardless of whether a trout stream is primary or secondary, for first order trout waters, which are streams into which no other streams flow except for springs, the buffer shall be at least twenty-five (25) horizontal feet, and no variance to a smaller buffer shall be granted. The minimum requirements of O.C.G.A. § 12-7-6(b) and the buffer zones provided by this paragraph shall be enforced by the local issuing authority;
5.
Agricultural operations as defined in O.C.G.A. § 1-3-3, "definitions", to include raising, harvesting or storing of products of the field or orchard; feeding, breeding or managing livestock or poultry; producing or storing feed for use in the production of livestock, including but not limited to cattle, calves, swine, hogs, goats, sheep, and rabbits or for use in the production of poultry, including but not limited to chickens, hens and turkeys; producing plants, trees, fowl, or animals; the production of aqua culture, horticultural, dairy, livestock, poultry, eggs and apiarian products; farm buildings and farm ponds;
6.
Forestry land management practices, including harvesting; provided, however, that when such exempt forestry practices cause or result in land-disturbing or other activities otherwise prohibited in a buffer, as established in paragraphs 15 and 16 of section 7.3.4 C., no other land-disturbing activities, except for normal forest management practices, shall be allowed on the entire property upon which the forestry practices were conducted for a period of three (3) years after completion of such forestry practices;
7.
Any project carried out under the technical supervision of the Natural Resources Conservation Service (NRCS) of the United States Department of Agriculture;
8.
Any project involving less than five thousand (5,000) square feet of disturbed area; provided, however, that this exemption shall not apply to any land-disturbing activity within a larger common plan of development or sale with a planned disturbance of equal to or greater than one (1) acre or within two hundred (200) feet of the bank of any state waters, and for purposes of this paragraph, "state waters" excludes channels and drainage ways which have water in them only during and immediately after rainfall events and intermittent streams which do not have water in them year-round; provided, however, that any person responsible for a project which involves less five thousand (5,000) square feet, which involves land-disturbing activity, and which is within two hundred (200) feet of any such excluded channel or drainage way, must prevent sediment from moving beyond the boundaries of the property on which such project is located and provided, further, that nothing contained herein shall prevent the local issuing authority from regulating any such project which is not specifically exempted by paragraph 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 9 or 10 of this section;
9.
Construction or maintenance projects, or both, undertaken or financed in whole or in part, or both, by the department of transportation, the state highway authority, or the state road and tollway authority; or any road construction or maintenance project, or both, undertaken by any county or municipality; provided, however, that construction or maintenance projects of the department of transportation or the state road and tollway authority which disturb one (1) or more contiguous acres of land shall be subject to provisions of O.C.G.A. § 12-7-7.1; except where the department of transportation, the state highway authority, or the state road and tollway authority is a secondary permittee for a project located within a larger common plan of development or sale under the state general permit, in which case a copy of a notice of intent under the state general permit shall be submitted to the local issuing authority, the local issuing authority shall enforce compliance with the minimum requirements set forth in O.C.G.A. § 12-7-6 as if a permit had been issued, and violations shall be subject to the same penalties as violations by permit holders;
10.
Any land-disturbing activities conducted by any electric membership corporation or municipal electrical system or any public utility under the regulatory jurisdiction of the public service commission, any utility under the regulatory jurisdiction of the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, any cable television system as defined in O.C.G.A. § 36-18-1, or any agency or instrumentality of the United States engaged in the generation, transmission, or distribution of power; except where an electric membership corporation or municipal electrical system or any public utility under the regulatory jurisdiction of the public service commission, any utility under the regulatory jurisdiction of the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, any cable television system as defined in O.C.G.A. § 36-18-1, or any agency or instrumentality of the United States engaged in the generation, transmission, or distribution of power is a secondary permittee for a project located within a larger common plan of development or sale under the state general permit, in which case the local issuing authority shall enforce compliance with the minimum requirements set forth in O.C.G.A. § 12-7-6 as if a permit had been issued, and violations shall be subject to the same penalties as violations by permit holders; and
11.
Any public water system reservoir.
(2010-06-12, § 1(Exh. A), Added, 06/21/2010)
Section 7.3.4 - Minimum requirements for Erosion, Sedimentation and Pollution Control Using Best Management Practices.
A.
General provisions. Excessive soil erosion and resulting sedimentation can take place during land-disturbing activities if requirements of the article and the NPDES general permit are not met. Therefore, plans for those land-disturbing activities which are not exempted by this article shall contain provisions for application of soil erosion, sedimentation and pollution control measures and practices. The provisions shall be incorporated into the erosion, sedimentation and pollution control plans. Soil erosion, sedimentation and pollution control measures and practices shall conform to the minimum requirements of subsections B. and C. of this section. The application of measures and practices shall apply to all features of the site, including street and utility installations, drainage facilities and other temporary and permanent improvements. Measures shall be installed to prevent or control erosion, sedimentation and pollution during all stages of any land-disturbing activity in accordance with requirements of this article and the NPDES general permit.
B.
Minimum requirements/BMPs.
1.
Best management practices as set forth in subsections B. and C. of this section shall be required for all land-disturbing activities. Proper design, installation, and maintenance of best management practices shall constitute a complete defense to any action by the director or to any other allegation of noncompliance with paragraph 2. of this subsection or any substantially similar terms contained in a permit for the discharge of storm water issued pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 12-5-30(f), the "Georgia Water Quality Control Act". As used in this subsection the terms "proper design" and "properly designed" mean designed in accordance with the hydraulic design specifications contained in the Manual for Erosion and Sediment Control in Georgia specified in O.C.G.A. § 12-7-6(b).
2.
A discharge of storm water runoff from disturbed areas where best management practices have not been properly designed, installed, and maintained shall constitute a separate violation of any land-disturbing permit issued by a local issuing authority or of any state general permit issued by the division pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 12-5-30(f), the "Georgia Water Quality Control Act", for each day on which such discharge results in the turbidity of receiving waters being increased by more than twenty-five (25) nephelometric turbidity units for waters supporting warm water fisheries or by more than ten (10) nephelometric turbidity units for waters classified as trout waters. The turbidity of the receiving waters shall be measured in accordance with guidelines to be issued by the director. This paragraph shall not apply to any land disturbance associated with the construction of single family homes which are not part of a larger common plan of development or sale unless the planned disturbance for such construction is equal to or greater than five (5) acres.
3.
Failure to properly design, install, or maintain best management practices shall constitute a violation of any land-disturbing permit issued by a local issuing authority or of any state general permit issued by the division pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 12-5-30(f), the "Georgia Water Quality Control Act", for each day on which such failure occurs.
4.
The director may require, in accordance with regulations adopted by the board, reasonable and prudent monitoring of the turbidity level of receiving waters into which discharges from land disturbing activities occur.
5.
The LIA may set more stringent buffer requirements than stated in subsections C.15. and 16. of this section, in light of O.C.G.A. § 12-7-6(c).
C.
General design principles. The rules and regulations, ordinances, or resolutions adopted pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 12-7-1 et seq. for the purpose of governing land-disturbing activities shall require, as a minimum, protections at least as stringent as the state general permit; and best management practices, including sound conservation and engineering practices to prevent and minimize erosion and resultant sedimentation, which are consistent with, and no less stringent than those practices contained in the Manual for Erosion and Sediment Control in Georgia published by the state soil and water conservation commission as of January 1 of the year in which the land-disturbing activity was permitted, as well as the following:
1.
Stripping of vegetation, regrading and other development activities shall be conducted in a manner so as to minimize erosion;
2.
Cut-fill operations must be kept to a minimum;
3.
Development plans must conform to topography and soil type so as to create the lowest practicable erosion potential;
4.
Whenever feasible, natural vegetation shall be retained, protected and supplemented;
5.
The disturbed area and the duration of exposure to erosive elements shall be kept to a practicable minimum;
6.
Disturbed soil shall be stabilized as quickly as practicable;
7.
Temporary vegetation or mulching shall be employed to protect exposed critical areas during development;
8.
Permanent vegetation and structural erosion control practices shall be installed as soon as practicable;
9.
To the extent necessary, sediment in run-off water must be trapped by the use of debris basins, sediment basins, silt traps, or similar measures until the disturbed area is stabilized. As used in this paragraph, a disturbed area is stabilized when it is brought to a condition of continuous compliance with the requirements of O.C.G.A. § 12-7-1 et seq.;
10.
Adequate provisions must be provided to minimize damage from surface water to the cut face of excavations or the sloping of fills;
11.
Cuts and fills may not endanger adjoining property;
12.
Fills may not encroach upon natural watercourses or constructed channels in a manner so as to adversely affect other property owners;
13.
Grading equipment must cross flowing streams by means of bridges or culverts except when such methods are not feasible, provided, in any case, that such crossings are kept to a minimum;
14.
Land-disturbing activity plans for erosion, sedimentation and pollution control shall include provisions for treatment or control of any source of sediments and adequate sedimentation control facilities to retain sediments on-site or preclude sedimentation of adjacent waters beyond the levels specified in subsection B.2. of this section;
15.
Except as provided in paragraph 16. of this subsection, there is established a 25-foot buffer along the banks of all state waters, as measured horizontally from the point where vegetation has been wrested by normal stream flow or wave action, except where the director determines to allow a variance that is at least as protective of natural resources and the environment, where otherwise allowed by the director pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 12-2-8, where a drainage structure or a roadway drainage structure must be constructed, provided that adequate erosion control measures are incorporated in the project plans and specifications, and are implemented; or along any ephemeral stream. As used in this provision, the term 'ephemeral stream' means a stream: that under normal circumstances has water flowing only during and for a short duration after precipitation events; that has the channel located above the ground-water table year round; for which ground water is not a source of water; and for which runoff from precipitation is the primary source of water flow, unless exempted as along an ephemeral stream, the buffers of at least twenty-five (25) feet established pursuant to Part 6 of Article 5, Chapter 5 of Title 12, the Georgia Water Quality Control Act, shall remain in force unless a variance is granted by the director as provided in this paragraph. The following requirements shall apply to any such buffer:
a.
No land-disturbing activities shall be conducted within a buffer and a buffer shall remain in its natural, undisturbed state of vegetation until all land-disturbing activities on the construction site are completed. Once the final stabilization of the site is achieved, a buffer may be thinned or trimmed of vegetation as long as a protective vegetative cover remains to protect water quality and aquatic habitat and a natural canopy is left in sufficient quantity to keep shade on the stream bed; provided, however, that any person constructing a single-family residence, when such residence is constructed by or under contract with the owner for his or her own occupancy, may thin or trim vegetation in a buffer at any time as long as protective vegetative cover remains to protect water quality and aquatic habitat and a natural canopy is left in sufficient quantity to keep shade on the stream bed; and
b.
The buffer shall not apply to the following land-disturbing activities, provided that they occur at an angle, as measured from the point of crossing, within
twenty-five (25) degrees of perpendicular to the stream; cause a width of disturbance of not more than fifty (50) feet within the buffer; and adequate erosion control measures are incorporated into the project plans and specifications and are implemented: (i) stream crossings for water lines; or (ii) stream crossings for sewer lines; and
16.
There is established a 50-foot buffer as measured horizontally from the point where vegetation has been wrested by normal stream flow or wave action, along the banks of any state waters classified as "trout streams" pursuant to Article 2 of Chapter 5 of Title 12, the Georgia Water Quality Control Act, except where a roadway drainage structure must be constructed; provided, however, that small springs and streams classified as trout streams which discharge an average annual flow of twenty-five (25) gallons per minute or less shall have a 25-foot buffer or they may be piped, at the discretion of the landowner, pursuant to the terms of a rule providing for a general variance promulgated by the board, so long as any such pipe stops short of the downstream landowner's property and the landowner complies with the buffer requirement for any adjacent trout streams. The director may grant a variance from such buffer to allow land-disturbing activity, provided that adequate erosion control measures are incorporated in the project plans and specifications and are implemented. The following requirements shall apply to such buffer:
a.
No land-disturbing activities shall be conducted within a buffer and a buffer shall remain in its natural, undisturbed, state of vegetation until all land-disturbing activities on the construction site are completed. Once the final stabilization of the site is achieved, a buffer may be thinned or trimmed of vegetation as long as a protective vegetative cover remains to protect water quality and aquatic habitat and a natural canopy is left in sufficient quantity to keep shade on the stream bed: provided, however, that any person constructing a single-family residence, when such residence is constructed by or under contract with the owner for his or her own occupancy, may thin or trim vegetation in a buffer at any time as long as protective vegetative cover remains to protect water quality and aquatic habitat and a natural canopy is left in sufficient quantity to keep shade on the stream bed; and
b.
The buffer shall not apply to the following land-disturbing activities, provided that they occur at an angle, as measured from the point of crossing, within twenty-five (25) degrees of perpendicular to the stream; cause a width of disturbance of not more than fifty (50) feet within the buffer; and adequate erosion control measures are incorporated into the project plans and specifications and are implemented: (i) stream crossings for water lines; or (ii) stream crossings for sewer lines.
17.
Rezoning plans and development plans must conform to topography and soil type so as to create the lowest practical erosion potential. No rezoning application shall be considered and no land-disturbing activities shall occur on any slope in excess of twenty-five (25) percent within five hundred (500) feet of any state waters or stream identified on the Water Resources Protection Map, latest version, without the submittal of a steep slope and erodible soils evaluation. For purposes of this paragraph, "state waters" excludes channels and drainage ways which have water in them only during and immediately after rainfall events and intermittent streams that based on a field evaluation do not have a discernible flow at the time of the evaluation. Field evaluations shall not be made within forty-eight (48) hours of any rainfall event of 0.10 inches or greater or within seven (7) days of any rainfall event of 0.5 inches or greater. The rainfall measurement shall be based on the City of Roswell rainfall gauge closest to the site.
This section shall be in addition to other buffer requirements and shall not exempt any sites from any other requirements of The City of Roswell. This section shall also apply to filling activities that occur within five hundred (500) feet of a "state waters" or included streams, as defined herein, when any part of that fill slope exceeds twenty-five (25) percent.
This section shall not apply to projects with a total site area of less than one (1) acre.
The steep slopes and erodible soils evaluation shall consist of the following:
a.
This section shall be in addition to other buffer requirements and shall not exempt any sites from the other requirements of this article or Unified Development Code (UDC).
b.
A steep slope and erodible soils evaluation shall be conducted in accordance with the evaluation procedures and criteria specified herein or a comparable method approved by the city engineer for sites containing or near to streams, wetlands, or other water bodies where:
i.
Slopes exceed ten (10) percent within five hundred (500) feet of a state water or included stream, as defined in this section.
ii.
Soil erodibility K values exceed .24 within five hundred (500) feet of the streams, wetlands, or water bodies; or
iii.
The vegetative cover within one hundred (100) feet of the streams, wetlands, or water bodies is: bare soil; fallow land; crops; active pasture in poor or fair condition; orchard - tree farm in poor or fair condition; brush - weeds in poor condition; or woods in poor condition.
c.
The evaluation report shall be submitted for review to the city engineer. This report shall include, as a minimum, the following:
i.
A plan, at a scale not smaller than one (1) inch equals one hundred (100) feet, that shows:
1.
Existing topography with contour intervals no greater than five (5) feet;
2.
Mapped soils as shown in soil surveys;
3.
Field delineated, marked and surveyed streams and wetlands;
4.
Existing vegetation;
5.
Existing sub drainage areas of the site; and
6.
Slopes in each sub drainage area segmented into sections of slopes less than or equal to ten (10) percent; eleven (11) to nineteen (19) percent; and greater than or equal to twenty (20) percent;
ii.
All slope analysis data forms;
iii.
A summary of findings including information pertinent to the evaluation of the site; and
iv.
A mitigation plan that describes the proposed additional protective measures for those areas where development is allowed with restrictions.
d.
The site shall be evaluated by assessing each segment of each sub drainage area using the evaluation criteria in Table 1. Each segment shall be given a score for slope, slope length, soil erodibility, vegetative cover, and sediment delivery. A total score shall be assigned for each segment. A segment of a sub drainage area with a total score of thirty-five (35) or greater shall be designated as part of the buffer and no development shall be approved in that segment. A segment with a total score of twenty-five (25) or thirty (30) shall require the application of additional protective measures as required by the city engineer of the community development department; however, development shall not be prohibited and that area shall not be part of the buffer. A segment with a score of twenty (20) or less shall be developed with standard protective measures and that area shall not be required to be part of the buffer.
Table I: Evaluation Criteria for Steep Slopes and Erodible Soils
EXPAND
Factor Scores Scores
High (10) Medium (5) Low (0)
Slope (S) S>20% 10%<S<20% S<10%
Slope Length (SL) SL>200' 50'<SL<200' SL<50'
Soil Erodibility (K) K>0.32 0.24<K<0.32 K<0.24
Vegetative Cover (1) Bare soil, fallow land, crops; active pasture in poor condition; brush-weeds in poor condition; orchard-tree farm in poor condition; woods in poor condition Active pasture in fair condition; brush-weeds in fair condition; orchard-tree farm in fair condition; woods in fair condition Undisturbed meadow; active pasture in good condition; orchard-tree farm or woods in good condition
Sediment Delivery (Distance for downslope limit of disturbance to outer edge of wetlands or top of streambank.) Adjacent to watercourses or wetlands (<100' buffer) Adjacent to watercourses or wetlands (100'—300' buffer) Not adjacent to watercourses or wetlands. (> 300' buffer)
  (1)
Poor condition: < 50% ground cover
Fair conditions: 50% to 75% ground cover
Good condition: > 75% ground cover
Exemptions to this section shall be as follows:
No application for a development permit shall be approved and no permit shall be issued for any land-disturbing activity inconsistent with this section, unless:
(a)
The city engineer, or in his or her absence the zoning director, after consulting with the director of public works/environmental, or his or her designee authorizes land disturbance for the construction of: a stream crossing by a drive-way, transportation route, or utility line parallel to a stream but not closer than twenty-five (25) feet from a stream bank unless due to natural conditions in an area, such construction would be less harmful to the environment than if it were located outside the protection area; or
(b)
The city engineer with the approval of the mayor and city council finds and determines that the proposed work will not impair the quality, vitality and stability of the protection area and will not destroy more than a minimum amount of the riparian cover within the parcel; or
(c)
The city engineer with the approval of the mayor and city council authorizes redevelopment of a tract or parcel where an equivalent amount of clearance and improvement are located thereon; or, where the opinion of the city engineer after consulting with the director of public works/environmental or his or her designee is that the proposed work will not impair the quality, vitality and stability of the protection area; or
(d)
A structure is being repaired or rebuilt after being damaged by fire or other disaster and the city engineer determines that reasonable efforts to protect the adjacent stream have been taken; or
(e)
The city engineer with the approval of the mayor and city council grants a variance from the requirements of this article because exceptional circumstances exist such that a strict adherence to the provisions of this article would result in unnecessary hardship and/or would not further the intent of the article; or
(f)
The city engineer, or in his or her absence the zoning director, after consulting with the director of public works/environmental or his or her designee authorizes an exception to these rules to allow construction of a detention, retention or sediment control pond, facility or storm drainage structure within a required buffer, setback or protection area where it is deemed to be in the best interest of the water resources system.
D.
Nothing contained in O.C.G.A. § 12-7-1 et seq. shall prevent any local issuing authority from adopting rules and regulations, ordinances, or resolutions which contain stream buffer requirements that exceed the minimum requirements in subsections B. and C. of this section.
E.
The fact that land-disturbing activity for which a permit has been issued results in injury to the property of another shall neither constitute proof of nor create a presumption of a violation of the standards provided for in this article or the terms of the permit.
(Ord. No. 2014-02-03, § 1, Amended, 10/28/2013; 2012-07-09, §§ 1, 2, Amended, 07/09/2012; 2010-06-12, § 1(Exh. A), Added, 06/21/2010)
Section 7.3.5 - Application/Permit process.
A.
General. The property owner, developer and designated planners and engineers shall design and review before submittal the general development plans. The local issuing authority shall review the tract to be developed and the area surrounding it. They shall consult the storm water management ordinance, Unified Development Code (UDC), flood damage prevention ordinance, this article, and any other ordinances, rules, regulations or permits, which regulate the development of land within the jurisdictional boundaries of the local issuing authority. However, the owner and/or operator are the only parties who may obtain a permit.
B.
Application requirements.
1.
No person shall conduct any land-disturbing activity within the jurisdictional boundaries of Roswell, Georgia without first obtaining a permit from city engineer to perform such activity and providing a copy of notice of intent submitted to EPD if applicable.
2.
The application for a permit shall be submitted to the city engineer and must include the applicant's erosion, sedimentation and pollution control plan with supporting data, as necessary. Said plans shall include, as a minimum, the data specified in subsection C. of this section. Erosion, sedimentation and pollution control plans, together with supporting data, must demonstrate affirmatively that the land disturbing activity proposed will be carried out in such a manner that the provisions of section 7.3.4 B. and C. of this article will be met. Applications for a permit will not be accepted unless accompanied by five (5) paper copies of the applicant's erosion, sedimentation and pollution control plans or equivalent plans compliant with the current version of the City of Roswell Electronic Plan Submittal Guidelines. All applications shall contain a certification stating that the plan preparer or the designee thereof visited the site prior to creation of the plan in accordance with EPD Rule 391-3-7-.10.
3.
A fee, payable to the City of Roswell, in the amount set by resolution of the mayor and city council as amended from time to time, shall be charged for each application for commercial, industrial or residential developments. For projects with a disturbed area of one (1) acre or more additional fees will also be assessed pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 12-5-23(a)(5), provided that such fees shall not exceed eighty dollars ($80.00) per acre of land-disturbing activity, and these fees shall be calculated and paid by the primary permittee as defined in the state general permit for each acre of land-disturbing activity included in the planned development or each phase of development. All applicable fees shall be paid prior to issuance of the land disturbance permit. In a jurisdiction that is certified pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 12-7-8(a) half of such fees levied shall be submitted to the Division; except that any and all fees due from an entity which is required to give notice pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 12-7-17(9) or (10) shall be submitted in full to the division, regardless of the existence of a local issuing authority in the jurisdiction.
4.
Immediately upon receipt of an application and plan for a permit, the local issuing authority shall refer the application and plan to the district for its review and approval or disapproval concerning the adequacy of the erosion, sedimentation and pollution control plan. The district shall approve or disapprove a plan within thirty-five (35) days of receipt. Failure of the district to act within thirty-five (35) days shall be considered an approval of the pending plan. The results of the District review shall be forwarded to the local issuing authority. No permit will be issued unless the plan has been approved by the district, and any variances required by section 7.3.4 C.15. and 16. has been obtained, all fees have been paid, and bonding, if required as per section 7.3.5 B.6., have been obtained. Such review will not be required if the local issuing authority and the district have entered into an agreement which allows the local issuing authority to conduct such review and approval of the plan without referring the application and plan to the District. The local issuing authority with plan review authority shall approve or disapprove a revised plan submittal within thirty-five (35) days of receipt. Failure of the local issuing authority with plan review authority to act within thirty-five (35) days shall be considered an approval of the revised plan submittal.
5.
The LIA may reject a permit application if the applicant has had two (2) or more violations of previous permits or the Erosion and Sedimentation Act permit requirements within three (3) years prior to the date of the application, in light of O.C.G.A. § 12-7-7(f)(1).
6.
The local issuing authority may require the permit applicant to post a bond in the form of government security, cash, irrevocable letter of credit, or any combination thereof up to, but not exceeding, three thousand dollars ($3,000.00) per acre or fraction thereof of the proposed land-disturbing activity, prior to issuing the permit. If the applicant does not comply with this section or with the conditions of the permit after issuance, the local issuing authority may call the bond or any part thereof to be forfeited and may use the proceeds to hire a contractor to stabilize the site of the land-disturbing activity and bring it into compliance. These provisions shall not apply unless there is in effect an ordinance or statute specifically providing for hearing and judicial review of any determination or order of the local issuing authority with respect to alleged permit violations.
C.
Plan requirements.
1.
Plans must be prepared to meet the minimum requirements as contained in section 7.3.4B. and C. of this article, or through the use of more stringent, alternate design criteria which conform to sound conservation and engineering practices. The Manual for Erosion and Sediment Control in Georgia is hereby incorporated by reference into this article. The plan for the land-disturbing activity shall consider the interrelationship of the soil types, geological and hydrological characteristics, topography, watershed, vegetation, proposed permanent structures including roadways, constructed waterways, sediment control and storm water management facilities, local ordinances and state laws. Maps, drawings and supportive computations shall bear the signature and seal of the certified design professional. Persons involved in land development design, review, permitting, construction, monitoring, or inspections or any land disturbing activity shall meet the education and training certification requirements, dependent on his or her level of involvement with the process, as developed by the commission and in consultation with the division and the stakeholder advisory board created pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 12-7-20.
2.
Data required for site plan shall include all the information required from the appropriate Erosion, Sedimentation and Pollution Control Plan Review Checklist established by the commission as of January 1 of the year in which the land-disturbing activity was permitted.
D.
Permits.
1.
Permits shall be issued or denied as soon as practicable but in any event not later than forty-five (45) days after receipt by the local issuing authority of a completed application, providing variances and bonding are obtained, where necessary and all applicable fees have been paid prior to permit issuance. The permit shall include conditions under which the activity may be undertaken.
2.
No permit shall be issued by the local issuing authority unless the erosion, sedimentation and pollution control plan has been approved by the district and the local issuing authority has affirmatively determined that the plan is in compliance with this article, any variances required by section 7.3.4 C.15. and 16. are obtained, bonding requirements, if necessary, as per section 7.3.5 B.6. are met and all ordinances and rules and regulations in effect within the jurisdictional boundaries of the local issuing authority are met. If the permit is denied, the reason for denial shall be furnished to the applicant.
3.
Any land-disturbing activities by a local issuing authority shall be subject to the same requirements of this article, and any other ordinances relating to land development, as are applied to private persons and the division shall enforce such requirements upon the local issuing authority.
4.
If the tract is to be developed in phases, then a separate permit shall be required for each phase.
5.
The permit may be suspended, revoked, or modified by the local issuing authority, as to all or any portion of the land affected by the plan, upon finding that the holder or his successor in the title is not in compliance with the approved erosion and sedimentation control plan or that the holder or his successor in title is in violation of this article. A holder of a permit shall notify any successor in title to him as to all or any portion of the land affected by the approved plan of the conditions contained in the permit.
(Ord. No. 2014-02-03, § 1, Amended, 10/28/2013; 2010-06-12, § 1(Exh. A), Added, 06/21/2010)
Section 7.3.6 - Inspection and Enforcement.
A.
The city engineer or his designee will periodically inspect the sites of land-disturbing activities for which permits have been issued to determine if the activities are being conducted in accordance with the plan and if the measures required in the plan are effective in controlling erosion and sedimentation. Also, the local issuing authority shall regulate primary, secondary and tertiary permittees as such terms are defined in the state general permit. Primary permittees shall be responsible for installation and maintenance of best management practices where the primary permittee is conducting land-disturbing activities. Secondary permittees shall be responsible for installation and maintenance of best management practices where the secondary permittee is conducting land-disturbing activities. Tertiary permittees shall be responsible for installation and maintenance where the tertiary permittee is conducting land-disturbing activities. If, through inspection, it is deemed that a person engaged in land-disturbing activities as defined herein has failed to comply with the approved plan, with permit conditions, or with the provisions of this ordinance, a written notice to comply shall be served upon that person. The notice shall set forth the measures necessary to achieve compliance and shall state the time within which such measures must be completed. If the person engaged in the land-disturbing activity fails to comply within the time specified, he shall be deemed in violation of this ordinance.
B.
The local issuing authority must amend its ordinances to the extent appropriate within twelve (12) months of any amendments to the Erosion and Sedimentation Act of 1975.
C.
The city engineer shall have the power to conduct such investigations as it may reasonably deem necessary to carry out duties as prescribed in this article, and for this purpose to enter at reasonable times upon any property, public or private, for the purpose of investigation and inspecting the sites of land-disturbing activities.
D.
No person shall refuse entry or access to any authorized representative or agent of the local issuing authority, the commission, the district, or division who requests entry for the purposes of inspection, and who presents appropriate credentials, nor shall any person obstruct, hamper or interfere with any such representative while in the process of carrying out his official duties.
E.
The district or the commission or both shall semi-annually review the actions of counties and municipalities which have been certified as Local Issuing Authorities pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 12-7-8(a). The district or the commission or both may provide technical assistance to any county or municipality for the purpose of improving the effectiveness of the county's or municipality's erosion, sedimentation and pollution control program. The district or the commission shall notify the division and request investigation by the division if any deficient or ineffective local program is found.
F.
The division may periodically review the actions of counties and municipalities which have been certified as local issuing authorities pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 12-7-8(a). Such review may include, but shall not be limited to, review of the administration and enforcement of a governing authority's ordinance and review of conformance with an agreement, if any, between the District and the governing authority. If such review indicates that the governing authority of any county or municipality certified pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 12-7-8(a) has not administered or enforced its ordinances or has not conducted the program in accordance with any agreement entered into pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 12-7-7(e), the division shall notify the governing authority of the county or municipality in writing. The governing authority of any county or municipality so notified shall have ninety (90) days within which to take the necessary corrective action to retain certification as a local issuing authority. If the county or municipality does not take necessary corrective action within ninety (90) days after notification by the division, the division shall revoke the certification of the county or municipality as a local issuing authority.
(2012-07-09, § 3, Amended, 07/09/2012; 2010-06-12, § 1(Exh. A), Added, 06/21/2010)
Section 7.3.7 - Penalties and Incentives.
A.
Failure to obtain a permit for land-disturbing activity. If any person commences any land-disturbing activity requiring a land-disturbing permit as prescribed in this article without first obtaining said permit, the person shall be subject to revocation of his business license, work permit or other authorization for the conduct of a business and associated work activities within the jurisdictional boundaries of the local issuing authority.
B.
Stop-work orders.
1.
For the first and second violations of the provisions of this article, the director or the local issuing authority shall issue a written warning to the violator. The violator shall have five (5) days to correct the violation. If the violation is not corrected within five (5) days, the director or the local issuing authority shall issue a stop-work order requiring that land-disturbing activities be stopped until necessary corrective action or mitigation has occurred; provided, however, that, if the violation presents an imminent threat to public health or waters of the state or if the land-disturbing activities are conducted without obtaining the necessary permit, the director or the local issuing authority shall issue an immediate stop-work order in lieu of a warning; further, nothing in this section shall prohibit the immediate issuance of a citation for any violation of this article;
2.
For a third and each subsequent violation, the director or the local issuing authority shall issue an immediate stop-work order; and
3.
All stop-work orders shall be effective immediately upon issuance and shall be in effect until the necessary corrective action or mitigation has occurred.
4.
When a violation in the form of taking action without a permit, failure to maintain a stream buffer, or significant amounts of sediment, as determined by the local issuing authority or by the director or his or her designee, have been or are being discharged into state waters and where best management practices have not been properly designed, installed, and maintained, a stop work order shall be issued by the local issuing authority or by the director or his or her designee. All such stop work orders shall be effective immediately upon issuance and shall be in effect until the necessary corrective action or mitigation has occurred. Such stop work orders shall apply to all land-disturbing activity on the site with the exception of the installation and maintenance of temporary or permanent erosion and sediment controls.
C.
Bond forfeiture. If, through inspection, it is determined that a person engaged in land-disturbing activities has failed to comply with the approved plan, a written notice to comply shall be served upon that person. The notice shall set forth the measures necessary to achieve compliance with the plan and shall state the time within which such measures must be completed. If the person engaged in the land-disturbing activity fails to comply within the time specified, he shall be deemed in violation of this article and, in addition to other penalties, shall be deemed to have forfeited his performance bond, if required to post one under the provisions of section 7.3.5. B.6. The local issuing authority may call the bond or any part thereof to be forfeited and may use the proceeds to hire a contractor to stabilize the site of the land-disturbing activity and bring it into compliance.
D.
Monetary penalties.
1.
Any person who violates any provisions of this article, or any permit condition or limitation established pursuant to this article, or who negligently or intentionally fails or refuses to comply with any final or emergency order of the director issued as provided in this article shall be liable for a civil penalty not to exceed two thousand five hundred dollars ($2,500.00) per day. For the purpose of enforcing the provisions of this article, notwithstanding any provisions in any city charter to the contrary, municipal courts shall be authorized to impose penalty not to exceed two thousand dollars ($2,000.00) for each violation. Notwithstanding any limitation of law as to penalties which can be assessed for violations of city ordinances, any magistrate court or any other court of competent jurisdiction trying cases brought as violations of this article under city ordinances approved under this article shall be authorized to impose penalties for such violations not to exceed two thousand dollars ($2,000.00) for each violation. Each day during which violation or failure or refusal to comply continues shall be a separate violation.
2.
The owner, or operator, shall bear the final responsibility for the installation, maintenance and construction of all required erosion control measures according to the provisions and standards and specifications of this article. To insure compliance, both may be cited.
(2010-06-12, § 1(Exh. A), Added, 06/21/2010)
Section 7.3.8 - Education and Certification.
A.
Persons involved in land development design, review, permitting, construction, monitoring, or inspection or any land-disturbing activity shall meet the education and training certification requirements, dependent on their level of involvement with the process, as developed by the commission in consultation with the division and the stakeholder advisory board created pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 12-7-20.
B.
For each site on which land-disturbing activity occurs, each entity or person acting as either a primary, secondary, or tertiary permittee, as defined in the state general permit, shall have as a minimum one (1) person who is in responsible charge of erosion and sedimentation control activities on behalf of said entity or person and meets the applicable education or training certification requirements developed by the commission present on site whenever land-disturbing activities are conducted on that site. A project site shall herein be defined as any land-disturbance site or multiple sites within a larger common plan of development or sale permitted by an owner or operator for compliance with the state general permit.
C.
Persons or entities involved in projects not requiring a state general permit but otherwise requiring certified personnel on site may contract with certified persons to meet the requirements of this article.
D.
If a state general permittee who has operational control of land-disturbing activities for a site has met the certification requirements of O.C.G.A. § 12-7-19(b)(1), then any person or entity involved in land-disturbing activity at that site and operating in a subcontractor capacity for such permittee shall meet those educational requirements specified in O.C.G.A. § 12-7-19(b)(4) and shall not be required to meet any educational requirements that exceed those specified in said paragraph.
(2010-06-12, § 1(Exh. A), Added, 06/21/2010)
Section 7.3.9 - Administrative Appeal/Judicial Review.
A.
Administrative remedies. The suspension, revocation, modification or grant with condition of a permit by the local issuing authority upon finding that the holder is not in compliance with the approved erosion, sediment and pollution control plan; or that the holder is in violation of permit conditions; or that the holder is in violation of any ordinance; or the call of a bond; shall entitle the person submitting the plan or holding the permit; or cited as an owner to a hearing before the city council within thirty (30) days after receipt by the local issuing authority of written notice of appeal.
B.
Judicial review. Any person, aggrieved by a decision or order of the local issuing authority, after exhausting his administrative remedies, shall have the right to appeal denovo to the Superior Court of Fulton County.
(2010-06-12, § 1(Exh. A), Added, 06/21/2010)
Section 7.3.10 - Establishment of Soil Erosion Fund and Committee.
(a)
The intent of this section is to provide procedures and standards for the payment of erosion and sediment fees by developers of any project which requires a building permit to meet the demands placed on the community to remedy problems, hazards, or undesirable effects caused by soil erosion from undeterminable sources.
(b)
A soil erosion fee shall be required to be submitted to the city engineer prior to the issuance of any building permit for any improvement, grading, or alteration of land(s) or building(s) commences, for all structures and uses except as provided herein:
1.
Minor repairs or additions to the principal building in existence on the tract or lot where a determination is made by the city engineer that the permit issued shall not result in any land disturbance activity.
2.
Where any permit is issued for any repair, addition, or improvement solely within the interior of any building or structure.
3.
For any accessory use or structure to the principal use or structure where a building permit is issued where a determination is made by the city engineer that either no land disturbance shall occur, or the permit is for such use or structure that will result in no soil erosion.
(c)
Where any fee is required in accord with this section, the amount of such fee shall be in the amount set by resolution of the mayor and city council as amended from time to time.
(d)
Pursuant to the provisions of this section, a City of Roswell Erosion and Sediment Control Fund is hereby established. All fees collected under this section shall be credited to such fund. Disbursements from this fund will be made by the mayor, after an affirmative recommendation from the Erosion and Sediment Control fund committee ("committee") is received. The erosion and sediment control committee shall be composed of the mayor, the councilperson assigned to be the liaison to the environmental/public works department, the councilperson assigned to be the liaison to the community development department, the city administrator, the director of environmental/public works, the director of community development, and the director of transportation. The city administrator, two (2) of the three (3) elected officials (the mayor and two department liaisons), and two (2) of the three (3) directors (department heads) shall constitute a quorum and shall be able to transact business of the committee. Each member shall have equal voting privileges on committee issues. The city engineer shall serve as the fund coordinator and shall review properly completed applications for eligibility to fund proceeds. The city engineer shall also serve as the technical presenter of the application to the members of the committee but shall not be considered a member of the committee for voting purposes.
(e)
All funds arising from the collection of fees under this article shall be used for the purpose of reducing hazards, damage, unsightliness, or other effect of soil erosion which has been determined by the committee to be an erosion and sediment control problem from an undeterminable source. It is the intent of this section that any soil erosion resulting from a determinable source be corrected by appropriate legal means available to the city. Funds under this article may be used for the stated purposes for erosion and sediment control problems arising from a determinable source, where the committee has consulted the city attorney and judged such to be in the best interest of the community.
(2012-07-09, § 4, Amended, 07/09/2012; 2010-06-12, § 1(Exh. A), Added, 06/21/2010)
Section 7.3.11 - Effectivity, Validity and Liability.
A.
Effectivity. This ordinance shall become effective the day following its adoption.
B.
Validity. If any section, paragraph, clause, phrase, or provision of this article shall be adjudged invalid or held unconstitutional, such decisions shall not affect the remaining portions of this article.
C.
Liability.
1.
Neither the approval of a plan under the provisions of this article, nor the compliance with provisions of this article shall relieve any person from the responsibility for damage to any person or property otherwise imposed by law nor impose any liability upon the local issuing authority or district for damage to any person or property.
2.
The fact that a land-disturbing activity for which a permit has been issued results in injury to the property of another shall neither constitute proof of nor create a presumption of a violation of the standards provided for in this article or the terms of the permit.
3.
No provision of this article shall permit any persons to violate the Georgia Erosion and Sedimentation Act of 1975, the Georgia Water Quality Control Act or the rules and regulations promulgated and approved there under or pollute any waters of the state as defined thereby.
(2012-07-09, § 5, Amended, 07/09/2012; 2010-06-12, § 1(Exh. A), Added, 06/21/2010)
Article 7.4 - Flood Damage Prevention[2]

Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
Editor's note— Ord. of June 2, 2008, amended Art. 7.4 in its entirety to read as herein set out. Former Art. 7.4, §§ 7.4.1—7.4.6, pertained to similar subject matter and derived from Ord. 2003-12-30, adopted Dec. 8, 2003.

Section 7.4.1 - Statutory Authorization, Findings of Fact, Purpose and Objectives.
(a)
Statutory Authorization. Article IX, Section II of the Constitution of the State of Georgia and O.C.G.A. § 36-1-20(a) have delegated the responsibility to local governmental units to adopt regulations designed to promote the public health, safety, and general welfare of its citizenry. Therefore, the mayor and the city council of Roswell, Georgia, does ordain this ordinance and establishes this set of floodplain management and flood hazard reduction policies for the purpose of regulating the use of flood hazard areas. It is determined that the regulation of flood hazard areas and the prevention of flood damage are in the public interest and will minimize threats to public health and safety, as well as to private and public property.
(b)
Findings of Fact.
(1)
The flood hazard areas of the City of Roswell are subject to periodic inundation which may result in loss of life and property, health and safety hazards, disruption of commerce and governmental services, extraordinary public expenditures for flood relief and protection, and impairment of the tax base, all of which adversely affect the public health, safety and general welfare.
(2)
Flood hazard areas can serve important stormwater management, water quality, streambank protection, stream corridor protection, wetland preservation and ecological purposes when permanently protected as undisturbed or minimally disturbed areas.
(c)
Statement of Purpose. Effective floodplain management and flood hazard protection activities can:
(1)
Protect human life and health;
(2)
Minimize damage to private property;
(3)
Minimize damage to public facilities and infrastructure such as water and gas mains, electric, telephone and sewer lines, streets and bridges located in floodplains; and
(4)
Minimize expenditure of public money for costly flood control projects associated with flooding and generally undertaken at the expense of the general public.
(Ord. of 06/02/2008, § 1(Exh. A))
Section 7.4.2 - General Provisions.
(a)
Purpose and Intent. The purpose of this ordinance is to protect, maintain and enhance the public health, safety, environment and general welfare and to minimize public and private losses due to flood conditions in flood hazard areas, as well as to protect the beneficial uses of floodplain areas for water quality protection, streambank and stream corridor protection, wetlands preservation and ecological and environmental protection by provisions designed to:
(1)
Require that uses vulnerable to floods, including facilities which serve such uses, be protected against flood damage at the time of initial construction;
(2)
Restrict or prohibit uses which are dangerous to health, safety and property due to flooding or erosion hazards, or which increase flood heights, velocities, or erosion;
(3)
Control filling, grading, dredging and other development which may increase flood damage or erosion;
(4)
Prevent or regulate the construction of flood barriers which will unnaturally divert flood waters or which may increase flood hazards to other lands;
(5)
Limit the alteration of natural floodplains, stream channels, and natural protective barriers which are involved in the accommodation of flood waters; and,
(6)
Protect the stormwater management, water quality, streambank protection, stream corridor protection, wetland preservation and ecological functions of natural floodplain areas.
(b)
Applicability. This ordinance shall be applicable to all areas of special flood hazard within the City of Roswell.
(c)
Designation of Ordinance Administrator. The director of the public works/environmental department or their designee/the floodplain administrator is hereby appointed to administer and implement the provisions of this ordinance.
(d)
Basis for Area of Special Flood Hazard—Flood Area Maps and Studies. For the purposes of this ordinance, the following are adopted by reference:
(1)
The Flood Insurance Study (FIS), dated May 7, 2001, with accompanying maps and other supporting data and any revision thereto are hereby adopted by reference.
(2)
Other studies which may be relied upon for the establishment of the base flood elevation or delineation of the 100-year floodplain and flood-prone areas include:
(a)
Any flood or flood-related study conducted by the United States Army Corps of Engineers, the United States Geological Survey or any other local, state or federal agency applicable to the City of Roswell; or
(b)
Any base flood study authored by a registered professional engineer in the State of Georgia which has been prepared by FEMA approved methodology and approved by the floodplain administrator.
(3)
Other studies which may be relied upon for the establishment of the future-conditions flood elevation or delineation of the future-conditions floodplain and flood-prone areas include:
(a)
Any flood or flood-related study conducted by the United States Army Corps of Engineers, the United States Geological Survey, or any other local, state or federal agency applicable to the City of Roswell; or
(b)
Any future-conditions flood study authored by a registered professional engineer in the State of Georgia which has been prepared by FEMA approved methodology approved by the floodplain administrator.
(4)
The repository for public inspection of the FIS, accompanying maps and other supporting data is located at City Hall, 38 Hill Street, Roswell Georgia.
(e)
Compatibility with Other Regulations. This ordinance is not intended to modify or repeal any other ordinance, rule, regulation, statute, easement, covenant, deed restriction or other provision of law. The requirements of this ordinance are in addition to the requirements of any other ordinance, rule, regulation or other provision of law, and where any provision of this ordinance imposes restrictions different from those imposed by any other ordinance, rule, regulation or other provision of law, whichever provision is more restrictive or impose higher protective standards for human health or the environment shall control.
(f)
Severability. If the provisions of any section, subsection, paragraph, subdivision or clause of this ordinance shall be adjudged invalid by a court of competent jurisdiction, such judgment shall not affect or invalidate the remainder of any section, subsection, paragraph, subdivision or clause of this ordinance.
(g)
Warning and Disclaimer of Liability. The degree of flood protection required by this ordinance is considered reasonable for regulatory purposes and is based on scientific and engineering considerations. Larger floods can and will occur; flood heights may be increased by man-made or natural causes. This ordinance does not imply that land outside the areas of special flood hazard or uses permitted within such areas will be free from flooding or flood damages. This ordinance shall not create liability on the part of the City of Roswell or by any officer or employee thereof for any flood damages that result from reliance on this ordinance or any administrative decision lawfully made thereunder.
(Ord. of 06/02/2008, § 1(Exh. A))
Section 7.4.3 - Definitions.
Unless specifically defined below, words or phrases used in this ordinance shall be interpreted so as to give them the meaning they have in common usage and to give this ordinance its most reasonable application.
Addition (to an existing building) means any walled and roofed expansion to the perimeter of a building in which the addition is connected by a common load-bearing wall other than a fire wall. Any walled and roofed addition which is connected by a fire wall or is separated by an independent perimeter load-bearing wall shall be considered new construction.
Appeal means a request for a review of the floodplain administrator's interpretation of any provision of this ordinance.
Area of shallow flooding means a designated AO or AH Zone on a community's flood insurance rate map (FIRM) with base flood depths from one (1) to three (3) feet, and/or where a clearly defined channel does not exist, where the path of flooding is unpredictable and indeterminate, and where velocity flow may be evident.
Area of special flood hazard is the land subject to a one (1) percent or greater chance of flooding in any given year. This includes all floodplain and flood-prone areas at or below the base flood elevation (including A, A1-30, A-99, AE, AO, AH, and AR on the FHBM or the FIRM), all floodplain and flood-prone areas at or below the future-conditions flood elevation, and all other flood-prone areas as referenced in section 1.4. All streams with a drainage area of one hundred (100) acres or greater shall have the area of special flood hazard delineated.
Base flood means the flood having a one (1) percent chance of being equaled or exceeded in any given year, also known as the 100-year flood.
Base flood elevation means the highest water surface elevation anticipated at any given point during the base flood.
Basement means that portion of a building having its floor subgrade (below ground level) on all sides.
Building means any structure built for support, shelter, or enclosure for any occupancy or storage.
Development means any man-made change to improved or unimproved real estate including but not limited to buildings or other structures, mining, dredging, filling, clearing, grubbing, grading, paving, any other installation of impervious cover, excavation or drilling operations or storage of equipment or materials.
Elevated building means a non-basement building built to have the lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area elevated above the ground level by means of fill, solid foundation perimeter walls, pilings, columns, piers, or shear walls adequately anchored so as not to impair the structural integrity of the building during a base flood event.
Existing construction means any structure for which the "start of construction" commenced before June 15, 1998.
Existing manufactured home park or subdivision means a manufactured home park or subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including at a minimum the installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and final site grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed before June 15, 1998.
Expansion to an existing manufactured home park or subdivision means the preparation of additional sites by the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on which the manufactured homes are to be affixed, including the installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site grading or the pouring of concrete pads.
FEMA means the Federal Emergency Management Agency.
Flood or flooding means a general and temporary condition of partial or complete inundation of normally dry land areas from:
(a)
The overflow of inland or tidal waters; or
(b)
The unusual and rapid accumulation or runoff of surface waters from any source.
Flood hazard boundary map or FHBM means an official map of a community, issued by the Federal Insurance Administration, where the boundaries of areas of special flood hazard have been defined as Zone A.
Flood insurance rate map or FIRM means an official map of a community, issued by the Federal Insurance Administration, delineating the areas of special flood hazard and/or risk premium zones applicable to the community.
Flood insurance study or FIS means the official report by the Federal Insurance Administration evaluating flood hazards and containing flood profiles and water surface elevations of the base flood.
Floodplain means any land area susceptible to flooding.
Floodproofing means any combination of structural and non-structural additions, changes, or adjustments to structures which reduce or eliminate flood damage to real estate or improved real property, water and sanitary facilities, structures and their contents.
Floodway or regulatory floodway means the channel of a stream or other watercourse and the adjacent areas of the floodplain which is necessary to contain and discharge the base flood flow without cumulatively increasing the base flood elevation more than one (1) foot.
Functionally dependent use means a use which cannot perform its intended purpose unless it is located or carried out in close proximity to water.
Future conditions flood means the flood having a one (1) percent chance of being equaled or exceeded in any given year based on future-conditions hydrology. Also known as the 100-year future-conditions flood.
Future-conditions flood elevation means the flood standard equal to or higher than the base flood elevation. The future-conditions flood elevation is defined as the highest water surface anticipated at any given point during the future-conditions flood.
Future-conditions floodplain means any land area susceptible to flooding by the future-conditions flood.
Future-conditions hydrology means the flood discharges associated with projected land use conditions based on a community's zoning map, comprehensive land use plans, and/or watershed study projections, and without consideration of projected future construction of flood detention structures or projected future hydraulic modifications within a stream or other waterway, such as bridge and culvert construction, fill, and excavation.
Highest adjacent grade means the highest natural elevation of the ground surface, prior to construction, adjacent to the proposed foundation of a building.
Historic structure means any structure that is:
(a)
Listed individually in the National Register of Historic Places (a listing maintained by the U.S. Department of Interior) or preliminarily determined by the Secretary of the Interior as meeting the requirements for individual listing on the National Register;
(b)
Certified or preliminarily determined by the Secretary of the Interior as contributing to the historical significance of a registered historic district or a district preliminarily determined by the Secretary to qualify as a registered historic district;
(c)
Individually listed on a state inventory of historic places and determined as eligible by states with historic preservation programs which have been approved by the Secretary of the Interior; or
(d)
Individually listed on a local inventory of historic places and determined as eligible by communities with historic preservation programs that have been certified either:
1.
By an approved state program as determined by the Secretary of the Interior, or
2.
Directly by the Secretary of the Interior in states without approved programs.
Lowest floor means the lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area, including basement. An unfinished or flood resistant enclosure, used solely for parking of vehicles, building access, or storage, in an area other than a basement, is not considered a building's lowest floor, provided that such enclosure is not built so as to render the structure in violation of other provisions of this ordinance.
Manufactured home means a building, transportable in one (1) or more sections, built on a permanent chassis and designed to be used with or without a permanent foundation when connected to the required utilities. The term includes any structure commonly referred to as a "mobile home" regardless of the date of manufacture. The term also includes parked trailers, travel trailers and similar transportable structures placed on a site for one hundred eighty (180) consecutive days or longer and intended to be improved property.
Mean sea level means the average height of the sea for all stages of the tide. It is used as a reference for establishing various elevations within the floodplain. For purposes of this ordinance the term is synonymous with National Geodetic Vertical Datum (NGVD) and/or the North American Vertical Datum (NAVD) of 1988.
National Geodetic Vertical Datum (NGVD) as corrected in 1929 is a vertical control used as a reference for establishing varying elevations within the floodplain.
New construction means any structure (see definition) for which the "start of construction" commenced after June 15, 1998 and includes any subsequent improvements to the structure.
New manufactured home park or subdivision means a manufactured home park or subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including at a minimum, the installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed on or after June 15, 1998.
NFIP means National Flood Insurance Program.
North American Vertical Datum (NAVD) of 1988 is a vertical control used as a reference for establishing varying elevations within the floodplain.
Owner means the legal or beneficial owner of a site, including but not limited to, a mortgagee or vendee in possession, receiver, executor, trustee, lessee or other person, firm or corporation in control of the site.
Permit means the permit issued by the City of Roswell to the applicant which is required prior to undertaking any development activity.
Recreational vehicle means a vehicle which is:
(a)
Built on a single chassis;
(b)
Four hundred (400) square feet or less when measured at the largest horizontal projection;
(c)
Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by light duty truck; and,
(d)
Designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling but as temporary living quarters for recreational, camping, travel, or seasonal use.
Site means the parcel of land being developed, or the portion thereof on which the development project is located.
Start of construction means the date the permit was issued, provided the actual start of construction, repair, reconstruction, or improvement was within one hundred eighty (180) days of the permit date. The actual start means the first placement of permanent construction of the structure such as the pouring of slabs or footings, installation of piles, construction of columns, or any work beyond the stage of excavation, and includes the placement of a manufactured home on a foundation. Permanent construction does not include initial land preparation, such as clearing, grading and filling; nor does it include the installation of streets and/or walkways; nor does it include excavation for a basement, footings, piers or foundations or the erection of temporary forms; nor does it include the installation on the property of buildings appurtenant to the permitted structure, such as garages or sheds not occupied as dwelling units or part of the main structure. (NOTE: Accessory structures are not exempt from any ordinance requirements.) For a substantial improvement, the actual start of construction means the first alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor, or other structural part of a building, whether or not that alteration affects the external dimensions of the building.
Structure means a walled and roofed building that is principally above ground, a manufactured home, a gas or liquid storage tank.
Subdivision means the division of a tract or parcel of land resulting in one (1) or more new lots or building sites for the purpose, whether immediately or in the future, of sale, other transfer of ownership or land development, and includes divisions of land resulting from or made in connection with the layout or development of a new street or roadway or a change in an existing street or roadway.
Substantial damage means damage of any origin sustained by a structure whereby the cost of restoring the structure to its before damaged condition would equal or exceed fifty (50) percent of the market value of the structure before the damage occurred.
Substantial improvement means any combination of repairs, reconstruction, alteration, or improvements to a building, taking place during a ten-year period, in which the cumulative cost equals or exceeds fifty (50) percent of the market value of the structure prior to the improvement. The market value of the building means (1) the appraised value of the structure prior to the start of the initial repair or improvement, or (2) in the case of damage, the value of the structure prior to the damage occurring. This term includes structures which have incurred "substantial damage" regardless of the actual amount of repair work performed. For the purposes of this definition, "substantial improvement" is considered to occur when the first alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor, or other structural part of the building commences, whether or not that alteration affects the external dimensions of the building. The term does not, however, include those improvements of a building required to comply with existing health, sanitary, or safety code specifications which are solely necessary to assure safe living conditions, which have been pre-identified by the code enforcement official, and not solely triggered by an improvement or repair project.
Substantially improved existing manufactured home park or subdivision is where the repair, reconstruction, rehabilitation or improvement of the streets, utilities and pads equals or exceeds fifty (50) percent of the value of the streets, utilities and pads before the repair, reconstruction or improvement commenced.
Variance is a grant of relief from the requirements of this ordinance which permits construction in a manner otherwise prohibited by this ordinance.
Violation means the failure of a structure or other development to be fully compliant with the community's floodplain management regulations. A structure or other development without the elevation certificate, other certificates, or other evidence of compliance required in this ordinance is presumed to be in violation until such time as that documentation is provided.
(Ord. of 06/02/2008, § 1(Exh. A))
Section 7.4.4 - Permit Procedures and Requirements.
(a)
Permit Application Requirements:
(1)
No owner or developer shall perform any development activities on a site where an area of special flood hazard is located without first meeting the requirements of this ordinance prior to commencing the proposed activity.
(2)
Unless specifically excluded by this ordinance, any landowner or developer desiring a permit for a development activity shall submit to the floodplain administrator a permit application on a form provided by the floodplain administrator for that purpose.
(3)
No permit will be approved for any development activities that do not meet the requirements, restrictions and criteria of this ordinance.
(b)
Floodplain Management Plan Requirements. An application for a development project within any area of special flood hazard located on the site will be required to include a floodplain management/flood damage prevention plan. This plan shall include the following items:
(1)
Site plan drawn to scale, which includes but is not limited to:
(a)
Existing and proposed elevations of the area in question and the nature, location and dimensions of existing and/or proposed structures, earthen fill placement, amount and location of excavation material, and storage of materials or equipment;
(b)
For all proposed structures, spot ground elevations at building corners and twenty-foot or smaller intervals along the foundation footprint, or one-foot contour elevations throughout the building site;
(c)
Proposed locations of water supply, sanitary sewer, and utilities;
(d)
Proposed locations of drainage and stormwater management facilities;
(e)
Proposed grading plan;
(f)
Base flood elevations and future-conditions flood elevations;
(g)
Boundaries of the base flood floodplain and future-conditions floodplain;
(h)
If applicable, the location of the floodway; and
(i)
Certification of the above by a registered professional engineer or surveyor.
(2)
Building and foundation design detail, including but not limited to:
(a)
Elevation in relation to mean sea level (or highest adjacent grade) of the lowest floor, including basement, of all proposed structures;
(b)
Elevation in relation to mean sea level to which any non-residential structure will be floodproofed;
(c)
Certification that any proposed non-residential floodproofed structure meets the criteria in subsection 7.4.6(b)(2);
(d)
For enclosures below the base flood elevation, location and total net area of foundation openings as required in subsection 7.4.6(a)(5); or
(e)
Design plans certified by a registered professional engineer or architect for all proposed structure(s).
(3)
Description of the extent to which any watercourse will be altered or relocated as a result of the proposed development;
(4)
Hard copies and digital files of computer models, if any, copies of work maps, comparison of pre- and post development conditions base flood elevations, future-conditions flood elevations, flood protection elevations, special flood hazard areas and regulatory floodway widths, flood profiles and all other computations and other information similar to that presented in the FIS;
(5)
Copies of all applicable state and federal permits necessary for proposed development; and
(6)
All appropriate certifications required under this ordinance. The approved floodplain management/flood damage prevention plan shall contain certification by the applicant that all development activities will be done according to the plan or previously approved revisions. Any and all development permits and/or use and occupancy certificates or permits may be revoked at any time if the construction and development activities are not in strict accordance with approved plans.
(c)
Construction Stage Submittal Requirements. For all new construction and substantial improvements on sites with a floodplain management/flood damage prevention plan, the permit holder shall provide to the director of the public works/environmental department or their designee/the floodplain administrator a certified as-built elevation certificate or flood-proofing certificate for non-residential construction including the lowest floor elevation or flood-proofing level immediately after the lowest floor or flood-proofing is completed. A final elevation certificate shall be provided after completion of construction including final grading of the site. Any lowest floor certification made relative to mean sea level shall be prepared by or under the direct supervision of a registered land surveyor or professional engineer and certified by same. When flood-proofing is utilized for non-residential structures, said certification shall be prepared by or under the direct supervision of a professional engineer or architect and certified by same.
Any work undertaken prior to approval of these certifications shall be at the permit holder's risk. The director of the public works/environmental department or their designee/the floodplain administrator shall review the above referenced certification data submitted. Deficiencies detected by such review shall be corrected by the permit holder immediately and prior to further work being allowed to proceed. Failure to submit certification or failure to make the corrections required hereby shall be cause to issue a stop work order for the project.
(d)
Duties and Responsibilities of the Administrator. Duties of the director of the public works/environmental department or their designee/the floodplain administrator shall include, but shall not be limited to:
(1)
Review all development applications and permits to assure that the requirements of this ordinance have been satisfied and to determine whether proposed building sites will be reasonably safe from flooding;
(2)
Require that copies of all necessary permits from governmental agencies from which approval is required by federal or state law, including but not limited to Section 404 of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act Amendments of 1972,33 U.S.C. 1334, be provided and maintained on file;
(3)
When base flood elevation data or floodway data have not been provided, then the director of the public works/environmental department or their designee/the floodplain administrator shall require the applicant to obtain, review and reasonably utilize any base flood elevation and floodway data available from a federal, state or other sources in order to meet the provisions of sections 7.4.5 and 7.4.6;
(4)
Review and record the actual elevation in relation to mean sea level (or highest adjacent grade) of the lowest floor, including basement, of all new or substantially improved structures;
(5)
Review and record the actual elevation, in relation to mean sea level to which any substantially improved structures have been flood-proofed;
(6)
When flood-proofing is utilized for a non-residential structure, the director of the public works/environmental department or their designee/the floodplain administrator shall obtain certification of design criteria from a registered professional engineer or architect;
(7)
Notify affected adjacent communities and the Georgia Department of Natural Resources prior to any alteration or relocation of a watercourse and submit evidence of such notification to the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA);
(8)
Where interpretation is needed as to the exact location of boundaries of the areas of special flood hazard (e.g., where there appears to be a conflict between a mapped boundary and actual field conditions) the director of the public works/environmental department or their designee/the floodplain administrator shall make the necessary interpretation. Any person contesting the location of the boundary shall be given a reasonable opportunity to appeal the interpretation as provided in this ordinance. Where floodplain elevations have been defined, the floodplain shall be determined based on flood elevations rather than the area graphically delineated on the floodplain maps; and,
(9)
All records pertaining to the provisions of this ordinance shall be maintained in the office of the director of the public works/environmental department or their designee/the floodplain administrator and shall be open for public inspection.
(Ord. of 06/02/2008, § 1(Exh. A))
Section 7.4.5 - Standards for Development.
(a)
Definition of Floodplain Boundaries.
(1)
Studied "A" zones, as identified in the FIS, shall be used to establish base flood elevations whenever available.
(2)
For all streams with a drainage area of one hundred (100) acres or greater, the future-conditions flood elevations shall be provided by the floodplain administrator. If future-conditions elevation data is not available from the floodplain administrator, then it shall be determined by a registered professional engineer using a method approved by FEMA and the floodplain administrator.
(b)
Definition of Floodway Boundaries.
(1)
The width of a floodway shall be determined from the FIS or FEMA approved flood study. For all streams with a drainage area of one hundred (100) acres or greater, the regulatory floodway shall be provided by the floodplain administrator. If floodway data is not available from the floodplain administrator, then it shall be determined by a registered professional engineer using a method approved by FEMA and the floodplain administrator.
(c)
General Standards.
(1)
No development shall be allowed within the future-conditions floodplain that could result in any of the following:
(a)
Raising the base flood elevation or future-conditions flood elevation equal to or more than 0.01 foot;
(b)
Reducing the base flood or future-conditions flood storage capacity;
(c)
Changing the flow characteristics as to the depth and velocity of the waters of the base flood or future-conditions flood as they pass both the upstream and the downstream boundaries of the development area; or,
(d)
Creating hazardous or erosion-producing velocities, or resulting in excessive sedimentation.
(2)
Any development within the future-conditions floodplain allowed under subsection (1) above shall also meet the following conditions:
(a)
Compensation for storage capacity shall occur between the average ground water table elevation and the base flood elevation for the base flood, and between the average ground water table elevation and the future-condition flood elevation for the future-conditions flood, and lie either within the boundaries of ownership of the property being developed and shall be within the immediate vicinity of the location of the encroachment. Acceptable means of providing required compensation include lowering of natural ground elevations within the floodplain, or lowering of adjoining land areas to create additional floodplain storage. In no case shall any required compensation be provided via bottom storage or by excavating below the elevation of the top of the natural (pre-development) stream channel unless such excavation results from the widening or relocation of the stream channel;
(b)
Cut areas shall be stabilized and graded to a slope of no less than two (2) percent;
(c)
Effective transitions shall be provided such that flow velocities occurring on both upstream and downstream properties are not increased or decreased;
(d)
Verification of no-rise conditions (0.01 foot or less), flood storage volumes, and flow characteristics shall be provided via a step-backwater analysis meeting the requirements of subsection 7.5.4(d);
(e)
Public utilities and facilities, such as water, sanitary sewer, gas, and electrical systems, shall be located and constructed to minimize or eliminate infiltration or contamination from flood waters; and
(f)
Any significant physical changes to the base flood floodplain shall be submitted as a conditional letter of map revision (CLOMR) or conditional letter of map amendment (CLOMA), whichever is applicable. The CLOMR submittal shall be subject to approval by the floodplain administrator using the community consent forms before forwarding the submittal package to FEMA for final approval. The responsibility for forwarding the CLOMR to FEMA and for obtaining the CLOMR approval shall be the responsibility of the applicant. Within six (6) months of the completion of construction, the applicant shall submit as-built surveys for a final letter of map revision (LOMR).
(d)
Engineering Study Requirements for Floodplain Encroachments. An engineering study is required, as appropriate to the proposed development activities on the site, whenever a development proposes to disturb any land within the future-conditions floodplain, except for a residential single-lot development on streams without established base flood elevations and/or floodways for which the provisions of subsection 7.4.6(d) apply. This study shall be prepared by a currently registered professional engineer in the State of Georgia and made a part of the application for a permit. This information shall be submitted to and approved by the floodplain administrator prior to the approval of any permit which would authorize the disturbance of land located within the future-conditions floodplain. Such study shall include:
(1)
Description of the extent to which any watercourse or floodplain will be altered or relocated as a result of the proposed development;
(2)
Step-backwater analysis, using a FEMA-approved methodology approved by the floodplain administrator. Cross-sections (which may be supplemented by the applicant) and flow information will be obtained whenever available. Computations will be shown duplicating FIS results and will then be rerun with the proposed modifications to determine the new base flood profiles, and future-conditions flood profiles;
(3)
Floodplain storage calculations based on cross-sections (at least one (1) every one hundred (100) feet) showing existing and proposed floodplain conditions to show that base flood floodplain and future-conditions floodplain storage capacity would not be diminished by the development;
(4)
The study shall include a preliminary plat, grading plan, or site plan, as appropriate, which shall clearly define all future-conditions floodplain encroachments.
(e)
Floodway Encroachments. Located within areas of special flood hazard are areas designated as floodway. A floodway may be an extremely hazardous area due to velocity flood waters, debris or erosion potential. In addition, floodways must remain free of encroachment in order to allow for the discharge of the base flood without increased flood heights. Therefore, the following provisions shall apply:
(1)
Encroachments are prohibited, including earthen fill, new construction, substantial improvements or other development within the regulatory floodway, except for activities specifically allowed in subsection (2) below;
(2)
Encroachments for bridges, culverts, roadways and utilities within the regulatory floodway may be permitted provided it is demonstrated through hydrologic and hydraulic analyses performed in accordance with standard engineering practice that the encroachment shall not result in any increase to the pre-project base flood elevations, floodway elevations, or floodway widths during the base flood discharge. A registered professional engineer must provide supporting technical data and certification thereof; and,
(3)
If the applicant proposes to revise the floodway boundaries, no permit authorizing the encroachment into or an alteration of the floodway shall be issued by the floodplain administrator until an affirmative conditional letter of map revision (CLOMR) is issued by FEMA and no-rise certification is approved by the floodplain administrator.
(f)
Maintenance Requirements. The property owner shall be responsible for continuing maintenance as may be needed within an altered or relocated portion of a floodplain on his property so that the flood-carrying or flood storage capacity is not diminished. The floodplain administrator may direct the property owner (at no cost to the City of Roswell) to restore the flood-carrying or flood storage capacity of the floodplain if the owner has not performed maintenance as required by the approved floodplain management plan on file with the floodplain administrator.
(Ord. of 06/02/2008, § 1(Exh. A))
Section 7.4.6 - Provisions for Flood Damage Reduction.
(a)
General Standards. In all areas of special flood hazard the following provisions apply:
(1)
New construction of principal buildings (residential or non-residential), including manufactured homes, shall not be allowed within the limits of the future-conditions floodplain, unless all requirements of subsections 7.4.5(c), (d) and (e) have been met;
(2)
New construction or substantial improvements of existing structures shall be anchored to prevent flotation, collapse or lateral movement of the structure;
(3)
New construction or substantial improvements of existing structures shall be constructed with materials and utility equipment resistant to flood damage;
(4)
New construction or substantial improvements of existing structures shall be constructed by methods and practices that minimize flood damage;
(5)
Elevated Buildings - All new construction and substantial improvements of existing structures that include any fully enclosed area located below the lowest floor formed by foundation and other exterior walls shall be designed so as to be an unfinished and flood resistant enclosure. The enclosure shall be designed to equalize hydrostatic flood forces on exterior walls by allowing for the automatic entry and exit of flood water.
(a)
Designs for complying with this requirement must either be certified by a professional engineer or architect or meet the following minimum criteria:
(i)
Provide a minimum of two (2) openings having a total net area of not less than one (1) square inch for every square foot of enclosed area subject to flooding;
(ii)
The bottom of all openings shall be no higher than one (1) foot above grade; and,
(iii)
Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, valves or other coverings or devices provided they permit the automatic flow of flood water in both directions.
(b)
So as not to violate the "lowest floor" criteria of this ordinance, the unfinished and flood resistant enclosure shall solely be used for parking of vehicles, limited storage of maintenance equipment used in connection with the premises, or entry to the elevated area; and,
(c)
The interior portion of such enclosed area shall not be partitioned or finished into separate rooms.
(6)
All heating and air conditioning equipment and components (including ductwork), all electrical, ventilation, plumbing, and other service facilities shall be designed and/or located three (3) feet above the base flood elevation or one (1) foot above the future-conditions flood elevation, whichever is higher, so as to prevent water from entering or accumulating within the components during conditions of flooding;
(7)
Manufactured homes shall be anchored to prevent flotation, collapse, or lateral movement. Methods of anchoring may include, but are not limited to, use of over-the-top or frame ties to ground anchors. This standard shall be in addition to and consistent with applicable state requirements for resisting wind forces;
(8)
New and replacement water supply systems shall be designed to minimize or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the system;
(9)
New and replacement sanitary sewage systems shall be designed to minimize or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the systems and discharges from the systems into flood waters;
(10)
On-site waste disposal systems shall be located and constructed to avoid impairment to them, or contamination from them, during flooding;
(11)
Any alteration, repair, reconstruction or improvement to a structure which is not compliant with the provisions of this ordinance, shall be undertaken only if the nonconformity is not furthered, extended or replaced; and
(12)
If the proposed development is located in multiple flood zones or multiple base flood elevation cross the proposed site, the higher or more restrictive base flood elevation or future condition elevation and development standards shall take precedence.
(b)
Building Standards for Structures and Buildings Within the Future-Conditions Floodplain. The following provisions, in addition to those in subsection 7.4.6(a), shall apply:
(1)
Residential Buildings.
(a)
New construction. New construction of principal buildings, including manufactured homes shall not be allowed within the limits of the future-conditions floodplain unless all requirements of subsections 7.4.5(c), (d) and (e) have been met. If all of the requirements of subsections 7.4.5(c), (d) and (e) have been met, all new construction shall have the lowest floor, including basement, elevated no lower than three (3) feet above the base flood elevation or one (1) foot above the future-conditions flood elevation, whichever is higher. Should solid foundation perimeter walls be used to elevate the structure, openings sufficient to equalize the hydrologic flood forces on exterior walls and to facilitate the unimpeded movements of flood waters shall be provided in accordance with standards of subsection 7.4.6(a)(5).
(b)
Substantial improvements. Substantial improvement of any principal structure or manufactured home shall have the lowest floor, including basement, elevated no lower than three (3) feet above the base flood elevation or one (1) foot above the future-conditions flood elevation, whichever is higher. Should solid foundation perimeter walls be used to elevate a structure, openings sufficient to equalize the hydrologic flood forces on exterior walls and to facilitate the unimpeded movements of flood waters shall be provided in accordance with standards of subsection 7.4.6(a)(5).
(2)
Non-Residential Buildings.
(a)
New Construction. New construction of principal buildings, including manufactured homes shall not be allowed within the limits of the future-conditions floodplain unless all requirements of subsections 7.4.5(c), (d) and (e) have been met. New construction that has met all of the requirements of subsections 7.4.5(c), (d) and (e) may be flood-proofed in lieu of elevation. The structure, together with attendant utility and sanitary facilities, must be designed to be watertight to one (1) foot above the base flood elevation, or at least as high as the future-conditions flood elevation, whichever is higher, with walls substantially impermeable to the passage of water and structural components having the capability of resisting hydrostatic and hydrodynamic loads and the effect of buoyancy. A registered professional engineer or architect shall certify that the design and methods of construction are in accordance with accepted standards of practice for meeting the provisions above, and shall provide such certification to the floodplain administrator.
(b)
Substantial Improvements. Substantial improvement of any principal non-residential structure located in A1-30, AE, or AH zones, may be authorized by the floodplain administrator to be flood-proofed in lieu of elevation. The structure, together with attendant utility and sanitary facilities, must be designed to be water tight to one (1) foot above the base flood elevation, or at least as high as the future-conditions flood elevation, whichever is higher, with walls substantially impermeable to the passage of water, and structural components having the capability of resisting hydrostatic and hydrodynamic loads and the effect of buoyancy. A registered professional engineer or architect shall certify that the design and methods of construction are in accordance with accepted standards of practice for meeting the provisions above, and shall provide such certification to the floodplain administrator.
(3)
Accessory Structures and Facilities. Accessory structures and facilities (i.e., barns, sheds, gazebos, detached garages, parking lots, recreational facilities and other similar non-habitable structures and facilities) which are permitted to be located within the limits of the floodplain shall be constructed of flood-resistant materials and designed to pass all flood water in accordance with subsection 7.4.6(a)(5) and be anchored to prevent flotation, collapse or lateral movement of the structure.
(4)
Standards for Recreational Vehicles. All recreational vehicles placed on sites must either:
(a)
Be on the site for fewer than one hundred eighty (180) consecutive days and be fully licensed and ready for highway use, (a recreational vehicle is ready for highway use if it is licensed, on its wheels or jacking system, attached to the site only by quick disconnect type utilities and security devices, and has no permanently attached structures or additions); or
(b)
The recreational vehicle must meet all the requirements for residential buildings—substantial improvements (subsection 7.4.6(b)(1)(b)), including the anchoring and elevation requirements.
(5)
Standards for Manufactured Homes.
(a)
New manufactured homes shall not be allowed to be placed within the limits of the future-conditions floodplain unless all requirements of subsections 7.4.5(c), (d) and (e) have been met.
(b)
Manufactured homes placed and/or substantially improved in an existing manufactured home park or subdivision shall be elevated so that either:
(i)
The lowest floor of the manufactured home is elevated no lower than three (3) feet above the level of the base flood elevation, or one (1) foot above the future-conditions flood elevation, whichever is higher; or
(ii)
The manufactured home chassis is elevated and supported by reinforced piers (or other foundation elements of at least an equivalent strength) of no less than thirty-six (36) inches in height above grade.
(c)
All manufactured homes must be securely anchored to an adequately anchored foundation system to resist flotation, collapse and lateral movement in accordance with standards of subsection 7.4.5(7).
(c)
Building Standards for Structures and Buildings Authorized Adjacent to the Future-Conditions Floodplain.
(1)
Residential Buildings. For new construction or substantial improvement of any principal residential building or manufactured home, the elevation of the lowest floor, including basement and access to the building, shall be at least three (3) feet above the base flood elevation or one (1) foot above the future-conditions flood elevation, whichever is higher.
(2)
Non-Residential Buildings. For new construction or substantial improvement of any principal non-residential building, the elevation of the lowest floor, including basement and access to the building, shall be at least one (1) foot above the level of the base flood elevation or at least as high as the future-conditions flood elevation, whichever is higher.
(d)
Building Standards for Residential Single-Lot Developments on Streams Without Established Base Flood Elevations and/or Floodway (A-Zones). For a residential single-lot development not part of a subdivision that has areas of special flood hazard, where streams exist but no base flood data have been provided (A-Zones), the floodplain administrator shall review and reasonably utilize any available scientific or historic flood elevation data, base flood elevation and floodway data, or future-conditions flood elevation data available from a federal, state, local or other source, in order to administer the provisions and standards of this ordinance.
If data are not available from any of these sources, the following provisions shall apply:
(1)
No encroachments, including structures or fill material, shall be located within an area equal to twice the width of the stream or fifty (50) feet from the top of the bank of the stream, whichever is greater.
(2)
In special flood hazard areas without base flood or future-conditions flood elevation data, new construction and substantial improvements of existing structures shall have the lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area (including basement) elevated no less than three (3) feet above the highest adjacent grade at the building site. Openings sufficient to facilitate the unimpeded movements of flood waters shall be provided in accordance with subsection 7.4.6(a)(5).
(e)
Building Standards for Areas of Shallow Flooding (AO-Zones). Areas of special flood hazard may include designated "AO" shallow flooding areas. These areas have base flood depths of one (1) to three (3) feet above ground, with no clearly defined channel. In these areas the following provisions apply:
(1)
All substantial improvements of residential and non-residential structures shall have the lowest floor, including basement, elevated to no lower than one (1) foot above the flood depth number in feet specified on the flood insurance rate map (FIRM), above the highest adjacent grade. If no flood depth number is specified, the lowest floor, including basement, shall be elevated at least three (3) feet above the highest adjacent grade. Openings sufficient to facilitate the unimpeded movements of flood waters shall be provided in accordance with standards of subsection 7.4.6(a)(5);
(2)
Substantial improvement of a non-residential structure may be flood-proofed in lieu of elevation. The structure, together with attendant utility and sanitary facilities, must be designed to be water tight to the specified FIRM flood level plus one (1) foot above the highest adjacent grade, with walls substantially impermeable to the passage of water, and structural components having the capability of resisting hydrostatic and hydrodynamic loads and the effect of buoyancy. A registered professional engineer or architect shall certify that the design and methods of construction are in accordance with accepted standards of practice; and
(3)
Drainage paths shall be provided to guide flood water around and away from any proposed structure.
(e)
Standards for Subdivisions.
(1)
All subdivision proposals shall identify the special flood hazard area and provide base flood elevation data and future-conditions flood elevation data;
(2)
All residential lots in a subdivision proposal shall have sufficient buildable area outside of the future-conditions floodplain such that encroachments into the future-conditions floodplain for residential structures will not be required;
(3)
All subdivision plans will provide the elevations of proposed structures in accordance with subsection 7.4.4(b);
(4)
All subdivision proposals shall be consistent with the need to minimize flood damage;
(5)
All subdivision proposals shall have public utilities and facilities such as water, sanitary sewer, gas, and electrical systems located and constructed to minimize or eliminate infiltration of flood waters, and discharges from the systems into flood waters; and
(6)
All subdivision proposals shall include adequate drainage and stormwater management facilities per the requirements of the City of Roswell to reduce potential exposure to flood hazards.
(Ord. of 06/02/2008, § 1(Exh. A))
Section 7.4.7 - Variance Procedures.
The following variance and appeals procedures shall apply to an applicant who has been denied a permit for a development activity, or to an owner or developer who has not applied for a permit because it is clear that the proposed development activity would be inconsistent with the provisions of this ordinance. A request for a variance may be submitted by an applicant who has been denied a permit by the floodplain administrator, or by an owner or developer who has not previously applied for a permit for the reasons stated hereinabove.
(1)
Requests for variances from the requirements of this ordinance shall be submitted to the floodplain administrator. All such requests shall be heard and decided in accordance with procedures to be published in writing by the floodplain administrator. At a minimum, such procedures shall include notice to all affected parties and the opportunity to be heard.
(2)
Any person adversely affected by any decision of the floodplain administrator shall have the right to appeal such decision to the board of zoning appeals as established by the City of Roswell in accordance with procedures to be published in writing by the board of zoning appeals. At a minimum, such procedures shall include notice to all affected parties and the opportunity to be heard.
(3)
Any person aggrieved by the decision of the board of zoning appeals may appeal such decision to the Fulton County Superior Court, as provided in O.C.G.A. § 5-4-1.
(4)
Variances may be issued for the repair or rehabilitation of historic structures upon a determination that the proposed repair or rehabilitation will not preclude the structure's continued designation as a historic structure, and the variance issued shall be the minimum necessary to preserve the historic character and design of the structure.
(5)
Variances may be issued for development necessary for the conduct of a functionally dependent use, provided the criteria of this section are met, no reasonable alternative exists, and the development is protected by methods that minimize flood damage during the base flood and create no additional threats to public safety.
(6)
Variances shall not be issued within any designated floodway if any increase in flood levels during the base flood discharge would result.
(7)
In reviewing such requests, the floodplain administrator and/or the board of zoning appeals shall consider all technical evaluations, relevant factors, and all standards specified in this and other sections of this ordinance.
(8)
Conditions for variances:
(a)
A variance shall be issued only when there is:
(i)
A finding of good and sufficient cause;
(ii)
A determination that failure to grant the variance would result in exceptional hardship; and,
(iii)
A determination that the granting of a variance will not result in increased flood heights, additional threats to public safety, extraordinary public expense, or the creation of a nuisance.
(b)
The provisions of this ordinance are minimum standards for flood loss reduction; therefore, any deviation from the standards must be weighed carefully. Variances shall only be issued upon determination that the variance is the minimum necessary, considering the flood hazard, to afford relief; and, in the instance of a historic structure, a determination that the variance is the minimum necessary so as not to destroy the historic character and design of the building.
(c)
Any person to whom a variance is granted shall be given written notice specifying the difference between the base flood elevation and the elevation of the proposed lowest floor and stating that the cost of flood insurance will be commensurate with the increased risk to life and property resulting from the reduced lowest floor elevation.
(d)
The floodplain administrator shall maintain the records of all appeal actions and report any variances to the Federal Emergency Management Agency upon request.
(9)
Any person requesting a variance shall, from the time of the request until the time the request is acted upon, submit such information and documentation as the floodplain administrator and the board of zoning appeals shall deem necessary to the consideration of the request.
(10)
Upon consideration of the factors listed above and the purposes of this ordinance, the floodplain administrator and the board of zoning appeals may attach such conditions to the granting of variances as they deem necessary or appropriate, consistent with the purposes of this ordinance.
(11)
Variances shall not be issued "after the fact."
(Ord. of 06/02/2008, § 1(Exh. A))
Section 7.4.8 - Violations, Enforcement and Penalties.
Any action or inaction which violates the provisions of this ordinance or the requirements of an approved stormwater management plan or permit, may be subject to the enforcement actions outlined in this section. Any such action or inaction which is continuous with respect to time is deemed to be a public nuisance and may be abated by injunctive or other equitable relief. The imposition of any of the penalties described below shall not prevent such equitable relief. The imposition of any of the penalties described below shall not prevent such equitable relief.
(a)
Notice of Violation. If the floodplain administrator determines that an applicant or other responsible person has failed to comply with the terms and conditions of a permit, an approved stormwater management plan or the provisions of this ordinance, it shall issue a written notice of violation to such applicant or other responsible person. Where a person is engaged in activity covered by this ordinance without having first secured a permit therefor, the notice of violation shall be served on the owner or the responsible person in charge of the activity being conducted on the site.
The notice of violation shall contain:
(1)
The name and address of the owner or the applicant or the responsible person;
(2)
The address or other description of the site upon which the violation is occurring;
(3)
A statement specifying the nature of the violation;
(4)
A description of the remedial measures necessary to bring the action or inaction into compliance with the permit, the stormwater management plan or this ordinance and the date for the completion of such remedial action;
(5)
A statement of the penalty or penalties that may be assessed against the person to whom the notice of violation is directed; and
(6)
A statement that the determination of violation may be appealed to the floodplain administrator by filing a written notice of appeal within thirty (30) days after the notice of violation (except, that in the event the violation constitutes an immediate danger to public health or public safety, twenty-four (24) hours' notice shall be sufficient).
(b)
Penalties. In the event the remedial measures described in the notice of violation have not been completed by the date set forth for such completion in the notice of violation, any one (1) or more of the following actions or penalties may be taken or assessed against the person to whom the notice of violation was directed. Before taking any of the following actions or imposing any of the following penalties, the floodplain administrator shall first notify the applicant or other responsible person in writing of its intended action, and shall provide a reasonable opportunity, of not less than ten (10) days (except, that in the event the violation constitutes an immediate danger to public health or public safety, twenty-four (24) hours' notice shall be sufficient) to cure such violation. In the event the applicant or other responsible person fails to cure such violation after such notice and cure period, the (local permitting authority) may take any one (1) or more of the following actions or impose any one (1) or more of the following penalties:
(1)
Stop Work Order. The floodplain administrator may issue a stop work order which shall be served on the applicant or other responsible person. The stop work order shall remain in effect until the applicant or other responsible person has taken the remedial measures set forth in the notice of violation or has otherwise cured the violation or violations described therein, provided the stop work order may be withdrawn or modified to enable the applicant or other responsible person to take the necessary remedial measures to cure such violation or violations.
(2)
Withhold Certificate of Occupancy. The floodplain administrator may refuse to issue a certificate of occupancy for the building or other improvements constructed or being constructed on the site until the applicant or other responsible person has taken the remedial measures set forth in the notice of violation or has otherwise cured the violations described therein.
(3)
Suspension, Revocation or Modification of Permit. The floodplain administrator may suspend, revoke or modify the permit authorizing the development project. A suspended, revoked or modified permit may be reinstated after the applicant or other responsible person has taken the remedial measures set forth in the notice of violation or has otherwise cured the violations described therein, provided such permit may be reinstated (upon such conditions as the floodplain administrator may deem necessary) to enable the applicant or other responsible person to take the necessary remedial measures to cure such violations.
(4)
Civil Penalties. In the event the applicant or other responsible person fails to take the remedial measures set forth in the notice of violation or otherwise fails to cure the violations described therein within ten (10) days, or such greater period as the floodplain administrator shall deem appropriate (except, that in the event the violation constitutes an immediate danger to public health or public safety, twenty-four (24) hours' notice shall be sufficient) after the floodplain administrator has taken one (1) or more of the actions described above, the floodplain administrator may impose a penalty not to exceed $1,000.00 (depending on the severity of the violation) for each day the violation remains unremedied after receipt of the notice of violation.
(5)
Criminal Penalties. For intentional and flagrant violations of this ordinance, the floodplain administrator may issue a citation to the applicant or other responsible person, requiring such person to appear in municipal court to answer charges for such violation. Upon conviction, such person shall be punished by a fine not to exceed $1,000.00 or imprisonment for sixty (60) days or both. Each act of violation and each day upon which any violation shall occur shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. of 06/02/2008, § 1(Exh. A))
Article 7.5 - Illicit Discharges and Illegal Connections

Section 7.5.1 - General Provisions.
7.5.1.1
Purpose and Intent. The purpose of this ordinance is to protect the public health, safety, environment and general welfare through the regulation of non-stormwater discharges to the municipal separate storm sewer system to the maximum extent practicable as required by federal law. This ordinance establishes methods for controlling the introduction of pollutants into the municipal separate storm sewer system in order to comply with requirements of the National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System (NPDES) permit process. The objectives of this ordinance are to:
(1)
Regulate the contribution of pollutants to the municipal separate storm sewer system by any person;
(2)
Prohibit illicit discharges and illegal connections to the municipal separate storm sewer system;
(3)
Prevent non-stormwater discharges, generated as a result of spills, inappropriate dumping or disposal, to the municipal separate storm sewer system; and,
(4)
To establish legal authority to carry out all inspection, surveillance, monitoring and enforcement procedures necessary to ensure compliance with this ordinance.
7.5.1.2
Applicability. The provisions of this ordinance shall apply throughout the City of Roswell.
7.5.1.3
Responsibility for Administration. The City of Roswell shall administer, implement, and enforce the provisions of this ordinance.
(2003-12-30, Renumbered, 12/08/2003; 2002-12-03, Added, 12/16/2002)
Section 7.5.2 - Definitions.
Accidental discharge means a discharge prohibited by this ordinance which occurs by chance and without planning or thought prior to occurrence.
Clean Water Act means the Federal Water Pollution Control Act (33 U.S.C. § 1251 et seq.), and any subsequent amendments thereto.
Construction activity means activities subject to the Georgia Erosion and Sedimentation Control Act or NPDES general construction permits. These include construction projects resulting in land disturbance. Such activities include but are not limited to clearing and grubbing, grading, excavating, and demolition.
Illicit discharge means any direct or indirect non-stormwater discharge to the municipal separate storm sewer system, except as exempted in section 7.5.3 of this ordinance.
Illegal connection means either of the following:
a)
Any pipe, open channel, drain or conveyance, whether on the surface or subsurface, which allows an illicit discharge to enter the storm drain system including but not limited to any conveyances which allow any non-stormwater discharge including sewage, process wastewater, and wash water to enter the storm drain system, regardless of whether such pipe, open channel, drain or conveyance has been previously allowed, permitted, or approved by an authorized enforcement agency; or
b)
Any pipe, open channel, drain or conveyance connected to the municipal separate storm sewer system which has not been documented in plans, maps, or equivalent records and approved by an authorized enforcement agency.
Industrial activity means activities subject to NPDES industrial permits as defined in 40 CFR, Section 122.26(b)(14).
National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System (NPDES) Stormwater Discharge Permit means a permit issued by the Georgia EPD under authority delegated pursuant to 33 USC § 1342(b) that authorizes the discharge of pollutants to waters of the United States, whether the permit is applicable on an individual, group, or general area-wide basis.
Municipal separate storm sewer system means any facility designed or used for collecting and/or conveying stormwater, including but not limited to any roads with drainage systems, highways, municipal streets, curbs, gutters, inlets, catch basins, piped storm drains, pumping facilities, structural stormwater controls, ditches, swales, natural and man-made or altered drainage channels, reservoirs, and other drainage structures, and which is:
a)
Owned or maintained by the City of Roswell;
b)
Not a combined sewer; and
c)
Not part of a publicly-owned treatment works.
Non-stormwater discharge means any discharge to the storm drain system that is not composed entirely of stormwater.
Person means, except to the extent exempted from this ordinance, any individual, partnership, firm, association, joint venture, public or private corporation, trust, estate, commission, board, public or private institution, utility, cooperative, city, county or other political subdivision of the state, any interstate body or any other legal entity.
Pollutant means anything which causes or contributes to pollution. Pollutants may include, but are not limited to: paints, varnishes, and solvents; petroleum hydrocarbons; automotive fluids; cooking grease; detergents (biodegradable or otherwise); degreasers; cleaning chemicals; non-hazardous liquid and solid wastes and yard wastes; refuse, rubbish, garbage, litter, or other discarded or abandoned objects and accumulations, so that same may cause or contribute to pollution; floatables; pesticides, herbicides, and fertilizers; liquid and solid wastes; sewage, fecal coliform and pathogens; dissolved and particulate metals; animal wastes; wastes and residues that result from constructing a building or structure; concrete and cement; and noxious or offensive matter of any kind.
Pollution means the contamination or other alteration of any water's physical, chemical or biological properties by the addition of any constituent and includes but is not limited to, a change in temperature, taste, color, turbidity, or odor of such waters, or the discharge of any liquid, gaseous, solid, radioactive, or other substance into any such waters as will or is likely to create a nuisance or render such waters harmful, detrimental or injurious to the public health, safety, welfare, or environment, or to domestic, commercial, industrial, agricultural, recreational, or other legitimate beneficial uses, or to livestock, wild animals, birds, fish or other aquatic life.
Premises mean any building, lot, parcel of land, or portion of land whether improved or unimproved including adjacent sidewalks and parking strips.
State waters means any and all rivers, streams, creeks, branches, lakes, reservoirs, ponds, drainage systems, springs, wells, and other bodies of surface and subsurface water, natural or artificial, lying within or forming a part of the boundaries of the State of Georgia which are not entirely confined and retained completely upon the property of a single person.
Stormwater runoff or stormwater means any surface flow, runoff, and drainage consisting entirely of water from any form of natural precipitation, and resulting from such precipitation.
Structural stormwater control means a structural stormwater management facility or device that controls stormwater runoff and changes the characteristics of that runoff including, but not limited to, the quantity and quality, the period of release or the velocity of flow.
(2002-12-03, Added, 12/16/2002)
Section 7.5.3 - Prohibitions.
7.5.3.1
Prohibition of Illicit Discharges.
(a)
No person shall throw, drain, or otherwise discharge, cause, or allow others under its control to throw, drain, or otherwise discharge into the municipal separate storm sewer system any pollutants or waters containing any pollutants, other than stormwater.
(b)
The following discharges are exempt from the prohibition provision above:
(1)
Water line flushing performed by a government agency, other potable water sources, landscape irrigation or lawn watering, diverted stream flows, rising ground water, ground water infiltration to storm drains, uncontaminated pumped ground water, foundation or footing drains (not including active groundwater dewatering systems), crawl space pumps, air conditioning condensation, springs, natural riparian habitat or wetland flows, and any other water source not containing pollutants;
(2)
Discharges or flows from fire fighting, and other discharges specified in writing by the City of Roswell as being necessary to protect public health and safety;
(3)
The prohibition provision above shall not apply to any non-stormwater discharge permitted under an NPDES permit or order issued to the discharger and administered under the authority of the state and the Federal Environmental Protection Agency, provided that the discharger is in full compliance with all requirements of the permit, waiver, or order and other applicable laws and regulations, and provided that written approval has been granted for any discharge to the municipal separate storm sewer system.
7.5.3.2
Prohibition of Illegal Connections. The construction, connection, use, maintenance or continued existence of any illegal connection to the municipal separate storm sewer system is prohibited.
(a)
This prohibition expressly includes, without limitation, illegal connections made in the past, regardless of whether the connection was permissible under law or practices applicable or prevailing at the time of connection.
(b)
A person violates this ordinance if the person connects a line conveying sewage to the municipal separate storm sewer system, or allows such a connection to continue.
(c)
Improper connections in violation of this ordinance must be disconnected and redirected, if necessary, to an approved onsite wastewater management system or the sanitary sewer system upon approval of the Fulton County Public Works Department.
(d)
Any drain or conveyance that has not been documented in plans, maps or equivalent, and which may be connected to the storm sewer system, shall be located by the owner or occupant of that property upon receipt of written notice of violation from the City of Roswell requiring that such locating be completed. Such notice will specify a reasonable time period within which the location of the drain or conveyance is to be completed, that the drain or conveyance be identified as storm sewer, sanitary sewer or other, and that the outfall location or point of connection to the storm sewer system, sanitary sewer system or other discharge point be identified. Results of these investigations are to be documented and provided to the City of Roswell.
(2003-12-30, Renumbered, 12/08/2003; 2002-12-03, Added, 12/16/2002)
Section 7.5.4 - Industrial or Construction Activity Discharges.
7.5.4.1
Industrial or Construction Activity Discharge. Any person subject to an industrial or construction activity NPDES stormwater discharge permit shall comply with all provisions of such permit. Proof of compliance with said permit may be required in a form acceptable to the City of Roswell prior to allowing discharges to the municipal separate storm sewer system.
7.5.4.2
Portable Toilet Prohibition.
a.
Property owners, occupants, managers or other persons in charge of any premises, office, business establishment, institution, industry, or similar facility, including construction or demolition sites, shall be responsible for the placement and sanitary maintenance of portable toilets.
b.
Portable toilets shall be installed in a level position and be easily accessible to users.
c.
Portable toilets shall not be located upon any street or public right-a-way, storm drain, or within one hundred (100) feet from any body of water including but not limited to project ponds with over flow devices.
d.
Portable toilets shall be located upon natural ground and not on an impervious surface such as concrete or asphalt.
e.
Portable toilets shall not be located whereby a spill or runoff will enter into storm drains or any water system.
f.
Portable toilets are not to be washed down whereby allowing contamination runoff to pollute soil and water resources and create potential human health issues and/or aquatic degradation.
g.
Portable toilets must be cleaned and serviced by a licensed nonsewered toilet system (NTS) company at least once per week or when needed to maintain sanitary conditions.
(2003-12-30, Renumbered, 12/08/2003; 2002-12-03, Added, 12/16/2002)
Section 7.5.5 - Access and Inspection of Properties and Facilities.
The City of Roswell shall be permitted to enter and inspect properties and facilities at reasonable times as often as may be necessary to determine compliance with this ordinance.
(a)
If a property or facility has security measures in force which require proper identification and clearance before entry into its premises, the owner or operator shall make the necessary arrangements to allow access to representatives of the City of Roswell.
(b)
The owner or operator shall allow the City of Roswell ready access to all parts of the premises for the purposes of inspection, sampling, photography, videotaping, examination and copying of any records that are required under the conditions of an NPDES permit to discharge stormwater.
(c)
The City of Roswell shall have the right to set up on any property or facility such devices as are necessary in the opinion of the City of Roswell to conduct monitoring and/or sampling of flow discharges.
(d)
The City of Roswell may require the owner or operator to install monitoring equipment and perform monitoring as necessary, and make the monitoring data available to the City of Roswell. This sampling and monitoring equipment shall be maintained at all times in a safe and proper operating condition by the owner or operator at his/her own expense. All devices used to measure flow and quality shall be calibrated to ensure their accuracy.
(e)
Any temporary or permanent obstruction to safe and easy access to the property or facility to be inspected and/or sampled shall be promptly removed by the owner or operator at the written or oral request of the City of Roswell and shall not be replaced. The costs of clearing such access shall be borne by the owner or operator.
(f)
Unreasonable delays in allowing the City of Roswell access to a facility is a violation of this ordinance.
(g)
If the City of Roswell has been refused access to any part of the premises from which stormwater is discharged, and the City of Roswell is able to demonstrate probable cause to believe that there may be a violation of this ordinance, or that there is a need to inspect and/or sample as part of a routine inspection and sampling program designed to verify compliance with this ordinance or any order issued hereunder, or to protect the overall public health, safety, environment and welfare of the community, then the City of Roswell may seek issuance of a search warrant from any court of competent jurisdiction.
(2002-12-03, Added, 12/16/2002)
Section 7.5.6 - Notification of Accidental Discharges and Spills.
Notwithstanding other requirements of law, as soon as any person responsible for a facility, activity or operation, or responsible for emergency response for a facility, activity or operation has information of any known or suspected release of pollutants or non-stormwater discharges from that facility or operation which are resulting or may result in illicit discharges or pollutants discharging into stormwater, the municipal separate storm sewer system, state waters, or Waters of the United States, said person shall take all necessary steps to ensure the discovery, containment, and cleanup of such release so as to minimize the effects of the discharge.
Said person shall notify the authorized enforcement agency in person, by phone, or facsimile no later than twenty-four (24) hours of the nature, quantity and time of occurrence of the discharge. Notifications in person or by phone shall be confirmed by written notice addressed and mailed to the City of Roswell within three (3) business days of the phone or in person notice. If the discharge of prohibited materials emanates from a commercial or industrial establishment, the owner or operator of such establishment shall also retain an on-site written record of the discharge and the actions taken to prevent its recurrence. Such records shall be retained for at least three (3) years. Said person shall also take immediate steps to ensure no recurrence of the discharge or spill.
In the event of such a release of hazardous materials, emergency response agencies and/or other appropriate agencies shall be immediately notified.
Failure to provide notification of a release as provided above is a violation of this ordinance.
(2002-12-03, Added, 12/16/2002)
Section 7.5.7 - Violations, Enforcement and Penalties.
7.5.7.1
Violations. It shall be unlawful for any person to violate any provision or fail to comply with any of the requirements of this ordinance. Any person who has violated or continues to violate the provisions of this ordinance, may be subject to the enforcement actions outlined in this section or may be restrained by injunction or otherwise abated in a manner provided by law.
In the event the violation constitutes an immediate danger to public health or public safety, the City of Roswell is authorized to enter upon the subject private property, without giving prior notice, to take any and all measures necessary to abate the violation and/or restore the property. The City of Roswell is authorized to seek costs of the abatement as outlined in section 7.5.7.5.
7.5.7.2
Notice of Violation. Whenever the City of Roswell finds that a violation of this ordinance has occurred, the City of Roswell may order compliance by written notice of violation.
(a)
The notice of violation shall contain:
(1)
The name and address of the alleged violator;
(2)
The address when available or a description of the building, structure or land upon which the violation is occurring, or has occurred;
(3)
A statement specifying the nature of the violation;
(4)
A description of the remedial measures necessary to restore compliance with this ordinance and a time schedule for the completion of such remedial action;
(5)
A statement of the penalty or penalties that shall or may be assessed against the person to whom the notice of violation is directed; and,
(6)
A statement that the determination of violation may be appealed to the City of Roswell by filing a written notice of appeal within thirty (30) days of service of notice of violation.
(b)
Such notice may require without limitation:
(1)
The performance of monitoring, analyses, and reporting;
(2)
The elimination of illicit discharges and illegal connections;
(3)
That violating discharges, practices, or operations shall cease and desist;
(4)
The abatement or remediation of stormwater pollution or contamination hazards and the restoration of any affected property;
(5)
Payment of costs to cover administrative and abatement costs; and,
(6)
The implementation of pollution prevention practices.
7.5.7.3
Appeal of Notice of Violation. Any person receiving a notice of violation may appeal the determination of the City of Roswell. The notice of appeal must be received within ten (10) days from the date of the notice of violation. A hearing on the appeal before the City of Roswell or his/her designee shall take place within fifteen (15) days from the date of receipt of the notice of appeal. The decision of the appropriate authority or their designee shall be final.
7.5.7.4
Enforcement Measures after Appeal. If the violation has not been corrected pursuant to the requirements set forth in the notice of violation, or, in the event of an appeal, within thirty (30) days of the decision of the appropriate authority upholding the decision of the City of Roswell, then representatives of the City of Roswell may enter upon the subject private property and are authorized to take any and all measures necessary to abate the violation and/or restore the property. It shall be unlawful for any person, owner, agent or person in possession of any premises to refuse to allow the government agency or designated contractor to enter upon the premises for the purposes set forth above.
7.5.7.5
Costs of Abatement of the Violation. Within sixty (60) days after abatement of the violation, the owner of the property will be notified of the cost of abatement, including administrative costs. The property owner may file a written protest objecting to the assessment or to the amount of the assessment within thirty (30) days of such notice. If the amount due is not paid within thirty (30) days after receipt of the notice, or if an appeal is taken, within thirty (30) days after a decision on said appeal, the charges shall become a special assessment against the property and shall constitute a lien on the property for the amount of the assessment.
Any person violating any of the provisions of this article shall become liable to the City of Roswell by reason of such violation.
7.5.7.6
Civil Penalties. In the event the alleged violator fails to take the remedial measures set forth in the notice of violation or otherwise fails to cure the violations described therein within ten days, or such greater period as the City of Roswell shall deem appropriate, after the City of Roswell has taken one (1) or more of the actions described above, the City of Roswell may impose a penalty no less than $1,000.00 (depending on the severity of the violation) for each day the violation remains unremedied after receipt of the notice of violation.
7.5.7.7
Criminal Penalties. For intentional and flagrant violations of this ordinance, the City of Roswell may issue a citation to the alleged violator requiring such person to appear in municipal court to answer charges for such violation. Upon conviction, such person shall be punished by a fine not to exceed $1,000.00 or imprisonment for sixty (60) days or both. Each act of violation and each day upon which any violation shall occur shall constitute a separate offense.
7.5.7.8
Violations Deemed a Public Nuisance. In addition to the enforcement processes and penalties provided, any condition caused or permitted to exist in violation of any of the provisions of this ordinance is a threat to public health, safety, welfare, and environment and is declared and deemed a nuisance, and may be abated by injunctive or other equitable relief as provided by law.
7.5.7.9
Remedies not Exclusive. The remedies listed in this ordinance are not exclusive of any other remedies available under any applicable federal, state or local law and the City of Roswell may seek cumulative remedies.
The City of Roswell may recover attorney's fees, court costs, and other expenses associated with enforcement of this ordinance, including sampling and monitoring expenses.
(2003-12-30, Renumbered, 12/08/2003; 2002-12-03, Added, 12/16/2002)
Article 7.6 - Litter Control

Section 7.6.1 - General Provisions.
Section 7.6.1.1
Purpose and Intent. The purpose of this ordinance is to protect the public health, safety, environment, and general welfare through the regulation and prevention of litter. The objectives of this ordinance are:
(1)
Provide for uniform prohibition throughout the City of Roswell of any and all littering on public or private property; and,
(2)
Prevent the desecration of the beauty and quality of life of the City of Roswell and prevent harm to the public health, safety, environment, and general welfare, including the degradation of water and aquatic resources caused by litter.
Section 7.6.1.2
Applicability. This ordinance shall apply to all public and private property within the City of Roswell.
(2003-12-30, Renumbered, 12/08/2003; 2002-12-05, Added, 12/16/2002)
Section 7.6.2 - Definitions.
For the purposes of this section the following definitions shall apply:
Litter means any organic or inorganic waste material, rubbish, refuse, garbage, trash, hulls, peelings, debris, ashes, sand, gravel, slag, brickbats, metal, plastic, and glass containers, broken glass, dead animals or intentionally or unintentionally discarded materials of every kind.
Public or private property means the right-of-way of any road or highway; any body of water or watercourse or the shores or beaches thereof; any park, playground, building, refuge, or conservation or recreation area; timberlands or forests; and residential, commercial, industrial, or farm properties.
Yard waste means leaves, brush, grass clippings, shrub and tree prunings, discarded Christmas trees, nursery and greenhouse vegetative residuals, and vegetative matter resulting from landscape development and maintenance, other than mining, agricultural and silvicultural operations.
(2004-01-04, Amended, 01/21/2004; 2002-12-05, Added, 12/16/2002)
Section 7.6.3 - Prohibition Against Littering Public or Private Property or Waters.
It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to dump, deposit, throw or leave or to cause or permit the dumping, depositing, placing, throwing or leaving of litter on any public or private property in the City of Roswell or any waters in the City of Roswell unless:
(1)
The property is designated by the state or by any of its agencies or political subdivisions for the disposal of such litter, and such person is authorized by the proper public authority to use such property;
(2)
The litter is placed into a receptacle or container installed on such property; or,
(3)
The person is the owner or tenant in lawful possession of such property, or has first obtained consent of the owner or tenant in lawful possession, or unless the act is done under the personal direction of the owner or tenant, all in a manner consistent with the public welfare.
Section 7.6.3.1
Yard Waste. It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to dump, deposit, throw, cause or permit the dumping, blowing, depositing, or placing of yard waste, including any yard debris, grass clippings, weeds, leaves, and tree branches upon any street, sidewalk, avenue or other public property in the city without permission from the city, or into any river, creek, branch, public water, drain, sewer or receiving basin in the City of Roswell. Proper disposal of yard waste materials is found in Chapter 24, Utilities and Services, Section 24.1.7, Yard Waste - Preparation and Placement for Collection.
(2004-01-04, Added, 01/21/2004, 7.5.3.1 added; 2002-12-05, Added, 12/16/2002)
Section 7.6.4 - Vehicle Loads Causing Litter.
No person shall operate any motor vehicle with a load on or in such vehicle unless the load on or in such vehicle is adequately secured to prevent the dropping or shifting of materials from such load onto the roadway.
(2002-12-05, Added, 12/16/2002)
Section 7.6.5 - Violations, Enforcement and Penalties.
Section 7.6.5.1
Violations. It shall be unlawful for any person to violate any provision or fail to comply with any of the requirements of this ordinance. Any person who has violated or continues to violate the provisions of this ordinance, may be subject to the enforcement actions outlined in this section or may be restrained by injunction or otherwise sentenced in a manner provided by law.
Section 7.6.5.2
Evidence.
(1)
Whenever litter is thrown, deposited, dropped or dumped from any motor vehicle, boat, airplane, or other conveyance in violation of this ordinance, it shall be prima facie evidence that the operator of the conveyance has violated this ordinance.
(2)
Except as provided in subsection (1), whenever any litter which is dumped, deposited, thrown or left on public or private property in violation of this ordinance is discovered to contain any article or articles, including but not limited to letters, bills, publications or other writing which display the name of the person thereon in such a manner as to indicate that the article belongs or belonged to such person, it shall be a rebuttable presumption that such person has violated this ordinance.
Section 7.6.5.3
Penalties. Any person who violates this ordinance shall be guilty of a violation and, upon conviction thereof, shall be punished as follows:
(1)
By a fine of not less than $200.00 and not more than $1,200.00; and
(2)
In addition to the fine set out in subsection (1) above, the violator shall reimburse the City of Roswell for the reasonable cost of removing the litter when the litter is or is ordered removed by the City of Roswell; and
(3)
In the sound discretion of the court, the person may be directed to pick up and remove from any public street or highway or public right-of way for a distance not to exceed one (1) mile any litter he has deposited and any and all litter deposited thereon by anyone else prior to the date of execution of sentence; or
In the sound discretion of the court, the person may be directed to pick up and remove any and all litter from any public property, private right-of-way, or with prior permission of the legal owner or tenant in lawful possession of such property, any private property upon which it can be established by competent evidence that he has deposited litter. Pick up and removal shall include any and all litter deposited thereon by anyone prior to the date of execution of sentence; and,
(4)
The court may publish the names of persons convicted of violating this ordinance.
Section 7.6.5.4
Enforcement. All law enforcement agencies, officers and officials of this state or any political subdivision thereof, or any enforcement agency, officer or any official of any commission of this state or any political subdivision thereof, are hereby authorized, empowered and directed to enforce compliance with this article.
(2003-12-30, Renumbered, 12/08/2003; 2002-12-05, Added, 12/16/2002)
