Article 8.5 - Loitering

Section 8.5.1 - Loitering.
(a)
A person may not loiter, loaf, wander, stand or remain idle either alone or in consort with others in a public place in a manner so as to:
1.
Obstruct any public street, public highway, public sidewalk or any other public place or building by hindering or impeding or tending to hinder or impede the free and uninterrupted passage of vehicles, traffic or pedestrians;
2.
Commit in or upon any public street, public highway, public sidewalk or any other public place or building any act or thing which is an obstruction or interference to the free and uninterrupted use of property or with any business lawfully conducted by anyone in or upon or facing or fronting on any public street, public highway, public sidewalk or any other public place or building, all of which prevents free and uninterrupted ingress, egress and regress.
(b)
When any person causes or commits any of the conditions enumerated in subsection (a) of this section, a police officer or any law enforcement officer shall order that person to stop causing or committing the conditions and to move on or disperse. Any person who fails or refuses to obey the orders violates this section.
(c)
A person who violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor and is subject to a fine or imprisonment not exceeding ninety (90) days, or both.
Section 8.5.2 - Halting or Impeding Flow of Traffic.
No person shall congregate with another or others in or on any public way so as to halt or impede the flow of vehicular or pedestrian traffic after having been directed to clear such public way or place when ordered by the police of the City of Roswell and/or any other authorized law enforcement official.
Section 8.5.3 - Sitting or Lying on Streets.
A person shall not sit, lie or sleep in or upon any public highway, alley, sidewalk or crosswalk or other place open for pedestrian travel, except when necessitated by physical disability of such person.
Section 8.5.4 - Urban Camping and Improper Use of Property.
(a)
Definitions. For purposes of this ordinance:
Camp shall mean residing in or using a public street, sidewalk, or park for private living accommodations, such as erecting tents or other temporary structures or objects providing shelter; sleeping in a single place for any substantial prolonged period of time; regularly cooking or preparing meals; or other similar activities.
Public park includes all municipal parks, public play grounds, public plazas, attractions, and monuments.
Public street includes all public streets and highways, public sidewalks, public benches, public parking lots, and medians.
Storing personal property shall mean leaving one's personal effects, such as, but not limited to, clothing, bedrolls, cookware, sleeping bags, luggage, knapsacks, or backpacks, unattended for any substantial prolonged length of time. This term shall not include parking a bicycle or other mode of transportation.
(b)
Public Parks. It shall be unlawful to camp or to store personal property in any park, as defined above, owned by the City of Roswell.
(c)
Other Public Property—Blocking Ingress and Egress. It shall be unlawful to camp, to sleep, to store personal property, to sit or to lie down on any public property so as to interfere with ingress or egress from buildings.
(d)
Private Property. It shall be unlawful for anyone other than the owner, a leaseholder, or other rightful occupant to camp, sleep, reside, store personal property, or lie down, outside on any private property without the owner's or leaseholder's permission.
(e)
Warning. No person may be arrested for violating this code section until he or she has received an oral or written warning to cease the unlawful conduct. If the violator fails to comply with the warning issued, he or she is subject to arrest for urban camping.
(f)
Exceptions. This code section shall not be construed to prohibit the following behavior:
(1)
Persons sitting or lying down as a result of a medical emergency;
(2)
Persons in wheelchairs sitting on sidewalks;
(3)
Persons sitting down while attending parades;
(4)
Persons sitting down while patronizing sidewalk cafes;
(5)
Persons lying down or napping while attending performances, festivals, concerts, fireworks, or other special events;
(6)
Persons sitting on chairs or benches supplied by a public agency or abutting private property owner;
(7)
Persons sitting on seats in bus zones occupied by people waiting for the bus;
(8)
Persons sitting or lying down while waiting in an orderly line outside a box office to purchase tickets to any sporting event, concert, performance, or other special event;
(9)
Persons sitting or lying down while waiting in an orderly line awaiting entry to any building, including shelters, or awaiting social services, such as provision of meals; or
(10)
Children sleeping while being carried in a stroller or baby carriage.
Section 8.5.5 - Defecating or Urinating on Public Property or in Public Areas.
It shall be unlawful for any person to defecate or urinate on the streets or sidewalks, or in the halls or elevators of public or commercial buildings, or on any property open to view in the City of Roswell.
Section 8.5.6 - Day Labor Prohibitions.
It shall be unlawful for any person to:
(a)
Pick up or hire day laborers on private property without the permission of the property owner; or
(b)
Assemble on private property for the purpose of soliciting work as a day laborer without the permission of the property owner and after having been directed to cease such action by the property owner or other lawful authority.
Sections 8.5.7, 8.5.8 - Reserved.
Section 8.5.9 - Loitering by Minors.
(a)
[Unlawful.] It is unlawful for a minor as defined herein, to loiter in any public place within the city between the hours of 11:00 p.m. and 5:00 a.m. of the following day, subject to the definitions and exceptions contained in this section.
(b)
Definitions. For the purposes of this chapter, the following words and phrases shall be construed as follows:
Emergency means an unforeseen combination of circumstances that calls for immediate action. The term includes, but is not limited to, a fire, a natural disaster, an automobile accident, or any situation requiring immediate action to prevent serious bodily injury or loss of life.
Loiter means to stand idly about or linger aimlessly.
Public place means any place to which the public or a substantial group of the public has access and includes, but is not limited to, streets, sidewalks, driveways, highways, private residences left open to the public without the presence of adult supervisors and the common areas of schools, hospitals, apartments, malls, parking lots, office buildings, playgrounds, vacant lots and transportation facilities.
Youth means any person under the age of eighteen (18) and is synonymous with the terms "juvenile" or "minor" for the purposes of this chapter.
(c)
[Exceptions.] This chapter shall not apply under the following circumstances to minors:
(1)
Emancipated pursuant to the provisions of O.C.G.A. § 19-7-1 et seq. or similar statutes of another state;
(2)
Accompanied by a parent, guardian or other adult having legal care or custody of said minor;
(3)
Upon a specific, legitimate errand at the direction of a parent or guardian having the care or custody of a minor, while such minor is actually and directly carrying out such errand;
(4)
Going directly to or coming directly from a place of public amusement, school function, or place of employment, with the knowledge and consent of the minor's parent or guardian;
(5)
Present in a public place because of an emergency, as defined herein, while actually dealing with or responding to such emergency.
