Article 8.4 - Police Protection

Section 8.4.1 - Police Department.
The police department shall be composed of the chief of police and any police officers or other employees as may be necessary. Its purpose is to enforce City of Roswell ordinances, and county, state and federal law within its jurisdiction so as to maintain the peace, good order and tranquility of the city. Enforcement powers shall include the arrest and prosecution for any violation of such laws. Within the parks, recreation areas, cultural arts facilities and historic assets of the City of Roswell, the police department shall enforce the rules and regulations adopted by the City Council or the Roswell Recreation Parks, Historic and Cultural Affairs Commission and/or Department and is authorized to eject, for any period of time, any citizen or participant from such area for violation of any such rule and/or regulation. The police department may be assisted by others as may be authorized by mayor and council, Chief of Police, or as provided in any duly executed intergovernmental contract or mutual aid agreement.
( 2021-08-14 , Amended, 08/09/2021)
Section 8.4.2 - Chief of Police; Acting Chief.
Under the general direction of the city administrator, the chief of police will direct the administration and operation of all services of the City of Roswell Police Department and shall establish the policies, directives, rules and regulations for the administration and operations of the department. The chief is the executive officer of the department and shall ensure that all laws, both state and federal, ordinances and regulations are enforced and that life and property are protected. The chief shall monitor the daily functions of all divisions including administration, uniform patrol, criminal investigation, and support services. His responsibilities shall include overseeing accreditation and training, supervising operations, and reviewing decisions related to hiring, disciplining, and evaluation of department personnel.
In the chief's absence from the city or when for any reason the chief of police is unable to attend to the duties of his office, he shall designate a person to be acting chief and such designated person shall assume the duties of the chief of police for such designated time.
Section 8.4.3 - Oversight by Public Safety and Public Works Committee.
The Public Safety and Public Works Committee shall oversee the operation of the police department. The police chief shall serve as a liaison to such committee and make periodic reports as requested.
(2008-01-01, Amended, 01/07/2008; 2007-03-03, Amended, 03/05/2007; 2006-02-02, Amended, 02/06/2006)
Section 8.4.4 - Operations Manual.
The police department shall be operated in accordance with The Roswell Police Department Employee Manual, adopted May 1, 1995, as amended from time to time. The Roswell Police Department Employee Manual as amended is hereby incorporated herein by reference.
(2006-02-02, Amended, 02/06/2006)
Section 8.4.5 - Patrol Powers.
(a)
The police officers of the city shall have the authority to patrol over any street, alley, path, sidewalk, or park in and around any stores, cafes, taverns, restaurants, dance halls, service stations or any other establishment in the city.
(b)
An officer while on duty for the city shall have authority to enter any type of business while open to the public and check to see if everything is being carried on in a lawful manner. After business hours and while closed to the public, an officer for the city has authority to check places of business, to see if the doors and windows are safely locked.
(c)
An officer for the city shall have the authority to check and investigate, enter and patrol any park, business, residence or public place within the city limits if the officer has probable cause or sufficient reason to believe some act is being committed which would involve the violation of a law or a city ordinance; a personal injury or damage to property; or if any of the above appear to be imminent.
(d)
No police officer shall enter a private dwelling without a search or arrest warrant unless he has the voluntary consent of the owner or occupant or he is in pursuit of a fugitive who the officer has personal knowledge or probable cause to believe has committed or attempted to commit a felony.
Section 8.4.6 - Compensation for Testifying.
Any law enforcement officer subpoenaed by the recorder's court of the City of Roswell will be entitled to compensation from the City of Roswell for his or her appearance at a court session when such officer attends in an off-duty status.
Section 8.4.7 - Abuse of Position.
(a)
No police officer shall use his official position or official identification cards or badges:
(1)
For personal or financial gain;
(2)
For obtaining privileges not otherwise available to the officer except in the performance of duty; or
(3)
For avoiding consequences of illegal acts.
(b)
Police officers may not lend their identification cards or badges to another person, or permit them to be photographed or reproduced without the approval of the chief.
Section 8.4.8 - Endorsements and Referrals.
Police officers shall not recommend or suggest in any manner, except in the transaction of personal business, the employment or procurement of a particular product, professional service or commercial service such as an attorney, ambulance, towing service, bondsman, mortician or the like. In the case of ambulance or towing service, when such service is necessary and the person needing the services is unable or unwilling to procure it or requests assistance, officers shall proceed in accordance with established departmental procedures.
