TITLE 2 - General Government
CHAPTER 1 - Governing Body
Cross reference— Governing body, creation and composition, Charter, Sec. 2; powers of governing body, Charter, Secs. 2, 3; qualifications, Charter, Sec. 7; oath of governing body members, Charter, Sec. 6; elections, Chapter 2 of this Title; compensation, Charter, Sec. 32.
ARTICLE A - Meetings of Governing Body
State Law reference— Open meetings law, O.C.G.A., Sec. 50-14-1 et seq.

Sec. 2-1-1 - Time and date of meetings.
(a)
Regular meetings of the Mayor and Council shall be held on the first and third Monday of each month at 6:00 p.m.
(b)
Special meetings may be called by the Mayor of which due notice shall be given.
(Ord. of 12/1/97)
Cross reference— Regular meeting date may be changed by ordinance, Charter, Sec. 22; special meetings may be held as required and any business may be transacted, Charter, Sec. 23.
Sec. 2-1-2 - Presiding officer; rules of order.
(a)
The Mayor shall preside at all meetings, preserve order and decorum, and shall appoint committees unless the Council directs otherwise.
(b)
In the absence of the Mayor, the Mayor pro tem shall preside, and in the absence of both the Mayor and Mayor pro tem, the council shall elect a new pro tem to preside during the absence of those officers.
(c)
The Mayor or Mayor pro tem and three (3) Council Members shall constitute a quorum.
(d)
Each member, when speaking, shall rise and address the presiding officer. A member shall not be interrupted while he is on the floor except by his consent.
(e)
The presiding officer shall decide all questions of order, but an appeal may be taken from his decision to the Council.
(Code 1941, Secs. 322 (2), (3), (4), (10) and (11))
Cross reference— When the Mayor or Mayor pro tem are absent, any one (1) of the Council Members may be selected as acting Mayor, Charter, Sec. 25; except as to election of officers, the Mayor and the Mayor pro tem acting as Mayor, may vote only in the event of a tie, Charter, Sec. 24.
Sec. 2-1-3 - Agenda.
(a)
The following order of business shall be observed in the transaction of business, but the order may be suspended by a three-fourths (¾) vote of Council:
(1)
reading of the minutes;
(2)
unfinished business;
(3)
reports of committees;
(4)
new business;
(5)
report of officers; and
(6)
adjournment.
(b)
At the commencement of each regular meeting, the clerk shall read the minutes of the last regular meeting and intervening meetings. Whenever necessary the minutes shall be corrected by the council, and after being approved, shall be signed by the Mayor.
(c)
Before the minutes of any preceding meeting have been approved, any member may move to reconsider the action of the council at such meeting, and if such motion prevails, the subject matter of such reconsideration shall be the next business after the reading of the minutes and their approval.
(d)
Applications or other communications to the council must be in writing, and in all cases must be referred to a committee before they are acted upon, unless the council shall otherwise determine.
(Code 1941, Secs. 322(5), (6), (13) and (17))
Cross reference— Ordinances must be in written form, Sec. 2-1-21.
Sec. 2-1-4 - Voting.
(a)
All questions shall be put by the Mayor or Mayor pro tem, presiding. The members of council shall vote by voice vote on all questions, except that any member on any question may demand that a "yea" and "nay" vote be entered on the minutes, and a yea and nay vote shall be taken on all tax ordinances, on ordinances appropriating money, and shall be recorded on the minutes.
(b)
All appointments shall be by ballot.
(Code 1941, Secs. 322(7), (8))
State Law reference— Voting upon questions by interested council members, O.C.G.A., Sec. 36-30-6.
Cross reference— Except for the election of officers, the Mayor or the Mayor pro tem acting as Mayor, shall vote only when a tie exists, Charter, Sec. 24; the Mayor has a veto power which may be overridden by council, Charter, Sec. 31.
Sec. 2-1-5 - Adjournment.
A motion to adjourn is always in order.
Sec. 2-1-6 - Amendment of rules.
These rules shall be considered binding on the council and may be suspended by motion and majority vote. The rules shall be permanently amended or altered only by subsequent ordinance.
Secs. 2-1-7—2-1-20 - Reserved.
ARTICLE B - Ordinances and Resolutions[1]
Sec. 2-1-21   Preparation.
All ordinances and reports to council shall be in writing.
Cross reference— Applications and communications to council must be in writing and are referred to committee, Sec. 2-1-3(d).
Sec. 2-1-22   Introduction and approval.
(a)
All ordinances shall be read the first time at the meeting when introduced and shall not be acted upon at that time without the unanimous consent of council.
(b)
At the next or subsequent meeting, the ordinance will be read a second time and shall be subject to amendment or passage.
(Code 1941, Sec. 322(14))
Cross reference— Pursuant to the charter, council has the power to pass an ordinance or resolution at special meetings if neither the Mayor nor the council members object to the consideration of the ordinance or resolution, Charter, Sec. 23.
Sec. 2-1-23   Publication.
Ordinances shall be published whenever and in such manner as the council may direct.
(Code 1941, Sec. 322(16))
Secs. 2-1-24—2-1-30   Reserved.
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Cross reference— The city clerk shall maintain an ordinance book, Charter, Sec. 34.

ARTICLE C - Committees [2]

Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
Editor's note— An ordinance of Sept. 18, 2006, repealed the provisions of Title 2, ch. 1, art. C, §§ 2-1-31, 2-1-32 in its entirety. Former §§ 2-1-31 and 2-1-32 derived from Code 1941 §§ 109, 110; from an ordinance of Dec. 2, 2002 and pertained to committees.

Secs. 2-1-33—2-1-40 - Reserved.
ARTICLE D - General Provisions

Sec. 2-1-41 Workers' compensation coverage.
Elected officials who are members of the Sandersville governing authority providing services to the residents and taxpayers of the City are hereby extended coverage for workers' compensation.
(Ord. of 3/24/86)
CHAPTER 2 - Elections[3]

Footnotes:
--- (3) ---
State Law reference— Georgia municipal elections, O.C.G.A., Title 21, Ch. 3.
Cross reference— Election of Mayor and Council Members, Charter, Sec. 4; qualifying, Charter, Sec. 5; qualifications, Charter, Sec. 7; election procedures, Charter, Secs. 8 through 18.

Sec. 2-2-1 Election officials.
The Mayor and Council shall by resolution annually appoint a municipal election superintendent, election managers, registrars, absentee ballot clerk, and any other officials as are necessary, all of whom shall exercise those powers and duties set forth in the applicable provisions of the Georgia Municipal Election Code.
State Law reference— Powers and duties, O.C.G.A., Secs. 21-3-8, 21-3-31, 21-3-32, 21-3-120, 21-3-227(b), 21-3-251 and 21-3-283.
Sec. 2-2-2 Filing notice of candidacy; date.
The date for filing notice of candidacy by candidates or their agents shall be no sooner than fifty-two (52) nor later than twenty-two (22) days prior to general elections and not later than fifteen (15) days prior to special elections.
State Law reference— Notices of candidacy, O.C.G.A., Sec. 21-3-91.
Sec. 2-2-3 Voter registration.
(a)
The City shall maintain its own registration of electors.
(b)
Any person desiring to vote in a regular election shall register to vote not later than 5:00 p.m. thirty (30) days prior to the election. Any person not previously registered may register to vote in any special election within five (5) days of the call of the special election.
State Law reference— Registration, O.C.G.A., Sec. 21-3-126.
Sec. 2-2-4 Qualification fees.
The qualification fee for candidates filing a notice of candidacy in any general or special election for the office of Mayor or City Council member shall be three (3) percent of the annual compensation of the office, which fees shall be received by the City Clerk at the time of filing the notice of candidacy and paid over to the City.
State Law reference— Qualification fees, O.C.G.A., Sec. 21-3-90.
Sec. 2-2-5 Plurality determines posts 1 through 4.
All candidates running for council posts 1, 2, 3, and 4 shall be elected by a plurality of the votes from that post. The Mayor and Mayor pro tem shall be elected at large.
State Law reference— Plurality method, O.C.G.A., Sec. 21-3-407.
Cross reference— Charter authorizes election of Council Members from posts one (1) through four (4) by plurality, Charter, Sec. 4(d).
CHAPTER 3 - Administration
ARTICLE A - General Provisions[4]

Footnotes:
--- (4) ---
State Law reference— Loyalty oath required of municipal officers and employees, O.C.G.A., Sec. 45-3-11 et seq.
Cross reference— Appointment of city officers, Charter, Sec. 27; bond of City officers, Charter, Sec. 28; duties of Mayor, Charter, Sec. 30; duties of Chief of Police, Charter, Sec. 33; duties of City Attorney, Charter, Sec. 36; duties of Tax Collector, Charter, Sec. 35.

Sec. 2-3-1 - Departments established.
(a)
The following departments of the City are hereby established:
(1)
Administration
(2)
Public Safety—Police
(3)
Public Safety—Fire
(4)
Electric/Telecom
(5)
Public Works
(b)
Each department may be headed by a superintendent who shall exercise such powers and perform such duties as provided by law or as prescribed from time to time by the Mayor and Council. Department superintendents shall report to the Mayor and Council.
(Ord. of 12/2/02)
Sec. 2-3-2 - City Administrator.
(a)
Established. In accordance with the provisions of Section 3.24 of the City of Sandersville Charter, the office of City Administrator is hereby established. The powers and duties of the Mayor, as set forth in Section 3.22 of the City of Sandersville Charter, are herewith limited by the provisions of this section and, as it pertains to the respective powers and duties of the Mayor and the City Administrator, where there is a conflict between the provisions of this section and the provisions of Section 3.22 of the City of Sandersville Charter, then the provisions of this section shall apply so long as this section remains in effect.
(b)
Appointment of a City Administrator. The City Administrator shall be appointed by majority vote of the City Council annually. The City Administrator shall be chosen by the council solely on the basis of executive and administrative qualifications with special reference to actual experience in or knowledge of accepted practice in respect to the duties of the office hereinafter set forth. At the time of this appointment, the appointee need not be a resident of Washington County, but during the City Administrator's tenure of office he/she shall reside within Washington County. No council member shall receive such appointment during the term for which the council member shall have been elected, nor within one (1) year after the expiration of the council member's term.
(c)
Removal of the City Administrator. The City Council may remove the City Administrator at any time by a majority vote of its members. The City Administrator shall forfeit any applicable severance pay if he/she is terminated for criminal misconduct or moral turpitude.
(d)
Powers and duties of the City Administrator. The City Administrator shall be the Chief Administrative Officer and Chief Financial Officer of the City, and may head one (1) or more departments if such assignment(s) are approved by the City Council, and shall be responsible to the City Council for the proper administration of all affairs of the City. To that end, the City Administrator shall have the power, and shall be required to:
(1)
With the advance approval of the City Council by formal vote, appoint and, when necessary for the good of the City, suspend or remove all officers and employees of the City except as otherwise provided by the City Charter or state law; the administrator shall also evaluate the performance of department directors and contract employees.
(2)
Act as budget officer for the City pursuant to the provisions of O.C.G.A. § 36-81-1 et seq., and prepare the annual budget and submit it to the City Council together with a message describing the important features and be responsible for its administration after adoption.
(3)
Prepare and submit to the council as of the end of the fiscal year a complete report on the finances and administrative activities of the City Council for the preceding year.
(4)
Keep the council advised of the financial condition and future needs of the City, and make recommendations as may be deemed desirable; keep current accounts showing at all times the fiscal conditions of the City, including the current and anticipated expenses, appropriations, cash on hand and anticipated revenues of all municipal funds and accounts.
(5)
To administer the personnel policies and procedures of the City Council of the City of Sandersville and to recommend to the council a standard schedule of pay for each appointed office and position in the City service, including minimum, intermediate, and maximum rates.
(6)
Recommend to the City Council from time to time the adoption of such measures as may be deemed necessary or expedient for the health, safety, or welfare of the community or for the improvement of administrative services.
(7)
Direct and supervise the administration of all departments, offices, and agencies of the City, except as otherwise provided by the City Charter or state law.
(8)
With the prior approval of City Council, consolidate or combine offices, positions, departments, or units under his/her jurisdiction. The City Administrator may be the head of one (1) or more departments on an interim basis in the event of a vacancy.
(9)
With or without the assistance of an external auditor, prepare and submit to the City Council the comprehensive annual financial report and monthly financial statements.
(10)
Implement policies and programs adopted by the City Council.
(11)
Attend all meetings of the City Council unless excused there from and take part in the discussion of all matters coming before the council. The City Administrator shall be entitled to notice of all regular and special meetings of the council.
(12)
Supervise the purchase of all materials, supplies, and equipment for which funds are provided in the budget and City Council policies, let contracts necessary for the operation or maintenance of City services, for which authorization is provided in advance by the City budget, for amounts up to and including five thousand dollars ($5,000.00) without the approval of the City Council; and to receive bids and proposals for purchases or contracts in excess of five thousand dollars ($5,000.00) and present them to the City Council for approval. As of this date November 6, 2006.
(13)
See that all laws and ordinances are duly enforced.
(14)
With the prior approval of the City Council department designee, investigate the affairs of the City or any department or division thereof and investigate all complaints in relation to matters concerning the administration of the government of the City, and in regard to service maintained by the public utilities in the City, and see that all franchises, permits, and privileges granted by the City are faithfully observed.
(15)
Devote his/her working hours to the discharge of the official city duties.
(16)
Perform such other duties as may be required by the council, not inconsistent with the City Charter, law, or ordinances.
(17)
Present in a timely fashion, appeals of decisions made by the City Administrator to the City Council, regardless of whether said appeals are by employees, citizens, vendors, or other parties.
(e)
Interference with duties. Neither the council nor any of its members shall give orders to any subordinates of the City Administrator either publicly or privately nor directly take part in the provision of municipal services; however, council members are at liberty to discuss the affairs of the City with the council designee for the department and the council designee for the department may establish with the administrator an agenda for concerns that may come to his/her attention.
(f)
Emergencies. In case of accident, disaster, or other circumstances creating a public emergency, the City Administrator may award contracts and make purchases in excess of two thousand five hundred dollars ($2,500.00) for the purpose of meeting said emergency; but the administrator shall file promptly with the City Council a certificate showing such emergency and the necessity for such action, together with an itemized account of all expenditures.
(g)
Bond. The City Administrator shall furnish a surety bond to be approved by the council, said bond to be conditioned on the faithful performance of all of the administrator's duties. The premium of the bond shall be paid by the City.
(h)
Compensation. The City Administrator shall receive such compensation as the council shall fix from time to time by ordinance or resolution.
(i)
Vacancy. Any vacancy in the office of the City Administrator shall be filled within thirty (30) days after the effective date of such vacancy with either a permanent or interim appointment.
(Ord. of 6/21/04(2); Ord. of 6/11/06(1); Ord. of 1/20/09)
Editor's note— An ordinance of June 21, 2004, repealed Section 2-3-2 in its entirety. Subsequently, an ordinance of June 21, 2004, added a new section 2-3-2 to read as herein set out. Former section 2-3-2 pertained to city clerk; duties.
Sec. 2-3-3 - Attestation of deeds and contracts.
All deeds, leases and written contracts, made to the City and with others, or by others to and with the City, shall be attested by the City Clerk officially. He shall be the keeper of the public seal of the City, and the custodian of all the books, papers and records of the City except where special provision is made otherwise by the charter and ordinances of the City, and he shall be responsible for their safe keeping and he shall deliver them to his successors in office.
(Code 1941, Sec. 125)
Secs. 2-3-4—2-3-20 - Reserved.
ARTICLE B - Public Records[5]

Footnotes:
--- (5) ---
State Law reference— Inspection of public records, O.C.G.A., Sec. 50-28-70 et seq.; records management program for local governments, O.C.G.A., Sec. 50-18-99.

Sec. 2-3-21 - Custodian of records.
The city clerk is responsible for records management activities and he shall designate a person or officer to act for and in behalf of the City in directing and coordinating all records management matters.
(Ord. of 12/5/83)
Sec. 2-3-22 - Destroying records.
No record shall be destroyed except in accordance with approved retention schedule.
(Ord. of 12/5/83)
Sec. 2-3-23 - Certificate of destruction.
Whenever any records are destroyed, a certificate of destruction shall be prepared and forwarded to the City which shall show the type of records destroyed, the approved retention schedule number, the dates covered, and the volume destroyed.
(Ord. of 12/5/83)
CHAPTER 4 - Personnel
Sec. 2-4-1   Personnel regulations.
The personnel regulations of the City, adopted February 1, 1983, as now or hereafter amended, establishing comprehensive personnel policies for employees of the City, are hereby incorporated by reference herein. An up-to-date copy of the personnel regulations is maintained in the office of the City Clerk for inspection by the public.
Sec. 2-4-2   Political activities limited.
(a)
No City of Sandersville full-time employee shall offer for or hold elective office in the City, county, state or national government, or publicly endorse any candidate for any city, county, state or national office. Any employee wishing to run for elective office for any city, county, state or national governments may request a leave of absence without pay upon qualification for said office.
(b)
A city employee is defined as anyone who receives direct compensation for services performed on a regular basis, and who is covered by the insurance provided by the City.
(c)
Nothing in this section shall affect the right of an employee to contribute to, hold membership in, serve as an officer of, or support a political party, to vote as to choice, to support or campaign for political candidates of other governmental jurisdictions, to express privately opinions on all political subjects and candidates, to maintain political neutrality or to attend political meetings.
(d)
No city employee shall be appointed, promoted, demoted, favored, or discriminated against with respect to employment in the personnel system, because of his political opinions or affiliations.
(e)
Nothing in this section shall prevent an elected official from serving the City on a voluntary basis.
(f)
Any person presently holding an elected office outside the government of the City and who is also an employee of the City shall not be affected by this section so long as that person does not seek any office other than the office he presently holds nor ever vacates the office which he now holds.
(Ord. of 6/4/80; Ord. of 5/5/97)
CHAPTER 5 - Municipal Court[6]
Sec. 2-5-1   Clerk.
The municipal judge shall appoint a clerk of the municipal court, subject to confirmation by the council. The clerk shall keep a regular docket in which he shall enter all cases before the municipal court for investigation or trial, together with the judgment in the case.
Sec. 2-5-2   Subpoenas.
All subpoenas for witnesses shall bear teste in the name of the municipal judge, shall be issued and signed by the clerk, and served by the Chief of Police, assistant Chief of Police or any police officer of the City. The municipal judge shall have the power to cause the Chief of Police, assistant Chief of Police, or any police officer to arrest and bring before him for punishment as prescribed in the code and charter, any person who may disregard or disobey such subpoena and may compel the attendance of any witness as authorized in the charter.
(Code 1941, Sec. 297)
Sec. 2-5-3   Continuances.
The municipal judge or presiding officer may, for good cause, continue any case to such time as the ends of justice may require.
(Code 1941, Sec. 300)
Sec. 2-5-4   Fines; costs.
(a)
Fines and penalties imposed on conviction in the municipal court shall be in accordance with limits established in specific ordinances or in accordance with the bond schedule as established from time to time by the municipal judge.
(b)
Court costs, in such amount as established from time to time by the judge, shall be assessed in all cases appearing before the judge in all cases resulting in conviction and in all cases for which a plea of guilty or nolo contendere is accepted.
Footnotes:
--- (6) ---
Cross reference— Establishment of municipal court, jurisdiction of municipal court, costs in municipal court, rules of municipal court, etc., Charter, Secs. 81 through 97.
State Law reference— Criminal jurisdiction, O.C.G.A., Sec. 15-10-50; cash bonds, O.C.G.A., Sec. 17-6-10; municipal courts, O.C.G.A., Sec. 36-32-1 et seq.

CHAPTER 6 - Code of Ethics
Editor's note— A Resolution of Sept. 18, 2000, arts. I—VIII, was not specifically amendatory of the Code and has been included as chapter 6, §§ 2-6-1—2-6-8, to read as herein set out.

Sec. 2-6-1 - Purpose.
Declaration of policy. It is the policy of the City that the proper operation of democratic government requires that public officials be independent, impartial and responsible to the people; that governmental decisions and policy be made in proper channels of the governmental structure; that public office not be used for personal gain; and that the public have confidence in the integrity of its government. In recognition of these goals, a Code of Ethics for all City officials is adopted.
This code has the following purposes: (1) to encourage high ethical standards in official conduct by City officials; (2) to establish guidelines for ethical standards of conduct for all such officials by setting forth those acts or actions that are incompatible with the interest of the City; (3) to require disclosure by such officials of private financial or other interest in manners affect the City; and (4) to serve as a basis for disciplining those who refuse to abide by its terms.
The provisions of this ordinance shall not apply to political contributions, loans, expenditures, reports or regulation of political campaigns or the conduct of candidates in such campaigns.
(Res. of 9/18/00, art. I)
Sec. 2-6-2 - Scope of persons covered.
Scope of persons covered. The provisions of this code of ethics shall be applicable to all members of the City Council, Planning and Zoning Commission all advisory commissions, and committee members.
(Res. of 9/18/00, art. II)
Sec. 2-6-3 - Definitions.
As used in this ordinance, the following terms shall have the following meanings, unless the context clearly indicates that a different meaning is intended:
City official or official, unless other expressly defined, means the Mayor, members of the City Council and includes individuals appointed by the Mayor and City Council to all City commissions, committees, boards, task forces, or other City bodies unless specifically exempted from this ordinance by the City Council.
Entity means a sole proprietorship, partnership, limited partnership, firm, corporation, professional corporation, holding company, joint stock company, receivership, trust or any other entity recognized by law through which business may be conducted.
Decision means any ordinance, resolution, contract, franchise, formal action or other matter voted on by the City Council or other City board or commission, as well as the discussions or deliberations of the council, board, or commission which can or may lead to a vote or formal action by that body.
Discretionary authority means the power to exercise any judgment in a decision or action.
Immediate family means spouse, mother, father, brother, sister, son, or daughter of any City Official.
Remote interest means an interest of a person or entity, including a City Official, who would be affected in the same way as the general public. The interest of a council member in the property tax rate, general City fees, City utility charges, or a Comprehensive Zoning Ordinance or similar decisions in incidental to the extent that the council member would be affected in common with the general public.
Incidental interest means an interest in a person, entity or property which is not a substantial interest and which has insignificant value.
Substantial interest means a known interest, either directly or through a member of the immediate family, in another person or entity: (1) the interest is ownership of five (5) percent or more of the voting stock, shares or equity of the entity or ownership of five thousand dollars ($5,000.00) or more of the equity or market value of the entity; or (2) funds received by the person from the other person or entity either during the previous twelve (12) months or the previous calendar year equaled or exceeded five thousand dollars ($5,000.00) in salary, bonuses, commissions or professional fees or five thousand dollars ($5,000.00) in payment for goods, products or nonprofessional services, or ten (10) percent of the recipient's gross income during that period, whichever is less; (3) the person serves as a corporate officer or member of the board of directors or other governing board of the for-profit entity other than a corporate entity owned or created by the City Council; or (4) the person is a creditor, debtor, or guarantor of the other person or entity in an amount of five thousand dollars ($5,000.00) or more. Substantial interest in real property means an interest in real property which is an equitable or legal ownership with a market value of five thousand dollars ($5,000.00) or more.
(Res. of 9/18/00, art. III)
Sec. 2-6-4 - Standards of conduct.
(a)
No council member or member of any board or commission shall use such position to secure special privileges or exemptions for such person or others, or to secure confidential information for any purpose other than official responsibilities.
(b)
No council member or member of a board or commission, in any matter before the council, board or commission in which he has a substantial interest, shall fail to disclose for the common good for the record such interest prior to any discussion or vote.
(c)
No council member or member of a board or commission shall act as a agent or attorney for another in any matter before the City Council or any board or commission.
(d)
No council member or commissioner shall directly or indirectly receive, or agree to receive, any compensation, gift, reward, or gratuity in any matter or proceeding connected with, or related to, the duties of his office except as may be provided by law.
(e)
No council member or member of any board or commission shall enter into any contract with the City except as specifically authorized by state statutes. Any council member or member of a board or commission who has a proprietary interest in a agency doing business with the City shall make known that interest in writing to the City Council and the City Clerk.
(f)
All public funds shall be used for the general welfare of the people and not for personal economic gain.
(g)
Public property shall be disposed of in accordance with Georgia law.
(h)
No City official shall solicit or accept other employment to be performed or compensation to be received while still a City official or employee, if the employment or compensation could reasonable be expected to impair in judgment or performance of city duties.
(i)
If a City official accepts or is soliciting a promise of future employment from any person or entity who has a substantial interest in a person, entity or property which would be affected by any decision upon which the official might reasonably be expected to act, investigate, advise, or make a recommendation, the official shall disclose the fact to the board or commission on which he serves or to his supervisor and shall take no further action on matters regarding the potential future employer.
(j)
No City official shall use City facilities, personnel, equipment or supplies for private purposes, except to the extent such are lawfully available to the public.
(k)
No City official or employee shall grant or make available to any person any consideration, treatment, advantage or favor beyond that which it is the general practice to grant or make available to the public at large.
(Res. of 9/18/00, art. IV)
Sec. 2-6-5 - Conflict of interest.
Prohibition of conflict of interest. A City official may not participate in a vote or decision on a matter affecting a person, entity, or property in which the official or employee has a substantial interest; in addition, a City official or employee who serves as a corporate officer or member of the board of directors of a nonprofit entity may not participate in a vote or decision regarding funding by or through the City of the entity. Where the interest of a City official or employee in the subject matter of a vote or decision is remote or incidental, the City official or employee may participate in the vote or decision and need not disclose the interest.
(Res. of 9/18/00, art. V)
Sec. 2-6-6 - Exemptions.
Exemptions. This Code shall not be constructed to require the filing of any information relating to any person's connection with, or interest in, any professional society or any charitable, religious, social, fraternal, educational, recreational, public service, civil or political organization, or any similar organization not conducted as a business enterprise or governmental agency, and which is not engaged in the ownership or conduct of a business enterprise or governmental agency.
(Res. of 9/18/00, art. VI)
Sec. 2-6-7 - Miscellaneous.
Severability. The provisions of this ordinance are severable. If any provision of this ordinance or the application thereof to any person or circumstance is held invalid, such invalidity shall not affect other provisions or applications of this ordinance which can be given effect without the invalid provisions or application.
(Res. of 9/18/00, art. VII)
Sec. 2-6-8 - Penalty.
Any person violating any provisions of this policy are subject to:
(1)
Written and oral reprimand by the council, board, commission or committee of which said violator a member;
(2)
A fine greater than one hundred dollars ($100.00) but less than five hundred dollars ($500.00) to be imposed by the council, commission, board or committee of which the violator is a member.
(3)
Request for resignation by the council, board, committee or commission of which the violator is a member.
Each council, board, commission or committee shall have authority to establish rules and regulations to impose said penalties.
(Res. of 9/18/00, art. VIII)
