TITLE 7 - Parks, Recreation and Cultural Affairs
State Law reference— Establishment of recreation systems authorized, O.C.G.A., Sec. 36-64-1 et seq.
CHAPTER 1 - General Provisions

Sec. 7-1-1 - Rules and regulations; generally.
The Mayor and Council may, by ordinance, establish reasonable rules and regulations covering the operation of the City's recreation and park facilities. When the rules and regulations are posted or displayed on the facility involved, such rules and regulations shall have the force and effect of law and any person committing any action in violation thereof shall be deemed to have violated this section and shall be punished as provided in § 1-1-8 of this Code.
Sec. 7-1-2 - Group use of facilities.
(a)
Park facilities are available on a "first come-first served" basis.
(b)
Groups wishing to reserve use of the park pavilion or community room may do so by contacting the City Hall.
(c)
No charge to the public may be made by any group using the community room.
(d)
Nonprofit groups wishing to use the park as part of a fund-raising activity may do so only after securing prior approval of the Mayor and Council.
(e)
No commercial use of the park shall be permitted.
CHAPTER 2 - Tree City U.S.A. Board

Sec. 7-2-1 - Creation and establishment of a Tree City U.S.A. Board.
There is hereby created and established a Tree City U.S.A. Board for the City of Sandersville, Georgia which shall consist of ten (10) members, citizens and residents of this community, who shall be appointed by the City Council of the City of Sandersville. These members shall include a horticulturist, registered landscape architect, registered forester, city government representative, and six (6) interested citizens.
(Ord. of 5/6/91)
Sec. 7-2-2 - Term of office.
The term of ten (10) members shall be three (3) years, except that the term of three (3) of the members appointed to the first board shall be for only one (1) year and the term of three (3) members of the first board shall be for two (2) years. In the event that a vacancy shall occur during the term of any member, his successor shall be appointed by the Board for the unexpired portion of the term.
(Ord. of 5/6/91)
Sec. 7-2-3 - Compensation.
Members of the Committee shall serve without compensation.
(Ord. of 5/6/91)
Sec. 7-2-4 - Operation.
The Committee shall be chaired by the person selected by Board members. It shall make its own rules and regulations and keep a journal of its proceedings. A majority of the members seven (7) shall be a quorum for the transaction of business.
(Ord. of 5/6/91)
Sec. 7-2-5 - Duties and responsibilities.
It shall be the responsibility of the Board to develop and/or update annually and administer a written City Tree Plan for the care and planting of street and park trees. Such plan will be reviewed by the City Council and upon their acceptance and approval shall constitute the official comprehensive City Tree Plan for the City. The Committee, when requested by the City Council, shall investigate, recommend and report on any special question coming within the scope of its work.
(Ord. of 5/6/91)
Sec. 7-2-6 - Review by City Council.
The City Council has the right to review and act on the recommendations of the Tree City Board. All final decisions shall be made by the City Council.
(Ord. of 5/6/91)
