ARTICLE 9. - PCFD—PLANNED COMMERCIAL FARM DISTRICT

Sec. 901. - Statement of purpose.
The planned commercial farm district (PCFD) shall be represented by large district areas of not less than 35 acres that are devoted to intensive agricultural production in the areas of food crops, fiber crops, animal feed, poultry, livestock or commercial timber production. Individual farms within the district shall contain at least five acres. Areas within this zone are not intended to be used for small scale farming, gardening, small poultry operation or idle pasture land; uses which would more appropriately be located in other zoning districts. The land should be in use for good faith farming or agricultural uses worthy of protection and preservation.
Districts designated as PCFD may result in odors, dust, noise or other effects that may not be compatible with single-lot residential development. Specific setback and buffer requirements designed for PCFD shall apply to minimize the potential adverse effects of farm uses.
In order for a parcel to be included in the PCF District, the parcel must have qualified for and be under the provisions of OCGA Sec. 48-5-7.1 Preferential Agricultural Assessment. The parcel will also meet PCFD requirements if the parcel exceeds 2,000 acres, and if the landowner already has 2,000 acres under the provisions of OCGA Sec. 48-5-7.1.
If, after a tract of land is designated as [a] PCF district, the land is not actively used for intensive commercial agricultural uses, the county may, at its discretion, initiate procedures for a zoning review and possible rezoning of the property to more appropriate zoning district. An automatic review of the zoning will occur at the end of the first year after the date of the designation of a tract of land to PCFD.
(Ord. of 4-13-2021(2), § 30)
Sec. 902. - Permitted uses.
A.
The following principal uses are permitted in PCF districts:
1.
Active agricultural uses including, but not limited to, the raising of food crops, animal feed crops, fiber crops, poultry and livestock.
2.
Farms, including livestock and poultry raising, dairying horticulture, farm forestry, sod farming, and other similar bona fide agricultural enterprises or use of land or structures.
3.
One primary dwelling unit for the owner or operator of the agricultural activity.
4.
Accessory residential structures which are incidental and subordinate to the main agricultural and primary dwelling use, provided that they are directly related to the residential and agricultural use of the property.
5.
Wholesale and retail sales of agricultural products, the majority of which is raised on the property.
6.
The replacement of poultry houses, and barns including nonconforming structures, provided that the replacement structure is built on the exact same location and no larger than the original structure.
7.
A landowner may deed to a family member a minimum of one acre from the previously recorded parcel for the construction of placement of a single-dwelling, provided [that] a minimum of three acres remain in the original parcel of land. This provision shall be allowed one time per eligible family member for each tract of land to be subdivided. Family member is defined as a child, grandchild, parent, grandparent, brother, sister, or stepchild.
8.
Utility substation meeting the following development standards:
a.
Structures must be placed at least 30 feet from all property lines.
b.
Structures must be enclosed by a woven wire fence at least eight feet high with bottom of fence either flush with the ground or with a masonry footing.
c.
No vehicles or equipment may be stored on the lot.
d.
A buffer 25-foot minimum must be maintained along the side and rear property lines.
e.
Lot size may be reduced to not less than 0.5 acre for utility substations provided other development standards are met and, if a private well is to be placed on the lot, the lot size is sufficient to support a well consistent with the other provisions of this ordinance, other ordinances, and the laws and regulations of the State of Georgia.
9.
Single-family dwellings by the owner for full-time farm workers, related to the agricultural operation of the farm on which they are situated, provided, however, that such dwellings shall be located on the farm tract on which the primary farming operation and the farm headquarters are located. Such housing units shall be allowed at one dwelling per three acres. However, no dwelling shall be placed closer than 200 feet to another dwelling. The housing must comply with all applicable state and federal standards for housing. (Note: In the event the dwelling is ever conveyed to another person, the owner is advised that the requirements of this ordinance, including lot size and set backs, shall apply.)
10.
Single-family dwellings by the owner for use by family members, provided, however, that such dwellings may not be inhabited by any person based upon a written or oral lease for value. Such housing units shall be allowed at one dwelling per three acres. However, no dwelling shall be placed closer than 200 feet to another dwelling. Such housing must comply with all applicable state and federal standards for housing. (Note: In the event the dwelling is ever conveyed to another person, the owner is advised that the requirements of this ordinance, including lot size and set backs, shall apply.)
B.
Conditional uses (PCFD): The following conditional uses shall be permitted in this district upon approval by the board of commissioners pursuant to section 413:
1.
Single-family dwellings for caretaker and employee residences shall be allowed at one per five acres of land. If approved, at least one of the occupants must be employed on the premises or their presence must be necessary for the orderly operation of the farm. Such dwellings shall be at least 200 feet apart.
2.
Home occupations, excluding public garage and repair garage.
3.
Communications towers as permitted and governed by the provisions of article 17 of this ordinance.
C.
The following accessory uses are permitted in PCFD Districts:
1.
Secondary buildings, including dwellings, by the owner for recreational purposes, or for use as a guest house, provided, however, that no such dwelling shall be located closer than 200 feet to any other principal structure. The heated and finished secondary building used as a recreational dwelling or guest house shall not exceed 75 percent of the square footage of the heated and finished floor area of the principal dwelling. When combined with a detached garage or cabana, the dwelling portion of the structure shall not exceed 75 percent of the heated and finished space contained in the principal dwelling. The use of a secondary building as a guest house by a person or persons based upon an oral or written lease for value is prohibited. Recreational dwellings or guest houses are subject to Health Department approval. Pre-HUD mobile homes may not be used as secondary buildings under this subsection and are prohibited.
(Ord. of 11-9-2004(2), §§ 16, 17)
Sec. 903. - Development standards for PCFD districts.
The following standards are required within PCFD districts:
EXPAND
A. Minimum district area: 35 acres
B. Minimum lot size: 5 acres
C. Minimum lot width: 200 feet
Requirements apply to any new tract created by the subdivision of a farm and do not apply to existing lots of record.
D. Minimum front yard setback: 100 feet from centerline.
Arterial roads, collector and local roads.
E. Minimum side yard setback: 30 feet.*
F. Minimum rear yard setback: 50 feet.*
G. *Except barns and poultry houses for which the minimum side and rear setback shall be as follows:
  EXPAND
When property is zoned: And adjoining property is zoned: The minimum setback shall be:
PCFD PCFD 50 feet
PCFD AR-3 100 feet
PCFD LI or HI 100 feet
PCFD All other zoning districts 200 feet
  H.
Maximum building height: Maximum building height shall not exceed 45 feet; however, this height limit does not apply to projections not intended for human habitation. For buildings and structures with such projections, the minimum required yards must be increased one foot for every two feet (or part of two feet) of height greater than 45 feet.
I.
Sight distance: Within 30 feet of the pavement edge, plants cannot be of a type which will exceed a height of 30 inches at maturity and/or a trunk diameter of four inches. There may be some flexibility in regard to the maximum trunk diameter when protected by a guardrail or some other suitable type barrier beyond 30 feet from pavement edge. Almost any type of planted vegetation is permissible.
J.
Applicability to land and open space: No building, structure or land may be used or occupied—and no building or structure or part of a building or structure may be erected, constructed, reconstructed, moved, or structurally altered—unless in conformity with all of the regulations specified for the district in which it is located.
K.
Every use must be on a lot: No building or structure may be erected or use established unless upon a lot as defined by this ordinance.
L.
Only one site-built, single-family, detached dwelling, residential industrialized building or manufactured home, and accessory buildings related to said dwelling or home, may be erected on any residential lot in the PDR district. Where an agricultural or non-residential use is permitted, more than one agricultural or non-residential principal building and its accessory buildings may be erected on a lot in a PCFD zoning district.
M.
Open space not to be encroached upon: No open space may be encroached upon or reduced in any manner except in conformity with the yard, setback, off-street parking spaces, and other such required development standards contained. in this ordinance. Shrubbery, driveways, retaining walls, fences, curbs, and buffers are not considered to be encroachments of yards. Open space areas as required by this ordinance must be permanently maintained as open space in accordance with the requirements of this ordinance.
N.
Reduction of yards or lot area: Except as otherwise provided in this ordinance, a lot existing at the time of passage of this ordinance may not be reduced, divided, changed, as to produce a tract of land which does not comply with the minimum dimension or area requirements of this ordinance for the district in which it is located unless that reduction or division is necessary to provide land which is needed and accepted for public use.
O.
Lots with multiple frontage: In the case of a corner lot or double frontage lot, front yard setback requirements apply to all lot lines abutting a street.
P.
Landlocked lots: In case of a landlocked lot (a lot without direct access to a public street or road) lawfully existing as of the effective date of this ordinance, the property owner is entitled to one building permit, as long as all of the following requirements are met:
1.
No other principal building exists or is being constructed on the property.
2.
No other valid building permit has been issued prior to the effective date of this ordinance and is currently valid.
3.
The property was and continues to be under single ownership since the effective date of this ordinance.
4.
The property owner has acquired a 30-foot easement to a city-, county-, or state-maintained street or road, and the easement has been duly recorded and made a part of the property deed.
Q.
Street frontage: No principal building may be erected on any lot which has less than 30 feet of immediate frontage on at least one public street.
R.
Yards and other spaces: No part of a yard, other open space, off-street parking, or loading space required for another building may be included as a part of the yard, off-street parking, or loading space required for another building, except as specifically provided for in this ordinance.
S.
Substandard lots: Any lot existing at the time of the adoption of this ordinance, which has an area or a width which is less than required by this ordinance, is subject to the following exceptions and modifications:
1.
Adjoining lots in same ownership: When two or more adjoining and vacant lots within a nonapproved development with continuous frontage and are in single ownership at the time of application and such lots have a frontage or lot area less than is required by the district in which they are located, such lots must be replatted or reparceled so as to create one or more lots which conform to the minimum frontage and area requirements of the district.
2.
Single lots: When a lot has an area or frontage which does not conform with the requirements of the district in which it is located, but was a lot of record at the effective date of this ordinance, such a lot may be used for any use allowed in the zoning district in which it is located as long as all other requirements of this ordinance are met.
T.
Encroachment on public rights-of-way: No building, structure, service area, required off-street parking, or loading/unloading facilities are permitted to encroach on public rights-of-way.
U.
Physical design standards: Minimum design standards for driveways, loading areas, and other such physical site improvements are contained in applicable development regulations of Screven County. Consult that document for specific requirements.
V.
Off-street parking and service requirements: Minimum standards for off-street parking and service requirements are contained in the Screven County Standard for Off-Street Parking and Service Facilities (appendix B [to this appendix]).
W.
Other applicable development regulations: Information concerning any other applicable development regulations may be obtained by consulting the zoning administrator.
X.
Signs: Minimum design and location standards for signs are contained in the Screven County Sign ordinance [article 18 of this appendix]. Consult that document for specific requirements.
(Ord. of 11-9-2004(2), § 18; Ord. of 4-13-2021(2), § 31)
