ARTICLE 3. - ESTABLISHMENT OF DISTRICTS.

Sec. 301. - Districts established.
Districts: For the purposes of this ordinance, Screven County is divided into districts as follows:
A.
R-1 single-family residential, one-acre minimum, article 5.
B.
R-2 single-family residential, two-acre minimum, article 6.
C.
AG-3 agricultural, three-acre minimum, article 7.
D.
PDR planned development residential, article 8.
E.
PCFD planned commercial farm district, article 9.
F.
HC highway commercial, article 11.
G.
GC general commercial, article 12.
H.
NC neighborhood commercial, article 13.
I.
LI light industrial, article 14.
J.
HI heavy industrial, article 15.
K.
SP special preservation district, article 16.
L.
PMHC planned manufactured housing community, article 10.
(Ord. of 11-9-2004(2), ยง 3)
Sec. 302. - Districts explained.
Districts are areas of land within Screven County to which different development requirements and standards are applied. These differences are intended to promote the separation of incompatible uses, encourage sound land use patterns, and retain the character of the community. Although this ordinance establishes the locations of districts as indicated on the official zoning map, a district may be changed in the future in accordance with the provisions of section 414. All uses not permitted within a particular zoning district as defined in that section are specifically prohibited.
Sec. 303. - Official Zoning Map, Screven County, Georgia (official map).
The Official Zoning Map, Screven County, Georgia, is hereby incorporated into and made a part of this zoning ordinance. Any reference to the "official map" in this ordinance refers to the Official Zoning Map, Screven County, Georgia. The geographic location of districts is determined by the official map, as well as any amendments adopted by the board of commissioners.
Sec. 304. - Identification, alteration, and replacement of the official map.
A.
The official map shall be comprised of a set of tax maps, which together comprise the official map. Upon adoption by the board of commissioners, each tax map which is part of the official map shall be signed by the clerk of the board of commissioners and shall bear the seal of the county or that of a notary public under the following words: "This certifies that this is the Official Zoning Map, Screven County, Georgia, referred to in Article 3 of the Zoning Ordinance of Screven County, Georgia," together with the date of adoption of the ordinance.
B.
The official map may be amended under the procedure set forth in section 414 of this ordinance. Any amendment to the official map is an amendment to this ordinance. Any amendment involving a change of a zoning district shall be entered on the official map when an amendment has been approved by the board of commissioners. The entry showing the amendment to the official map shall be placed upon the property which is the subject of the amendment and shall show the date of the amendment, the zoning file number, and the zoning district adopted as an amendment.
C.
Alterations to the official map may be made only by the procedures contained in sections 414 and 304 of this ordinance.
D.
The official map shall be on display in the office of the zoning administrator.
E.
If the official map becomes damaged, destroyed, lost, or difficult to interpret because of the nature or number of changes and additions, the board of commissioners may adopt a new official map which will replace the previous official map. The new official map is identified as such in the same manner as described above in this section. When the new official map is adopted, a notation may be made on the previous official map that it is no longer valid, indicating the date that the new official map was adopted, as a reference aid. The previous official map should be preserved, if it has not been lost or destroyed, for possible future reference.
Sec. 305. - (Reserved).
Sec. 306. - (Reserved).
Sec. 307. - Zoning district boundaries.
Where uncertainty exists with respect to the exact location of the boundary of a zoning district shown on the official map, the following guidelines will be used in establishing the exact location of the boundary:
A.
Where a zoning district boundary line as appearing on the official map divides a single lot that was a single lot at the time of the enactment of this ordinance, the requirements for the zoning district shall extend only as far as the zoning district boundary line. In order to place the entire lot in one zoning district, the property must be rezoned in accordance with the application and amendment requirements. In such circumstances, the application fee is waived.
B.
Where a zoning district boundary is indicated as approximately following a municipal limits or county line, the municipal limits or county line is the boundary.
C.
Where a zoning district boundary is indicated as approximately following a property line or such line extended, the line or lines extended is the boundary.
D.
Where a zoning district boundary is indicated as approximately following the centerline of a stream bed, such a centerline is the boundary.
E.
Where a zoning district boundary is indicated as approximately parallel to the centerline of a street, road, railroad, or the right-of-way of such a facility, the zoning district boundary is parallel to the line and at a distance from it as indicated by scale on the official map.
Sec. 308. - Relationship between official map and Screven County Comprehensive Plan.
A.
The Screven County Comprehensive Plan was adopted by the Board of Commissioners of Screven County. It provides the best possible indication of desirable land use patterns that will meet projected future demand for land uses of various types. The Screven County Comprehensive Plan supplies a body of information upon which decisions on future development may be made that are guided by sound planning principles. It contains a future land use map, which shows suitable areas for various types of land uses. Although the board of commissioners is not bound by the comprehensive plan or future land use map, these documents serve as a guide for establishing appropriate zoning districts.
B.
The zoning districts contained on the official map carry standards which must be met by all new development and construction in the county.
