ARTICLE 15. - HI - HEAVY INDUSTRIAL[7]

Footnotes:
--- (7) ---
Cross reference— Businesses, ch. 18.

Sec. 1501. - Purpose.
HI - zoning districts are intended to establish and preserve physically and aesthetically desirable areas in which clean, higher intensity manufacturing activities may locate and be protected from the intrusion of incompatible land uses. By having such areas available, both new and existing industries may operate and undertake expansion of facilities with the least possible adverse effect on other types of activities which might be incompatible with manufacturing. The elimination of nonmanufacturing activities from HI district benefits manufacturing activities by removing some possible obstacles to their smooth operation and expansion.
Sec. 1502. - Permitted uses.
A.
The following principal uses are permitted in HI districts:
1.
Manufacturing activity which does not cause injurious or obnoxious noise, vibrations, smoke, gas, fumes, odor, dust, fire hazard, or other objectionable conditions.
2.
Wholesale and warehousing operation.
3.
Building material yard.
4.
Public garage.
5.
Repair garage.
6.
Newspaper or printing plant.
7.
Off-street parking lot or parking garage.
8.
Armory.
9.
Bottling plant.
10.
Cabinet shop.
11.
Cold storage, ice plant, or freezer locker.
12.
Cosmetic and pharmaceutical manufacturing.
13.
Dairy plant, ice cream manufacturing.
14.
Distribution of products or merchandise.
15.
Dry cleaning or laundering establishment.
16.
Education or training facility.
17.
Electrical appliance and equipment sales and repair.
18.
Electronic manufacturing and assembly.
19.
Fabricating shop such as woodworking, upholstery, or sheetmetal shop.
20.
Machine shop.
21.
Plumbing shop, other contractor—including open storage of materials when located in rear yard.
22.
Printing, publishing, reproducing establishment.
23.
Sign painting and fabricating shop.
24.
Textile manufacturing plant.
25.
Baking establishment.
26.
Heavy agricultural equipment sales and repair.
27.
Truck terminal.
28.
Gasoline storage terminal.
29.
Radio transmission tower.
30.
Acid manufacture and storage.
31.
Bulk petroleum plant.
32.
Cement, lime, gypsum, or plaster of Paris manufacture.
33.
Ceramic products manufacture, limited to use of electric kilns.
34.
Commercial livestock processing.
35.
Concrete, cement products, or clay products manufacture.
36.
Feed, grain, or fertilizer manufacture or storage.
37.
Food processing plant.
38.
Foundry or forging plant.
39.
Grain elevator.
40.
Ice manufacturing, including dry ice plant.
41.
Planing or sawmill.
42.
Poultry processing plant.
43.
Railroad yard.
44.
Recycling center.
45.
Rock, sand, or gravel distribution or storage.
46.
Tinsmith operation.
47.
Roofing operation.
48.
Local, state, or federal government building.
49.
Agriculture.
50.
(Reserved).
51.
Outdoor advertising sign.
52.
Wreck motor vehicle compounds, junkyards, salvage yards, coal and wood yards, and used auto parts yards. Protective screening as required in the Screven County Clean Community Ordinance.
53.
Slaughterhouses for meat, poultry, stockyards and feedlots.
54.
Breweries and distilleries.
55.
Establishments that manufacture paper from pulpwood and other fibrous materials.
B.
The following principal uses are permitted as conditional uses in HI districts:
1.
Airports, upon FAA approval, including related facilities customarily found in airports, such as:
a.
Car rental agencies.
b.
Facilities for the servicing, repair and maintenance of aircraft.
c.
Restaurants, newsstands, gift shops, when located within the passenger terminal building.
d.
Warehouses and storage buildings for air-freight.
e.
Bulk storage for flammable liquids.
2.
Reserved.
3.
Development of natural resources, including the removal of minerals and natural materials. This includes appurtenant buildings and machinery. Such an activity must meet the following development standards:
a.
At the time of application for the building permit, the owners or operators of the quarry must present to the zoning administrator documentation which confirms that a permit has been issued in accordance with the Georgia Surface Mining Act of 1968, as amended.
4.
Utility substation meeting the following development standards:
a.
Structures must be placed at least 30 feet from all property lines.
b.
Structures must be enclosed by a woven-wire fence at least eight feet high with bottom of fence either flush with the ground or with a masonry footing.
c.
No vehicles or equipment may be stored on the lot.
d.
A 25-foot minimum buffer must be maintained along the side and rear property lines.
e.
Lot size may be reduced to not less than 0.5 acre for utility substations provided other development standards are met and, if a private well is to be placed on the lot, the lot size is sufficient to support a well consistent with the other provisions of this ordinance, other ordinances, and the laws and regulations of the State of Georgia.
5.
Manufacturing activity which may cause noise, vibrations, smoke, gas, fumes, odor, dust, fire hazard, or other objectionable conditions.
6.
Firms that produce raw materials (minerals, forest products, chemicals, unfinished metals) into manufactured products ready for sale, or that will be used in the production of other manufactured products.
7.
Firms that produce or store toxic substances for direct sale or for distribution to retailers or other manufacturers.
8.
Firms that use substantial quantities of water in manufacturing processes.
9.
Firms engaged in the slaughtering and/or processing of animals.
10.
Communications towers as permitted and governed by the provisions of article 17 of this ordinance.
C.
The following accessory uses are permitted in HI districts:
1.
Those determined by the zoning administrator, subject to the approval of the board of commissioners, to be customarily incidental and subordinate to the principal use.
D.
The following accessory uses are permitted as conditional uses in HI districts:
1.
None.
E.
All accessory uses must meet the following standards:
1.
They must be located in a side or rear yard.
2.
They may not be located in a front yard.
3.
They must comply with the setback requirements of this district.
4.
Accessory buildings not attached to the principal building must be located at least 12 feet from the principal building on the lot.
Sec. 1503. - Development standards for HI districts.
The following standards are required within HI districts:
EXPAND
A. Minimum heated floor
area for buildings: None.
B. Minimum lot area:
1. Unsewered areas: As specified by the Screven County Health Department, but in no case less than two acres.
2. Sewered areas: One acre.
C. Minimum lot width: 100 feet.
D. Minimum front yard setback: 70 feet.
E. Minimum side yard setback: 30 feet if side lot line adjoins a[n] HI zoned district; however, if side lot line adjoins any other district, minimum required side yard is 100 feet.
F. Minimum rear yard setback: 35 feet if rear lot line adjoins [an] LI or HI district; however, if rear lot line adjoins anyother district, minimum required rear yard is 100 feet.
G. Maximum building height: Maximum building height shall not exceed 100 feet, but if over 35 feet, a fire controlplan must be approved, in writing, by the Screven County Public Safety Director.
  H.
(Reserved).
I.
Sight distance: Within 30 feet of an intersection's pavement edge, plants cannot be of a type which will obstruct the view of vehicular traffic. There may be some flexibility in regard to the maximum trunk diameter when protected by a guardrail or some other suitable type barrier beyond 30 feet from [the] intersection's pavement edge. Almost any type of planted vegetation is permissible.
J.
Applicability to land and buildings: No building, structure or land may be used or occupied—and no building or structure or part of a building or structure may be erected, constructed, reconstructed, moved, or structurally altered—unless in conformity with all of the regulations specified for the district in which it is located.
K.
Every use must be on a lot: No building or structure may be erected or use established unless upon a lot as defined by this ordinance.
L.
Multiple principal buildings on commercial lots: More than one principal building and its accessory buildings may be erected on a lot in a HI zoning district.
M.
Open space not to be encroached upon: No open space may be encroached upon or reduced in any manner except in conformity with the yard, setback, off-street parking spaces, and other such required development standards contained in the ordinance. Shrubbery, driveways, retaining walls, fences, curbs, and buffers (see definition in article 2) are not considered to be encroachments of yards. Open space areas as required by this ordinance must be permanently maintained as open space in accordance with the requirements of this ordinance.
N.
Reduction of yards or lot area: Except as otherwise provided in this ordinance, a lot existing at the time of passage of this ordinance may not be reduced, divided, or changed so as to produce a tract of land which does not comply with the minimum dimension or area requirements of this ordinance for the district in which it is located unless that reduction or division is necessary to provide land which is needed and accepted for public use.
O.
Lots with multiple frontage: In the case of a corner lot or double frontage lot, front yard setback requirements apply to all lot lines abutting a street.
P.
Landlocked lots: In the case of a landlocked lot (lot without direct access to a public street or road) lawfully existing as of the effective date of this ordinance, the property owner is entitled to one building permit, as long as all of the following requirements are met:
1.
No other principal building exists or is being constructed on the property.
2.
No other valid building permit has been issued prior to the effective date of this ordinance and is currently valid.
3.
The property was and continues to be under single ownership since the effective date of this ordinance.
4.
The property owner has acquired a 30-foot easement to city-, county-, or state-maintained street, and the easement has been duly recorded and made a part of the property deed.
5.
In the event the property is divided, no additional permits will be issued.
Q.
Street frontage: No principal building may be erected on any lot which has less than 30 feet of immediate frontage on at least one public street.
R.
Yards and other spaces: No part of a yard, other open space, off-street parking, or loading space required for another building may be included as a part of the yard, off-street parking, or loading space required for another building, except as specifically provided for in this ordinance.
S.
Substandard lots: Any lot existing at the time of the adoption of this ordinance, which has an area or a width which is less than required by this ordinance, is subject to the following exceptions and modifications:
1.
Adjoining lots in same ownership: When two or more adjoining and vacant lots within a nonapproved development with continuous frontage are in a single ownership at the time of application and such lots have a frontage or lot area less than is required by the district in which they are located, such lots must be replatted or reparceled so as to create one or more lots which conform to the minimum frontage and area requirements of the district.
2.
Single lot: When a lot has an area or frontage which does not conform with the requirements of the district in which it is located, but was a lot at the effective date of this ordinance, such a lot may be used for any use allowed in the zoning district in which it is located as long as all other requirements of this ordinance are met.
T.
Encroachment on public rights-of-way: No building, structure, service area, required off-street parking, or loading/unloading facility is permitted to encroach on public rights-of-way.
U.
Physical design standards: Minimum design standards for driveways, loading areas, and other such physical site improvements are contained in applicable development regulations of Screven County. Consult the zoning administrator for specific requirements.
V.
Off-street parking and service requirements: Minimum standards for off-street parking and service requirements are contained in the Screven County Standard for Off-street Parking and Service Facilities (appendix B [to this appendix]).
W.
Other applicable development regulations: Information concerning any other applicable development regulations may be obtained from the zoning administrator.
X.
Signs: Minimum design and location standards are contained in the Screven County Sign Ordinance. Consult that document [article 18 of this appendix] for specific requirements.
Y.
Yards abutting railroads: Side yards and rear yards are not required adjacent to railroad right-of-way.
Z.
[Protective screening:] A minimum 25-foot buffer is required where lot abuts a residential district and a greenspace coverage of at least ten percent of the lot size required.
AA.
Industrial performance standards required:
1.
Control of noise: [The control of noise] shall be muffled so as not become objectionable due to intermittence, beat frequency, or shrillness. Noise as measured at the street or property line shall not exceed 60 decibels, and must comply with applicable requirements of the county's ordinances.
2.
Control of gases, smoke, dust, dirt and fly ash: Such emission shall in no manner be unclean, destructive, unhealthful, hazardous or deleterious to the general welfare. Such emission shall be in strict conformance with all applicable health laws as pertaining to air pollution and smoke abatement.
3.
Control of glare and heat: Glare and heat from arc welding, acetylene torch cutting or similar processes shall be performed behind solid walls or frosted glass adjacent to the structure concerned.
4.
[Safety hazards:] The storage and handling of flammable liquids, liquefied petroleum gases, and explosives shall comply with all governmental rules and regulations.
5.
[Sewage wastes:] Industrial sewage wastes shall comply with all applicable requirements of the governing body and the State of Georgia.
(Ord. of 11-9-2004(2), § 29)
