Chapter 22 - CIVIL EMERGENCIES[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Editor's note— The county's comprehensive emergency operations plan was adopted September 24, 1996. It includes the cities of Oliver, Sylvania, Newington, Rocky Ford and Hiltonia. It is for planning purposes and will be activated by the county emergency management director as directed by the chairman, county commissioners, or when an emergency is declared by the Governor of Georgia. This emergency operations plan was developed to ensure prior mitigation/preparedness, appropriate response and timely recovery from natural or manmade hazards that may affect the county. An official copy of the subject plan is on file in the office of the county manager.
Cross reference— Administration, ch. 2; fire prevention and protection, ch. 30.
State Law reference— Georgia Mutual Aid Act, O.C.G.A. § 36-69-1 et seq.; Georgia Emergency Management Act of 1981, O.C.G.A. § 38-3-1 et seq.; Interstate Civil Defense and Disaster Compact, O.C.G.A. § 38-3-70 et seq.; authority to adopt temporary or experimental traffic regulations to cover emergencies or special conditions, O.C.G.A. § 40-6-371(a)(19).

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Secs. 22-1—22-30. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - STATE OF EMERGENCY PROVISIONS
DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Secs. 22-31—22-50. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - REGISTRATION AND LICENSING OF BUILDING AND REPAIR SERVICES[2]

Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
Cross reference— Buildings and building regulations, ch. 14.

Sec. 22-51. - Findings.
(a)
During and following periods of emergency resulting from natural or manmade disaster, the public is at risk from unscrupulous building contractors and repair services, scams, and other unconscionable activities related to constructing, repairing, renovating or making improvements to buildings and other structures damaged during the disaster.
(b)
Licensing of building construction and repair contractors during a declared emergency, as authorized pursuant to the police powers of the county and O.C.G.A. §§ 38-3-28 and 36-1-22, will provide a means to protect the public from unscrupulous and criminal building and repair contractors.
(c)
The board of commissioners enacts this division to require persons who provide building, construction, repair, renovation and related services to register and obtain a license for the privilege of doing business within the unincorporated areas of the county during any state of emergency and any subsequent recovery period.
(Ord. No. 98-04, 11-11-1997)
Sec. 22-52. - Building contractor license required.
No person shall engage in, undertake or carry on any business in whole or in part within the unincorporated areas of the county, consisting of or related to building, construction, repair, renovation or making improvements to real property including dwellings, homes, buildings, structures, or fixtures attached thereto without having registered the name of the business with the board of commissioners and having received a building contractor's license to do business and paid fees as provided by this division.
(Ord. No. 98-04, § 1, 11-11-1997)
Sec. 22-53. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this division, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Building contractor means any person engaged in, undertaking or carrying on any business consisting of or related to building construction, repair, renovation or making improvements to real property including dwellings, homes, buildings, structures, or fixtures attached thereto.
Doing business means engaged in business and thus subject to the requirements of this division if he had an office, agency, project site or place of business located in the unincorporated areas of the county, or when he operates or maintains a business, either temporary, periodically or otherwise, in the unincorporated areas of the county expressly including, but not limited to, the construction, renovation or repair of dwellings or buildings or the making of improvements to real property or any fixtures attached thereto located in the unincorporated areas of the county, regardless of the location of the principal office.
State of emergency means, pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 38-3-3(5), a condition declared by the governor when, in his judgment, the threat or actual occurrence of a disaster or emergency is of sufficient severity and magnitude as to warrant extraordinary efforts in preventing or alleviating the damage, loss, hardship, or suffering threatened or caused thereby.
Subsequent recovery period means that period during which the disaster continues to cause disruptions in the disaster area, but shall not exceed six months after the emergency declaration has been terminated by the governor, unless extended by official action of the board of commissioners.
(Ord. No. 98-04, § 2, 11-11-1997)
Cross reference— Definitions generally, § 1-2.
Sec. 22-54. - Registration; license application; certificate.
All building contractors doing business or proposing to do business in the unincorporated areas of the county shall register and apply for a building contractor's license to do business. Applicants shall register and file applications with the county manager or such other person designated by the board of commissioners at the county courthouse or such other place designated by the county. An applicant for a building contractor's license shall, under oath, provide the board of commissioners with a statement describing the general nature of the business to be conducted and give true and correct information as may be called for on the registration form, application or certificate provided by the county.
(Ord. No. 98-04, § 3, 11-11-1997)
Sec. 22-55. - License fees.
Building contractor license fees are hereby fixed under the terms and conditions of this division at $50.00 per annum. License fees shall be paid in full at the time of issuance of the license.
(Ord. No. 98-04, § 4, 11-11-1997)
Sec. 22-56. - Penalties for violation of division.
Any building contractor required by this division to pay a license fee and who engages in business without first registering and receiving a license as required by this division shall be punishable as provided in section 1-11. Each day a building contractor does business in the unincorporated areas of the county without a license shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. No. 98-04, § 5, 11-11-1997)
Sec. 22-57. - Transfer of license.
Each license granted under this division is granted to, and shall be accepted by, the licensee under the condition that the license is not transferable, and, after issuance, no such license shall be transferred by the county or the licensee to anyone.
(Ord. No. 98-04, § 6, 11-11-1997)
Sec. 22-58. - Display of license.
Each license issued under this division shall be posted conspicuously by the licensee in the place of business of the licensee or shall be carried on his person or vehicle which is used in such business. Such license shall be exhibited to any authorized enforcement officer when so requested.
(Ord. No. 98-04, § 7, 11-11-1997)
Sec. 22-59. - Revocation or suspension of license.
Each license granted under this division is a mere permit to engage in the business for which such license is granted while and only during such period such business is conducted in a lawful manner. The board of commissioners hereby reserves the right to revoke or suspend any license which has been granted under this division, if the licensee, or the licensee's agent or employee acting within the scope of his employment, violates this division or any other county, state or federal law. If after issuance of a license the county desires to revoke such license, written notice thereof shall be given to the licensee, which notice shall specify the violation with which the licensee is charged and a date, time and place at which a hearing shall be held with regard to the violation. The licensee shall have an opportunity to be heard at such hearing, shall have the right to be represented by counsel, and shall have the right to introduce and submit evidence in opposition to such revocation.
(Ord. No. 98-04, § 8, 11-11-1997)
Secs. 22-60—22-80. - Reserved.
DIVISION 3. - PROHIBITION ON OVERCHARGING

Sec. 22-81. - Findings.
(a)
The health, safety and welfare of the citizens of the county depend on the availability and affordability of certain essential goods, materials, services and housing.
(b)
During certain periods of emergency resulting from natural or manmade disaster, citizens of the county are at risk from dramatic and unjustified increases in the prices of goods, materials, services, and housing.
(c)
Such increases in price may be excessive and unconscionable during a state of emergency and may hinder the ability of the community to recover from the disaster.
(d)
Legislation is necessary to prohibit any person from raising prices for goods, materials, services and housing to excessive, unconscionable or unfair levels during a declared state of emergency or subsequent recovery period.
(e)
Limitations on price overcharging during a declared emergency is authorized pursuant to the police powers of the county and O.C.G.A. § 38-3-28.
(f)
The board of commissioners hereby enacts this division relative to the prohibition of overcharging for goods, materials, services and housing during periods of declared emergency or subsequent recovery periods.
(Ord. No. 98-03, 11-11-1997)
Sec. 22-82. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this division, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Overcharging means charging prices for goods, materials, services, or housing, which are substantially in excess of the customary charges or in applicable cases substantially in excess of the supplier's or provider's costs for such goods, materials, services or housing. The existence of overcharging shall be presumed from a substantial increase in the price at which the goods, materials, services, or housing was offered in the usual course of business immediately prior to the onset of the emergency, but shall not include increases in costs to the supplier directly attributable to higher costs of materials, supplies, and labor costs resulting from the emergency.
State of emergency means, pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 38-3-3(5), as a condition declared by the governor when, in his judgment, the threat or actual occurrence of a disaster or emergency is of sufficient severity and magnitude as to warrant extraordinary efforts in preventing or alleviating the damage, loss, hardship, or suffering threatened or caused thereby.
Subsequent recovery period means that period during which the disaster continues to cause disruptions in the disaster area, but shall not exceed six months after the emergency declaration has been terminated by the governor unless extended by official action of the board of commissioners.
(Ord. No. 98-03, § 2, 11-11-1997)
Cross reference— Definitions generally, § 1-2.
Sec. 22-83. - Prohibited generally.
In order to preserve, protect, or sustain the life, health, or safety of persons or their property, it shall be unlawful during the duration of a state of emergency or subsequent recovery period in which the county has been designated as a disaster area, for any person located or doing business in the county to overcharge for any goods, materials, services or housing sold within the county.
(Ord. No. 98-03, § 1, 11-11-1997)
