ARTICLE III. - RECRUITMENT, STANDARD OF CONDUCT, PAY PLAN

Sec. 50-41. - Recruitment.
To ensure a productive work force, only applicants who have obtained a basic education, i.e., a high school diploma or a general equivalency diploma (GED) will be considered to be hired as a full-time employee by the city. The city manager as applicable may grant a waiver or exemption to this requirement. These restrictions will not apply to part-time or temporary workers.
Members of the immediate family (as defined in definitions) of a current city employee shall not be eligible for employment in the same department as the employee.
The personnel officer shall use such various methods of media publicity and areas of recruitment as may be expected to bring notice of vacancies to as many qualified persons as possible and to assure obtaining well-qualified applicants. Announcements of all vacancies in the classified service shall include title of vacant position, qualification requirements, manner of making application and ending date.
Applications for employment shall be accepted for any city position; however only applications for current vacancies will be acknowledged and responded to with results. Applications will be retained for a period not to exceed one year.
( Ord. of 12-2-2013 )
Sec. 50-42. - Standard of conduct.
The city endeavors to employ responsible individuals and believes that the majority of employees are responsible citizens who understand and respect the right and property of their fellow employees and that of the city. However, whenever groups work together reasonable rules are necessary for the orderly conduct of the operation. Employees are expected to comply with rules established by the city during the working hours. Violation of any of these rules may result in actions ranging from an oral reminder to immediate discharge:
(1)
Habitual tardiness or absenteeism.
(2)
Gambling during work or on city property.
(3)
Working on personal business or projects on city time.
(4)
Creating or contributing to unsanitary housekeeping conditions.
(5)
Conduct which endangers you or another employee.
(6)
Unauthorized use of city tools, equipment, or other city property.
(7)
Failure to comply with city's safety rules.
(8)
Gross negligence or abuse resulting in the damage of destruction of property belonging to the city or others.
(9)
Carrying explosives or other than city authorized weapons in city vehicles or on a work site.
(10)
Stealing or hiding any property of the city.
(11)
Divulging confidential information to an unauthorized person or making any disclosure of confidential information regarding the city to any person, agency, publication, or communication outlet without authorization from the city.
(12)
Malfeasance.
( Ord. of 12-2-2013 )
Sec. 50-43. - Open continuous applications.
As a general policy, in order not to lose competent applicants, the personnel officer will accept applications anytime whether or not a vacancy has been announced. As a result of a single application, a candidate shall be considered for all classes of positions in which his principal qualifications might profitably be used. All applications shall be kept on active file for a period of one year.
( Ord. of 12-2-2013 )
Sec. 50-44. - Establishment of position classification and pay plan.
The position classification and pay plan of the city adopted by resolution of the mayor and city council shall remain in effect until modified in accordance with provision of these policies.
( Ord. of 12-2-2013 )
Sec. 50-45. - Allocation of position: creation of classes.
After the establishment of a new position has been approved, the appointing authority involved shall complete a position description governing the duties and responsibilities of each proposed new position. The city manager shall allocate the position to one of the classes in the classification plan. If a suitable class does not exist, they shall recommend the establishment of a new class and after the adoption of the new class by the mayor and city council shall allocate the position to it.
( Ord. of 12-2-2013 )
Sec. 50-46. - Entrance at the minimum.
Each new employee shall be appointed at the minimum salary which has been established for the classification in which he/she is employed with the following exceptions:
(1)
If a new employee does not meet the minimum requirements of the position and qualified applicants for the position are not available, the city manager may designate the employee as a "trainee" to be appointed at a salary below the minimum.
(2)
The city manager shall determine that there has been a demonstrated inability to recruit at the minimum salary or that an applicant possesses exception qualifications, they may with the concurrence of the affected department head may employ the applicant at a higher rate than the minimum.
( Ord. of 12-2-2013 )
Sec. 50-47. - Regular salary increments.
All regular hours earned will be in increments of the nearest quarter hour.
( Ord. of 12-2-2013 )
Sec. 50-48. - Remuneration.
All nonexempt full-time employees are eligible to receive overtime pay (one and one-half times regular hourly rate) for all hours worked above the number schedule for the work period. The established work periods for city employees are as follows:
EXPAND
Police Officers 86 Hours/14 days
All Other 80 Hours/14 days
  Unless otherwise stated herein, employees must actually work all hours in the work period before receiving overtime pay. Nonexempt employees are eligible to receive overtime pay for hours worked when called in on weekends and holidays.
Any employee called out to work during regularly scheduled off time will be credited with a minimum of two hours work time. In these cases, employees are eligible for overtime pay as described above.
Exempt personnel are not eligible to receive overtime pay. The personnel officer will maintain a list of exempt positions.
( Ord. of 12-2-2013 )
Sec. 50-49. - Effective date of salary adjustment.
Annual merit increases shall be effective on July 1 st following the end of the employee's probationary period. The amount of a merit increase will be determined by the employee's overall evaluation rating. The city manager shall annually establish the cost of living adjustment which will be effective on January 1 of each year. The pay plan will be adjusted according to the standard salary adjustment.
Mayor and city council must approve special compensations and shall be effective on the date of final approval by the city council.
( Ord. of 12-2-2013 )
Sec. 50-50. - Salary of reclassified employees.
An employee whose position is reclassified to a call having a higher minimum salary shall receive a salary adjustment to at least the minimum new salary. An employee whose position is reclassified to a class having a lower minimum salary shall not receive a reduction in salary as a result of the reclassification.
( Ord. of 12-2-2013 )
Sec. 50-51. - Salary of a promoted employee.
The salary of an employee promoted to a position in a class having a higher minimum salary shall be equal to at the least the minimum salary for that position during the employee's probationary period. Upon successful completion of the probationary period, the employee will be granted regular status in the new position. If the employee fails to successfully complete their probationary period following promotion, they shall be reinstated in their former position in the same class of their former position, at their former pay.
( Ord. of 12-2-2013 )
Sec. 50-52. - Salary of a demoted employee.
The salary of an employee demoted to a position in a class with a lower grade shall be reduced to at least five percent below their former salary. If the demotion is non-disciplinary, the department head may, if the employee's salary is comparable to other employees in the new position, elect to leave the employee's salary at the same level as their salary prior to the demotion.
( Ord. of 12-2-2013 )
Sec. 50-53. - Salary of part-time employees.
The position classification and pay plan are for full-time service. An employee appointed for less than full-time service shall be paid at an hourly rate.
( Ord. of 12-2-2013 )
Sec. 50-54. - Pay upon termination.
An employee who is separated from the city will receive payment for any unused annual leave and actual hours worked for the current pay period on the next scheduled pay day.
( Ord. of 12-2-2013 )
Secs. 50-55—50-70. - Reserved.
