ARTICLE XV. - LEGAL STATUS

Sec. 74-316. - Introduction.
This article is not intended to interfere with or annul any easement, covenant, or other agreement between parties. However, where this article imposes a greater restriction upon the use of property or by private easements, covenants, or agreements, the provisions of this article shall govern. Whenever other ordinances or parts of ordinances require greater than those required by this article such ordinances or parts of ordinances shall govern.
(Ord. No. 07-05, Art. 15, ยง 15.1, 12-3-2007)
Sec. 74-317. - Repeal of conflicting ordinances; validity of prior approvals and actions.
(a)
This chapter shall constitute the Zoning Ordinance of the City of Senoia, and all other ordinances in conflict therewith are hereby repealed. This chapter shall constitute the Zoning Ordinance of the City of Senoia, and all other ordinances in conflict therewith are hereby repealed, provided, that nothing herein shall be construed as repealing or modifying the conditions or requirement of site development or used approved under a previous zoning ordinance or resolution, except as specifically provided by this chapter. Any violations of any previous zoning ordinance shall not be affected by the adoption of this chapter, and therefore any prosecutions for violation of any prior existing Zoning Ordinance may proceed as if the ordinance violated was still in force and effect. It is intended that this chapter shall be the Zoning Ordinance for the City of Senoia. And therefore any prior zoning ordinance heretofore adopted by the City of Senoia is hereby repealed.
(b)
Validity. Should any part, section, or provision of this chapter be declared invalid or unconstitutional by any court of competent jurisdiction, such decision shall not affect the validity of any remaining portion of this chapter.
(c)
Adoption date. The Zoning Ordinance of the City of Senoia, Georgia, is adopted after advertisement in the manner provided by law, by the City Council of Senoia, Georgia, at a public meeting held this 12th day of December, 2007.
(Ord. No. 07-05, Art. 15, ยง 15.2, 12-3-2007)
