ARTICLE XII. - MISCELLANEOUS

Sec. 50-241. - Internet and electronic mail.
This policy describes the city's guidelines with regard to Internet access and disclosure of electronic mail messages sent or received by the city employees with use of the city e-mail system.
The city respects the individual privacy of its employees. However, employee privacy does not extend to the employee's work-related conduct or to the use of the city-provided equipment or supplies. You should be aware that the following guidelines may affect your privacy in the workplace.
All e-mails are public information unless otherwise determined confidential in accordance with Georgia Open Records Act.
As a condition of providing Internet access to its employees, the city places certain restrictions on workplace use of the Internet:
(1)
To communicate with fellow employees and clients regarding matters within an employee's assigned duties;
(2)
To acquire information related to, or designed to facilitate the performance of regular assigned duties; and
(3)
To facilitate performance of any task or project in a manner approved by an employees' supervisor.
Employees must comply with all software licenses, copyrights, and all other laws governing intellectual property and online activity.
Please be advised that your use of the Internet access, provided by the city, expressly prohibits the following:
(1)
Distribution of destructive programs (i.e., viruses and/or self-replicating code).
(2)
Hateful, harassing, or other anti-social behavior.
(3)
Intentional damage or interference with others (for example, hacking and distributing viruses).
(4)
Making publicly accessible obscene files.
(5)
Solicitation.
(6)
Commercial usage of non-company business.
(7)
Dissemination or printing of copyrighted materials (including articles and software) in violation of copyright laws.
(8)
Sending, receiving, printing or otherwise disseminating proprietary data, trade secrets or other confidential information of the city in violation of company policy or proprietary agreements.
(9)
Offensive or harassing statements or language including disparagement of others based on their race, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, age, disability, religious or political beliefs.
(10)
Sending or soliciting sexually oriented messages or images.
(11)
Operating a business, usurping business opportunities or soliciting money for personal gain, or searching for jobs outside the city.
(12)
Sending chain letters, gambling or engaging in any other activity in violation of the law.
Violation of the city's Internet policy may include disciplinary action. The measure of discipline will correspond to the gravity of the offense as weighed by its potential effect on the city and fellow employees. When you connect to the Internet using the city's address designation, it should be for city business related activity.
The electronic mail system has been installed by the city to facilitate business communications. Although each employee has an individual password to access this system, it belongs to the city and the contents of e-mail communications are accessible at all items by the city administration for any business purpose. These systems may be subject to periodic unannounced inspections, and should be treated like other shared filing systems. All system passwords and encryption keys must be available to the city administration, and your passwords or encryption keys must be available to your department head.
All e-mail messages are company records. The contents of e-mail, property obtained for legitimate business purposes, may be disclosed within the city without your permission. Therefore, you should not assume that messages are confidential. Back-up copies of e-mail may be maintained and referenced for business and legal reasons.
Because the city provides the electronic mail system to assist you in the performance of your job, you should use it for official city business. Incidental and occasional personal use of e-mail is permitted by the city, but these messages will be treated the same as other messages. The city reserves the right to access and disclose as necessary all messages sent over its e-mail system, without regard to content. Since your personal messages can be accessed by the city administration without prior notice, you should not use e-mail to transmit any messages you would not want read by a third party.
Employees are prohibited from the unauthorized use of the passwords and encryption keys of other employees to gain access to the other employee's e-mail messages.
All material downloaded from the Internet or from computers or networks must be scanned for viruses and other destructive programs before being placed onto the city's computer system.
The city has the right, but not the duty, to monitor any and all aspects of its computer system, including, but not limited to, monitoring sites employees visit on the Internet, reviewing material downloaded or uploaded by employees, and reviewing e-mail sent and received by employees.
Employees waive any right to privacy in anything they create, store, send, or receive on the computer or the Internet.
( Ord. of 12-2-2013 )
Sec. 50-242. - Employee safety.
The city desires to provide a safe working environment for its employees. To accomplish this, the city will provide all reasonable safeguards to ensure safe working condition. The city recognizes the need to follow good safety principles, and therefore, believes that no job is so important and no order is so urgent that we cannot take time to perform our work safely. The cooperation of all city employees in observing safety rules and procedures will provide safe working conditions and accident-free performance, which will benefit both the employees and the citizens of the city.
Department supervisors are responsible for developing and carrying out an aggressive program of safety education and training.
Employees must comply with all occupational safety and health standards issued under the OSH Act that apply to their own actions and conduct on the job.
( Ord. of 12-2-2013 )
Sec. 50-243. - General guidelines.
(a)
Ignorance of safety guidelines will not be accepted as an excuse for neglect or the use of unsafe practices in the performance of an employee's job.
(b)
The ability/inability to perform work assignments safely shall be one factor of consideration in the selection and promotion of employees.
(c)
The inability to perform work assignment safely is considered grounds for disciplinary action up to and including termination.
(d)
All unsafe conditions shall be corrected as soon as possible. Specific caution or instructions regarding this condition should be given to all employees working in the area until it can be corrected.
(e)
Each individual employee is responsible for reporting the presence of any hazard or unsafe condition to his/her supervisor.
(f)
Pranks, practical jokes are other types of horseplay are not conducive to a good safety program and will not be tolerated.
( Ord. of 12-2-2013 )
Sec. 50-244. - General safety.
(a)
No smoking is permitted near or around gas pumps or any other flammable liquids.
(b)
All work areas including vehicle cabs must be kept clean and free from all rubbish and debris.
(c)
All materials in storage must be stored in a neat and orderly manner.
(d)
Fire extinguishers must be maintained in all work areas and kept in working condition at all times. All employees should know the location of the fire extinguishers in their working area.
(e)
It is required that all employees learn and follow safe work procedures in the use of tools, equipment and machinery normally used in their work.
(f)
All guards, shields, etc., must be in place and required personal protective items in use at all times when using machines, tools or equipment.
(g)
All tools, equipment and machinery must be kept clean and in good working condition. Regular inspection procedures should be established and followed.
(h)
No employee should attempt to use, adjust, repair or tamper in any way, with any electrical or mechanical equipment unless he has specific authorization to do so.
(i)
All worksites shall be properly marked and all necessary safety precautions taken.
( Ord. of 12-2-2013 )
Sec. 50-245. - Motor vehicle safety.
All employees of the city must have a valid state driver's license to operate a city owned vehicle, and where required, a commercial license.
It is the vehicle operator's responsibility to operate his/her vehicle in a safe and courteous manner, and obey all traffic laws. Seat belts must be worn at all times when operating a city vehicle. City vehicles are constantly under observation of the citizens and must be operated in a safe manner.
Employees shall immediately report all accidents to their department head and notify the city police department to call in an outside agency. The employee shall not leave the scene of an accident until an investigation has been made. Employees involved in an accident shall be required to report for a drug and alcohol test. Failure to report an accident will result in disciplinary action up to and including termination.
Violation citations, fines or other action taken by any police jurisdiction against any employee while driving a city vehicle shall be responsibility of the employee and may cause disciplinary action. Loss of driving privileges through citations or other action taken by any police jurisdiction against any employee must be reported immediately to their department head.
Anyone misusing or abusing city vehicles, using a city vehicle for other than approved purposes, or taking a vehicle home when not approved by the city manager shall be subject to appropriate disciplinary action, including dismissal if deemed appropriate.
( Ord. of 12-2-2013 )
Sec. 50-246. - Job injuries.
An employee must immediately notify his/her department head and the personnel officer of any on the job injury. The personnel officer shall then notify the city manager.
( Ord. of 12-2-2013 )
Secs. 50-247—50-260. - Reserved.
