Chapter 4 - ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES[1]

Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
State Law reference— Alcoholic beverages, O.C.G.A. § 3-1-1 et seq.; alcoholic beverage regulations generally, O.C.G.A. § 3-3-1 et seq.

Sec. 4-1. - Violations.
It shall be unlawful, and a violation of this chapter, for any person or entity to fail to purchase any license, to pay any tax, or for any wholesaler to fail to collect any tax, as prescribed by this chapter. It shall be a continuing violation of this chapter for any person or entity to continue to sell any alcoholic beverage without having purchased any license, or without paying any tax due under this chapter. chapter Upon any person's or entity's receipt of a citation for the violation of this chapter, the city may enter upon the premises where such violation has occurred and order all operations thereon, whether connected to the sale of alcoholic beverages or not, closed until all licenses, taxes and fines are paid in full.
(Ord. No. 95-2, § III, 1-9-1995; Ord. No. 01-08, 9-5-2001)
Sec. 4-2. - License application and issuance.
(a)
The license issued pursuant to the payment of the license fee as set forth herein shall be purchased and held by the owner of the business engaged in selling alcohol, after such owner makes application to the city for such license on such forms as the city prescribes, whether such owner is a natural person or a corporation. All such owners shall be subject to a background check, including, but not limited to, the verification of the applicant's name, address, social security number, and a criminal background check. The city reserves the right to deny a license to any person or entity not in compliance with all state and local laws, or who has a history of criminal activity, or for other reasons which in the opinion of the city council would render their ownership of such a license a threat to the health, welfare or safety of the people of the city.
(b)
After written application is made, such application will be taken under consideration by the city council, and the council will either grant or deny such license within 90 days of the making of the application. Any applicant who is denied a license shall be entitled, upon request, to a written explanation for such denial, and may request a hearing in front of the council so long as such hearing is requested within 30 days of the denial. At such hearing, the city council will reconsider the application and render a vote in support of the denial, or approve the applicant for a license.
(c)
Should any applicant be a corporation, the information required in the application form shall be provided for a majority of the owners, or shareholders, or by the chief operating officer, and the license will be issued in the name of that person or those persons for whom the information is given.
(d)
No license provided for in this chapter shall be transferable. No license provided for in this chapter may be held in the name of any other person or entity other than that person or entity which owns the operation engaged in the business of selling alcohol.
(e)
The city reserves the right to require any person or entity holding a license under this chapter to subject themselves to a new background check at any time after the first year that such license is issued.
(Ord. No. 95-2, § V, 1-9-1995; Ord. No. 01-08, 9-5-2001)
State Law reference— Local licenses required, O.C.G.A. §§ 3-5-40, 3-6-40.
Sec. 4-3. - License fee.
An annual license fee for the sale of alcoholic beverages in the city in the amounts established in chapter 14 is hereby imposed.
(Ord. No. 95-2, § I, 1-9-1995; Ord. No. 01-08, 9-5-2001)
State Law reference— License fees, O.C.G.A. §§ 3-4-48, 3-4-110, 3-5-42.
Sec. 4-4. - Excise taxes levied.
(a)
There is hereby levied an excise tax on the sale of distilled spirits by the package at the rate of $0.22 per liter of distilled spirits.
(b)
There is hereby levied an excise tax on the sale of wine at the rate of $0.22 per liter of wine.
(c)
There is hereby levied a tax on the sale of malt beverages, as follows:
(1)
Where malt beverages, commonly known as tap or draft beer, are sold in or from a barrel or bulk container, a tax of $6.00 on each container sold containing not more than 15½ gallons and a proportionate tax at the same rate on all fractional parts of 15½ gallons;
(2)
Where malt beverages are sold in bottles, cans, or other containers, except barrel or bulk containers, a tax of $0.05 per 12 ounces and a proportionate tax at the same rate on all fractional parts of 12 ounces.
(d)
Each wholesale distributor selling, shipping or in any way delivering distilled spirits or wine to any retailer shall collect the excise tax at the time of deliveries to retailers.
(Ord. No. 95-2, § II, 1-9-1995)
State Law reference— Excise taxes, O.C.G.A. §§ 3-4-80, 3-5-80 et seq., 3-6-60 et seq.
Sec. 4-5. - Collection of distilled spirits and wine tax by wholesaler.
Each wholesaler shall pay to the city all taxes on wine and distilled spirits levied pursuant to section 4-4 that are collected by such wholesaler during each calendar month on or before the 15th day of the next succeeding calendar month. Each wholesaler shall receive, and may deduct from taxes collected and due to the city, three percent of the amount of taxes as reimbursement for the collection and remittance of said taxes. All such remittances must be accompanied by a statement showing the date, product identification and quantity of all liquors sold which are subject to this tax, and a computation of the applicable tax from which such payment was derived.
(Ord. No. 95-2, § IV, 1-9-1995)
Sec. 4-6. - Sale of alcoholic beverages by nonprofit civic organizations for consumption on the premises.
Notwithstanding anything to the contrary, the city does hereby adopt by reference the state statute pertaining to the sale of alcoholic beverages by nonprofit civic organizations, being O.C.G.A. §§ 3-9-3—3-9-5 as amended or as may be amended. The fee for a nonprofit permit to sell alcoholic beverages shall be as established in section 14-1 for a period not to exceed three days and no more than six times in any calendar year.
(Ord. No. 13-02, § I, 7-15-2013)
