Chapter 18 - BUILDINGS AND BUILDING REGULATIONS[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Charter reference— Regulating construction, § 22.
Cross reference— Businesses, ch. 22; burglar alarm business, § 42-26 et seq.; environment, ch. 46; fire prevention and protection, ch. 50; floods, ch. 54; manufactured homes and trailers, ch. 62; signs, ch. 82; streets, sidewalks and other public places, ch. 90; taxation, ch. 94; utilities, ch. 102; zoning, app. A; architectural design district, app. E.
State Constitution reference— Power of city to provide codes, including building, housing, plumbing and electrical codes, art. IX, § II, para. III.
State Law reference— Buildings and housing, O.C.G.A. tit. 8; local adoption and administration of codes, O.C.G.A. § 8-2-25; fire protection and safety, O.C.G.A. tit. 25; buildings presenting special hazards, O.C.G.A. § 25-2-13 et seq.; inspection warrants, O.C.G.A. § 31-5-20 et seq.; bonds for public contractors, O.C.G.A. § 36-82-100 et seq.; electrical contractors, plumbers, conditioned air contractors, low-voltage contractors and utility contractors, O.C.G.A. § 43-14-1 et seq.; condominiums, O.C.G.A. § 44-3-114; time-share interval form of ownership, O.C.G.A. § 44-3-164; nonresident contractors, O.C.G.A. § 48-13-30 et seq.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 18-1. - Fire district.
There shall be certain areas in the city that constitute the fire district as determined by the building inspector and fire marshal.
(Code 1977, § 6-1)
Sec. 18-2. - Line and grade to be obtained.
No person shall begin construction on any residence, dwelling, building, or other structure in the city without having first obtained from the city the line and grade of the street on which such residence, dwelling, building or other structure is to be located.
(Code 1977, § 6-2)
Sec. 18-3. - Moving buildings into city.
It shall be unlawful for any person to move, or cause to be moved, any existing dwelling, house, building, or other structure, into the city from any location outside of the city without approval of the mayor and council.
(Code 1977, § 6-6)
Sec. 18-4. - Contractors; general contractors; defined; certificate required.
(a)
Any person engaged in or who shall engage in the business or capacity of a contractor or general contractor within the city, shall procure, pay a fee for and maintain at all times while so engaged a certificate therefor, each of which shall be a certificate for the calendar year.
(b)
Every person who is engaged in accepting orders or contracts on cost plus, fixed fee, stated sum, percentage, or any combination thereof or other compensation other than wages, doing work on or in any building or structure requiring the use of paint, stone, brick, mortar, cement, wood, structural steel or iron, metallic piping, tin, lead, or any other building material; or doing any paving or curbing on sidewalks or streets on public or private property, using asphalt, brick, stone, cement or wood, or any combination thereof; or excavating for foundations or any other purpose; or constructing sewers, septic tanks or bridges; or who is engaged in building, remodeling, repairing, razing or moving, whether it be by day labor, contract, cost plus, fixed fee, stated sum, percentage, or any combination thereof, or other compensation other than wages, shall be deemed to be a contractor.
(c)
This section shall also include any person engaged in the business of building, remodeling, repairing, razing or moving, and doing its own building without the aid of an outside contractor.
(d)
Any person who engages in supervising the construction, alteration, razing or repairing of buildings in the city, even if doing part of the manual work himself/herself, and who has the general direction and control of the carpenters, masons, or other parties employed in the work, shall be classified as a general contractor, regardless of the method by which he/she is compensated for his/her services.
(e)
No general contractor or contractor shall begin construction on any residence, dwelling, building, or other structure in the city without having first obtained from the city engineer the line grade of the street on which such residence, dwelling, building, or other structure is to be located.
(Code 1977, § 6-7; Ord. No. 94-18, § 3, 12-5-94)
Sec. 18-5. - Gas code adopted; latest edition as adopted by the state; penalty for violation.
(a)
There is hereby adopted by the city, for the purpose of establishing rules and regulations for the construction, alteration or repair of all gas piping and appliances, including permits, that certain gas code known as the Standard Gas Code, latest edition as adopted by the state, promulgated by the Southern Building Code Congress, Birmingham, Alabama, and three copies of which have been and now are filed in the office of the building inspector, and the code is hereby adopted and incorporated as fully as if set out at length in this section, subject to all modifications, amendments, deletions in and conflicting provisions of this Code of Ordinances, and from the date on which this section shall take effect the provisions thereof shall be controlling in the installation of all gas piping and appliances, and other subjects therein contained, within the city with the exceptions mentioned in this subsection.
(b)
Any person violating any provision of such gas code shall be punished as provided in section 1-8.
(Code 1977, § 6-60)
Cross reference— Adoption of fire codes, § 50-26.
Sec. 18-6. - Mechanical code adopted; latest edition as adopted by the state; penalty for violation.
(a)
There is hereby adopted by the city, for the purpose of establishing rules and regulations for the installation, alteration, removal, use, location and maintenance of heating, air conditioning and other mechanical equipment and systems in buildings and structures, including permits, that certain mechanical code known as the Standard Mechanical Code, latest edition, as adopted by the state, promulgated by the Southern Building Code Congress, Birmingham, Alabama, and the whole thereof, save and except such portions as are in conflict with this Code or are hereafter deleted, modified or amended, of which not less than three copies have been and now are filed in the office of the building inspector, and the mechanical code is hereby adopted and incorporated as fully as if set out at length in this section, with the exceptions described in this subsection, and the provisions thereof shall be controlling within the corporate limits of the city.
(b)
Any person violating any of the provisions of the mechanical code shall be punished as provided in section 1-8.
(Code 1977, § 6-70)
Cross reference— Adoption of fire codes, § 50-26.
State Law reference— Conditioned air contractors, O.C.G.A. § 43-14-1 et seq.
Sec. 18-7. - Plumbing code adopted; latest edition as adopted by the state; penalty for violation.
(a)
There is hereby adopted by the city, for the purpose of establishing rules and regulations for the installation, alteration, removal, use, location and maintenance of plumbing equipment, plumbing fixtures and systems in buildings and structures, including permits, that certain plumbing code known as the Standard Plumbing Code, latest edition, as adopted by the state, promulgated by the Southern Building Code Congress, Birmingham, Alabama, and the whole thereof, save and except such portions as are in conflict with this Code or are hereafter deleted, modified or amended, of which not less than three copies have been and now are filed in the office of the building inspector, and the plumbing code is hereby adopted and incorporated as fully as if set out at length in this section, with the exceptions described in this subsection, and the provisions thereof shall be controlling within the corporate limits of the city.
(b)
Any person violating any of the provisions of the plumbing code shall be punished as provided in section 1-8.
(Code 1977, § 6-80)
State Law reference— Plumbers, O.C.G.A. § 43-14-1 et seq.
Sec. 18-7.1. - Self-inspection of water and sewer projects.
Pursuant to the authority contained in section 3 of Act 1046 Georgia Laws, 1996 p. 1632 at p3, subsection (d) of O.C.G.A. § 8-2-26, relating to self-inspection of water and sewer projects by master plumbers or utility contractors, shall not be applicable within the city.
(Ord. No. 96-12, 11-5-96)
Sec. 18-8. - Housing code—Adopted; latest edition as adopted by the state; penalty for violation.
(a)
There is hereby adopted by the city, for the purpose of establishing rules and regulations relating principally to the use, occupancy and maintenance of existing residential buildings, this certain housing code known as the Standard Housing Code, latest edition, as adopted by the state, promulgated by the Southern Building Code Congress, Birmingham, Alabama, and the whole thereof, save and except such portions as are in conflict with this Code or are hereafter deleted, modified or amended, of which not less than three copies have been and now are filed in the office of the building inspector, and the housing code is hereby adopted and incorporated as fully as if set out at length in this section, with the exceptions mentioned in this subsection, and the provisions thereof shall be controlling in the construction, etc., of all buildings and other structures within the corporate limits of the city.
(b)
Any person violating any of the provisions of the housing code shall be punished as provided in section 1-8.
(Code 1977, § 6-110)
Sec. 18-8.1. - [Same—]Definitions.
[For the purposes of the housing code adopted in section 18-8 herein, the following words, terms, and phrases shall have the meanings ascribed to them herein unless the context clearly indicates otherwise:]
Bed means furnishings on or in which one may lie or sleep.
Bedroom means a room furnished with a bed intended primarily for sleeping, including doors and hardware to afford privacy to the occupants of the bedroom.
Sleeping room means a bedroom.
(Ord. No. 95-04, 6-5-95)
Sec. 18-9. - Swimming pool code adopted; latest edition as adopted by the state; penalty for violation.
(a)
There is hereby adopted by the city, for the purpose of establishing rules and regulations for the protection of public health, welfare and safety by prescribing minimum standards for the design, construction or installation, repair or alterations of swimming pools, public or private and equipment related thereto, including permits, that certain swimming pool code known as the Standard Swimming Pool Code, latest edition, as adopted by the state, promulgated by the Southern Building Code Congress, Birmingham, Alabama, and the whole thereof, save and except such portions as are in conflict with this Code or are hereafter deleted, modified or amended, of which not less than three copies have been and now are filed in the office of the building inspector, and the swimming pool code is hereby adopted, and incorporated as fully as if set out at length in this section, with the exceptions mentioned in this subsection, and the provisions thereof shall be controlling in the construction, etc., of all swimming pools within the corporate limits of the city.
(b)
Any person violating any of the provisions of the swimming pool code shall be punished as provided in section 1-8.
(Code 1977, § 6-109)
Sec. 18-10. - Drainage; compliance prerequisite to issuance of permits.
No building permits or any other permits issued by the city shall be granted to any person developing property within the city or erecting any building within the city unless the above provisions have been complied with by the persons involved.
(Code 1977, § 6-5)
Sec. 18-11. - Errors and violations.
(a)
The issuance or granting of a permit or approval of plans and/or specifications shall not be deemed or construed to be a permit for, or an approval of, any violation of any of the provisions of this chapter.
(b)
The issuance of a permit upon plans and specifications shall not prevent the enforcing officer from thereafter requiring the correction of errors in said plans and specifications or from preventing building operations being carried on thereunder when in violation of this chapter, or any regulations of the city.
(Amend. of 7-16-01)
Sec. 18-12. - International Property Maintenance Code adopted.
Except as provided herein the city hereby adopts for the purpose of prescribing regulations, the International Property Maintenance Code, published by the International Code Council. Those provisions of said code which have been amended and modified as shown [herein], attached are hereby adopted and shall supersede the applicable provisions of the International Property Maintenance Code.
Amend 101.1 to read:
101.1 Title. These regulations shall be known as the Property Maintenance Code of the City of Smyrna, hereinafter referred to as "this code". A copy of the IPMC is on file and available at the City's Community Development Department.
Amend 101.3 to read:
101.3 Intent. This code shall be construed to secure its expressed intent, which is to ensure public health, safety and welfare in so far as they are affected by the continued occupancy or vacancy and maintenance of structures and premises. Existing structures and premises that do not comply with these provisions shall be altered or repaired to provide a minimum level of health and safety as required herein. Repairs, alterations, additions to and change of occupancy in existing buildings shall comply with the building and zoning codes as adopted by the City of Smyrna.
Amend 102.3 to read:
102.3 Application of other codes. Repairs, additions or alteration to a structure, or changes of occupancy, shall be done in accordance with the procedures and provisions of the Building Codes as adopted by the City of Smyrna. Nothing in this code shall be construed to cancel, modify or set aside any provision of the Zoning Code. Each and every reference to the Zoning Code shall be construed to mean the Zoning Ordinance of the City of Smyrna.
Amend 102.7 to read:
102.7 Referenced codes and standards. The codes and standards referenced in this code shall be those that are adopted by the City of Smyrna and considered part of the requirements of this code to the prescribed extent of each such reference. Where differences occur between provisions of this code and to the referenced standards, the provisions of this code shall apply.
Amend 103.1 to read:
103.1 General. The Community Development Director or his/her designee and the Fire Chief or his/her designee, shall be responsible for enforcing the provisions of this code. Each and every reference to the Code Official/Building Official shall be construed to mean the Community Development Director and Fire Chief, or their designee.
Delete 103.2 in its entirety:
Amend Section 103.5 to read:
103.5 Fees. The Department may establish necessary fees for the activities and services performed by the department in carrying out its responsibilities under this code. Those fees shall be made available for public inspection.
Add Section 103.6 ReInspection Administrative Fees:
103.6 Assessment of Administrative Fees against Property. The administrative re-inspection fees incurred by the City of Smyrna Building Official, or his designee, in the course of conducting inspections pursuant to the Property Maintenance Code shall be assessed in accordance with the provisions of this section and in accordance with the fee schedule approved by resolution of the Mayor and Council of the City of Smyrna.
1.
When the building official, or his designee, conducts inspections of a building or structure within the scope of this code, re-inspection fees may be assessed against the record owner. In the event three or more inspections (an inspection and two or more re-inspections) are necessary for such property for the purpose of verifying and determining whether code violations have or have not been cured or corrected and it is determined that such code violations have not been cured or corrected, the building official shall be authorized to assess re-inspection fees against the record owner.
2.
When the building official, or his designee, has made a finding that violations of this code exist as to buildings or structures within the scope of this code, and when, after the record owner has been notified of such violation, such violations have not been cured or corrected before the property has undergone its third inspection for the same violation(s), then, upon written notice to the record owner, a monthly enforcement fee may be assessed against the record owner.
3.
Any such enforcement fees may be assessed against the property which contains the violation(s). Said fee(s) shall be against the property concerned by the building official. The Mayor and Council shall hear all complaints against the same, and approve the same as finally adjusted.
Amend Section 106.1 to read:
106.1 Unlawful acts. It shall be unlawful for any, person, firm, corporation or its agents to be in conflict with or in violation of any of the provisions of this code.
Amend Section 107.1 to read:
107.1 Notice to owner or to person or persons responsible. Whenever the Code Official determines that there has been a violation of this code or has grounds to believe that a violation has occurred, notice may be given to the owner or the person or persons responsible therefore in the manner prescribed in Sections 107.2 and 107.3. Notices for condemnation procedures shall also comply with Section 108.3.
Exceptions:
1.
Any property owner, occupant or party of interest who has been issued a citation or a notice of violation for a property maintenance code violation within a twenty-four month period can be issued a citation for any subsequent violations without the reissuance of a notice of violation.
2.
Cases of emergency measures as described in Section 109.
Amend Section 107.2 to read:
107.2 Form. Such notice prescribed in Section 107.1 shall be in accordance with all of the following:
1.
Be in writing.
2.
Include a description of the real estate sufficient for identification.
3.
Include a statement of the violation or violations and why the notice is being issued.
4.
Include a correction order allowing a reasonable time as determined by the Code Official to make the repairs and improvements required to bring the dwelling unit or structure into compliance with the provisions of this code.
5.
Inform the property owner of the right to appeal.
Amend 107.3 to read:
107.3 Method of service. Such notice shall be deemed to be properly served if a copy thereof is:
1.
Delivered personally or posted in a conspicuous place in or about the structure affected by such notice;
2.
Sent by certified or first-class mail addressed to the last known address; or
3.
If the notice is returned showing that the letter was not delivered, a copy thereof shall be posted in a conspicuous place in or about the structure affected by such notice.
Amend Section 109 to read:
109.1 Imminent danger. Whenever, in the judgment of the building official or its designee, an emergency exists which requires immediate action to protect the public health, safety or welfare, an order shall be issued without notice, conference or hearing, directing the owner, occupant, lessee, sub-lessee, operator or agent to take such action as is appropriate to correct or abate the emergency. If circumstances warrant, the building official may act immediately to correct or abate the emergency. The code official or the environmental court judge is hereby authorized and empowered to order and require the occupants to vacate the premises forthwith. The code official shall cause to be posted at each entrance to such structure a notice reading as follows: "This Structure Is Unsafe and Its Occupancy Has Been Prohibited by the Code Official." It shall be unlawful for any person to enter such structure except for the purpose of securing the structure, making the required repairs, removing the hazardous condition or of demolishing the same.
Amend Section 109.4 to read:
109.4 Emergency repairs. For the purposes of this section, the code official may employ the necessary labor and materials to perform the required work as expeditiously as possible.
Amend Section 109.5 to read:
109.5 Costs of emergency repairs. Costs incurred in the performance of emergency work may be paid by the jurisdiction. The legal counsel of the jurisdiction may institute appropriate action against the owner of the premises where the unsafe structure is or was located for the recovery of such costs.
Delete 109.6 in its entirety:
Amend Section 111.1 to read:
111.1 Application for appeal. Any person directly affected by a decision of the code official or a notice or order issued under this code shall have the right to appeal to the license and variance board, provided that a written application for appeal is filed within 10 days after the date of the decision, notice or order was served. An application for appeal shall be based on the claim that the true intent of this code or rules legally adopted thereunder have been incorrectly interpreted, the provisions of this code do not apply, or the requirements of this code are adequately satisfied by other means.
Delete Sections 111.2—111.8 in their entirety:
Replace Section 111.2 with the following section:
111.2 Board of Appeals. The Board of appeals as referred to in this code shall be the license and variance board established by Section 2-141 of the City of Smyrna Municipal Code of Ordinances.
Amend Section 202 by adding the following definitions:
FAMILY. One or more related persons or three or less unrelated persons occupying a dwelling unit and living as a single housekeeping unit.
DUMPSTER. Any container or storage box used for the storage, collection, or removal of construction debris, demolition debris, or other discarded material but shall not include a refuse compactor or grease container, and shall also not include the refuse containers.
Amend Section 302.4 to read:
302.4 Weeds. All premises and exterior property shall be maintained free of weeds or plant growth in excess of 8 inches. All noxious weeds shall be prohibited. Weeds shall be defined as all grasses, annual plants and vegetation, other than trees or shrubs provided: however, this short term shall not include cultivated flowers and gardens.
Amend 303.14 to read:
303.14 Insect screens. Dwelling units which do not have a central air conditioning system shall have screens on all exterior openable windows and doors used or required for ventilation. Screens on windows and doors shall be stretched and fitted and maintained without open rips or tears. A closing device shall be installed on all screen doors.
Exception: Screen doors shall not be required where other approved means, such as air curtains or insect repellent fans, are employed.
Add the following Section 307.4 to the code:
307.4 Roll-off containers and Dumpsters. Dumpsters shall be emptied on a routine basis and be kept free from graffiti or any form of vandalism. All trash must be contained within the dumpster and not filled beyond the intended capacity of the container.
Amend Section 602.3 to read:
602.3 Heat Supply. Every Owner and operator who rents, leases or lets one or more dwelling unit, rooming unit, dormitory or guestroom on terms, either expressed or implied, to furnish heat to the occupants thereof shall supply heat during the period from October 1 to May 1 to maintain a temperature of not less than 65° F (18° C) in all habitable rooms, bathrooms, and toilet rooms.
Amend Section 602.4 to read:
602.4 Occupiable workspaces. Indoor occupiable work spaces shall be supplied with heat during the period from October 1 to May 1 to maintain a temperature not less than 65° F (18° C) during the period that the spaces are occupied.
(Ord. No. 2003-13, 3-17-03; Ord. No. 2010-12 , 12-6-10; Ord. No. 2021-08 , 4-19-21; Ord. No. 2021-13 , 7-6-21
Sec. 18-13. - Temporary perimeter site fencing and screening.
Temporary perimeter site fencing and screening shall be required for all commercial construction sites greater than ten acres in size in order to protect a construction site from: vandalism, unauthorized entry, illegal dumping, to prevent dust, debris and litter intrusion to adjacent properties and rights-of-way; to mitigate the impacts of construction and to improve the visual appearance of the site pursuant to the following guidelines:
(1)
The temporary perimeter site fence shall be made of chain link, be no less than six feet in height, with support poles anchored into the ground (not just sitting on top the ground using "feet" supports) and have screening material attached to the outside of the fence or install landscaping that is approved by the community development director.
(2)
The fence and screening material or fencing and landscaping material shall be installed and maintained at ground level on all exterior sides of the construction site prior to the issuance of a land disturbance permit or a building permit. A fencing plan shall be submitted along with the required civil drawings for the site work. No permit for said fencing is required. If the construction work is to be done in phases, the fencing and screening/landscaping requirement may be installed around each phase as opposed to the entire perimeter of the property.
(3)
Screening material shall be black or green in color. The screening material shall cover the entire fence and shall be maintained and kept in good repair by the developer.
(4)
Gates may be installed on any side of the property deemed necessary. Gates may open inward, slide open or open outward only if the gate when opened does not block any right-of-way or sidewalk. The gate shall be the same height as the fence with an allowance of up to four inches on the bottom of the gate to allow for clearance from the ground to open.
(5)
Landscaping may be used in place of the screening material and shall be installed in front of the fence at a rate of one deciduous tree and three evergreen trees per 40 linear feet of fencing along the exterior sides of the construction site. Plant material may be spaced evenly along the fence or grouped to allow views into the site. Deciduous trees shall be a minimum three-inch caliper and evergreen trees shall be a minimum of six feet tall. Required street trees may be used in addition to the evergreen tree requirement to accomplish screening. Street tree plantings must conform to requirements of section 106.31 of the city tree ordinance.
(6)
All construction materials, dumpsters and portable toilets are required to be placed within the fenced area at all times; and all construction sites shall be secured at night and on weekends when no work is being performed.
(7)
The area outside of the fence, especially between the fence and the street pavement, must be kept clean, level and free of any debris or construction material at all times.
(8)
The temporary site fence and screening and/or landscaping shall remain on the property until a final certificate of occupancy is issued or the above safety, litter, visual concerns, etc. have been met as determined by the community development director.
(9)
An opaque wood privacy (or similar material) may be allowed in lieu of the chain link and screening material required above. However, if a wooden fence is used, landscaping on the outside of the fence shall be required. A wooden fence may also be substituted if required by section 503 (buffer strip requirements) of the city zoning ordinance or is a stipulation that was approved with the zoning classification.
(10)
Existing sidewalks must be maintained throughout the construction process. Construction related damage will require the replacement of damaged sidewalks by the developer to the specifications of the public works department. In situations where construction fences have been approved to encroach upon public right-of-way, such fences will require that a temporary sidewalk be constructed and maintained. The design of such sidewalk(s) must be approved by public works prior to any permits being issued.
(Ord. No. 2010-11 , 11-1-10)
Secs. 18-14—18-30. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - BUILDING CODE[2]

Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
Cross reference— Adoption of fire codes, § 50-26.

Sec. 18-31. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article or the building code, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Building official means the city building inspector. Where the term "electrical inspector," or other inspector, is used it shall mean the person designated as such for this city.
Corporation counsel means the attorney for this city.
Municipality means this city.
(Code 1977, § 6-21)
Cross reference— Definitions generally, § 1-2.
Sec. 18-32. - Adopted; latest edition as adopted by the state; penalty for violation.
(a)
There are hereby adopted by the city, for the purpose of establishing rules and regulations for the construction, alteration, removal, demolition, equipment, use and occupancy, location and maintenance of buildings and structures, including permits, those certain building codes known as the Standard Building Code, CABO One- and Two-Family Dwelling Code and Standard Unsafe Building Abatement Code, latest editions as adopted by the state, promulgated by the Southern Building Code Congress, Birmingham, Alabama, and the whole thereof, save and except such portions as are in conflict with this Code or are hereafter deleted, modified or amended, of which not less than three copies have been and now are filed in the office of the building inspector, and the building codes are hereby adopted and incorporated as fully as if set out at length in this article with the exceptions described in this subsection, and the provisions thereof shall be controlling in construction, etc., of all buildings and other structures within the corporate limits of the city.
(b)
Any person violating any of the provisions of the building code shall be punished as provided in section 1-8.
(Code 1977, § 6-20)
State Law reference— Statewide application of minimum standard codes, O.C.G.A. § 8-2-25.
Sec. 18-33. - Reserved.
Editor's note— Ord. No. 2022-14 , adopted June 6, 2022, repealed § 18-33 which pertained to compliance by contractors and bonding requirements and derived from 1977 Code § 6-20.2 and Ord. No. 94-18, adopted December 5, 1994.
Sec. 18-34. - Building inspector—Office created.
The office of building inspector is hereby created.
(Code 1977, § 6-22)
Cross reference— Administration, ch. 2.
Sec. 18-35. - Same—Duties.
It shall be the duty of the building inspector to enforce all laws relating to the construction, alteration, removal, and demolition of buildings and structures.
(Code 1977, § 6-23)
Sec. 18-36. - Same—Right of entry.
The building inspector, in the discharge of his/her official duties and upon proper identification, shall have authority to enter any building, structure or premises at any reasonable hour.
(Code 1977, § 6-24)
Sec. 18-37. - Appeals.
From a denial of a building permit or other adverse decision by the building inspector, any person may appeal to the mayor and council.
(Code 1977, § 6-25)
Secs. 18-38—18-60. - Reserved.
ARTICLE III. - ELECTRICAL CODE[3]
Footnotes:
--- (3) ---
Cross reference— Adoption of fire codes, § 50-26; application for sign permit, § 82-37.
State Law reference— Electrical contractors, O.C.G.A. § 43-14-1 et seq.

DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Sec. 18-61. - Adopted; penalty.
(a)
There is hereby adopted by the city, for the purpose of establishing rules and regulations for the installation, alteration, removal, location and maintenance of all electrical wiring and wiring devices, including permits, that certain electrical code known as the National Electrical Code, published by the National Fire Protection Association and recommended by the American Insurance Association, successor to the National Board of Fire Underwriters, being the latest edition as adopted by the state, and three copies of which have been and now are filed in the office of the building inspector; and the electrical code is hereby adopted and incorporated as fully as if set out at length in this article, subject to all modifications, amendments, deletions in and conflicting provisions of this Code, and the provisions thereof shall be controlling in the installation of all wiring devices and other subjects therein contained within the city with the exceptions mentioned in this subsection.
(b)
Any person violating any provision of such electrical code shall be punished as provided in section 1-8.
(Code 1977, § 6-30)
Sec. 18-62. - Layout or blueprint—Required generally.
Before beginning work on the wiring of any new building or structure for light, heat or power, or installation of any electrical equipment or appliance, a satisfactory layout or blueprint shall be submitted to the electrical inspector.
(Code 1977, § 6-45)
Sec. 18-63. - Same—Requirement may be waived.
The application for permit to perform work under this article may, in the discretion of the electrical inspector, be deemed to contain sufficient information and be accepted in lieu of layout or blueprint, but the acceptance of such application for permit does not fulfill such requirements if, after its acceptance, in the opinion of the electrical inspector, such blueprint is deemed necessary.
(Code 1977, § 6-46)
Sec. 18-64. - Covering wiring.
It shall be unlawful for any person to cover or conceal any electric wiring without prior inspection and written authorization by the electrical inspector.
(Code 1977, § 6-47)
Sec. 18-65. - Approval of work by electrical inspector; turning on of current.
Upon notification of the completion of electrical work, it shall be the duty of the electrical inspector to inspect the wiring or work, and if approved by him/her as being in conformity with this article, the rules prescribed pursuant to this article, the statutes of the state, and the approved methods of construction for safety to life and property, he/she shall issue his/her certificate of approval which shall authorize the current to be turned on, provided this section shall not apply to cases where temporary approval may be granted.
(Code 1977, § 6-48)
Sec. 18-66. - Cure of defects upon notice.
Any person who shall fail to correct any defects in his/her work within five days after having been duly notified of such defects by the electrical inspector, shall not receive any further permit until such defects have been corrected. Immediately after the correction of such defects, the electrical inspector shall be notified of such corrections.
(Code 1977, § 6-49)
Sec. 18-67. - Conditions to resuming service to buildings damaged by fire.
Electric service shall not be resumed on or in the premises of any building or structure damaged by fire without approval of the electrical inspector. Before beginning work on any electrical installation damaged by fire, a ruling shall be obtained from the electrical inspectors as to what portion of the wiring must be replaced.
(Code 1977, § 6-50)
Sec. 18-68. - Removal of obsolete wiring.
Any person making major changes in wiring installation of old buildings shall remove all obsolete wiring.
(Code 1977, § 6-51)
Sec. 18-69. - Exemptions.
This article shall not cover minor electrical repairs, involving no new work, alteration or change whatever, that may be necessary or incident only to the maintenance in good condition of any established plant, installation or system of wiring, but this authorization does not extend to installation of new circuits or the extension of any circuits already installed, or the installation of any apparatus, devices or materials whatever for which a permit is required under this article.
(Code 1977, § 6-52)
Secs. 18-70—18-80. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - ELECTRICAL INSPECTOR[4]

Footnotes:
--- (4) ---
Cross reference— Administration, ch. 2.

Sec. 18-81. - Powers and duties in general.
It shall be the duty of the electrical inspector to inspect or have inspected all electrical construction, installation and equipment of whatever character, whether inside or outside of buildings, and he/she shall have the power to order removed, repaired or rebuilt any such construction, installation or equipment when in his/her judgment, life or property will be better protected thereby. It shall be his/her duty to see that all laws governing electric engineering or construction are strictly complied with.
(Code 1977, § 6-33)
Sec. 18-82. - Right of entry.
The electrical inspector shall have the right at reasonable times in the discharge of his/her duties, to enter any building under construction or completed, or enter any manhole, or climb any pole for the purpose of examining and testing any electrical wiring, construction, or appliance therein or thereon. For that purpose he/she shall be given prompt access to all buildings, public or private, and to all manholes or poles on application to the person owning or in charge of the same.
(Code 1977, § 6-34)
Sec. 18-83. - Discontinuing current generally.
In any case of failure to comply with this article, the electrical inspector shall have the authority, after due notice, to cut off current in any locality concerned and to enforce discontinuance of the current until the requirements are complied with.
(Code 1977, § 6-36)
Sec. 18-84. - Condemnation; discontinuing current after notice.
The electrical inspector shall have the authority to condemn any electric wiring, equipment or appliance which, in his/her opinion, is unsafe to life or property and after three days' notice shall order the current discontinued from such electric wiring, equipment or appliance.
(Code 1977, § 6-37)
Sec. 18-85. - Making and promulgating rulings; regulations.
The electrical inspector may make such rulings or promulgate such regulations as he/she may deem necessary to properly administer this article.
(Code 1977, § 6-38)
Secs. 18-86—18-95. - Reserved.
DIVISION 3. - PERMIT

Sec. 18-96. - Required.
No installation or alteration shall be made of the wiring in any building or structure for light, heat or power, or increase in the rated load, as fixed by the city electrical code, carried by such wires, without a permit therefor from the electrical inspector. Such permit shall be issued only to a licensed electrical contractor, or to a person doing work in his/her own home without the assistance of any other person.
(Code 1977, § 6-39)
Sec. 18-97. - Application.
Before beginning any work of electrical installation, construction or repair, an application for a permit shall be made to the electrical inspector on forms furnished for that purpose, which application shall contain an accurate and detailed account of the electrical work contemplated, as provided for in the forms furnished.
(Code 1977, § 6-40)
Sec. 18-98. - Information required; payment of fees.
Any person proposing to do wiring work or installation of electrical apparatus or fixtures for use in connection with electricity, shall, before undertaking the work, or making the installations, file with the electrical inspector a statement in writing which shall give the proposed location by street and number and the name of the person for whom the work is to be done, and also shall set out in detail the amount or scope of wiring, electrical work, electrical apparatus, or other electrical devices or fixtures for use in connection with electricity, and shall pay to the city, on statements prepared in the office of the electrical inspector, the amount of fees provided for in this division. When the fees have been paid, the electrical inspector, after approval of the application, shall issue a permit therefor. The fees set forth in this division are to cover the cost of making necessary periodic inspections of electrical installations as set forth in this article, throughout the progress of the work and until the work has been finally completed and approved by the electrical inspector. If required by the electrical inspector, the applicant shall file a general plan of construction and detailed description of apparatus, devices, appliances or fixtures to be used in the work.
(Code 1977, § 6-41)
Sec. 18-99. - Additional work.
If after obtaining a permit for electrical work it is found necessary to change or increase the load of electric current, an application for a permit covering the additional work shall be filed.
(Code 1977, § 6-42)
Sec. 18-100. - Limited to one job and building.
An electrical permit shall be issued to cover only one designated job. Each permit shall apply to only one building.
(Code 1977, § 6-43)
Sec. 18-101. - Fees.
All permit fees shall be approved by mayor and council. A copy of the permit fee schedule shall be on file in the building inspector's office for enforcement and review. Permit fees shall be reviewed by mayor and council from time to time for adjustment or modification.
(Code 1977, § 6-44)
Secs. 18-102—18-110. - Reserved.
DIVISION 4. - TEMPORARY WIRING

Sec. 18-111. - Purposes.
Temporary wiring may be installed when a written permit is secured from the electrical inspector for the following purposes:
(1)
To be used to supply power for the purpose of hoisting material used in a building under construction or remodeling; and for the purpose of lighting the building or structure used in connection with the construction of such building; and
(2)
For the purpose of lighting tents or buildings used for religious gatherings or shows, where the tents or buildings will only be used for a short duration of time, or for decorative purposes where wiring will only be used for a short time.
(Code 1977, § 6-53)
Sec. 18-112. - Approval if installation safe.
A permit for temporary wiring may be issued covering work as outlined in section 18-111 when such work is installed in such manner as not to endanger life or property.
(Code 1977, § 6-54)
Sec. 18-113. - For portions of building.
A permit for temporary wiring may be issued for the purpose of allowing current to be turned on to certain parts of wiring installations which have been made safe to the satisfaction of the electrical inspector in order to allow the testing out of certain electrical equipment, and in order to allow tenants, lessees or owners to use certain completed parts of buildings before the entire job is completed.
(Code 1977, § 6-55)
Sec. 18-114. - Time for which permit issued; application for temporary service.
(a)
A permit for temporary wiring shall be issued for a period of no more than 90 days. If necessary for temporary work to remain for more than 90 days, request for such extension shall be made in writing by the person holding the permit. Upon expiration of temporary permit, such service shall be immediately discontinued, unless approval of extension of time is obtained from the electrical inspector. The application for temporary service shall state the period of time the service is required and the necessity for temporary service.
(b)
Upon expiration of a temporary permit, such service shall be immediately discontinued, unless approval of extension of time is obtained from the electrical inspector. The application for temporary service shall state the period of time the service is required and the necessity for the temporary service.
(Code 1977, § 6-56)
Secs. 18-115—18-135. - Reserved.
ARTICLE IV. - BUILDINGS HEARING OFFICER[5]

Footnotes:
--- (5) ---
Cross reference— Administration, ch. 2.

Sec. 18-136. - Office established.
There is hereby established for the city the office of buildings hearing officer with all the rights, powers and duties as provided for by O.C.G.A. §§ 41-2-7—41-2-17. The buildings hearing officer shall:
(1)
Serve at the pleasure of the mayor and council; and
(2)
Be the public officer as defined in O.C.G.A. §§ 41-2-7—41-2-17.
(Code 1977, § 11-50)
Sec. 18-137. - Notice and hearing.
(a)
Upon the receipt of a written request, without regard to form, signed by:
(1)
Any public authority;
(2)
Five citizens of the city;
(3)
Any building inspector of the city;
(4)
Any fire marshal of the city;
(5)
Any police officer of the city; or
(6)
Any other elected or appointed official of the city, having charge of any activities concerning dwellings, buildings or structures.
(b)
Based upon personal observation or reasonable belief that any dwelling, building, or structure is:
(1)
Unfit for human habitation;
(2)
Is unfit for commercial, industrial, or business use;
(3)
Is vacant, dilapidated, and is being used in connection with the commission of drug crimes; or
(4)
Has an accumulation of weeds, trash, junk, filth, and other unsanitary or unsafe conditions which create a public health hazard or a general nuisance to those persons residing in the vicinity.
(c)
The buildings hearing officer shall issue and cause to be served upon the owner of, and all parties in interest, in such dwelling, building or structure a complaint stating the charges in that respect and containing a notice:
(1)
That a hearing will be held before the buildings hearing officer or his/her designated agent, in the city, not less than ten nor more than 30 days after receipt by the owner and all parties in interest in the property, of the complaint;
(2)
That the owner of, and all parties in interest, in such dwelling, building or structure has the right to file a written answer;
(3)
Appear in person or otherwise, and give testimony; and
(4)
That the rules of evidence prevailing in courts of law or equity shall not be controlling in the hearing before the buildings hearing officer.
(Code 1977, § 11-51)
Sec. 18-138. - Findings of fact.
After the notice and hearing provided for in section 18-137, the buildings hearing officer may determine whether a dwelling, building or structure is unfit for human habitation or is unfit for its current commercial, industrial, or business use, or that other unsanitary or unsafe conditions exist which create a public health hazard or a general nuisance, by finding that the following conditions exist in or around such dwelling, building or structure:
(1)
Those dangerous or injurious to the health, safety, or morals of the occupants of such dwelling, building or structure;
(2)
Those dangerous or injurious to the health, safety, or morals of the occupants of neighborhood dwellings, buildings or structures;
(3)
Those dangerous or injurious to the health, safety, or morals of other residents of the city or county;
(4)
A dwelling, building or structure is vacant, dilapidated, and being used in connection with drug crimes, upon personal observation or report of a law enforcement agency and evidence of drug crimes being committed;
(5)
An accumulation of weeds, trash, junk, filth, and other unsanitary or unsafe conditions which create a public health hazard or a general nuisance; or
(6)
Any of the conditions, without limiting the generality of subsections (1)—(5) of this section, listed in O.C.G.A. § 41-2-10, which is made a part hereof by reference.
(Code 1977, § 11-52)
Sec. 18-139. - Filing of determination in writing.
It shall be the duty of the building hearing officer, within a reasonable time after any notice hearing, to forward a copy of his/her findings, orders, any transcripts, minutes or recordings of the hearing, and the determination of the reasonable costs of any repair, together with a finding of the reasonable value, of the dwelling, building or structure to the mayor and council, by filing a copy of the same with the city clerk.
(Code 1977, § 11-53)
Sec. 18-140. - Appeal.
(a)
Any owner, person in possession of the property, or any other party at interest who, after notice and hearing before the buildings hearing officer, disagrees with his/her findings, may appeal the findings to the mayor and council. Such appeal shall be filed with the city clerk, in writing, within ten days after the date of the filing of determination in writing, by the buildings hearing officer, as provided for in section 18-139, by stating with particularity the basis of such appeal, and the facts to be considered.
(b)
Any owner, person in possession of the property, or any other party at interest who disagrees with the findings of the mayor and council may apply for certiorari to the county superior court under the rules provided for in civil proceedings.
(Code 1977, § 11-54)
Sec. 18-141. - Council action.
At any regular or called meeting of mayor and council, after receiving the report provided in section 18-139, or upon the appeal to mayor and council of any action as provided in section 18-140, the mayor and council as the governing body of the city may:
(1)
Dismiss the complaint;
(2)
Uphold and ratify the findings of the buildings hearing officer;
(3)
By ordinance, order the buildings hearing officer to proceed to effectuate the purpose of O.C.G.A. §§ 41-2-7—41-2-17 with respect to the particular property the buildings hearing officer shall have found to be unfit for human habitation or unfit for its current commercial, industrial, or business use, which property shall be described in a manner sufficient to identify the property;
(4)
Determine the value of the dwelling, building, or structure and determine the cost of repair, alteration or improvement thereof;
(5)
Assess the cost of the proceeding against the proper party;
(6)
Determine that a dwelling, building or structure is vacant, dilapidated, and being used in connection with drug crimes, upon personal observation or report of a law enforcement agency and evidence of drug crimes being committed;
(7)
Determine that any property has an accumulation of weeds, trash, junk, filth, and other unsanitary or unsafe conditions which create a public health hazard or a general nuisance;
(8)
Do any or all of the procedures listed in subsections (1) through (7) of this section as justice may require and any thing or act which will protect the lives and property and health, safety, and welfare or otherwise prevent conditions inimical to the welfare of the citizens of the city, county, or state.
(Code 1977, § 11-55)
Sec. 18-142. - Corrective action.
(a)
If the buildings housing officer has determined and issued an order to repair, replace, demolish, alter or improve, as specified in O.C.G.A. § 41-2-9, which section is made a part hereof by reference, after a notice and hearing as specified in section 18-137, and the owner, person in possession of the property, or any other party at interest fails to comply, the mayor and council may require the demolition or removal thereof, upon a finding that the cost of repair, alteration, or improvement thereof exceeds one-half the value such dwelling, building, or structure will have when repaired to satisfy the minimum requirements of this law and the ordinances of the city.
(b)
If the owner, person in possession of the property, or any other party at interest fails to comply with such order, the mayor and council may cause the demolition or removal thereof under the authority and provisions of this article and O.C.G.A. §§ 41-2-7—41-2-17, which are made a part thereof and incorporated in this section by reference.
(Code 1977, § 11-56)
Sec. 18-143. - Legislative actions cumulative.
Ordinances of the city relating to the same subject matter are not repealed, and the ordinances shall be of equal force and effect, and nothing shall be construed to abrogate or impair the enforcement thereof. This article shall be in addition to and supplemental to any other law or ordinance.
(Code 1977, § 11-57)
Secs. 18-144—18-165. - Reserved.
ARTICLE V. - EXCAVATING AND TRENCHING[6]

Footnotes:
--- (6) ---
State Law reference— Blasting or excavating near underground gas pipes and utility facilities, O.C.G.A. § 25-9-1 et seq.; making excavations up to boundary line, O.C.G.A. § 44-9-3.

Sec. 18-166. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Certificate means the certificate issued by the county or other jurisdictions approved by the county upon satisfactory completion of a mandatory training/educational program regarding excavation and trench safety practices, such program to be provided by the county.
Certificate holder means the holder of the certificate.
Excavation means any manmade cavity or depression in the earth's surface including its sides, walls or faces, formed by earth removal and producing unsupported earth conditions by reasons of the excavation. If installed forms or similar structures reduce the depth-to-width relationship, an excavation may become a trench.
OSHA means the U.S. Department of Labor, Occupational Safety and Health Administration, or successor agency.
Supervisory personnel means any person who has the responsibility for layout, oversight, superintending, directing or controlling an excavation or trenching site.
Trench means a narrow excavation made below the surface of the ground. In general, the depth is greater than the width, but the width of a trench is not greater than 15 feet.
(Code 1977, § 6-111)
Cross reference— Definitions generally, § 1-2.
Sec. 18-167. - Violations; penalties.
(a)
Violations of this article may result in revocation or suspension of any certificate issued under this article, as set out in this article.
(b)
Violations of this article may result in revocation or suspension of any permit issued under this article, as set out in this article.
(c)
A notice of violation shall be issued for any deficiency. Upon receipt of such notice, the deficiency shall be corrected immediately.
(d)
All excavation and trenching work upon any job site shall cease immediately when there is trench activity by any person not a certificate holder, and/or a refusal or failure to correct immediately, and/or when such work is being done without a permit.
(e)
If deficiencies identified in a notice of violation are not corrected, the building permit, land disturbance permit, or any other permit issued by the city may be suspended or revoked for due cause upon the conditions identified in this section for revocation of permit. Flagrant and/or repeated violations shall be reported by the city to OSHA for action by that agency.
(f)
Any person violating any of the provisions of this article shall be punishable by a fine or imprisonment, or both, for each violation. In addition, every violation of the terms of this article by any person shall be deemed a nuisance and a continuing nuisance so long as such violation may be continued. Such violation is subject to abatement as a nuisance as provided by the laws of this state.
(g)
Any violation of this article shall be subject to injunction.
(h)
The remedies contained in this section are cumulative. Pursuance of any one remedy shall not be deemed an election of remedies and shall not prohibit pursuance of more than one remedy simultaneously.
(Code 1977, § 6-117)
Sec. 18-168. - Adoption of OSHA safety and health regulations.
All safety and health regulations adopted by OSHA with regard to excavating and trenching operations, particularly part 1926, subpart P: Excavations, Trenching, and Shoring, sections 1926.650, 1926.651, 1926.652, 1926.653 of the Code of Federal Regulations, as the regulations now exist or may be hereafter amended, are adopted as a part of this article as if quoted verbatim in this article.
(Code 1977, § 6-112)
Sec. 18-169. - Compliance required.
No individual, partnership, corporation or other entity of any kind whatsoever shall engage in any excavation or trenching, except in compliance with the provisions of this article and in compliance with any applicable laws of the state or of the United States or any rules and regulations of the U.S. Department of Labor, Occupational Safety and Health Administration, or any other state or federal governmental entity or department promulgating rules and regulations applicable to excavating and trenching.
(Code 1977, § 6-113)
Sec. 18-170. - Certificate required.
(a)
No equipment operator or supervisory personnel shall participate in any excavation or trenching, or in any way work in an excavation or trench, unless such person holds a valid certificate from the county or other jurisdiction approved by the county evidencing satisfactory practices provided by the county or other jurisdiction approved by the county. No other person shall participate in or work in any excavation or trenching site, unless a certificate holder is present at the excavation or trench site where work is being performed.
(b)
If any person who holds a valid certificate is found to be in violation of the safety standards and requirements on any job site, the certificate may be revoked after notice and hearing as provided in this section. In the event of revocation, the certificate may be reinstated one time, upon repeat by the person of the educational program required for issuance of the initial certificate.
(c)
No certificate shall be suspended or revoked, except for due cause and only after a hearing before the mayor and city council. Written notice shall be given to the holder of such certificate of the time, place and purpose of such a hearing and a statement of the charge upon which such hearing shall be held. Three days' notice shall be deemed reasonable, but shorter or longer periods of notice shall be authorized, as the mayor and city council may deem the circumstances to justify. Due cause for revocation shall consist of the violating of any laws or ordinances regulating excavation or trenching. At any such hearing, the certificate holder shall be entitled to be represented by an attorney and to cross examine any witnesses who may appear and to present evidence in his/her own behalf.
(Code 1977, § 6-114)
Sec. 18-171. - Permit required.
(a)
No excavating or trenching shall be performed until a permit or authorization for excavating or trenching has been obtained from the city. Any applicant will be required to acknowledge receipt and understanding of safety requirements before any permit will be issued. All such permits shall be conspicuously posted upon the job site. No such permit shall be suspended or revoked, except for due cause and after hearing before the mayor and city council, after notice to the permit holder of the date, time and place of hearing, along with notice of the charges. Due cause shall consist of the violating of any laws or ordinances regulating excavating or trenching. Three days' notice shall be deemed reasonable, but shorter or longer periods of notice shall be authorized, as the mayor and city council may deem the circumstances to justify. At such hearing, the permit holder shall be entitled to be represented by an attorney, to cross examine any witnesses who may appear against him/her, and to present evidence in his/her own behalf.
(b)
No permit or authorization shall be issued, unless an authorized agent of the applicant holds a certificate.
(Code 1977, § 6-115)
Sec. 18-172. - Inspection by city.
The city personnel shall periodically inspect trench/excavation sites. Such inspectors shall, among other things, verify the presence of the required permit, verify existence of required certificates, and verify compliance with the OSHA safety standards adopted in this article.
(Code 1977, § 6-116)
