Chapter 34 - COURTS[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Charter reference— Creation, etc., of municipal court, § 35 et seq.
Cross reference— Administration, ch. 2; law enforcement, ch. 58.
State Law reference— Courts, O.C.G.A. tit. 15; municipal courts, O.C.G.A. § 36-32-1 et seq.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Secs. 34-1—34-25. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - MUNICIPAL COURT
DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Sec. 34-26. - Court session day and time, term of court.
The municipal court shall be in session as established by the presiding judge. The term of court shall be 30 calendar days from the date of court.
(Code 1977, § 8-9; Ord. No. 20-04, 11-20-00)
Sec. 34-27. - Appearance before judge of persons served; failure to appear.
(a)
In any case where any person is charged with the violation of any of the provisions of this Code or any other ordinance of the city and a copy of charges or other citation is delivered to such person requiring him/her to appear before the judge at a specified time and place, it shall be the duty of such person to appear at the time and place set out in such charges or citation.
(b)
Any person failing to appear at the time and place set out in such charges or citation shall be guilty of contempt of court.
(Code 1977, § 8-10)
Sec. 34-28. - Attendance of witnesses.
The attendance of witnesses may be enforced by subpoena under the same rules as in the superior court, and any witness who shall fail to attend municipal court after having been legally subpoenaed or who shall refuse to testify shall be punished as provided for in section 1-8.
(Code 1977, § 8-11)
Sec. 34-29. - Contempt of court.
Any person who, during the sitting of the municipal court, shall be guilty of contempt of court or who shall refuse to abide by or perform any sentence, order or judgments of the court shall be guilty of an offense and, upon conviction thereof, be punished as provided for by law.
(Code 1977, § 8-12)
Charter reference— Authorized punishments by municipal court, § 35.
Sec. 34-30. - Collection of fines—Methods.
When a fine has been imposed by the judge, the offender shall remain in custody until it is paid, or the judge may order the fine suspended, probated, or satisfied through community service as provided for in O.C.G.A. §§ 42-8-70 through 42-8-74 and 17-10-1.
(Code 1977, § 8-14)
Sec. 34-31. - Same—Acceptable forms of payment.
All fines levied by the municipal court shall be paid by cash, money order or cashier's check.
(Code 1977, § 8-15)
Sec. 34-32. - Traffic school meeting day.
A traffic school shall be scheduled on the last Tuesday of each month.
(Code 1977, § 8-16)
Charter reference— Authority to require attendance at traffic school, § 35.
Sec. 34-33. - Appeals.
Any person convicted in municipal court shall have the right of appeal to the superior court of the county. Appeals to the superior court shall be filed within 30 days from the date of conviction and shall be filed in accordance with the procedures established by O.C.G.A. §§ 5-2-1 through 5-4-20 and 40-13-28.
(Code 1977, § 8-17)
State Law reference— Time for filing appeals, O.C.G.A. § 5-3-20.
Sec. 34-34. - Disposition of city convicts or prisoners.
(a)
It shall be the duty of the court services officer or community service officer to supervise offenders sentenced to community service work in accordance with O.C.G.A. §§ 42-8-70 through 42-8-74.
(b)
The community service officer shall be appointed by the presiding judge of the municipal court in accordance with O.C.G.A. §§ 42-8-70(a)(3) and 17-10-1.
(Code 1977, § 8-18)
Sec. 34-35. - Power to seal records in certain cases.
(a)
The judge of the municipal court shall have the authority, while sitting as court of first instance in criminal cases or as final arbiter in municipal offenses, to seal to all persons except criminal justice officials all criminal records of the municipality, including, but not limited to, records of arrest, fingerprints and photographs, whether maintained in the police agency of the city or elsewhere in the city, related to any individual upon a finding by the judge that such order is necessary and appropriate to preserve the future welfare of the individual; that the order is warranted by unusual circumstances of the case; that the order would not be against the best interests of the public health, safety, welfare and morals of the city or its citizens; and that one of the following conditions shall exist:
(1)
When, upon call of a case for trial, the charges against the individual are dismissed upon motion of the arresting officer, or because of the lack of prosecution of such charges by the arresting officer, the city, or any prosecutor;
(2)
When there appears to the court any suspicion of infringement of the constitutional rights of the accused;
(3)
When the individual has satisfactorily completed any work-release requirements, or made satisfactory restitution to any aggrieved party, or attended school, traffic school or other meetings as specified by the court; provided, however, that this subsection shall apply to youthful or first offender cases only;
(4)
When the individual record involves traffic and misdemeanor charges which may become a bar to acceptance into military service or private employment and an affidavit to that effect is presented to the court, executed by a citizen of the county other than the offender or accused.
(b)
The provisions of subsection (a) of this section shall be executed, provided that no such order shall become permanent until 30 days after the court has furnished the mayor and council and chief of police of the city with a written report of such action listing the name of the individual, nature of the offense and cause for the action, during which time the mayor and council or chief of police shall have the right to interpose any objection to the court for such order.
(c)
Sealed records shall be kept apart from the regular files of the department of police and the city, under lock, and shall not be a part of the records of the department of police and shall not be subject to review, comment or report by the city or any of its departments except upon specific request for a sealed report by criminal justice officials.
(d)
Any such order, so expunging the records of an individual who has been arrested, shall in no way constitute an adjudication of any illegal or wrongful action on the part of the arresting officer or of the city.
(Code 1977, § 8-19)
Sec. 34-36. - Authority to establish probation office.
The city shall have the authority to create a probation office. The probation office shall have the duty of supervising persons sentenced to probation in the municipal court. The probation office shall have such other duties as may be given to it by the city. The probation office may collect a monthly probation fee from any individual on probation as is set by the judge of the municipal court.
(Ord. No. 93-02, § 1, 2-15-93; Ord. No. 2005-22, 6-6-05)
Sec. 34-37. - Authority to establish an indigent defense system.
(a)
The internal operating procedures set forth in the Indigent Defense Plan for the city, developed with the advice and cooperation of the Cobb
County Judicial Circuit's Indigent Defense Program, a copy of which is hereby set forth as Exhibit "A" is hereby adopted as the official policy of the city.
(b)
The administrator for the plan shall be the clerk of court for the Smyrna Municipal Court. The clerk shall provide a form for requesting appointed counsel to any defendant in a case pending in the municipal court and shall forward any such form or other request for appointed counsel to the chief judge of the municipal court for review.
(c)
The clerk of court shall maintain a list of attorneys deemed eligible for appointment by the chief judge of the municipal court. The panel or roster of attorneys from which appointments may be made by the municipal court of the city, may be compiled by periodically soliciting attorneys who are on the panel of qualified attorneys created by the Cobb County Indigent Defense System. Any attorney on the county's panel of attorneys who is involuntarily removed for cause pursuant to the rules of the Cobb County Indigent Defense Plan shall be ineligible for appointment by the municipal court of the city. Any other qualified attorney not appearing on the county's panel of qualified attorneys may request his or her inclusion on the Smyrna panel and may be included on the Smyrna panel if found to be qualified by the chief municipal court judge. Any attorney accepting an appointment by the municipal court of the city shall be required to comply with the guidelines and standards applicable to panel attorneys and other appointed counsel set forth in Exhibit "A", which is on file and available for inspection in the office of the clerk of court.
(d)
Any fee or expense invoice submitted by appointed counsel shall be submitted to the clerk of court and shall be reviewed by the chief judge, whose decision regarding Smyrna panel attorneys, payment of fees, expenses, and costs shall be final and may not be appealed except as may be provided by law.
(e)
To the extent that Exhibit "A" assumes a standard for determining an indigent defendant's right to appointed counsel inconsistent with the holding of Alabama vs. Shelton, it shall be the policy of the city to apply the standards of Alabama vs. Shelton.
(f)
Unless otherwise ordered by the municipal court, any appointment of counsel by the municipal court of Smyrna shall terminate upon the entry of an order binding the case over to a court of record prior to any adjudication of the merits of the case by the municipal court.
(g)
The chief judge of the municipal court of Smyrna may develop internal operating procedures and forms and other documents as may be necessary to effectuate this section.
(Ord. No. 2005-1, 1-18-05)
Sec. 34-38. - Municipal court technology fund.
(a)
There shall be imposed by the municipal court a technology surcharge in the amount of $6.50 per offense, for all offenses except O.C.G.A. §§ 40-8-76 and 40-8-76.1, or any other violation for which a tax or surcharge is prohibited and; said technology surcharge to be in addition to all other fines, fees, and surcharges imposed by the municipal court and documented in the bond/fine schedule.
(b)
All revenue derived from the technology surcharge shall be utilized by the city to provide for technology support for either city law enforcement, probation functions or municipal court functions.
(Ord. No. 2006-9, 4-17-06; Ord. No. 2019-10 , 4-15-19)
Secs. 34-39—34-45. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - BAIL OR APPEARANCE BOND[2]

Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
Cross reference— Bail bondsmen, § 22-266 et seq.
State Law reference— Bonds and recognizances, O.C.G.A. § 17-6-1 et seq.

Sec. 34-46. - Authorized; forfeiture.
(a)
When any officer has made an arrest of an offender against any provision of this Code or ordinance of the city and where a trial cannot be had immediately, the arresting officer may require bail or an appearance bond for such offender, or if such offender fails or refuses to give such bail or bond, the officer may confine such offender in the city jail until a trial can be had, unless such offender is released by the presiding judge, chief of police or other authority.
(b)
When bail or bond is given and the offender fails to appear in municipal court as scheduled, the presiding judge shall forfeit the bail (cash bond) posted, or issue a judgement absolute for such offender (principal) and sureties, requiring such sureties to produce the offender or face default on the bond.
(Code 1977, § 8-5)
Charter reference— Admission to bail of state law violation defendants, § 36; admission to bail of ordinance violation defendants, § 39.
State Law reference— Proceedings for forfeiture of bonds or recognizances, O.C.G.A. § 17-6-70 et seq.; authority of municipal corporations to provide for forfeiture of appearance bonds, O.C.G.A. § 36-32-4.
Sec. 34-47. - Cash bail; acceptable bonds or recognizances.
Any person charged with violating this Code or any ordinance of the city or any state traffic law is entitled to be released as follows:
(1)
Copy of charges. Any person may be released, at the discretion of the arresting officer or other authorized officer, on signing a copy of charges, unless otherwise established by law or court order.
(2)
Posting cash bail. Any person shall be released upon posting the required cash bail as set forth in the cash bond schedule.
(3)
Property bond. Any property owner within the city may serve as the security for their personal appearance or the personal appearance of any other person in municipal court, provided equity exceeds the cash bond by more than twice the amount of the cash bond and there are no other property bonds outstanding. A copy of the deed to the property pledged shall be sufficient proof of ownership.
(4)
Professional bonding company. Any professional bondsmen licensed to do business in the city or their employees of record may sign a bond in an amount not to exceed ten percent of the principal amount for any person's personal appearance in municipal court, provided such bondsmen maintain their businesses in accordance with the professional bonding requirements of this Code.
(5)
Military bond. Any member of the military forces of the United States may be, at their request, released to the nearest military unit until their appearance in municipal court.
(6)
Referral bond. Any property owner outside the city may serve as the security for their personal appearance or the personal appearance of any other person in municipal court, provided equity exceeds the cash bond by more than twice the amount of the cash bond and there are no other property bonds outstanding. Such bond shall be made through the sheriff's office in the county where the property deed is recorded.
(7)
Driver's license bond. Any person possessing a valid state driver's license may surrender such driver's license in lieu of bond for any violation of a state traffic law, except for:
a.
Driving under the influence of alcohol or drugs (O.C.G.A. § 40-6-391);
b.
Driving with driver's license in suspension or revocation (O.C.G.A. § 40-5-121);
c.
Fleeing or attempting to elude police (O.C.G.A. § 40-6-395(a));
d.
Impersonating a law enforcement officer (O.C.G.A. § 40-6-395(c));
e.
Racing on highways or streets (O.C.G.A. § 40-6-186(b));
f.
Any leaving the scene of an accident violation (O.C.G.A. §§ 40-6-270(a), 40-6-272, 40-6-273);
g.
Reckless driving (O.C.G.A. § 40-6-390(a));
h.
Laying drags (O.C.G.A. § 40-6-251(a)); and
i.
Homicide by vehicle in the second degree (O.C.G.A. § 40-6-393(b)), unless otherwise provided for by law; or
j.
By order of the presiding judge, chief of police or any person authorized to act in their behalf.
(8)
Driver's license bond; misdemeanor ordinance violations. Any person possessing a valid state driver's license may surrender such driver's license in lieu of bond for any violation of an ordinance, when such person has been incarcerated in the city jail for a minimum of five days.
(Code 1977, § 8-6; Ord. No. 93-09, § 8-6, 9-20-93)
State Law reference— Acceptance of bail in misdemeanor cases, posting driver's license as collateral for bail, O.C.G.A. § 17-6-2; acceptance of recognizance bonds for military personnel, O.C.G.A. § 17-6-3; acceptance of cash bonds for offenses against municipalities, O.C.G.A. § 17-6-10; deposit of driver's license for violations of laws pertaining to traffic, motor vehicles, etc., O.C.G.A. § 17-6-11; release of person charged with crime on his own recognizance, O.C.G.A. § 17-6-12; release of person arrested for traffic law violation upon service of citation and complaint, O.C.G.A. § 40-13-53; cash bonds permitted, O.C.G.A. § 40-13-55; officer not to accept cash bond, O.C.G.A. § 40-13-56.
Sec. 34-48. - Taking insufficient bail or bond; disciplinary action.
Any person authorized to take bail, who knowingly takes insufficient bail or accepts as surety any professional, property or other bond in any other manner than specified in section 34-47, unless otherwise directed by law or court order, shall be guilty of an act of misconduct and shall be subject to disciplinary action by the chief of police in accordance with existing rules and regulations for such act of misconduct.
(Code 1977, § 8-7)
Sec. 34-49. - Schedule; forfeiture; requirement to appear.
(a)
Bail or appearance bonds shall be scheduled by the presiding judge and the chief of police and established and approved by the mayor and council, after any revisions thereto, at any regular or called meeting. In any event, the schedule shall be filed and maintained in the office of the city clerk, with dates of revisions posted thereon.
(b)
Failure of the defendant to appear in municipal court as scheduled shall serve as authority for the court to forfeit bail in the full amount or serve as the authority for the court to issue a judgement absolute against the defendant and sureties in the full amount of the bond.
(c)
For the offenses of driving under the influence, driving with driver's license in revocation or suspension, racing, no insurance, or any moving violation involving an accident or any violation whereby the defendant's driving privilege may be revoked by the state, the defendant must appear in court.
(d)
Arresting officers shall determine the necessity of appearance in court of defendants on cases not made mandatory in this division.
(Code 1977, § 8-8)
State Law reference— Acceptance of cash bonds for certain violations, failure of person arrested to appear in court, O.C.G.A. § 17-6-8; authority of municipal corporations to provide for forfeiture of appearance bonds, O.C.G.A. § 36-32-4.
