Chapter 42 - EMERGENCY SERVICES[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Cross reference— Businesses, ch. 22; civil emergencies, ch. 30; fire prevention and protection, ch. 50; floods, ch. 54; law enforcement, ch. 58; signs, ch. 82; traffic and vehicles, ch. 98; vehicles for hire, ch. 110.
State Law reference— Emergency medical services, O.C.G.A. § 31-11-1 et seq.; equipment on emergency vehicles, O.C.G.A. § 40-8-90 et seq.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 42-1. - Tampering with fire alarm system.
It shall be unlawful for any person to tamper in any manner with the fire alarm box, switch, wiring or any other portion of the fire alarm system, and such tampering shall be punishable by imprisonment or fine not to exceed $500.00.
(Code 1977, § 15½-7)
Secs. 42-2—42-25. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - BURGLAR ALARM BUSINESS[2]
Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
Cross reference— Buildings and building regulations, ch. 18.

DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Sec. 42-26. - List of employees; fingerprinting.
Each company or licensee shall file a list of all employees annually with the department of police. All licensees and employees shall be fingerprinted before doing business with the city.
(Code 1977, § 14-25)
Secs. 42-27—42-35. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - CERTIFICATE

Sec. 42-36. - Connection to city telephones; certificate required.
It shall be unlawful for any person to maintain, operate, attempt to use or operate, or cause to be used or operated, or arrange, adjust, program or otherwise provide or install any device or combination of devices that will upon action either mechanically, electrically or by any other automatic means initiate a call and deliver a recorded message to any telephone number assigned to the city by a public telephone company unless the applicant has been approved by the mayor and council and an occupation tax certificate has been issued.
(Code 1977, § 14-20; Ord. No. 94-18, § 3, 12-5-94)
Sec. 42-37. - Application; form.
Application for certificates to engage in the business of burglar alarm installation in the city shall be made by the applicant upon a form prescribed by the occupation tax certificate supervisor and approved by the mayor and council. The application shall be addressed to the mayor and council and deposited with the occupation tax certificate department for verification of information contained thereon and presentation to the mayor and council. The form shall include, but shall not be limited to, the name and residential address of the applicant; the address where the business is to be conducted; the amount of bond or insurance posted, if required; and a statement by the applicant as to arrests and dispositions thereof for law violations by the applicant. The form shall also have attached thereto the statement of the chief of police as to the results of his/her investigation of possible law violations and a statement from the tax collector that there are no outstanding taxes, special assessments, fines, or other monies owed to the city. The applicant must also meet all other Code requirements of the city. No application shall be accepted by the occupation tax certificate department unless accompanied by all the information and statements provided for by this section.
(Code 1977, § 14-21; Ord. No. 94-18, § 3, 12-5-94)
Sec. 42-38. - Cause for refusal to grant.
(a)
No application for any certificate to engage in the business of installing burglar alarms shall be granted when the application or the evidence presented before the mayor and council at the time of hearing on the application shows any of the following conditions to exist:
(1)
The applicant is of bad moral character, or has a bad reputation in the community, or does not have sufficient mental capacity to conduct the business for which the application is made.
(2)
The applicant has previously had a certificate, issued under the police powers of the city, suspended or revoked.
(3)
The applicant, as a previous holder of a certificate to engage in the business of burglar alarm installation, has violated a law, regulation or ordinance relating to such business, within a ten-year period immediately preceding the date of the application.
(4)
Within a ten-year period preceding the date of application, the person for pecuniary gain, where any individual having an interest either as owner, partner, principal, stockholder, directly or indirectly beneficial or absolute, or his/her spouse, shall have been convicted or shall have taken a plea of nolo contendere for any felony or misdemeanor of any state or of the United States or any municipal ordinance, except traffic violations. The term "conviction" shall include an adjudication of guilt or a plea of guilty or nolo contendere or the forfeiture of a bond when charged with a crime.
(5)
The applicant has been discharged from military service under conditions other than honorable.
(6)
The applicant is on parole from any state or federal prison.
(7)
The applicant has been adjudicated insane.
(8)
Any of the provisions of this or any other section of this chapter are not fully complied with.
(b)
Any material omission or untrue or misleading information contained in or left out of an original, renewal or transfer application for a certificate under the provisions of this article shall be cause for the denial of a certificate.
(c)
If application for an occupation tax certificate to engage in the business of burglar alarm installation or service is made and refused for any of the reasons outlined in this section, no application shall be accepted covering the same person for a period of 12 months from the date of refusal to grant the application.
(Code 1977, § 14-22; Ord. No. 94-18, § 3, 12-5-94)
Sec. 42-39. - Transferability.
Burglar alarm certificates approved and issued under this article are not transferable.
(Code 1977, § 14-23; Ord. No. 94-18, § 3, 12-5-94)
Sec. 42-40. - Grounds for suspension or revocation; notice; hearings; refund.
(a)
No burglar alarm certificate which has been issued or which may hereafter be issued by the city to any licensee under this article shall be suspended or revoked, except for due causes as defined in this section and after a hearing and upon a prior five-day written notice to the holder of such certificate of the time, place and purpose of such hearing and a statement of the charge upon which such hearing shall be held.
(b)
The expression "due cause" for the suspension or revocation of such certificate means and shall consist of the violation of any law or ordinance regulating such businesses, or violation of regulations made pursuant to authority granted for the purpose of regulating such businesses, or for the violation of any state or federal law, or for the violation of any city ordinance other than traffic ordinances.
(c)
The mayor is delegated the authority to suspend any certificate issued pursuant to the provisions of this article for due cause in any emergency situation, and such suspension may be made effective immediately and remain in force until the next regular or called meeting of the mayor and council.
(d)
When a certificate is so revoked, the city shall not be required to refund any portion of the certificate tax.
(Code 1977, § 14-24; Ord. No. 94-18, § 3, 12-5-94)
Secs. 42-41—42-60. - Reserved.
ARTICLE III. - FALSE ALARMS OF BURGLARY OR FIRE

Sec. 42-61. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
False alarm means an alarm signal or recorded message indicating, in the case of a burglar alarm, an attempted or unauthorized intrusion into a structure or the attempted commission of a crime, or indicating, in the case of a fire alarm, the presence of fire or excessive smoke or heat, when, in fact, no evidence exists upon inspection of the premises upon response to such alarm that, in the case of a burglar alarm, unauthorized intrusion or crime was attempted or committed in or about the structure, or in the case of fire alarm, that no evidence exists of fire, excessive smoke, or heat.
(Code 1977, § 15½-5)
Cross reference— Definitions generally, § 1-2.
Sec. 42-62. - Number of false alarms; free response limited.
Every establishment or residence within the city limits having an electronic, telephone, or mechanical burglar or fire alarm system, including those alarms which are audible or visible on premises, shall be entitled to report a combined maximum of three false alarms to which the department of police or fire department will respond without charge in each calendar quarter.
(Code 1977, § 15½-1)
Sec. 42-63. - Administrative fees in certain cases.
An administrative fee approved by the mayor and council and kept on file in the office of the city clerk is hereby imposed for each false alarm in excess of the limits stated in section 42-62.
(Code 1977, § 15½-2)
Sec. 42-64. - Natural disturbances not counted against limitation.
Whenever four or more alarms from separate establishments or residences within the city are received on the control panel or by telephone at the law enforcement center or fire department, within any 30-minute period, which subsequently turn out to be false alarms, the alarms shall be presumed to be caused by natural disturbances, such as electrical storms, etc., whereby no charge shall be imposed by the city nor shall alarms occurring during such periods be counted toward the allowance described in section 42-62.
(Code 1977, § 15½-3)
Sec. 42-65. - Grace period for new installations.
No alarms shall be counted during the initial 30 days from the date of each new installation.
(Code 1977, § 15½-4)
Sec. 42-66. - Determination of false alarm.
The investigating police officer or firefighter responding to an alarm shall determine if the alarm is a false alarm.
(Code 1977, § 15½-6)
