Chapter 24 - COURTS[1]

Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Cross reference— City attorney, § 3.12; judicial branch, § 4.10 et seq.

Sec. 24-1. - Indigent defense system for municipal court.
(a)
The internal operating procedures of the Gwinnett Judicial Circuit's Indigent Defense Program as accepted by the Gwinnett County Indigent Defense Committee on January 30, 2002, and as ordered by the Superior Court of Gwinnett County on January 30, 2002, the State Court of Gwinnett County on February 7, 2002, the Magistrate Court of Gwinnett County on February 17, 2002, the Gwinnett Circuit Juvenile Court on February 7, 2002, and the Recorder's Court of Gwinnett County on February 7, 2002, as may be amended in the future, a current copy of which is hereby set forth as exhibit "A" to Ordinance No. 2005-04 is hereby adopted as the official policy of the City of Snellville as modified herein.
(b)
All references to the "county" or any office of the court including, but not limited to, the administrative office of the courts, in Exhibit "A" to Ordinance No. 2005-04 shall be considered to be references to the City of Snellville. All references to the "committee" or "governing committee" in exhibit "A" to Ordinance No. 2005-04 with respect to the selection of panel attorneys for the Municipal Court of the City of Snellville and the processing and consideration of invoices from attorneys shall be considered to be references to the Municipal Court of the City of Snellville.
(c)
The panel of attorneys from which appointments may be made by the Municipal Court of the City of Snellville may be compiled by periodically soliciting attorneys who are on the panel of qualified attorneys created by the Gwinnett County Indigent Defense Governing Committee. The Snellville panel of attorneys need not be categorized as in part X of exhibit "A" to Ordinance No. 2005-04. Any attorney on the county's panel of attorneys who is involuntarily removed for cause pursuant to section 10.4(B) of exhibit "A" to Ordinance No. 2005-04 shall be ineligible for appointment by the Municipal Court of the City of Snellville. Any other qualified attorney not appearing on the county's panel of qualified attorneys may request his or her inclusion on the Snellville panel and may be included on the Snellville panel if found to be qualified by the chief municipal court judge. Any attorney accepting an appointment by the Municipal Court of the City of Snellville shall be required to comply with the guidelines and standards applicable to panel attorneys and other appointed counsel set forth in exhibit "A" to Ordinance No. 2005-04, as modified herein.
(d)
Any fee or expense invoice submitted by appointed counsel shall be submitted to the municipal court clerk and shall be reviewed by the Snellville Municipal Court Judge who made the appointment or the chief judge, whose decision regarding Snellville panel attorneys, payment of fees, expenses, and costs shall be final and may not be appealed except as may be provided by law.
(e)
To the extent that Exhibit "A" to Ordinance No. 2005-04 assumes a standard for determining an indigent defendant's right to appointed counsel inconsistent with the holding of Alabama v. Shelton, it shall be the policy of the city of Snellville to apply the standards of Alabama v. Shelton. Unless otherwise provided by law, decisions regarding indigency shall be guided by the most recent poverty guidelines published by the United States Department of Health and Human Services.
(f)
The term "appeal" as used in §§ 8.2 and 8.3 of Exhibit "A" to Ordinance No. 2005-04 shall be construed to include a petition for certiorari to be filed in the Superior Court of Gwinnett County after a conviction in the Municipal Court of the City of Snellville. However, unless otherwise ordered by the municipal court, any appointment of the counsel by the Municipal Court of Snellville terminates upon the entry of an order binding the case over to a court of record prior to any adjudication of the merits of the case by the municipal court.
(g)
The municipal court clerk shall maintain a list of attorneys deemed eligible for appointment by the chief municipal court judge. The municipal court clerk shall provide a form for requesting appointed counsel to any defendant in a case pending in the municipal court and shall forward any such form or other request for appointed counsel to the chief judge of the municipal court. If no such forms have been developed or are not available at the time a request for appointed counsel is made, the clerk shall notify the chief judge of such request.
(h)
The chief judge of the Municipal Court of Snellville may develop internal operating procedures and forms and other documents as may be necessary to effectuate this section.
(Ord. No. 2005-04, §§ 1—8, 2-14-2005)
Editor's note— Ord. No. 2005-04, §§ 1—8, adopted Feb. 14, 2005, did not specify a manner of inclusion of its provisions within the Code; hence, inclusion of its provisions as § 24-1 was at the editor's discretion. Exhibit "A" to Ord. No. 2005-04, the internal operating procedures of the Gwinnett Judicial Circuit's Indigent Defense Program, referred to in § 24-1 above, has not been included within this Code, but may be found on file in the office of the city clerk.
