Chapter 5 - CITY COURT AND ENFORCEMENT OF ORDINANCES

Sec. 5-1. - Creation of city court.
The city court of the city shall have jurisdiction and authority to try offenses against the laws and ordinances of said city and to punish for a violation of the same. Such court shall have the power to enforce its judgments by the imposition of such penalties as may be provided by this Code or laws of Georgia, to subpoena witnesses, to punish witnesses for non-attendance, and try all offenses occurring within the territorial limits of the city including traffic cases which, under the laws of Georgia, are now and hereinafter placed within the jurisdiction of municipal courts to the extent of and in accordance with the provisions of such laws and all laws subsequently enacted amendatory thereof. The presiding officer of such court shall be appointed by and serve at the pleasure of the council and shall be known as the judge of the city court. The court shall be convened at the city hall or such other place within the city as designated by the judge of the city court, with the approval of the city manager.
(Former § 5-001)
Sec. 5-2. - Judge.
The judge of the city court shall be a member of the state bar of Georgia, shall be at least 25 years of age, and have practiced law for at least three years. The council shall provide for the compensation of the judge. The council shall have authority to appoint standby associate judges to serve in the absence of the city judge. Any standby associate judge shall possess the qualifications set forth above for the judge of the city court and have the same powers granted to the judge of the city court.
(Former § 5-002)
Sec. 5-3. - Sessions of court.
A regular session of the city court shall be held once each month at a fixed hour of a fixed day determined by the judge; provided, that any session may be dispensed with when there is no business pending in the court or no cases are ready for trial. The city court may hold special sessions when, in the judge's opinion, it is necessary or there is urgent cause for trial before the next regularly scheduled session of court.
(Former § 5-003)
Sec. 5-4. - Clerk of court.
There shall be a clerk of court who shall be appointed or removed by the council. The clerk of court shall: prepare all subpoenas and warrants and maintain a docket thereof that will show the name of the person on whom the subpoena or warrant was issued, its date, at whose instance it was issued and to whom it was delivered; be the custodian of the seal of the court and have authority to certify copies of all official records of the court and to maintain the proper books of accounts, including receipts and disbursements, which the court may maintain; and perform such other duties as may be imposed upon him/her by the judge.
(Former § 5-004)
Sec. 5-5. - Practice.
The city shall have the opening and conclusion of each case, unless the defendant introduces no evidence. The city shall announce first whether ready for trial and, if not ready, shall be held to as strict a showing for a continuance as the defendant.
(Former § 5-005)
Sec. 5-6. - Persons charged with offense; summons and trial.
Any person charged with an offense shall be informed by summons in writing served on him of the nature and cause of his accusation; shall have compulsory process for obtaining witnesses in his behalf; shall have a speedy trial; shall be confronted with the witnesses against him and have the privilege of cross examination as in the superior courts of the state. The same rules as to examination of witnesses and the evidence adduced as obtained in such courts, as far as they are applicable to examining courts, shall be applicable to cases before the city court. The party accused shall have the privilege of defending himself, by counsel or by himself, or both, whichever shall seem proper to him.
(Former § 5-006)
Sec. 5-7. - Form and execution of summons.
It shall be the duty of the clerk of court in all cases where complaint is made or information given of any violation over which the city court has jurisdiction, whether the party be confined in jail or not, to issue a summons directed to the accused requiring such person to appear in city court to answer such charge, which summons shall set forth the offense, and the time and place of trial, bear the name of the judge of the city court, be signed by the clerk of court, and directed to the sheriff of Walton County, Georgia or the city department of public safety, to be executed, which sheriff or his designee or a representative of the city department of public safety shall execute the same by serving a copy on the accused or leaving it at his place of residence.
(Former § 5-007)
Sec. 5-8. - Witness—Subpoena.
When the attendance of any witness may be required before the court, the clerk of court shall issue a subpoena, directed to the witness, stating the time and place of trial and the parties to the case, and bear the name of the judge, which subpoena shall be served as other summons by the Walton County Sheriff or his designee or a representative of the city department of public safety.
(Former § 5-008)
Sec. 5-9. - Same—Defaulting.
If any person so summoned as a witness shall fail, neglect, or refuse to attend a trial, or render at the time a sufficient excuse in the judgment of the court, the defaulting witness shall be liable to a fine not to exceed $50.00 and, if the cause shall be continued on account of the witness's absence, the court may issue an attachment against such witness requiring him to show cause on the day appointed for trial why he should not be further dealt with for contempt. Any law enforcement officer, by virtue of such attachment, shall arrest and confine the person, so as to have him before the court at such time as may be appointed for further hearing of the original complaint.
(Former § 5-009)
Sec. 5-10. - Continuances.
Where the ends of justice require it, cases may be continued. All continuances shall be addressed to the sound legal discretion of the court.
(Former § 5-010)
Sec. 5-11. - Plea of guilty in absence of defendant.
Any party against whom any complaint is lodged may plead guilty under such regulations and upon such terms as the court may prescribe and, if such party cannot attend trial, the court may pass such order or sentence in the case as if the party were present.
(Former § 5-011)
Sec. 5-12. - Persons implicated to be tried.
If, on the trial of any cause before the city court, it appears that any other person besides the one on trial has committed a violation within the jurisdiction of the city court, he may then and there be tried if present, unless the case is continued for legal cause.
(Former § 5-012)
Sec. 5-13. - Docket.
A docket shall be kept in the office of clerk of court on which shall appear the name of every defendant charged with a violation of this Code or any city ordinances, or of any other offense over which the city court has jurisdiction and, at the trial of all cases in the city court, the city court judge shall record opposite the statement of the case any sentence pronounced and the date; and the clerk of court shall enter, under the city court judge's sentence, the final disposition of the case, that is, whether the fine, if any, was collected and the date of such collection, and when and to whom such amounts were turned over by the clerk of court.
(Former § 5-013)
Sec. 5-14. - Enforcement of penalties against corporations.
Whenever a corporation shall commit any violation over which the city court has jurisdiction, a warrant shall issue against such corporation for violating such provisions, and the clerk of court shall issue a copy of such warrant, which shall be served by the Walton County Sheriff or his designee or a representative of the city department of public safety, upon any officer of the corporation in the city; and the deputy serving such copy shall at the time notify such person upon whom such service is made of the time and place of trial, and shall make an entry of such service upon the warrant, showing the time of service and upon whom the service was made, and return the same to the city court, and docket the case, which case shall stand for trial in the order which other cases against individuals are tried. If, on the trial, the defendant corporation fails to appear, or appearing fails to plead, the judge of the city court shall cause to be entered a plea of not guilty, and trial shall proceed as though the defendant has appeared and pleaded. Upon conviction of any corporation, there shall be rendered judgment against it for the fine imposed by the presiding officer, together with all costs of prosecution, upon which judgment the clerk of court shall issue an execution against the defendant, which shall be levied and collected by the Walton County Sheriff or his designee or a representative of the city department of public safety, of said city as tax executions in favor of the city are now allowed by law to be levied and collected.
(Former § 5-014)
Sec. 5-15. - Appearance bond—Security requirement, maximum amount.
The city court judge, the Sheriff of Walton County, or his deputy or a representative of the department of public safety may take bond, with security or without security, at their discretion, in a sum not exceeding $1,000.00 for the appearance of any party accused of a violation of any provision of this Code or any ordinance of the city, or any other offense over which the city court has jurisdiction, to stand to and abide by his trial before the city court, and also of witnesses to testify in any case pending or about to be commenced in such court.
(Former § 5-015)
Sec. 5-16. - Same—Failure to give, subsequent confinement or guard.
If either party or witness shall fail or refuse to give the bond and security as required of them, or either of them, such person so failing or refusing may be confined to the jail of the county, or other place in Walton County, Georgia as may be directed by the city court judge, so as to be present to abide the trial or to testify as the case may be.
(Former § 5-016)
Sec. 5-17. - Same—Forfeiture for failure to appear, service of rule.
All bail taken under this chapter shall be special bail, and the power of the security over the principal shall be the same as in the special bail. Upon the failure of any principal to appear in any bond or recognizance given by a person charged with a violation of any provision of this Code or any ordinance of the city, or of any other offense over which city court has jurisdiction, or by a witness to appear and testify, the presiding officer shall pass a rule requiring the principal and sureties on such bond to show cause on a day therein named not to be less than ten days from the passage of such rule, why they should not be required to pay the amount of such bond. A copy of such rule shall be served upon the principal and security or securities by Walton County Sheriff or his designee or a representative of the city department of public safety at least five days before the time therein set for hearing the same.
(Former § 5-017)
