Part II - THE BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS[3]
Footnotes:
--- (3) ---
Cross reference— Ordinances on the board of commissioners, § 2-1001 et seq.

CHAPTER 1. - GENERAL PROVISIONS[4]

Footnotes:
--- (4) ---
State Law reference— County commissioners, Ga. Code Ann. Ch. 23-8.

Sec. 2.1. - Board established; districts.
(a)
The governing authority of Spalding County shall be a board of commissioners consisting of five (5) members who shall be elected (or appointed) as hereinafter provided.
(b)
The board of commissioners, as the governing authority of said county, shall have all of the duties and immunities and may exercise all of the powers and rights granted to, vested in, or imposed upon said commissioners by the constitution and laws of this state.
(c)
(1)
The Board of Commissioners of Spalding County which existed on December 31, 2021, is continued in existence but on and after January 1, 2022, shall be constituted as provided in this section. The Board of Commissioners of Spalding County, so continued and constituted, sometimes referred to in this Act as the "board," shall continue to have the powers, duties, rights, obligations, and liabilities of that board as existed immediately prior to January 1, 2022.
(2)
Those members of the Board of Commissioners of Spalding County who are serving as such on December 31, 2022, and any person selected to fill a vacancy in any such office shall continue to serve as such members until the regular expiration of their respective terms of office and upon the election and qualification of their respective successors. On and after January 1, 2022, the Board of Commissioners of Spalding County shall consist of five (5) members all of whom shall be elected from commissioner districts described in this subsection. The members of the board shall be residents of the commissioner districts they represent and shall be elected by the qualified electors voting within their respective commissioner districts.
(3)
For purposes of electing members of the board of commissioners, Spalding County is divided into five (5) commissioner districts. One (1) member of the board shall be elected from each such district. The five (5) commissioner districts shall be and correspond to those five (5) numbered districts as shown and designated by the district maps approved by the Board of Commissioners and the State of Georgia, and on file with Spalding County Board of Elections and Registration, as may be amended from time to time as allowed by law and/or to change, add, or discontinue the use of particular polling places as approved by the Spalding County Board of Elections and Registration.
(4)
(A)
When used in such attachment, the term "VTD" (voting tabulation district) shall mean and describe the same geographical boundaries as provided in the report of the Bureau of the Census for the United States decennial census of 2020 and all future decennial census for the State of Georgia.
(B)
The separate numeric designations in a district description which are underneath a VTD heading shall mean and describe individual blocks within a VTD as provided in the report of the Bureau of the Census for the United States decennial census for the State of Georgia. Any part of Spalding County which is not included in any such district described in that attachment shall be included within that district contiguous to such part which contains the least population according to the United States decennial census for the State of Georgia.
(C)
Any part of Spalding County which is described in that attachment as being in a particular district shall nevertheless not be included within such district if such part is not contiguous to such district. Such noncontiguous part shall instead be included within that district contiguous to such part which contains the least population according to the United States decennial census for the State of Georgia.
(D)
Except as otherwise provided in the description of any district, whenever the description of such district refers to a named city, it shall mean the geographical boundaries of that city as shown on the census map for the United States decennial census for the State of Georgia.
(5)
No person shall be a member of the board if that person is ineligible for such office pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 45-2-1, or any other general law applicable to that office.
(6)
All future successors to members of the board whose terms of office are to expire shall be elected at the time of the state-wide general election immediately preceding the expiration of such terms, shall take office the first day of January immediately following that election, and shall serve for terms of office of four (4) years each. Members of the board shall serve for the terms of office specified therefor in this subsection and until their respective successors are elected and qualified.
(7)
Commissioner districts 1 through 5, as they exist on December 31, 2021, shall continue to be designated as commissioner districts 1 through 5, respectively, but as newly described under this section, and on and after January 1, 2022, such members of the board serving from those former commissioner districts shall be deemed to be serving from and representing their respective districts as newly described under this section.
(d)
Each candidate for commissioner in any primary or election shall be a resident of the State of Georgia and a qualified voter and shall have been a resident of Spalding County for at least two (2) years immediately prior to qualifying as a candidate and shall have been a resident of the single-member district for which the candidate is offering for election, including a primary, special, or general election, at least one (1) year immediately prior to qualifying as a candidate. Each commissioner shall remain a resident of the respective single-member district from which he is elected (or appointed), and which he represents, during his term of office as a member of said board. Should a member of the board, who is elected (or appointed) to represent a particular single-member district, change his residence from the district which he was elected (or appointed) to represent, a vacancy of such office shall thereby be created and shall thereafter be filled as provided in this section. Each candidate for commissioner shall be elected by a majority of the qualified electors voting in his single-member district. A candidate for commissioner shall specify the single-member district for which he is offering for election.
(e)
No candidate for commissioner and no member of the board of commissioners shall hold any other county or municipal office while running for election or during his or her term of office as a commissioner.
(f)
Any vacancy occurring on the board shall be filled for the unexpired term of the member whose seat has been vacated by a person elected or appointed, as now or hereafter in this section, as it now exists or as it may hereafter be amended. Any person so appointed or elected to fill a vacancy on the board shall be eligible, if he is qualified pursuant to the provisions of this section and all other applicable laws, to be nominated and elected, or reelected, to succeed himself as a member of said board.
(g)
Before entering upon the duties of the office of commissioner, each member of the board shall take the oath of office as required by the laws of Georgia.
(h)
Annually, the board shall elect one (1) of its members to serve as chairman of the board and another member to serve as vice-chairman of the board. The board may elect a clerk of the board, who need not be a member of the board. The board may designate, appoint, or employ such other officers, agents, and employees as the board may deem proper under and by virtue of the pertinent laws of Georgia. The chairman shall preside at all meetings of the board and shall serve as the chief executive officer of the county. For and during the absence, disqualification, or disability of the chairman, the vice-chairman shall serve as chairman. If the chairman's seat is vacated, the vice-chairman shall assume the duties of the chairman until such time as the chairman's vacancy is filled by the election of another member by the board. If the vice-chairman's seat is vacated, the board shall elect another of its members to fill such vacancy for the unexpired term of office.
(i)
The board of commissioners shall hold at least one (1) regular meeting each month at the county seat at such time and on such day of the week as the commissioners from time to time may designate. The time, date, and place of any such meeting may be changed as the commissioners shall deem proper. The commissioners may hold such other regular, special, or additional meetings as they may deem necessary or proper. Notice shall be required to be given pursuant to the Georgia Open Meetings Law for any regular meeting, being any meeting designated to be held regularly by resolution of the commissioners, such as annual, quarterly, monthly, semimonthly, or weekly meetings or other such meetings held at regular periodic intervals. The board of commissioners is authorized to provide for the holding of special meetings, to provide for the time, place, and manner of holding and calling special meetings, and to provide for giving notice, and waiver of notice, of the time, place, and purpose of such meetings, all as the board of commissioners, in its sole discretion, shall deem proper. A majority of the members, then serving on the board of commissioners, shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business. In the absence of a quorum, a majority of the members of the board of commissioners present at any meeting may adjourn the meeting from time to time until a quorum can be had. Notice of any adjourned meeting need only be given by announcement at the meeting at which the adjournment is taken. All resolutions adopted and all business transacted by the board of commissioners shall require the affirmative vote of a majority of the commissioners present at the meeting. From time to time the commissioners may fix an agenda for any meeting or meetings and may adopt such other rules of order as they may deem appropriate, which shall govern the conduct and procedure of their meetings.
(j)
Vacancies occurring in the membership of the board shall be filled in the following manner:
(1)
If, at the time the vacancy occurs, there are less than three hundred sixty (360) days until the date of the next general election, a qualified successor from the district in which the vacancy occurred shall be appointed by the remaining members of the board to serve until the first day of January following the next general election. Such appointment shall be made from a list of nominees provided by the county executive committee of the political party of which the vacated board member was the candidate at the last general election in which the board seat was up for election. A qualified successor shall be elected at the next general election to serve for the remainder of the unexpired term or for the next term, whichever shall be applicable, and shall take office immediately upon the results of such election being certified by the election superintendent. If the vacancy is in the office of chairperson, the vice chairperson shall serve as chairperson until a successor shall be elected as provided herein and, during such period, the board of commissioners shall be composed of five (5) members;
(2)
If, at the time the vacancy occurs, there are more than three hundred sixty (360) days until the next general election:
(A)
No later than fourteen (14) days after the occurrence of the vacancy, a qualified interim successor from the district in which the vacancy occurred shall be appointed by the remaining members of the board to serve until a special election can be held to fill the vacancy for the remainder of the unexpired term. Such appointment shall be made from a list of nominees provided by the county executive committee of the political party of which the vacated board member was the candidate at the last general election in which the board seat was up for election; and
(B)
A qualified permanent successor from the district in which the vacancy occurred shall be elected at a special election called for such purpose. Only the qualified electors of Spalding County residing within the commissioner district wherein the vacancy occurred shall be eligible to vote at such election. The election superintendent of Spalding County shall call such election to be held on the earliest available date provided by general law for a special election to fill a vacancy. The election shall be governed by the provisions of Chapter 2 of Title 21 of the O.C.G.A., the "Georgia Election Code," relative to special elections for the filling of vacancies. The person elected at such special election shall take office immediately upon the results of such election being certified by the election superintendent. All persons so elected to fill a vacancy shall serve for the remainder of the unexpired term; and
(3)
(A)
The chief judge of the superior court of Spalding County shall have the power to declare a temporary vacancy on the board of commissioners created by the ill health or suspension from office of a board member, provided that the length of such a temporary vacancy shall not exceed ninety (90) days. In the event of a temporary vacancy, no later than fourteen (14) days after the declaration of the vacancy, a qualified interim successor from the district in which the vacancy occurred shall be appointed by the remaining members of the board. Such appointment shall be made from a list of nominees provided by the county executive committee of the political party of which the vacated board member was the candidate at the last general election in which the board seat was up for election.
(B)
In the event that a temporary vacancy exceeds ninety (90) days, a special election shall be held in the same manner as provided for in subparagraph (B) of paragraph (2) of this subsection. The person elected at such special election shall take office immediately upon the results of such election being certified by the election superintendent. All persons so elected to fill a temporary vacancy shall serve until the vacancy of the incumbent board member ends or for the remainder of the unexpired term, whichever event occurs first.
(4)
If none of the remaining members of the board vote to approve all persons from the list provided pursuant to this subsection, the county executive committee of the political party of which the vacated board member was the candidate in the last general election in which the board seat was up for election shall provide the board with a revised list of nominees from which to select. In the event that at least two (2) members of the board do not vote to appoint a person to fill a vacancy within the time provided for in this subsection, the chairperson shall then immediately appoint a qualified person from the list of nominations provided pursuant to this subsection to fill such vacancy. If the vacancy is the office of chairperson, the vice-chairperson shall make the appointment.
(5)
If the seat to be filled was vacated by a board member with no party affiliation the board shall advertise once a week for two weeks in the legal organ for Spalding County for applications of eligible residents of the district for which the seat is vacant and shall accept applications for ten (10) days after the final publication. At its next scheduled regular or extraordinary session, the board shall select a person from the list of applications to fill the vacant seat. In the event that at least two (2) members of the board do not vote to appoint a person to fill the vacancy within the time provided in this subsection, the chairperson shall then immediately appoint a qualified person from the list of applicants. If the vacancy is the office of the chairperson the vice-chairperson shall make the appointment.
(1869 Ga. Laws, p. 170, § 1; 1873 Ga. Laws, p. 289, § 1; 1905 Ga. Laws, § 586, § 1; 1985 Ga. Laws, p. 3615, § 1; H.B. No. 1370, Act. No. 621, 2-7-94; H.B. No. 42EX, § 1, 9-21-11; Ord. No. 2022-003 , 6-20-22; Ord. No. 2022-005 , 8-1-22)
Editor's note— House Bill No. 1370, Act No. 621 of the General Assembly, approved Feb. 7, 1994, amended the boundaries of commission districts as set out in subsection 2.1(c). Former district boundaries derived from Georgia Laws, 1985, page 3615.
Sec. 2.2. - Reserved.
Editor's note— Section 2.2, providing for staggered six-year terms of commissioners, derived from 1905 Ga. Laws, p. 586, § 2, has been deleted as superseded by § 2.1(k), which provides for four-year terms.
Secs. 2.3, 2.4. - Reserved.
Editor's note— Section 2.3, providing for the filling of vacancies, derived from 1869 Ga. Laws, p. 170, § 2, and § 2.4, prescribing how person filling vacancies are commissioned, derived from 1869 Ga. Laws, p. 170, § 3, have been deleted as superseded by § 2.1(1).
Sec. 2.5. - Eligibility of commissioners.
No person is eligible as commissioner under this act unless he has been a resident citizen in the county at least two (2) years, next preceding his qualification. Before entering on the duties of his office, he shall take the oath required of all the civil officers of this state.
(1869 Ga. Laws, p. 170, § 4)
Editor's note— The residency requirement given in this section has been changed from 1 year to 2 years to bring this section into conformity with § 2.1(d).
Sec. 2.6. - Reserved.
Editor's note— Section 2.6, quorum requirements, derived from 1869 Ga. Laws, p. 170, § 5, has been deleted as superseded by § 2.1(o).
Sec. 2.7. - Reserved.
Editor's note— Section 2.7, disqualification of commissioners, derived from 1869 Ga. Laws, p. 170, § 6, has been deleted as superseded by § 2.1(d), (e).
Sec. 2.8. - Reserved.
Editor's note— Section 2.8, jurisdiction of the board, derived from 1869 Ga. Laws, p. 170, § 7, has been deleted as superseded by § 2.1 (b).
Sec. 2.9. - Reserved.
Editor's note— Section 2.9, powers of the board to enforce road laws and to appoint road commissioners, derived from 1869 Ga. Laws, p. 170, § 8, has been as superseded by § 2.1 (b).
Sec. 2.10. - Reserved.
Editor's note— Section 2.10, specifying the number of meetings of the board, derived from 1869 Ga. Laws, p. 170, § 9, has been deleted as superseded by § 2.1(o).
Sec. 2.11. - Compensation.
(a)
Effective July 1, 2000, the chairman of the board of commissioners shall be paid a salary at the annual rate of thirteen thousand dollars ($13,000.00) for his services, and each of the other commissioners of said board shall respectively be paid a salary at the annual rate of twelve thousand dollars ($12,000.00) for his services. Said salaries shall be apportioned and payable for the remainder of 2000 and for all subsequent years at said respective annual rates from the funds of Spalding County. Such salaries shall be payable, as accrued, in monthly installments or other periodic installments at the discretion of the majority of said commissioners.
Nothing herein shall be construed to prevent the board of commissioners from receiving any other compensation mandated by the State of Georgia over and above those sums set out in the paragraph above.
(b)
The chairman of the board of commissioners shall receive two hundred dollars ($200.00) per month as an expense allowance to cover and provide in full for his expenses of travel within Spalding County each month, which compensation shall be payable in monthly installments on the last day of each month from the funds of Spalding County and shall be in addition to the salary and any other compensation received by such officer.
(c)
Each of the other members of the board of commissioners shall receive one hundred fifty dollars ($150.00) per month as an expense allowance to cover and provide in full for his expenses of travel within Spalding County each month, which compensation shall be payable in monthly installments on the last day of each month from the funds of Spalding County and shall be in addition to the salary and other compensation received by such member.
(1873 Ga. Laws, p. 289, § 2; 1966 Ga. Laws, p. 2498, § 1; 1971 Ga. Laws, p. 3112, § 1; 1978 Ga. Laws, p. 3853, § 1; 1979 Ga. Laws, p. 3454, § 1; 1981 Ga. Laws, p. 4140, § 1; 1985 Ga. Laws, p. 3615, § 1; 1987 Ga. Laws, p. 4293, § 1; Ord. No. 2001-04, § 1, 5-21-01)
Sec. 2.12. - Reserved.
Editor's note— Section 2.12, expense account for board members, derived from 1956 Ga. Laws, p. 2440, § 1, has been deleted as superseded by § 2.11(c).
Sec. 2.13. - Reserved.
Editor's note— Section 2.13, mileage allowance for members of the governing authority in counties having a population of 35,000—44,000, derived from 1976 H. B. No. 1925, § 1, has been deleted since the county population has exceeded limit.
Sec. 2.14. - Personnel.
The board of commissioners of Spalding County, as the governing authority thereof, shall have authority to appoint and employ a person to serve as the chief administrative official for said board, which officer shall be designated as the county manager and may also serve as ex officio clerk of said board. Said board shall also appoint and elect a person to serve as secretary of said board, who shall be known as the clerk of said board. Said board shall have the authority to create other administrative offices or departments and clerical positions, including deputies and assistants, and to designate titles or job classifications therefor, and shall further have the authority to appoint and select such persons from time to time to fill any or all such offices, positions or jobs. Said board shall have authority to delegate the appointment, selection and employment of all such personnel, except the clerk of said board, to the county manager. Any person may hold one (1) or more of any of the aforesaid offices, positions or jobs. All of said officers, agents or employees shall hold office or employment at the will of said board; provided, however, that said board may delegate authority to the county manager to discharge any and all such officers, agents or employees, except the clerk of the said board. Said board shall determine and fix the compensation, the times, places and conditions of work and the duties, assignments and responsibilities of all such officers, agents and employees, or, with the exception of said clerk, may delegate any such authority to the county manager. The foregoing officers and employees may be named, designated or appointed by said board in addition to the appointment and employment of a county warden, a county attorney, a county building inspector and other existing officers, agents or employees now appointed by said board, or as may hereafter be provided for and authorized to be appointed by said board. Said board shall have the authority to require security bonds from any or all such appointed officers, agents or employees, payable to Spalding County, in such respective amounts as said board may deem appropriate for the faithful performance of all duties and responsibilities or for the proper handling of all public funds and property or for both. (1873 Ga. Laws, p. 289; 1898 Ga. Laws, p. 375, § 3; 1953 Ga. Laws, Jan.-Feb., Sess., p. 2606, § 1; 1975 Ga. Laws, p. 3022, § 1; 1992 Ga. Laws, Act No. 888, § I)
Editor's note— 1992 Ga. Laws, Act No. 888 created the office of county manager. Although the act did not specifically amend this section, the editor has changed the term "administrator" to "manager." See § 2-3001 of the Code.
Sec. 2.15. - Qualification and bonds of county officers.
All the powers heretofore conferred upon the judge of the probate court of the County of Spalding, in relation to the examination and approval of the bonds of the county officers and their qualification as officers, are hereby conferred upon the board of commissioners of the County of Spalding, by whom all of said bonds, if accepted, shall be approved and filed, and before whom all the county officers of said County of Spalding shall qualify; said commissioners, or either of them, being authorized to administer oaths as magistrates, any law or usage to the contrary notwithstanding. (1876 Ga. Laws, p. 289, § 1)
Sec. 2.16. - Convicts.
(a)
The board of commissioners of Spalding County are hereby authorized, in their discretion, to pay to the officers of the superior court of Spalding County and the state court of Spalding County a reasonable compensation, to be fixed by said board for misdemeanor convicts convicted in said courts and turned over to the chaingang of Spalding County.
(b)
The money thus paid for any convict shall first be applied to the costs of that case, including jail fees and the cost of the justice of the peace and constable if said case originated in a justice court. If not sufficient to pay all costs, then to be equitably prorated by the judge of the court, and balance, if any over costs to be distributed as other fines and forfeitures.
(c)
Said board of commissioners of Spalding County shall, in no event, pay more to the officers of Spalding Count for convicts than they would have to pay for convicts from other sources. (1899 Ga. Laws, p. 493)
Sec. 2.17. - Agricultural agent and home demonstration agent.
The authority to cooperate with the Georgia Agricultural Extension Service, relative to the employment of the county agricultural agent and the county home demonstration agent of Spalding County, shall be vested in the board of commissioners of Spalding County. (1956 Ga. Laws, 2895)
Sec. 2.18. - Contributions for post-high-school education.
Article VII, Section VII, Paragraph I of the Constitution is hereby amended by adding at the end thereof the following: "Any other provision of the Constitution to the contrary notwithstanding, the governing authority of Spalding County is hereby authorized and empowered to (1) acquire real property and to acquire, construct and equip buildings and facilities for education beyond the twelfth (12th) grade and to convey any such property so acquired to the Board of Regents of the University System of Georgia to be applied toward the acquisition of real property and the acquisition, construction and equipping of buildings and facilities for education beyond the twelfth (12th) grade.
"In order to finance such undertaking, the governing authority of Spalding County is hereby authorized to issue, from time to time, general obligation bonds bearing the rate or rates of interest and maturing at the years and amounts determined by said governing authority. Any bonds issued pursuant to the authority herein granted shall be issued in accordance with the provisions of this Constitution and the laws governing the issuance of general obligation bonds. The taxes assessed, levied and collected for the payment of the bonded indebtedness incurred pursuant to the provisions herein shall be upon all the taxable property in Spalding County, including any such property in any municipal or independent school system or district. The bonded indebtedness herein authorized shall be in addition to any other limitations stated in this Constitution particularly the limitations set out in this paragraph. Prior to exercising the authority herein granted, the governing authority of Spalding County shall have contracted with the Board of Regents of the University System of Georgia to convey any property or funds so acquired to the Board of Regents of the University System of Georgia; and the Board of Regents shall have contracted with the governing authority of Spalding County to accept any such property or funds for the purpose of constructing and equipping such buildings and facilities and to operate and maintain the same as a unit of the University System of Georgia rather than as a part of the public school system of this State." (1964 Ga. Laws, Ex. Sess., p. 411, § 1)
Editor's note— The constitutional amendment given in this section was continued in effect by § I of 1987 Georgia Laws, p. 3537.
