CHAPTER 9. - PERSONAL CARE HEALTH BOARD[12]

Footnotes:
--- (12) ---
Editor's note— The editor has included §§ 1—13 of Ga. Laws 1991, p. 4609, as ch. 9, §§ 5.161—5.173.

Sec. 5.161. - Short title.
This act shall be known and may be cited as the "Griffin-Spalding County Personal Care Health Board Act." (Ga. Laws 1991, p. 4609, § 1)
Sec. 5.162. - Personal care health board.
There is created a body corporate and politic, to be known as the "Griffin-Spalding County Personal Care Health Board," which shall be deemed to be a public corporation and by such name, style, and title may contract and be contracted with, sue and be sued, implead and be impleaded, and complain and defend in all courts of law and equity; provided, however, that the board shall have and enjoy any and all immunities as are now and hereafter granted to it or authorized by the constitution and laws of this state. (Ga. Laws 1991, p. 4609, § 2)
Sec. 5.163. - Composition.
(a)
The board shall be composed of five (5) members as follows:
(1)
The director of the Spalding County board of health;
(2)
The director of the McIntosh Trail Mental Retardation and Substance Abuse Services;
(3)
The director of Spalding County department of family and children services;
(4)
The director of the Spalding County environmental health service; and
(5)
The director of District 4 Health Services.
(b)
Each above-designated director, should he or she deem it inappropriate for any reason or cause to serve on such board, may designate an appropriate member of that designated director's organization to serve in his or her place on said board. (Ga. Laws 1991, p. 4609, § 3)
Sec. 5.164. - Officers.
Each year, the board shall elect one of its members to serve as chairman of the board and another of its members to serve as vice-chairman of the board. The board may also elect a clerk or secretary of such board, who need not be a member of the board, and who shall serve a the pleasure of the board. The board may designate, appoint, or employ such other officers, agents, and employees as the board may deem proper. The chairman shall preside at all meetings of the board and shall serve as its chief executive officer. For and during the absence, disqualification, or disability of the chairman, the vice-chairman shall serve as chairman. (Ga. Laws 1991, p. 4609, § 4)
Sec. 5.165. - Meetings.
The board shall hold at least one (1) regular meeting quarterly at such time and place as the board may from time to time designate. The board may hold such other regular, special, or additional meetings as it may deem necessary or proper. A majority of the members then serving on the board shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business. All resolutions adopted and all business transacted by the board shall require the affirmative vote of a majority of the members present at the meeting. (Ga. Laws 1991, 4609, § 5)
Sec. 5.166. - Operating budgets.
It is anticipated that the primary source of capital to defray the costs and expenses of the board will be derived from inspection and licensing fees. In addition to said fees, both the City of Griffin and the County of Spalding are authorized to make such additional contributions to the board as each such entity may deem appropriate, solely within the sound discretion of such entity making the contribution. (Ga. Laws 1991, p. 4609, § 6)
Sec. 5.167. - Compensation.
No member of the board will receive compensation from any source for service on the board; however, the members of the board, within their sound discretion, shall fix and determine the amount of, and the time and manner of paying, compensation to its employees. (Ga. Laws 1991, p. 4609, § 7)
Sec. 5.168. - Purpose and authorizations.
Said board is created for the purpose of taking all such actions and doing all such things, as it shall deem necessary and proper, to ensure the well-being of residents residing in personal care homes, as defined by the laws of Georgia; and said board is authorized:
(1)
To adopt and modify within permissible bounds the Rules and Regulations for Personal Care Homes, Chapter 290-5-35 of the Georgia Department of Human Resources;
(2)
To serve as the agency for the issuing of permits for management to operate personal care homes;
(3)
To serve as the inspection agency on a scheduled and unscheduled basis to investigate and determine the required operating standards of personal care homes in Spalding County and the City of Griffin;
(4)
To invalidate any permit held by a personal care home which personal care home is in violation of the rules and regulations as adopted by said board;
(5)
To seek injunctive relief under appropriate circumstances within the courts of Spalding County;
(6)
To take appropriate emergency actions to remove a resident or residents from life threatening conditions as defined in the rules and regulations as adopted by said board; and
(7)
To be administratively attached to the Spalding County board of health. (Ga. Laws 1991, p. 4609, § 8)
Sec. 5.169. - Venue and jurisdiction.
Any action to protect or enforce any rights under the provisions of this act or any suit or action against the board may be brought in the magistrate court of Spalding County, the state court of Spalding County, or the superior court of Spalding County; and such courts shall have the exclusive, original jurisdiction of any such actions. (Ga. Laws 1991, p. 4609, § 9)
Sec. 5.170. - Powers declared supplemental and additional.
The foregoing provisions of this act shall be deemed to provide an additional and alternative method for the doing of the things authorized thereby and shall be regarded as supplemental and additional to the powers conferred by other laws and shall not be regarded as in derogation of any powers now existing. (Ga. Laws 1991, p. 4609, § 10)
Sec. 5.171. - Liberal construction of this act.
This act, being for the welfare of the inhabitants of a political subdivision of the state, shall be liberally construed to effect the purposes hereof. (Ga. Laws 1991, p. 4609, § 11)
Sec. 5.172. - Effect of partial invalidity of act.
The provisions of this act are severable; and if any of its provisions shall be held unconstitutional by any court of competent jurisdiction, the decision of such court shall not affect or impair any of the remaining provisions. (Ga. Laws 1991, p. 4609, § 12)
Sec. 5.173. - Rights, authority, or powers of other agencies.
This act does not in any way take from the State of Georgia, or any department, agency, or instrumentality thereof, or Spalding County or any other municipal corporation or political subdivision of this state any right, authority, or power held by any such public entity or body politic. (Ga. Laws 1991, p. 4609, § 13)
