CHAPTER 12A. - CONFLICTS OF INTEREST

Sec. 2-12001A. - Conflicts of interest.
(a)
No covered official shall acquire or maintain an interest in any contract or transaction if a reasonable basis exists that such an interest will be affected directly by his/her official act or action or by official acts of the county, which the covered official or employee has a reasonable opportunity to influence, except consistent with the disclosure and abstention provisions set forth herein.
(b)
Spalding County shall not enter into any contract involving services or property with a covered official or with a business entity in which the covered official has a substantial interest. This section shall not apply in the case of:
(1)
Contracts for goods or services with a business that employs a covered official or employee, or family member of a covered official or employee where:
a.
The contract is competitively procured; and
b.
The covered official or employee does not participate in any aspect of the procurement or performance of the contract;
(2)
The designation of a bank or trust company as depository for county funds;
(3)
The borrowing of funds from any bank or lending institution which offers the lowest available rate of interest for such loan;
(4)
Contracts for services entered into with a business which is the only available source for such goods or services; and
(5)
Contracts entered into under circumstances which constitute an emergency situation, provided that a record explaining the emergency is prepared by the county manager and submitted to the board at its next regular meeting.
( Ord. No. 2022-002 , § 3, 7-18-22)
Sec. 2-12002A. - Zoning application disclosures.
Zoning application disclosures shall be governed solely by the conflict of interest in zoning actions provisions provided in O.C.G.A. §§ 36-67A-1 et seq., as it may be amended from time to time.
( Ord. No. 2022-002 , § 3, 7-18-22)
Sec. 2-12003A. - Bids and proposals.
Disclosures related to submission of bids or proposals for county work or contract: Persons submitting bids for county work who have contributed two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00) or more to a covered official must disclose on their bid or proposal the name of the covered official(s) to whom the contribution was made, and the amount contributed. Such a disclosure must also be made prior to a request for any change order or extension of any contract awarded to the person who submitted the successful bid or proposal.
( Ord. No. 2022-002 , § 3, 7-18-22)
Sec. 2-12004A. - Incompatible services.
Incompatible service: No covered official or employee shall engage in or accept private or public employment or render service for any private or public entity, when such employment or service is incompatible with the proper discharge of his/her official duties or would tend to impair his/her independence of judgment or action in the performance of his/her official duties, unless otherwise permitted by law and unless public disclosure is made.
( Ord. No. 2022-002 , § 3, 7-18-22)
Sec. 2-12005A. - Gifts.
Solicitation or acceptance of gifts:
(1)
Covered officials shall not accept gifts, gratuities or loans from organizations, business concerns or individuals with whom he/she has official relationships concerning business of the county. These limitations are not intended to prohibit the acceptance of articles of a negligible value which are distributed generally, nor to prohibit covered officials from accepting social courtesies which promote good public relations, nor to prohibit covered officials from obtaining loans from regular lending institutions. Covered officials should refrain from relationships which could be construed as evidence of favoritism, coercion, unfair advantage or collusion.
(2)
There shall be no violation of this article in the following circumstances:
a.
Meals and beverages given in the usual course of entertaining associated with normal and customary business or social functions;
b.
An occasional gift from a single source of one hundred and one dollars ($101.00) or less in any calendar year;
c.
Ceremonial gifts or awards;
d.
Gifts of advertising value only or promotional items generally distributed to public officials;
e.
Awards presented in recognition of service;
f.
Reasonable expenses of food, travel, lodging and scheduled entertainment for a meeting that is given in return for participation in or speaking engagement at the meeting;
g.
Courtesy tickets or free admission extended for an event as a courtesy or for ceremonial purposes, given on an occasional basis, not to include season tickets of any kind;
h.
Gifts from relatives or member of the covered officials' household;
i.
Honorariums or awards of professional achievement;
j.
Courtesy tickets or free admission to educational seminars, educational or other conventions, or other similar events.
( Ord. No. 2022-002 , § 3, 7-18-22)
Sec. 2-12006A. - Disclosure of interest.
Disclosure of interest. Any covered official who has a financial or personal interest in any proposed action before the board shall immediately disclose publicly the nature and extent of such interest.
( Ord. No. 2022-002 , § 3, 7-18-22)
Sec. 2-12007A. - Abstention to avoid conflicts of interest.
Abstention to avoid conflicts of interest.
(1)
Except as otherwise provided by law, no covered official shall participate in the discussion, debate, deliberation, vote or otherwise take part in the decision-making process on any item before him/her in which the covered official has a conflict of interest.
(2)
To avoid the appearance of impropriety, if any covered official has a conflict of interest or has an interest that he/she has a reason to believe either violates this article or may affect his/her official acts or actions in any matter, the covered official shall immediately leave the meeting room, except that if the matter is being considered at a public meeting, the covered official may remain in the meeting room.
(3)
In the event of a conflict of interest, the covered official shall announce his/her intent to abstain prior to the beginning of the discussion, debate, deliberation, or vote on the item, shall not participate in any way, and shall abstain from casting a vote.
( Ord. No. 2022-002 , § 3, 7-18-22)
