APPENDIX C - GEORGIA POWER COMPANY FRANCHISE[1]
ORDINANCE GRANTING PERMISSION AND CONSENT to Georgia Power Company, its successors, lessees and assigns, to occupy the streets and public places of the City of St. Marys, Georgia in constructing, maintaining, operating and extending poles, lines, cables, equipment, and other apparatus for transmitting and distributing electricity, and for other purposes.

Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Editor's note— Printed herein is the Georgia Power Company franchise, as adopted by the mayor and council on December 4, 1975. Amendments to the franchise are indicated by parenthetical history notes following amended provisions. The absence of a history note indicates that the provision remains unchanged from the original franchise agreement. Obvious misspellings and punctuation errors have been corrected without notation. For stylistic purposes, a uniform system of headings, catchlines, capitalization, citation to state statutes, and expression of numbers in text has been used to conform to the Code of Ordinances. Additions made for clarity are indicated by brackets.
State Law reference— Power to grant franchises or make contracts with public utilities, O.C.G.A. § 36-34-2(7); limitation on action expanding the power of regulation over any business activity regulated by the Public Service Commission, O.C.G.A. § 36-35-6.

Sec. I. - Grant of franchise.
Be it ordained by the governing authority of the City of St. Marys, Georgia (hereafter referred to as the "city"), that the authority, right, permission and consent are hereby granted to Georgia Power Company, its successors, lessees and assigns (hereafter referred to as the "company"), for a period of 35 years, to occupy and use the streets, alleys and public places of the city within the present and future limits of the said city as from time to time the company may deem proper or necessary for the overhead or underground construction, maintenance, operation and extension of poles, towers, lines, wires, cables, conduits, insulators, transformers, appliances, equipment, connections and other apparatus for the business and purpose of transmitting, conveying, conducting, using, supplying and distributing electricity for light, heat, power and other purposes for which electric current may be or become useful or practicable for public or private use, and to re-enter upon such streets, alleys and public places from time to time as it may deem proper or necessary to perform these functions, and to cut and trim trees and shrubbery when and where necessary, in the judgment of the company, to insure safe and efficient service.
(Ord. of 12-4-75, § I)
Sec. II. - Conditions imposed.
Be it further ordained that the rights, permission and consents herein contained are made for the following considerations and upon the following terms and conditions, to wit:
1.
The company shall pay into the treasury of the city (a) on or before the first day of March, 1976, a sum of money equal to four percent of the gross sales of electric energy to customers served under residential and commercial rate schedules (as prescribed by the Georgia public service commission) within the corporate limits of the city during the year 1975 and four percent of the gross sales of electric energy to customers served under industrial rate schedules (as so prescribed) within the corporate limits of the city during the period July 1—December 31, 1975, and (b) on or before the first day of March of each year thereafter during the term of this franchise a sum of money equal to four percent of the gross sales of electric energy to customers served under residential, commercial and industrial rate schedules (as so prescribed) within the corporate limits of the city during the preceding calendar year, on condition that, in the event the city shall grant to any other entity the right to use and occupy its streets for like purposes, such use and occupancy shall be upon the same terms and conditions as those herein contained, including the payment provisions hereof.
2.
The amount, if any, of any tax, fee, charge or imposition of any kind required, demanded or exacted by the city on any account, other than ad valorem taxes on property and license taxes on the sale of home appliances, shall operate to reduce to that extent the amount due from the percentage of gross sales above provided for.
3.
The company shall fully protect, indemnify and save harmless the city from all damages to person or property caused by the construction, maintenance, operation or extension of poles, wires or other apparatus, or conditions of streets, alleys or public places resulting therefrom, for which the said city would otherwise be liable.
4.
The company shall, in constructing, maintaining, operating and extending its poles, wires and other apparatus, submit and be subject to all reasonable exercises of the police power by the city. Nothing contained herein, however, shall require the company to surrender or limit its property rights created hereby without due process of law, including adequate compensation, for any other purpose at the instance of the city or for any purpose at the instance of any other entity, private or governmental.
(Ord. of 12-4-75, § II)
Sec. III. - Acceptance.
Be it further ordained that the company shall, within 90 days from the approval of this ordinance, file its written acceptance of the same with the clerk of said city, so as to form a contract between the parties.
(Ord. of 12-4-75, § III)
ADDENDUM. - ORDINANCE AMENDING FRANCHISE[2]
AN ORDINANCE TO AMEND AN ORDINANCE ADOPTED ON DECEMBER 4, 1975 GRANTING A FRANCHISE TO THE GEORGIA POWER COMPANY
WHEREAS O.C.G.A. § 36-34-2(7) grants the authority to municipalities in Georgia to make contracts with and grant franchises to public utilities, and
WHEREAS, on December 4, 1975, the City of St. Marys, Georgia (hereafter referred to as the "city") adopted an ordinance granting permission and consent to Georgia Power Company (hereafter referred to as the "company") and its successors, lessees, and assigns to occupy the streets and public places of the city in constructing, maintaining, operating, and extending poles, lines, cables, equipment, and other apparatus for transmitting and distributing electricity and for other purposes (said ordinance being hereafter referred to as the "1975 ordinance"); and
WHEREAS, on February 9, 1975, the company accepted the franchise granted in the 1975 ordinance (hereafter referred to as the "franchise"); and
WHEREAS, the city and the company now wish to amend the franchise to address certain issues that may arise under the franchise and to extend the term of the franchise and for other purposes;
NOW, THEREFORE, the city hereby adopts this ordinance amending franchise as follows:

Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
Editor's note— Printed herein is an ordinance adopted July 11, 2005, which amends the Georgia Power Company franchise, as adopted on December 4, 1975. Obvious misspellings and punctuation errors have been corrected without notation. For stylistic purposes, a uniform system of headings, catchlines, capitalization, citation to state statutes, and expression of numbers in text has been used to conform to the Code of Ordinances. Additions made for clarity are indicated by brackets.

Sec. I. - [Additional terms and conditions.]
Be it further ordained that in addition to the terms and conditions set forth in the 1975 ordinance, the company's occupancy and use of the streets, alleys, and public places of the city as authorized in the 1975 ordinance are subject to the following terms and conditions:
1.
For purposes of paragraph 2 of this section I, the term "distribution facilities" means poles, lines, wires, cables, conductors, insulators, transformers, appliances, equipment, connections, and other apparatus installed by or on behalf of the company (whether before or after the adoption of this ordinance amending franchise) in the streets, alleys, or public places of the city for the purpose of distributing electricity within the present and future limits of the city. Distribution facilities do not include any of the following: (i) electric transmission lines with a design operating voltage of 46 kilovolts or greater (hereafter referred to as "transmission lines"); (ii) poles, towers, frames, or other supporting structures for transmission lines (hereafter referred to as "transmission structures:); (iii) transmission lines and related wires, cables, conductors, insulators, or other apparatus attached to transmission structures; (iv) lines, wires, cables, or conductors installed in concrete-encased ductwork; or (v) network underground facilities.
2.
In the event that the city or any other entity acting on behalf of the city requests or demands that the company relocate any distribution facilities from their then-current locations within the streets, alleys, and public places of the city in connection with a public project or improvement, then the company shall relocate, at its expense, the distribution facilities affected by such project or improvement. The company's obligations under this paragraph 2 shall apply without regard to whether the company has acquired, or claims to have acquired, an easement or other property right with respect to such distribution facilities and shall not affect the amounts paid or to be paid to the city under the provisions of the 1975 ordinance. Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this paragraph 2, the company shall not be obligated to relocate, at its expense, any of the following: (i) distribution facilities that are located on private property at the time relocation is requested or demanded; (ii) distribution facilities that are relocated in connection with sidewalk improvements (unless such sidewalk improvements are related to or associated with road widenings, the creation of new turn lanes, or the addition of acceleration/deceleration lanes); (iii) streetscape projects or other projects undertaken primarily for aesthetic purposes; or (iv) distribution facilities that are converted from an overhead configuration or installation to an underground configuration or installation.
3.
The city and the company recognize that both parties benefit from economic development within the city. Accordingly, when it is necessary to relocate any of the company's facilities (whether distribution facilities, transmission structures, or other facilities) within the city, the city and the company shall work cooperatively to minimize costs, delays, and inconvenience to both parties while ensuring compliance with applicable laws and regulations. In addition, the city and the company shall communicate in a timely fashion to coordinate projects included in the city's five-year capital improvement plan, the city's short-term work program, or the city's annual budget in an effort to minimize relocation of the company's facilities. Such communication may include, but is not limited to, (i) both parties' participation in the Georgia Utilities Coordinating Council, Inc. (or any successor organization) or a local utilities coordinating council (or any successor organization) and (ii) both parties' use of the National Joint Utility Notification System (or any successor to such system mutually acceptable to both parties).
4.
With regard to each streetscape project undertaken by or on behalf of the city, the city shall pay the company in advance for the company's estimated cost to relocate any of the company's facilities (whether distribution facilities, transmission lines, transmission structures, or other facilities) in connection with such project. For each streetscape project, the company shall estimate in good faith the amount of incremental base revenue, if any, that the company will realize as a result of new customer load or expansion of existing customer load attributable to such project; and such estimate shall be based on tariffs in effect at the time that construction of such project begins and shall not include fuel recover charges, non-electric service billings, or taxes. If such estimate indicates that the company will realize incremental base revenue, the company shall do one of the following, whichever results in greater cost savings to the city: (i) reduce the city's advance payment to the company for relocation costs by ten percent; or (ii) where the city has developed a bona fide marketing plan within 12 months after construction of such project begins, either refund the amount of the company's incremental base revenue during such 12-month period to the city or credit such amount against any future payment due from the city to the company. The city and the company acknowledge and agree that the amount of any refund or credit calculated pursuant to clause (ii) of the foregoing sentence of this paragraph 4 shall not exceed the amount of the city's advance payment to the company for relocation costs associated with such project.
(Ord. of 7-11-05, § I)
Sec. II. - [Right to select electric supplier.]
Be it further ordained that nothing contained in this ordinance amending franchise shall limit or restrict the right of customers within the corporate limits of the city to select an electric supplier as may hereafter be provided by law.
(Ord. of 7-11-05, § II)
Sec. III. - [Filing of amendment.]
Be it further ordained that the company shall, within 90 days from the approval of this ordinance amending franchise, file the company's written acceptance of the same with the clerk of the city, so as to form an amendment to the franchise between the company and the city.
(Ord. of 7-11-05, § III)
Sec. IV. - [Conflicting laws and ordinances repealed.]
Be it further ordained that upon such acceptance all laws and ordinances, and all agreements between the company and the city with respect to the company's occupancy and use of the city's streets, alleys, and public places, in actual conflict herewith be and the same shall thereupon stand repealed and terminated, respectively.
(Ord. of 7-11-05, § IV)
