ARTICLE III. - ELECTIONS[3]

Footnotes:
--- (3) ---
Editor's note— Pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 21-3-125 the city by motion approved February 11, 1991, voted to transfer responsibility of the municipal voter list to the county.
Charter reference— Elections, § 3-101 et seq.
State Law reference— Georgia Municipal Election Code, O.C.G.A. § 21-3-1 et seq.

Sec. 2-86. - Precincts described; location of polling places.
(a)
For the purposes of conducting all city elections, both general and special, the city shall be divided into a northern precinct and a southern precinct, which are described as follows:
(1)
Northern precinct. Beginning at a point where the westernmost right-of-way of Wheeler Street intersects the northernmost right-of-way of Finley Street; and thence, running west along the northernmost right-of-way of Finley Street to the point at which the northernmost right-of-way of Finley Street intersects the northernmost right-of-way of State Highway 40 (Osborne Road); thence, continuing in a westerly direction along the northernmost right-of-way of State Highway 40 to the westernmost boundary of the city, which boundary is located in the vicinity of the intersection of County Road 78 and State Highway 40; thence, running in a general northeasterly direction along the city boundaries to Crooked River Road (State Highway Spur 40); and thence, running in a general northerly direction along the westerly right-of-way of Crooked River Road and to the southwestern boundary of Crooked River State Park; thence, running southeasterly along the southern boundary of Crooked River State Park to the easternmost right-of-way of Crooked River Road; thence, running south along the easternmost right-of-way of Crooked River Road to a point located at the northernmost boundary of Kings Bay Submarine Base and the southern boundary of Crooked River State Park; thence, continuing south along the easternmost right-of-way of Crooked River Road to a point coincident with the northernmost extent of Oak Street (such point being also located at the boundary of the Kings Bay Submarine Base); thence, running eastwardly and then in a southern direction to the extreme southwestern corner of the Kings Bay Submarine Base; thence, running in a generally eastward direction along the southernmost boundary of the Kings Bay Submarine Base and the city limits boundary to Point Peter Creek; thence, following the course of Point Peter Creek south to the St. Marys River; thence, running eastward with the St. Marys River to a point located at the intersection of the mouth of the North River and the northernmost margin of the St. Marys River; thence, running in a northerly direction along the center or thread of the North River to the point of intersection of the common district line for county voting districts 3 and 4; and thence, running west along the common county voting district line to a point located at the intersection of the common county voting district line and a line coincident with an extension northward of the westernmost right-of-way line of Wheeler Street; and thence, running south along the westernmost right-of-way of Wheeler Street to the intersection of the westernmost right-of-way of Wheeler Street and the northernmost right-of-way of Finley Street, the point of intersection being the point of beginning for the voting precinct described in this subsection.
(2)
Southern precinct. Beginning at the point where the westernmost right-of-way of Wheeler Street intersects the northernmost right-of-way of Finley Street, and thence running west along the northernmost right-of-way of Finley Street to the point at which the northernmost right-of-way of Finley Street intersects with the northernmost right-of-way of State Highway 40 (Osborne Road); and thence, continue in a westerly direction along the northernmost right-of-way of State Highway 40 to a point located at the intersection of the northernmost right-of-way line of State Highway 40 and St. Marys Road; thence, running with the easternmost right-of-way of St. Marys Road in a generally southwesterly direction to the intersection of St. Marys Road and Interstate 95; thence, running across Interstate 95 in a westerly direction along the northernmost right-of-way of Scrubby Bluff Road to the westernmost extent of the boundaries of the city; thence, running south with the city boundary to the southernmost right-of-way of Scrubby Bluff Road; and thence, running east to the easternmost right-of-way Interstate 95, and thence running south along the easternmost right-of-way of Interstate 95 to the St. Marys River; and thence, running in a general easterly direction along the St. Marys River to a point located at the intersection of the center of the mouth of the North River and the northernmost margin of the St. Marys River; and thence, running north along the center or thread of the North River to the point of intersection of the common district line for county voting districts 3 and 4; and thence, running west along the county voting district line to a point located at the intersection of the county voting district line and the extension of the westernmost right-of-way of Wheeler Street; thence, running south along a line coincident with the extension of the westernmost right-of-way of Wheeler Street; thence, running south along a line coincident with the extension of the westernmost right-of-way of Wheeler Street to the intersection of the westernmost right-of-way of Wheeler Street and the northernmost right-of-way of Finley Street, the point of intersection being the point of beginning for the voting precinct described in this subsection.
(b)
For the purpose of conducting city elections according to the voting precinct plan set forth in subsection (a) of this section, the city fire station located at 201 N. Dandy Street, St. Marys, is hereby designated as a polling place for all city elections. Such structure shall serve as the polling place for those registered city voters residing within the boundaries of the northern precinct as described in subsection (a)(1) of this section.
(c)
For the purpose of conducting city elections according to the voting precinct plan set forth in subsection (a) of this section, the Union Hall located at 709 Osborne Street, St. Marys, is hereby designated a polling place for all city elections. Such structure shall serve as the polling place for those registered city voters residing within the boundaries of the southern precinct as described in subsection (a)(2) of this section.
(Ord. of 2-13-95, §§ 1—3)
State Law reference— Duty of governing authority to fix location of polling places, O.C.G.A. § 21-3-163.
Secs. 2-87—2-110. - Reserved.
