ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 82-1. - Damaging or tampering with facilities or service; unlawful diversion of service.
(a)
It shall be unlawful for any person intentionally and without authority to injure or destroy any meter, pipe, conduit, wire, line, post, lamp or other apparatus belonging to a company or to any municipality or other political subdivision engaged in the manufacture or sale of electricity, gas, water, telephone or other public services, or intentionally and without authority to prevent a meter from properly registering the quantity of such service supplied, or in any way to interfere with the proper action of such company or any municipality or political subdivision, or intentionally to divert any services of such company, municipality or political subdivision or otherwise intentionally and without authority to use or cause to be used, without the consent of such company, municipality or political subdivision, any service manufactured, sold or distributed by such company, municipality or political subdivision.
(b)
Where there is no evidence to the contrary, the person performing any of the illegal acts described in this section and the person who with knowledge of such violation receives the benefit of such service without proper charge as a result of such improper action shall be presumed to be responsible for such acts of tampering or diversion.
(c)
Violators of the provisions of this section shall be punished as provided in section 1-12.
(d)
In addition to fines, forfeiture and imprisonment, any person convicted for violation of this section shall pay retribution to the city for any damage to its equipment at current costs for labor and materials necessary to reestablish service.
(Code 1987, § 22-60; Ord. of 4-17-90(1))
State Law reference— Damaging, injuring or interfering with property of public utility companies, municipalities or political subdivisions, O.C.G.A. § 16-7-25.
Sec. 82-2. - Responsibility for costs of damage to equipment after disconnection of service.
If utility service provided by the city is disconnected for nonpayment, the meter and other connected utility equipment shall remain in the custody of the utility account holder. Before any utility service is reconnected, the account holder shall, in addition to payment of reconnection fees, reimburse the city for repair of any damage to its equipment necessary to reestablish service, at current costs for materials and labor.
(Ord. of 4-17-90(2))
Sec. 82-3. - Taking water without authority.
It shall be unlawful for any person to install any hydrant, faucet or other device for the purpose of taking water from the city's mains, pipes or supplies without first obtaining a permit therefor from the proper authority.
(Code 1987, § 22-49)
Sec. 82-4. - Access to utility and hydrants.
No person using city utilities nor owner of property on which utility meters or fire hydrants are situated shall place or maintain any obstruction to access to any meter or hydrant by city personnel. No tree, shrub or other vegetation nor any ornamental structure shall be placed within six feet of any city water or gas meter or fire hydrant after July 1, 1995. Any tree, shrub or vegetation in place as of July 1, 1995, shall be trimmed and maintained so that no portion of the growth or vegetation is closer than two feet of any portion of a city gas or water meter or fire hydrant. A violation of this section shall result in a fine not to exceed $100.00. Further, in the event this section is violated, the city may remove, trim or otherwise restrict the obstruction to a point of compliance with this section. The cost of removal of any obstruction of access shall be accessed against the utility consumer and added to the next month's gas or water bill.
(Ord. of 6-20-95(1))
Sec. 82-5. - Water availability fee; private wells.
(a)
The mayor and city council have determined that it is in the best interest of the health, safety and welfare of the citizens of the city that it protect the quality and integrity of the water supplied to its citizens through the city's water system. The mayor and city council's responsibility in this area is further mandated by the Georgia Safe Drinking Water Act of 1977, regulations promulgated therefrom, and state and federal mandates concerning the protection of water resources and the provision of water to its citizens.
(b)
Every residence, institution, business establishment or service agency within the limits of the city and for which water service and/or sewage service is available shall pay a fee for the availability of each service, regardless of whether the residence, business or agency uses the services, based upon a fee schedule approved by the mayor and city council which shall be available for inspection at the office of the city clerk. In the event the service is available but not used, the fee charged shall not exceed the minimum fee charged on a user of each system.
(c)
No person, firm, business, institution, corporation, service agency or agents thereof shall drill a water well within the city limits without first obtaining a permit from the city. In order to be granted a permit, the following conditions shall apply:
(1)
No well shall be drilled, situated or located within 50 feet of a lot or property line.
(2)
Submit the well to testing for bacterial and other organic and nonorganic contaminants or agents by the city.
(3)
No shallow wells shall be drilled and all wells shall be at a minimum depth as required for the city's system by the Georgia Safe Drinking Water Act of 1977, regulations promulgated therefrom, and any other state or federal statute, mandate or regulation concerning the protection of water resources and the provision of water to its citizens.
(d)
A permit shall not be granted in the event:
(1)
The testing reveals the levels or presence of any agents or contaminants exceed those required of the city in the maintenance of the city water system by the Environmental Protection Division (EPD), Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) or any other governmental agency, statute or regulations.
(2)
The physical arrangement of the well may, either directly or indirectly, be capable or pose a threat of imparting contamination to the city's public water system as the result of back flow, bypass arrangements, jumper connections, removable sections, swivel or changeover devices, or other temporary, permanent or potential connections through which or because of which back flow or back siphonage could or would occur.
(3)
The city determines any other situation exists which poses a threat to the safety and efficiency of providing water to the citizens of the city through the city's public water system.
(e)
Any well permitted pursuant to this section shall undergo annual testing to determine whether the levels or presence of any agents or contaminants exceed those required of the city in the maintenance of the city water system by the EPD, EPA, or any other governmental agency, statute or regulations; whether the well poses a threat of imparting contamination to the city's public water system; or whether the well poses any other threat to the safety and efficiency of providing water to the citizens of the city through the city's public water system. The existence of any of the stated conditions shall be grounds for revocation of the permit; and further the failure of the well owner or operator to eliminate the situation leading to revocation shall be a violation of this section.
(f)
Any well permitted pursuant to this section shall be subject to spot testing at any time by the city or its agents to determine whether the levels or presence of any agents or contaminants exceed those required of the city in the maintenance of the city water system by the EPD, EPA, or any other governmental agency, statute or regulations; whether the well poses a threat of imparting contamination to the city's public water system; or whether the well poses any other threat to the safety and efficiency of providing water to the citizens of the city through the city's public water system. The existence of any of the stated conditions shall be grounds for revocation of the permit; and further the failure of the well owner or operator to eliminate the situation leading to revocation shall be violation of this section.
(g)
The costs of any testing required by this section shall be paid by the permit applicant or permit holder.
(h)
The penalty for violation of this section shall be as set in section 1-12 of this Code.
(Ord. of 6-20-95(2))
Editor's note— An ordinance adopted June 20, 1995, (2), set out provisions intended for use as a new § 82-4. However, as there was already a § 82-4 and at the editor's discretion, these provisions have been codified as a new § 82-5.
Secs. 82-6—82-30. - Reserved.
