ARTICLE XIX. - VIOLATIONS, FINES, REMEDIES AND CHARGES

Section 1900. - Violations.
It shall be the duty of the zoning administrator to take cognizance of violation of this ordinance. He shall investigate each violation which comes to his attention whether by observation or by communication. He shall order in writing the correction of such conditions as are found to be in violation of this ordinance. Failure to secure a zoning or use permit or board of appeals certificate when required, previous to erection, construction or alteration to a building, or change in use of land or building as in this ordinance provided, shall be a violation of this ordinance.
Section 1901. - Fines and charges.
A.
Generally. Any person, firm, or corporation violating any provision of this ordinance shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction, shall be subject to the remedies established in section 1-12 of this Code; except that, at a minimum a fine of not less than $250.00 for each offense shall be assessed unless otherwise stated within this subsection, and such fine may exceed the maximum fine otherwise prescribed in subsection 1-12(a) at the discretion of the municipal court judge. Each day such violation occurs shall constitute a separate offense.
B.
Fines by section. Notwithstanding the provisions of subsection A, alternative minimum fines shall be assessed for violations of specific sections of the Statesboro Zoning Ordinance, and as identified in Table XIX-A. Except for alternative minimum fines amounts, all other provisions of subsection A, and this article shall apply to any violations of this ordinance.
EXPAND
TABLE XIX-A: FINES BY SECTION
SECTION: FINE PER OFFENSE:
1 ST OFFENSE 2 ND OFFENSE 3 RD OFFENSE
Section 1605 (Requirements for single-family and two-family residential parking) $50.00 $75.00 $125.00
  (Ord. No. 2009-06, ยง 1.d), 7-21-09; Ord. No. 2010-20, ยง 1.d), 10-19-10)
Section 1902. - Remedies.
In case any building, sign or other structure is erected, constructed, reconstructed, altered, repaired, converted or maintained; or any building, sign, structure or land is used; or any hedge, tree, shrub or other growth is maintained, in violation of this ordinance or of any regulations made pursuant hereto, in addition to other remedies provided by law, any appropriate action or proceeding, whether by legal process or otherwise, may be instituted or taken to prevent such unlawful erection, construction, reconstruction, alteration, repair, conversion, maintenance or use; to restrain, correct or abate such violation; to prevent the occupancy or [of] said building, structure or land; or to prevent any illegal act, conduct, business or use in or about such premises.
