Chapter 10 - ANIMALS AND FOWL[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
State Law reference— City's and county's authority to exercise animal control, Ga. Const., art. 9, sec. 2, par. 3(a)(3); livestock running at large or straying, O.C.G.A. § 4-3-1 et seq.; permitting dogs in heat to roam or run free, O.C.G.A. § 4-8-6; Dangerous Dog Control Law, O.C.G.A. § 4-8-20 et seq.; Georgia Animal Protection Act, O.C.G.A. § 4-11-1 et seq.; control of rabies, O.C.G.A. § 31-19-1 et seq.; cruelty to animals, O.C.G.A. § 16-12-4; liability of owner or keeper of vicious or dangerous animal for injuries caused by animal, O.C.G.A. § 51-2-6.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 10-1. - Tampering with facilities of city pound; unauthorized removal of animals.
It shall be unlawful for any person to break down the fence of the city pound, or to open the pound gate, or to tamper in any way therewith, or to remove any impounded animal therefrom, without being duly authorized so to do.
(Code 1987, § 3-9)
Sec. 10-2. - Keeping hogs.
It shall be unlawful for any person to keep hogs within the corporate limits of the city.
(Code 1987, § 3-1)
Sec. 10-3. - Operating pens for sale of cattle, sheep, hogs or goats.
It shall be unlawful for any person to operate within the corporate limits of the city any stock pen for the sale of cattle, sheep, hogs and goats.
(Code 1987, § 3-2)
Sec. 10-4. - Livestock and fowl running at large prohibited; impoundment.
(a)
Livestock running at large prohibited. It shall be unlawful for any hogs, cattle, horses, mules, goats, sheep or other livestock to run loose or at large on the streets, commons or unenclosed places within the corporate limits of the city.
(b)
Impoundment of livestock; redemption by owner. All livestock found on the streets, commons or unenclosed lots within the corporate limits of the city in violation of subsection (a) of this section shall be impounded by any police officer of the city, or by any person specially authorized by the mayor and council. Stock so impounded shall be delivered to the owner, if demanded by him, upon payment by the owner to the official in charge of the pound of all proper costs of impounding.
(c)
Fowl running at large. No owner or keeper of any fowl within the corporate limits of the city shall permit such fowl to roam at large on the enclosed premises of another, or on any streets, public places or vacant lots in the city, and the police are hereby authorized and empowered to seize such fowl whenever they be found in the city and impound such fowl and dispose of them under the same rules and regulations as impounded cattle and hogs in the city are disposed of, provided that the party molested notify the owner or keeper of such molesting fowl either in writing or through the chief of police.
(d)
Sale of impounded animals.
(1)
Notice of sale. Whenever any animal is impounded pursuant to this section and remains unclaimed for 48 hours, the police shall immediately cause notice of the taking up of such animal, with the description of the animal, to be posted in at least three public and conspicuous places within the city, with notice that the animal will be sold, stating the place and time, which shall be not less than five days from the posting of the notice. In the notice, the owner shall be required to come forward before the sale and claim the animal, and such animal shall be delivered to the owner upon the payment of the charges provided for in subsection (b) of this section and upon the payment by him of the costs of feeding and caring for such animal for each day or part of a day that such animal has been confined in the pound.
(2)
Conduct of sale; disposition of proceeds. If any animal is not claimed before the sale, the police shall proceed to sell the animal to the highest bidder, and the proceeds of the sale, after paying all expenses incurred, shall be deposited with the clerk, to be refunded to the former owner of the animal sold upon proof of ownership, provided the proceeds are claimed within three months of the sale, otherwise the surplus proceeds shall be turned into the city treasury.
(e)
Time limit for claims for money from sale of impounded animals. All claims for money arising from the sale of animals or fowl impounded under and by virtue of any of the ordinances of the city, to be collectible, must be presented to the city authorities within three months after the sale thereof.
(Code 1987, §§ 3-3—3-7)
Sec. 10-5. - Riding or driving horse in unsafe manner.
Any person who shall drive or ride a horse at a fast and reckless pace on the streets of the city shall be guilty of disorderly conduct.
(Code 1987, § 3-8)
Sec. 10-6. - City designated bird sanctuary.
The entire area embraced within the corporate limits of the city is hereby designated as a bird sanctuary.
(Code 1987, § 3-10)
Sec. 10-7. - Hunting, shooting or molesting birds.
It shall be unlawful to trap, hunt, shoot or attempt to shoot or molest in any manner any bird or wild fowl, or to rob bird nests or wild fowl nests; provided, however, that if starlings or similar birds are found to be congregating in such numbers in a particular locality that they constitute a nuisance or a menace to health or property in the opinion of the proper health authorities of the city, then the health authorities shall meet with the mayor and city council and with representatives of the Audubon Society, Bird Club, Garden Club, Humane Society or similar interested civic organizations, after having given at least three days' actual notice of the time and place of the meeting to the representatives of such clubs. If, as a result of the meeting, no satisfactory alternative is found to abate such nuisance, the birds may be destroyed in such numbers and in such a manner as is deemed advisable by the health authorities, under the supervision of the chief of police.
(Code 1987, § 3-11)
Sec. 10-8. - Rabies vaccination for cats.
(a)
Required. All persons residing within the city limits who own, have or keep cats within the city limits are required to have the cats treated annually for rabies by some licensed veterinarian.
(b)
Impoundment of unvaccinated animals. If the owner of a cat, after ten days' notice, fails or refuses to have his cat so treated, the chief of police or any member of the police department of the city shall impound the cat. After cats are so impounded, an impounding fee as set forth in the schedule of fees and charges shall be collected by the police for a period of up to five days, after which, if the cat is unclaimed, it shall be destroyed by the police.
(Code 1987, § 3-12)
Secs. 10-9—10-35. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - DOGS

Sec. 10-36. - Dogcatchers.
The humane officer is designated as dogcatcher under the authority of the chief of police, and his assistants are appointed as assistant dogcatchers, with their duties to be the catching and impounding of all dogs kept within the limits of the city in violation of the ordinances regulating the keeping, muzzling and impounding of dogs.
(Code 1987, § 3-29)
Sec. 10-37. - Number of dogs permitted to be kept.
No person shall be permitted to keep, possess or have more than three dogs within the city limits within 300 yards of the residence of the owner or any other citizen of the city.
(Code 1987, § 3-27)
Sec. 10-38. - Running at large prohibited.
It shall be unlawful for dogs to run at large in the city, and all owners, harborers and keepers of dogs are hereby required to keep dogs in a safe enclosure to prevent their running at large.
(Code 1987, § 3-22)
Sec. 10-39. - Protection of sanitation workers.
A dog owner is required to place his garbage containers at a location on his premises which is not in an enclosure containing dogs, so that employees of the city sanitation department will not be subject to attack by the owner's dog.
(Code 1987, § 3-30)
Sec. 10-40. - Rabies vaccination.
(a)
Required. All persons residing within the city limits who own, have and keep dogs within the city limits are required to have the dogs treated annually for rabies by some licensed veterinarian.
(b)
Impoundment of unvaccinated animals. If the owner of a dog, after ten days' notice to him, fails or refuses to have his dog so treated, the chief of police, or any member of the police department of the city, shall impound the dog. After dogs are so impounded, an impounding fee as set forth in the schedule of fees and charges shall be collected by the police for a period of up to five days, after which, if the dog is unclaimed, it shall be destroyed by the police.
(c)
Tag. All owners of dogs shall be required to secure a tag from the veterinarian treating the dog.
(Code 1987, § 3-24)
State Law reference— Inoculation of dogs required, O.C.G.A. § 31-3-5; dogs to wear tags, O.C.G.A. § 31-3-4.
Sec. 10-41. - Muzzling of dangerous dogs.
All dogs shall be muzzled by their owners if considered dangerous to others, or be securely confined by their owners upon their premises. Upon failure to comply with this section, it shall be the duty of the city to investigate and take up any and all dogs belonging to any and all persons violating this section, and report the matter to the mayor.
(Code 1987, § 3-23)
Sec. 10-42. - Noisy dogs.
It shall be unlawful to keep within the city dogs which bark continuously or with such regularity so as to disturb the peace and tranquility of the people of the city.
(Code 1987, § 3-25)
Sec. 10-43. - Impoundment and destruction of abandoned dogs.
All dogs that are seemingly without owners shall be taken up and confined by the authorities of the city, and, unless ownership is claimed within five days of the confinement, dogs may be killed or otherwise disposed of.
(Code 1987, § 3-26)
Sec. 10-44. - Payment of license tax by dealers in dogs.
No person shall be permitted to buy, sell, distribute or otherwise deal in dogs within the limits of the city without first paying the annual special tax prescribed in the city schedule of license taxes for the privilege of conducting the business, the tax to be for the calendar year beginning January 1 and ending December 31 and to be payable in advance on January 1 of each year or on the day the person begins to engage in the business.
(Code 1987, § 3-28)
State Law reference— Sale of dog meat for human consumption prohibited, O.C.G.A. § 26-2-160.
