ARTICLE XVII. - ADMINISTRATION

Section 1700. - [Enforcing officer.]
The provisions of this ordinance shall be enforced by the person designated by the city to be known as the zoning administrator.
Section 1701. - Duties and powers [of zoning administrator].
It shall be the duty of the zoning administrator and he shall have power to:
A.
Require that the application for a building permit and the accompanying plot plan shall contain all the information.necessary to enable him to ascertain whether the proposed building complies with provisions of this ordinance.
B.
Keep a permanent record of all plans and application for permits, and all permits issued with notations as to special conditions attached thereto. All records should be open for public inspection and shall be the property of the city.
C.
Require that no building permit shall be issued until the building inspector has certified that the proposed building, alteration or use complies with all the provisions of this ordinance.
D.
Conduct inspections and surveys to determine compliance or noncompliance with the terms of this ordinance. In carrying out such surveys, the zoning administrator or his representative may enter upon any land or buildings.
E.
Make written orders requiring compliance with the provisions of this ordinance to be served personally or by registered mail.
F.
Maintain a map showing the current zoning classification of all land.
G.
Maintain a map and register showing the registration, identity, location and type of all nonconforming uses.
H.
Participate in all proceedings before the board of appeals, present facts and information to assist the board in reaching a decision, resist and oppose any deviations from standard provisions of this ordinance and have decisions of the board reviewed in a court of proper jurisdiction when, in the judgment of the zoning administration such review is desirable.
Section 1702. - [Restrictions on issuance of permits.]
The zoning administrator shall have authority to issue permits only for construction and uses which are in accordance with the ordinance. It shall be unlawful for any person to commence work for the erection or alteration of any building until a building permit has been duly issued therefor. Permits for construction and uses which are a special exception to such general requirements shall be issued by the zoning administrator only upon order of the board of appeals. The zoning administrator shall issue no permits for the construction or use of any land or buildings unless it also conforms to the requirements of all other zoning ordinances.
Section 1703. - Permits [generally].
No building shall be constructed or altered, or the use of any building and/or land changed, until a permit has been secured from the building inspector. Upon completion of the work authorized by any permit, the applicant for the permit shall notify the zoning administrator of such completion. No permit shall be considered as complete or as permanently effective until the zoning administrator has noted on the permit that the work has been inspected and approved as being in conformity with the provisions of this ordinance.
Section 1704. - Application for permits.
All applications for permits shall be made in writing by the owner or tenants or authorized agent and shall be filed with the zoning administrator. The application:
A.
Shall include a statement as to the proposed use of the building and/or land.
B.
Shall be accompanied by working plans drawn to scale, showing the location of the building in relation to property and road lines.
C.
Shall give the name and address of the surveyor or other person competent to give such location and to stake the road lines.
Section 1705. - [Information on variances to be provided in permit application.]
If the applicant desires the board of appeals to grant a variance, then in addition, the application shall set forth the nature of the variance and shall state briefly the reasons why such variance should be granted.
Section 1706. - Appeals.
An appeal from the decision of the zoning administrator shall be taken within 30 days.
Section 1707. - Fees.
Reasonable fees shall be charged by the mayor and city council to cover all or a portion of the costs incurred by the city for the administration of activities provided within this ordinance. Activities for which it has been determined that an administrative fee should be assessed, shall be incorporated into, and adopted as a portion thereof by the mayor and city council, the fee schedules of applicable departments responsible for the administration and implementation of this ordinance. Applications or other submittals for activities requiring a fee shall not be accepted or processed unless accompanied by the required fee.
(Ord. No. 2009-06, ยง 1.c), 7-21-09)
