Chapter 26 - SOLID WASTE[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
State Law reference— Georgia Comprehensive Solid Waste Management Act, O.C.G.A. § 12-8-20 et seq.; local, multijurisdictional and regional solid waste plans, O.C.G.A. § 12-8-31.1; unlawful placement of signs within right-of-way of public road, O.C.G.A. § 32-6-51; authorization to provide garbage and solid waste collection and disposal, Ga. Const. art. IX, § II, ¶ III(a)(2).

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 26-1. - Northeast Georgia Regional Solid Waste Management Plan.
The City adopts the most recent Northeast Georgia Regional Solid Waste Management Plan, as adopted by the Northeast Georgia Regional Commission (NEGRC), and as may be amended, is incorporated by reference as if fully set out herein.
(Code 2006, § 58-1)
Secs. 26-2—26-20. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - LITTER

Sec. 26-21. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Handbill means any printed or written matter, any sample or device, dodger, circular, leaflet, pamphlet, paper, booklet, or any other printed or otherwise reproduced original or copies of any matter of literature.
Litter means all sand, gravel, slag, brickbats, rubbish, waste material, tin cans, refuse, garbage, trash, debris, dead animals or discarded materials of every kind and description.
Litter receptacle means those containers acceptable to the City and which may be standardized as to size, shape, capacity, and color; as well as any other receptacles suitable for the depositing of litter as defined herein.
Private property means any dwelling, house, building or other structure, whether inhabited or used permanently or temporarily, or continuously uninhabited or vacant, and which is 100 percent privately owned, and shall include any yard, grounds, walk, parking area, driveway, porch, steps, vestibule, or mailbox belonging or pertinent to such dwelling, house, building or other structure.
Public place means any area that is used or held out for use by the public, whether owned or operated by public or private interests, including, but not limited to, streets, parking lots, parking garages, sidewalks, rights-of-way, parks, campgrounds, highways, alleys, and other public ways.
Vehicle includes every device capable of being moved upon a public highway and in, upon, or by which any person or property may be transported or drawn upon a public highway, including devices moved by human power or used exclusively upon stationary rails or tracks.
(Code 2001, § 31-102; Code 2006, § 58-51)
Sec. 26-22. - Procedures for litter control.
(a)
Unless the nature of the violation of this article is such that an immediate threat to safety or health is evident, the term "reasonable notice," as used herein, shall mean five days from such time as a written notice of the violation is posted on the property on which the violation has occurred and mailed to the owner of the property as reflected by the current property tax record of the City. Unless the nature of the violation of this article is such that an immediate threat to safety or health is evident and notwithstanding the foregoing, with respect to the second or more violations by the same property owner of this article within a 24-month period of time, the term "reasonable notice," as used herein, shall mean three days from such time as written notice of the violation is posted on the property and mailed to the owner of the property as reflected by the current property tax records of the City.
(b)
In addition to authorizing the removal of litter or other refuse by the City employees at the property owner's expense, the failure to cure or eliminate a violation of this article as to which notice has been provided within the time period set forth above shall result in the issuance of a citation, returnable to the Municipal Court, to the property owner or the owner's agent for a violation thereof.
(c)
To the extent that any property owner in the City becomes obligated to repay or pay to the City any of the costs imposed in this section, the City shall have the right to collect such costs by way of all available legal process, including, but not limited to, suit in Municipal, State or Superior Court and the right to pursue all available and lawful post judgment remedies. A judgment obtained against a person under this order becomes a lien against said person's property in the manner provided by law. Interest on any such costs owed by any person to the City shall run at the rate of ten percent per year from the date of completion of the work by the City until judgment or collection, whichever shall first occur, and at the legal rate of interest per year from judgment until collection.
(d)
Nothing within the foregoing shall preclude the City from enforcing the terms of this article by way of immediate issuance of a citation for any violation thereof.
(e)
Nothing within the foregoing shall preclude the City from seeking appropriate injunctive relief to halt continuing violations of this article or to halt a nuisance.
(f)
The City employee primarily responsible for enforcement of this article shall be the officer appointed by the Mayor and such assistants as the Mayer may designate.
(Code 2001, § 31-116; Code 2006, § 58-65)
Sec. 26-23. - Litter in public places.
No person shall throw, drop or in any way deposit litter on any public property except in authorized and identified litter receptacles.
(Code 2001, § 31-103; Code 2006, § 58-52)
Sec. 26-24. - Litter and other substances on property.
(a)
Each owner of private or public property in the City shall keep said property free and clear of any litter or other refuse which may constitute a threat or detriment to the public safety, welfare, property values, morality or good order.
(b)
Each person who owns private property in the City shall, at such time as the City may proscribe, remove to a proscribed and approved location or permit City employees to enter and remove from such property any and all litter and other substances which might endanger the health, safety, morality, order, property values, or welfare of residents of the City. A failure to remove such litter or other substances may result, whenever the Governing Body deems necessary, and after reasonable notice, in the Governing Body removing such litter or other substances which might endanger the health, safety, or welfare of residents of the City, in which event the costs or expenses thereof shall be chargeable to and paid by the owners of such property and may be collected by the City in the manner provided in this article.
(c)
Any person who owns vacant developed or undeveloped private property shall cut the grass, weeds and other foreign growth on such property or any property thereof and remove all litter from it at such time as the City shall proscribe so that the public health, safety, welfare, morality and good order are served. A failure to abide by this requirement may result, whenever the City deems it necessary and after reasonable notice, in having such grass, weeds or other foreign growth cut by agents or employees of the City, in which event, the cost and expenses thereof shall be chargeable to and paid by the person who owns such property and may be collected by the City in the manner provided in this article.
(d)
It shall be the duty of every tenant, lessee, or occupant of any residence or establishment where people reside, congregate, or are employed to provide sufficient garbage containers or receptacles to handle the accumulation of garbage during the intervals between collections.
(e)
Branches and heavy brush shall be cut in lengths not exceeding four feet and stacked in front of the residence or property adjoining the curb and shall not extend into the street. Logs, limbs and branches over four inches in diameter or over four feet long will not be collected at any time.
(f)
In reference to any discarded furniture, appliances, machinery or other oversized litter or trash, the property owner, at the owner's expense, must make arrangements for removal and disposal. Under no circumstances while awaiting removal shall a discarded refrigerator, icebox, freezer, washer, dryer, or stove or other item capable of entrapping a child be left in an area accessible to children. Any such items left outside on private property for a period of seven days or more, unless part of an authorized business operation, will be presumed to be discarded and, after reasonable notice, removed by the City at the property owner's expense.
(g)
All litter receptacles, plastic bags or single use paper or cardboard boxes, shall be kept clean and free of accumulated waste and shall be treated with an effective insecticide if necessary to prevent nuisances. The capacity of the individual refuse receptacle if used shall not exceed 90 pounds total weight; provided that special receptacles of other capacities may be used with the written permission of the enforcement officer for multifamily residences or businesses.
(h)
Under no circumstances shall any private property owner be permitted to store, accumulate or otherwise maintain any litter or other refuse on the premises in such quantities as to constitute a nuisance or be harmful to the health or safety of the public.
(Code 2001, § 31-104; Code 2006, § 58-53)
Sec. 26-25. - Dumping.
No person shall dump or otherwise dispose of litter or other refuse or unsightly matter on any public or private property unless said property specifically is approved by the City and/or the State for dumping. It is a violation of this article to dump any household or non-household refuse into any private dumpster or private collection system without permission from the owner.
(Code 2001, § 31-105; Code 2006, § 58-54)
Sec. 26-26. - Litter from vehicles.
It shall be unlawful to throw, drop, or otherwise deposit or dispose of litter or any other refuse from any vehicle.
(Code 2001, § 31-106; Code 2006, § 58-55)
Sec. 26-27. - Allowing escape of load material.
No vehicle shall be driven or moved on any street, highway, or other public road within the City, unless such vehicle is constructed or loaded to prevent any of its load from dropping, sifting, leaking or otherwise escaping therefrom. Provided, however, that sand or any substance for increasing traction, or water or other substance may be sprinkled on a roadway and the cleaning or maintaining of such roadway may be undertaken by the governmental agency having that responsibility. Any person operating a vehicle from which any glass, litter, or other object has fallen or escaped, which constitute an obstruction or damage a vehicle or otherwise endanger travel upon such street, highway or other public road, shall immediately cause the street, highway or public road to be cleaned of all glass or objects and shall pay any costs for such removal. Provided, however, that no provision of this section shall apply to any motor vehicle which is used exclusively for agricultural purposes and which is not operated on or over any public highway for any other purpose other than for the purpose of operating it across the highway or along the highway from one point of the owner's land to another part thereof irrespective of whether or not the tracts adjoin.
(Code 2001, § 31-107; Code 2006, § 58-56)
Sec. 26-28. - Refuse collection.
(a)
Proper collection and disposal of accumulated litter and other refuse is required and may not be conducted in a manner contrary to the public health, order, morality, safety or welfare.
(b)
All equipment used for the collection and transportation of litter and other refuse shall be so designed as to prevent its escape therefrom as per Section 26-27. This equipment shall be provided with a watertight body designed so as to prevent the escape of any fluid. All surfaces of collection and transportation equipment coming in contact with garbage or organic commercial waste shall be smooth, nonabsorbent and in good repair. Only equipment approved by the enforcement officer may be used in the collection and transportation of litter and other refuse.
(c)
All equipment used in the collection and transportation of litter and other refuse shall be thoroughly washed and treated with an approved insecticide as often as the enforcement officer shall deem necessary to prevent fly-breeding and/or nuisances.
(d)
All litter and other refuse spilled during collection or transportation shall be promptly removed by the refuse collector.
(e)
At each collection, all litter and other refuse in the refuse receptacle shall be removed and the receptacle left covered.
(f)
Hazardous waste and dead animals shall be removed in a manner approved by the City and the County Health Department and subject to any other federal, State, or local ordinances, laws, rules, statutes or regulations as may apply.
(g)
The City has arranged for the collection of litter and other refuse from private or public property; property owners choosing to subscribe shall be responsible for payment to the contractor of such reasonable charges as may from time to time be set for the regular removal of litter and other refuse.
(Code 2001, § 31-108; Code 2006, § 58-57)
Sec. 26-29. - Parking lots.
All parking lots and establishments with parking lots, public or private, shall provide litter receptacles distributed within the parking area. Such receptacles shall be weighted to or attached to the ground as necessary to prevent spillage. It shall be the responsibility of the owner or manager of the property to collect the refuse and trash deposited and to provide for collection or disposal of same.
(Code 2001, § 31-109; Code 2006, § 58-58)
Sec. 26-30. - Construction and demolition sites.
(a)
All construction and demolition contractors shall provide on-site refuse receptacles suitable to contain all debris, paper, building material waste, scrap building materials, and other trash produced by those working on the site.
(b)
All construction and demolition sites shall be kept in a litter-free condition.
(c)
All dirt, mud, construction materials, or other debris deposited upon any public or private property (including streets and roads) as a result of construction or demolition shall be removed by the contractor on a daily basis.
(Code 2001, § 31-111; Code 2006, § 58-60)
Sec. 26-31. - Scavenging.
No person other than the owner thereof, or an agent or an employee of the City, shall interfere with any container placed for the purpose of storing refuse pending collection, or remove or take any of the contents thereof, or remove any such container from the location where the same shall have been placed by the owner thereof.
(Code 2001, § 31-112; Code 2006, § 58-61)
Sec. 26-32. - Handbills and advertising matter.
(a)
It shall be unlawful to place in or on any automobile in the City any handbill, circular, pamphlet, poster, postcard, or other literature, except in a manner that will prohibit same from being blown about or scattered by the elements.
(b)
It shall be unlawful for any person to place or drop on any private property any handbill, circular, pamphlet, poster, postcard, or other literature, except with the express permission of the owner of the property or intended recipient. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the provisions of this section shall not apply to the distribution of mail by the United States, nor to newspapers, except that newspapers shall be placed on private property in such a manner as to prevent their being carried or deposited by the elements upon any street, sidewalk, or other public or private property.
(Code 2001, § 31-113; Code 2006, § 58-62)
Sec. 26-33. - Public utility poles.
No person shall post or affix any notice, poster or other paper or device calculated to attract the attention of the public to any public utility pole or other public lamppost or structure unless expressly authorized.
(Code 2001, § 31-114; Code 2006, § 58-63)
Secs. 26-34—26-56. - Reserved.
ARTICLE III. - SCRAP TIRE

Sec. 26-57. - Definitions.
The following words, terms, and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Scrap tire means a tire that is no longer suitable for its original intended purpose because of wear, damage, or defect.
Scrap tire carrier means any person engaged in picking up or transporting scrap tires not otherwise exempted under the Georgia Rules for Solid Waste Management Section 391-3-4-.19(5.g) (Ga. Comp. Rules and Regs. R391-3-4-.19(5.g)) for the purpose of removal to a scrap fire processor, end user, or disposal facility (O.C.G.A. § 12-8-22(32)).
Scrap tire generator means any person who generates scrap tires. Generators may include, but are not limited to, retail tire dealers, retreaders, scrap tire processors, automobile dealers, private company vehicle maintenance shops, garages, service stations, and City, County, and State governments.
Tire means a continuous solid or pneumatic rubber covering designed for encircling the wheel of a motor vehicle and which is neither attached to the motor vehicle nor a part of the motor vehicle as original equipment (O.C.G.A. § 12-8-22(38)).
Tire retailer means any person engaged in the business of selling new or replacement tires.
Sec. 26-58. - Applicable rules and regulations.
(a)
All persons defined as scrap tire generators, scrap tire carriers, tire retailers, and/or scrap tire processors shall be subject to rules as defined in the Rules for Solid Waste Management Section 391-3-4-.19 (Ga. Comp. Rules and Regs. R391-3-4-.19) and handle scrap tires in accordance with the provisions of O.C.G.A. § 12-8-20 et seq., and the Rules for Solid Waste Management, Ga. Comp. Rules and Regs. Ch. 391-3-4, applicable to solid waste.
(b)
No person shall deposit a scrap tire in any container or receptacle unless authorized by the owner of the receptacle or the Mayor and Council or their designee.
(Code 2001, § 12-111; Code 2006, § 58-31)
Secs. 26-59—26-89. - Reserved.
ARTICLE IV. - YARD TRIMMINGS DISPOSAL REGULATIONS

Sec. 26-90. - Definitions.
The following words, terms, and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Commercial solid waste means all types of solid waste generated by stores, offices, restaurants, warehouses and other nonmanufacturing activities, excluding residential and industrial wastes.
Composting means the controlled biological decomposition of organic matter into a stable, order-free humus.
Leachate collection system means a system at a landfill for collection of the leachate which may percolate through the waste and into the soils surrounding the landfill.
Municipal solid waste means any solid waste derived from households, including garbage, trash and sanitary waste in septic tanks and includes solid waste from single-family and multifamily residences, hotels and motels, bunkhouses, campgrounds, picnic grounds, and day use recreation areas. The term "municipal solid waste" includes yard trimmings and commercial solid waste but does not include solid waste from mining, agricultural or silvacultural operations or industrial processes or operations.
Municipal solid waste disposal facility means any facility or location where the final deposition of any amount of municipal solid waste occurs, whether or not mixed with or including commercial or industrial solid waste, including, but not limited to, municipal solid waste landfills.
Municipal solid waste landfill means a disposal facility where any amount of municipal solid waste, whether or not mixed with or including commercial waste, industrial waste, nonhazardous sludges or small quantity generator hazardous waste, is disposed of by means of placing an approved cover thereon.
Yard trimmings means leaves, brush, grass clippings, shrub and tree prunings, discarded Christmas trees, nursery and greenhouse vegetative residuals, and vegetative matter resulting from landscaping development and maintenance, other than mining, agricultural and silvacultural operations.
(Code 2001, § 12-110; Code 2006, § 58-30(a))
Sec. 26-91. - Placement and disposal of yard trimmings; prohibitions.
(a)
It shall be unlawful to place or mix yard trimmings with municipal solid waste within the City.
(b)
Yard trimmings shall not be disposed at any municipal solid waste disposal facility having a liner and leachate collection system or requiring vertical expansion located within the City.
(Code 2001, § 12-110; Code 2006, § 58-30(b))
Sec. 26-92. - Sorting, storing, composting and collecting yard trimmings.
Yard trimmings shall be sorted and stored in the following manner:
(1)
Designated times shall be scheduled for leaf and limb pickup.
(2)
The yard trimmings shall be placed roadside away from the regular municipal solid waste.
(3)
The trimmings shall be carried to a mulch field area so that they can decay and mix with the soil as compost.
(Code 2001, § 12-110; Code 2006, § 58-30(c))
