ARTICLE V. - MUNICIPAL COURT

Section 5-1. - Establishment, jurisdiction.
There is established a municipal court for the city, which shall be presided over by a municipal court judge and which shall have jurisdiction of offenses against the laws and ordinances of said city.
Section 5-2. - Authority of municipal court.
The municipal court shall have the power to preserve order; to compel the attendance of witnesses; to compel the production of books and papers to be used as evidence; to punish for contempt; to punish witnesses for nonattendance; and to punish all persons who shall counsel, advise, aid, encourage, or intimidate a witness whose testimony is material or desired before the court. The court shall have the power to enforce its judgment by inflicting such penalties as may be provided by the ordinances of the city.
Section 5-3. - Limit upon penalties which may be imposed by municipal court.
Punishment for any violation of a city law or ordinance, not otherwise provided in this article or by ordinance, and the punishment for contempt shall be one or more or all of the following punishments at the discretion of the court: a fine not exceeding $1,000.00; imprisonment in the city jail or in the county jail by permission of the county authorities for a period not exceeding 30 days; or work on the street, or such other places where the offender may be lawfully placed at work under the provisions of this Charter, for a period not exceeding 30 days.
Section 5-4. - Review of decisions of municipal court.
A review of a decision of the court shall be by certiorari to the Superior Court of Bulloch County as provided by law for certiorari in other cases.
Section 5-5. - Time for municipal court to begin to function.
The municipal court shall begin to function upon the completion of the legal requirements setting up the court.
Section 5-6. - Selection, term, qualifications of municipal court judge.
The mayor and council of the City of Statesboro shall appoint a municipal court judge. The municipal court judge shall be a resident of Bulloch County and shall be at least 21 years of age and a practicing attorney who has practiced law for two years before his election.
Section 5-7. - Compensation of municipal court judge.
The municipal court judge shall be compensated in an amount determined each year by the mayor and city council, to be paid in equal monthly installments.
Section 5-8. - Who may act in case of the disqualification, illness, or absence of the municipal court judge or in the event of a vacancy in office of municipal court judge.
In case of disqualification, illness, or absence from the city of the municipal court judge or in the event of a vacancy in the office of the municipal court judge, the mayor or any one of the councilmembers may act as municipal court judge and have all the power and authority of municipal court judge while acting as such.
Section 5-9. - Procedure for removal of municipal court judge; written charges, hearing required.
The municipal court judge shall be subject to removal at any time by a vote of the majority of the mayor and city council. Before removal, however, written charges must be preferred against him, setting out in detail the nature of the charges against him, which charges must be signed by one or more of the mayor and council. The municipal court judge must be furnished with a copy of such charges and of the time when same will be heard, which must not be less than five days after a copy of such charges has been furnished him. Such hearings shall be public and the municipal court judge shall have the right to be present and to call the witnesses he may desire in his own defense, but the action of the mayor and council in removing or in refusing to remove the municipal court judge after such hearing or after he is given the opportunity to be heard shall be final, and there shall be no appeal from the action of the mayor and council.
Section 5-10. - Clerk of municipal court; designation, function.
The chief of police or his appointee is designated as clerk of the court and shall attend all sessions and keep such records and documents for the use of the court as shall be required of him, keep and preserve order, issue summonses and subpoenas, and do all and other things necessary or required by the municipal court judge of the court. In the event of the absence or illness of the chief of police, then the acting chief of police is designated as clerk of the court during the absence of the chief of police.
Section 5-11. - Appointment of temporary judge.
In the event the municipal court judge is disqualified from serving or is required to be absent from the bench for any other reason, the seated presiding judge shall select a member of the Bulloch County Bar Association possessing all proper qualifications to serve as interim municipal court judge.
(Ga. L. 2000, p. 3786, § 7)
Section 5-12. - Short title.
Section 5-12 through section 5-20 shall collectively be known as the "City of Statesboro Office of Prosecuting Attorney of the Municipal Court Ordinance."
(Ord. No. 2012-02, § 1, 7-17-12)
Section 5-13. - Findings and intent.
This ordinance is adopted to address requirements made under Georgia law for the city to pass an ordinance or resolution creating the office of prosecuting attorney of the municipal court should the city choose to hire or have a prosecuting attorney of the municipal court. Under state law, in order to have a municipal court prosecutor, the city must pass this ordinance or resolution and provide to the prosecuting attorneys' Council of the State of Georgia a copy of the same. The city is also required to submit the name of the person appointed to be the prosecuting attorney of the municipal court within 30 days of such appointment in order to maintain the office of prosecuting attorney of the municipal court. It is therefore the intent of the city to comply with Georgia law, particularly O.C.G.A. tit. 15, ch. 18, art. 5, and to enact this article.
(Ord. No. 2012-02, § 1, 7-17-12)
Section 5-14. - Establishment of office.
The office of prosecuting attorney of the municipal court is hereby established for the purpose of providing representation of the City of Statesboro in matters pertaining to ordinance violations of the city and state offenses enforceable in the municipal court as allowed by Georgia law. The prosecuting attorney for the municipal court shall be a part-time position.
(Ord. No. 2012-02, § 1, 7-17-12)
Section 5-15. - Qualifications.
Any person appointed as the prosecuting attorney for the Municipal Court of the City of Statesboro shall be a member in good standing of the State Bar of Georgia and admitted to practice before the trial and appellate courts of this state. Nothing in this article shall prevent the city from appointing the city attorney to be the prosecuting attorney for the municipal court, so long as all other requirements under the law are met.
(Ord. No. 2012-02, § 1, 7-17-12)
Section 5-16. - Oath.
The prosecuting attorney of the Municipal Court for the City of Statesboro shall take and subscribe to the following oath:
'I swear (or affirm) that I will faithfully, and impartially and without fear, favor, or affection discharge my duties as prosecuting attorney of the Municipal Court for the City of Statesboro.'
(Ord. No. 2012-02, § 1, 7-17-12)
Section 5-17. - Term of office.
The prosecuting attorney for the municipal court shall serve a term of office of two years.
(Ord. No. 2012-02, § 1, 7-17-12)
Section 5-18. - Jurisdiction, duties, and authority.
The Office of Prosecuting Attorney of the Municipal Court for the City of Statesboro shall have the duty and authority to represent the city as defined by the city charter and by state law, particularly as described in O.C.G.A. § 15-18-96.
(Ord. No. 2012-02, § 1, 7-17-12)
Section 5-19. - Assistant prosecuting attorney.
The prosecuting attorney of the municipal court may appoint one or more assistant prosecuting attorneys whose appointment shall be ratified by the city council before becoming an assistant prosecuting attorney for the municipal court. Such assistant prosecuting attorney shall be a member in good standing of the State Bar of Georgia or satisfy the provisions of the Third Year Practice Act, found in the O.C.G.A § 15-18-22.
(Ord. No. 2012-02, § 1, 7-17-12)
Section 5-20. - Ratification.
This article shall ratify all actions that have been taken by the persons acting in the positions of the office of the prosecuting attorney for the municipal court to date as authorized by the mayor and his council.
(Ord. No. 2012-02, § 1, 7-17-12)
