ARTICLE VIII. - CBD CENTRAL BUSINESS DISTRICT

Section 800. - Declaration of legislative intent.
It shall be the purpose of the CBD district to provide for the orderly development of a major business and commerce area of the City of Statesboro in accordance with the objectives, policies and proposals of the future land use plan of the city. The development of this district shall be directed as to the plans and redevelopment proposals heretofore shown in the future land use plan and studies which may subsequently follow. The logical and timely development of land for business purposes is herein a stated purpose of this district. The district proposes to permit a uniformity of design to ensure the orderly arrangement of buildings, land uses and parking areas, and all construction hereafter proposed for this area shall be related to this objective. The architectural and design arrangement of buildings are encouraged to conform to the general character and plans of the central business district.
Section 801. - Use regulations.
A building may be erected, altered, or used, and a lot may be used or occupied, for any of the following purposes and no other:
A.
Retail or wholesale establishments.
B.
Business or professional offices.
C.
Office buildings.
D.
Restaurants.
E.
Taverns.
F.
Personal services facilities.
G.
Indoor theater or other place of indoor amusement or recreation.
H.
Newspaper publishing, job printing.
I.
Hotel or motel.
J.
Parking lot, not to include automobile junkyard.
K.
The following uses when authorized as a special exception:
1.
Any use of the same general character as any of the uses hereinbefore specifically permitted without requirements of a special exception.
2.
Laundry or dry cleaning establishment.
L.
Signs subject to the provisions of article XVI [XV].
M.
Accessory use on the same lot with [and] customarily incidental to any of the foregoing permitted uses.
N.
Churches.
O.
Municipal, county, state, or federal use.
P.
Apartments, on upper floors only.
Q.
Single-family attached dwelling units, on upper floors only.
(Mo. of 8-6-85; Ord. No. 2006-13, §§ 1.a, b, 10-3-06; Ord. No. 2007-24, § 1a)—d), 9-18-07; Ord. No. 2008-10, §§ 1.c)-1.e), 12-16-08)
Section 802. - Height regulations.
The maximum height of any building or other structure erected or used in this district shall be 45 feet except that the height of any such other building or structure may be increased to a maximum of 65 feet when approved by the board of appeals. Said board of appeals shall make a finding that any excess height over 45 feet will not be detrimental to the light, air, privacy or architectural scheme of any other structure or use currently existing or anticipated, provided that for every foot of height in excess of 45 feet there shall be added to each yard requirement one corresponding foot of width or depth.
[Section 803.] - Requirements.
A site plan and architectural drawings are required prior to issuance of a building permit. The planning commission shall review these plans and drawings and submit their findings and recommendations to the building inspector and city council prior to the issuance of the building permit. The drawings shall keep in mind the integrity and harmony of the central business district as designated in the future land use plan and other related studies.
