ARTICLE III. - DEALERS IN PRECIOUS METALS AND GEMS[3]

Footnotes:
--- (3) ---
State Law reference— Duties of purchasers of gold bullion, gold dust, etc., O.C.G.A. § 12-4-120 et seq.; junk dealers, O.C.G.A. § 43-22-1 et seq.; dealers in precious metals and gems, O.C.G.A. § 43-37-1 et seq.; dealers in used watches, O.C.G.A. § 43-49-1 et seq.; jeweler's lien for repairs, O.C.G.A. § 44-14-430 et seq.

Sec. 18-56. - Definitions.
As used in this article the terms:
Dealer in precious metals and gems means any person, whether as owner, agent or employee, who engages in the business of purchasing precious metals or gems or articles containing any precious metal or gems from members of the general public for resale to brokers, dealers or melters.
Electronic reporting system means a computer based system, as specified by the director of public safety, which is designed to record and transmit data and information electronically.
Gems means any precious or semiprecious stone which is cut and polished.
Goods means every species of tangible personal property.
Pawnbroker means any person, whether as owner, agent or employee, engaged in whole or in part in the business of lending money on the security of pledged goods, or in the business of purchasing tangible personal property on the condition that it may be redeemed or repurchased by the seller for a fixed price within a fixed period of time, or in the business of purchasing tangible personal property from persons or sources other than manufacturers or licensed dealers as a part of or in conjunction with the business activities described in this section.
Pawnshop means any person, whether as owner, agent or employee engaged in whole or in part in the business of lending money on the security of pledged goods, or in the business of purchasing tangible personal property on the condition that it may be redeemed or repurchased by the seller for a fixed price within a fixed period of time, or in the business of purchasing tangible personal property from persons or sources other than manufacturers or licensed dealers as a part of or in conjunction with the business activities described in this section.
Person means an individual, partnership, corporation, joint venture, trust, association, or other legal entity however organized.
Precious metals means gold, silver or platinum or any metal containing gold, silver or platinum.
Secondhand dealer means any person, whether as owner, agent or employee whose business includes purchasing, storing, selling, or exchanging, and receiving secondhand personal property of any kind, or description. However any person, whether as owner, agent or employee whose business is the purchase and resale of clothing, furniture, or the resale of goods that are donated to the business as a charitable donation shall not be deemed a secondhand dealer under this article.
(Code 1987, § 14-15.4(II); Ord. No. 2013-06, § 1, 6-4-13)
Cross reference— Definitions and rules of construction generally, § 1-2.
Sec. 18-57. - Penalty for violation of article.
Any person who shall violate any of the provisions of this article shall be punished upon conviction in the municipal court of the city as provided in section 1-12.
(Code 1987, § 14-15.4(XIV))
Sec. 18-58. - License required.
It shall be unlawful for a buyer of precious metals and gemstones to engage in such business within the city without first obtaining a license therefor in compliance with the provisions of this article.
(Code 1987, § 14-15.4(I))
Sec. 18-59. - Application for license.
Applicants for a license pursuant to this article shall file with the city clerk a written application under oath, signed by the applicant if an individual, by all partners if a partnership, and by the president if a corporation, and showing the following:
(1)
The name of the person having the management or supervision of the applicant's business during the time that it is proposed that it will be carried on within the city; the local address of such person while engaged in such business; the permanent address of such person; the capacity in which such person will act, that is, whether as proprietor, agent or otherwise; the name and address of the person on whose account the business will be carried on, if any; and, if a corporation, the name of the state in which the corporation is incorporated;
(2)
The place within the city where it is proposed to carry on the applicant's business, and the length of time during which it is proposed that such business will be conducted;
(3)
Credentials from the person for which the applicant proposes to do business, authorizing the applicant to act as representative; and
(4)
Such other reasonable information as to the identity and character of the person having the management or supervision of the business and the manner of doing business as the city council may deem proper in order to fulfill the purpose of this article in the protection of the public interest.
(Code 1987, § 14-15.4(III))
Sec. 18-60. - Bond.
(a)
Before any license shall be issued pursuant to this article, the applicant shall file with the city council a bond binding the applicant to the city in the full sum of $10,000.00, executed by the applicant as principal and by a surety approved by the city council, conditioned that the applicant shall comply fully with the ordinances of the city and the statutes of the state governing the conduct of such business and will pay all judgments rendered against the applicant for any violation of such ordinances or statutes. Action on the bond may be brought in the name of the city in its own behalf.
(b)
Before any license shall be issued pursuant to this article, the applicant shall file with the city clerk an instrument appointing the clerk of the city council as his true and lawful agent for service of process upon the applicant for the performance of the conditions of the bond or for any breach thereof. Immediately upon service of process upon the clerk of the city as provided in this section, the clerk shall send to the licensee, at his last known address, by registered mail, a copy of such process.
(Code 1987, § 14-15.4(IV), (V))
Sec. 18-61. - Posting of license.
The license issued pursuant to this article shall be posted conspicuously in the place of business named therein. If the applicant desires to do business in more than one place within the city, separate licenses shall be purchased and issued for each place of business, and shall be posted conspicuously in each place of business.
(Code 1987, § 14-15.4(VI))
Sec. 18-62. - License fee.
Licensees under this article shall pay a license fee of $250.00 for each calendar year or portion of a year in which the licensee engages in business within the city. For each business location in addition to one, the licensee shall pay an additional license fee of $250.00 for each calendar year or portion of a year in which the licensee conducts business at such additional location.
(Code 1987, § 14-15.4(VII))
Sec. 18-63. - Revocation of license.
(a)
The license issued pursuant to this article may be revoked by the mayor and city council, after notice and hearing, for any of the following causes:
(1)
Any fraud, misrepresentation or false statement contained in the application for license;
(2)
Any fraud, misrepresentation or false statement made in connection with any purchase transaction;
(3)
Failure to maintain the daily record as required in this article;
(4)
Any other violation of this article; or
(5)
Conducting the business licensed under this article in any unlawful manner or in such a manner as to constitute a breach of the peace or to constitute a menace to the health, safety or general welfare of the public.
(b)
Notice of hearing for revocation of a license shall be given in writing, setting forth specifically the grounds of the complaint and the time and place of the hearing. The notice shall be served on the licensee by handing the notice personally to the person in charge of the licensee's business, or by mailing the notice, postage prepaid, to the licensee, at his last known address, at least five days prior to the date set for the hearing.
(Code 1987, § 14-15.4(XII))
Sec. 18-64. - Record of transactions.
(a)
Required; contents. Every buyer of precious metals and gemstones shall maintain a daily record in which shall be entered in legible English at the time of each transaction the following information:
(1)
The date and time of the transaction.
(2)
The name of the person conducting the transaction.
(3)
The name, age, address and race of the seller, a description of the general appearance and estimated height and weight of the seller, and the distinctive number from the seller's driver's license or other similar identification card.
(4)
A full identification and description of the article, including kind, style, material, color, design and kind and number of stones in jewelry, if any, and all identifying marks and numbers inscribed thereon.
(5)
The price paid for each item.
(6)
The number of the check issued for the purchase price if payment is made by check.
(7)
The signature of the customer.
(b)
Entries. Entries required by subsection (a) of this section shall appear in chronological order in ink. No blank lines may be left between entries. No obliterations, alterations or erasures may be made. Corrections shall be made by drawing a line of ink through the entry without destroying its legibility.
(c)
Inspection. The complete daily record of each day's transactions required in this section shall be open to the inspection of any duly authorized law enforcement officer during the ordinary hours of business or at any reasonable time.
(Code 1987, § 14-15.4(VIII)—(X))
Sec. 18-65. - Retention of items purchased.
Every buyer of precious metals or gemstones shall retain possession of each article or item purchased in the city for at least 30 days following each purchase for metals, and ten days for coins. It shall be unlawful for any buyer of precious metals or gemstones to alter in any manner or to transfer possession of any article or item purchased in the city within a period of 30 days for metals, or ten days for coins, after purchase. If any article or item so purchased shall be removed from the city limits within a period of 30 days for metals, and ten days for coins, after purchase, the buyer of precious metals or gemstones shall notify the chief of police in writing, prior to such removal, of the precise location and address to which the article or item is to be removed, and shall consent to inspection of the article or item by the chief of police or any duly authorized law enforcement officer at such location.
(Code 1987, § 14-15.4(XI))
Sec. 18-66. - Unlawful acts.
It shall be unlawful for any buyer of precious metals or gemstones to commit any of the following acts:
(1)
Fail to make an entry of any material matter in his daily record;
(2)
Make any false entry in the daily record;
(3)
Falsify, obliterate or destroy such daily record or remove the record from his place of business;
(4)
Refuse to allow any duly authorized law enforcement officer to inspect such daily record or any goods in his possession during the ordinary hours of business or at any reasonable time; or
(5)
Fail to comply with this article in any other particular.
(Code 1987, § 14-15.4(XIII))
Sec. 18-67. - Records and information to be recorded.
Every person or business engaged as a pawnbroker, pawnshop, secondhand dealer, and dealer in precious metals and gems within the city shall secure from every person from whom he receives any goods, except used books, whether by purchase or through pledge, trade, pawn or exchange, the following:
(1)
Government-issued photo identification card, such as a driver's license, military identification card, state identification card or passport;
(2)
The name, address, telephone number, race, sex, height, weight, date of birth, and a Social Security or driver's license number;
(3)
A digital photograph clearly showing a frontal view of the subject's face. Each digital image shall be labeled with the date and time of the transaction and stored in such a manner that they are safe from corruption. If the same subject makes additional transactions within 30 days of the original transaction; provides the same government issued photo identification card as provided above, and the subject's appearance has not materially changed a new digital photograph shall not be required until a transaction is made after 30 days from the original transaction.
(4)
A complete and accurate description of the goods acquired, and a digital photograph of the goods acquired including the following information, if available:
a.
Brand name.
b.
Model number.
c.
Manufacturer's serial number.
d.
Size.
e.
Color, as apparent to the untrained eye.
f.
Precious metal type, weight, and content if known.
g.
Gemstone description, including the number of stones.
h.
In the case of firearms, the type of action, caliber or gauge, number of barrels, barrel length, and finish.
i.
Any other unique identifying marks, numbers, or letters.
j.
The date and time of the transaction.
(5)
The pawnbroker, pawnshop, secondhand dealer, and dealer in precious metals and gems shall maintain the above information and digital photographs for a period of three years and make the same available to law enforcement personnel upon request.
(6)
The pawnbroker, pawnshop, secondhand dealer, and dealer in precious metals and gems shall require the seller to sign a statement verifying that the seller is the rightful owner of the goods or is entitled to sell, consign, or trade the goods.
(7)
Section 18-67 shall not apply to the receipt of used books or pawn transactions commonly known as "title pawn" transactions where the pawnbroker takes possession of a motor vehicle certificate of title; takes a security interest in the motor vehicle certificate of title, and retains physical possession of the vehicle certificate of title for the entire length of the pawn transaction.
(Code 1987, § 14-15.4(XVIII); Ord. No. 2013-06, § 2, 6-4-13)
Editor's note— Ord. No. 2013-06, § 2, adopted June 4, 2013, amended § 18-67 title to read as herein set out. Former § 18-67 title pertained to confidentiality of information.
Sec. 18-68. - Reserved.
Sec. 18-69. - Report to police; required format.
(a)
Every pawnbroker, pawnshop, secondhand dealer, and dealer in precious metals and gems located within the city shall make a computer-generated daily report, in such format as prescribed by the director of public safety, of all transactions that occurred during the 24-hour period ending at 9:00 p.m. on the date of the report. A report shall be made each day prior to 11:59 p.m. for each day the operator or dealer transacts business. If an operator or dealer is closed or does not otherwise engage in any transactions on a particular day, a report indicating "no transactions" shall be filed for that day. Daily reports shall be filed electronically by posting to a law enforcement web site designated by the director of public safety. Where technological problems prevent posting the daily report electronically, a printed, typed or legibly handwritten report shall be delivered to the police department in lieu thereof.
(b)
Section 18-69 shall not apply to the receipt of used books or pawn transactions commonly known as "title pawn" transactions where the pawnbroker takes possession of a motor vehicle certificate of title; takes a security interest in the motor vehicle certificate of title, and retains physical possession of the vehicle certificate of title for the entire length of the pawn transaction.
(Ord. No. 2013-06, § 3, 6-4-13)
Sec. 18-70. - Reserved.
Sec. 18-71. - Hold period; police holds.
(a)
Any pawnshop, secondhand dealer or person operating under a license granted pursuant to this article who takes goods on pawn, taking full title thereto, shall hold the goods so taken in pawn for at least 30 days before disposing of the goods by sale, transfer, shipment or otherwise.
(b)
Any pawnshop, secondhand dealer or dealer in precious metals and gems person operating under a pawnbroker's license who buys goods, taking full title thereto shall hold the goods so taken in on purchase for at least ten days before disposing of the goods by sale, transfer, shipment or otherwise.
(c)
The Statesboro Police Department or any other law enforcement agency has the authority to place property that is the subject of police investigation on police hold. In that event, the Statesboro Police Department or other law enforcement agency shall notify the pawnbroker, pawnshop, secondhand dealer, or dealer in precious metals and gems of the need for a police hold and identify all property subject to the police hold. Upon notification, it shall be the responsibility of the pawnbroker, pawnshop, secondhand dealer, or dealer in precious metals and gems to maintain the subject property until such time as the property is released from police hold status or the property is confiscated as evidence.
(Ord. No. 2013-06, § 4, 6-4-13)
Secs. 18-72—18-90. - Reserved.
