Chapter 50 - LIBRARY[1]

Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
State Law reference— Local and regional public libraries, O.C.G.A. § 20-5-20 et seq.

Sec. 50-1. - Name; service area.
The library organization shall be known as the Statesboro Regional Library. The library shall serve the county.
(Code 1987, § 13½-1)
Sec. 50-2. - Purpose.
The purpose of the library is to furnish complete library service accessible to every individual in the area served.
(Code 1987, § 13½-2)
Sec. 50-3. - Library board—Membership and organization.
(a)
Composition. The governing body of the library shall be a library board composed of 12 members, from which shall be selected a chairman, vice-chairman, secretary and treasurer.
(b)
Appointment and term of members.
(1)
Individuals from all areas of business, industry and the professions represented in the community, including housewives, residents of the county and residents of the city shall be eligible for consideration as a board member. The librarian shall be an ex officio member of the board.
(2)
Members are appointed for staggered terms of four years. Four members shall be appointed by the county board of commissioners, four members shall be appointed by the city council, and four members shall be appointed by the July term grand jury. The term of office shall commence January 1.
(3)
Members are eligible for reappointment by such bodies for one additional and consecutive four-year term. Vacancies on the board will be filled by the appropriate body responsible for the appointment of the individual creating the vacancy.
(c)
Officers. A chairman, vice-chairman, secretary and treasurer shall be elected by the members of the library board. Consecutive service of any officer shall be limited to one term of two years. These officers shall be elected on the even year at the annual November meeting. Offices are reviewed every year at the November meeting.
(d)
Meetings; rules of procedure. A regular meeting shall be scheduled monthly, except for July and August, with the time and date determined at the September meeting of the board. Special meetings may be called by the chairman or vice-chairman. All proceedings of the library board in both regular and special meetings shall be recorded in the minutes of the board. These minutes shall be read, corrected and approved at each succeeding meeting. Seven members present at any regular or special meeting shall constitute a quorum. A quorum of members present shall be required to transact any business of the library board. In conducting business at its meetings, the library board shall follow Robert's Rules of Order.
(e)
Committees.
(1)
Standing committees. The board shall establish standing committees whose business it shall be to advise the board and assist the librarian in the management of the library. Standing committees include:
a.
Buildings and grounds.
b.
Library information.
c.
Finance.
d.
Bylaws (on a temporary basis).
Committee responsibilities shall be determined by the board. Chairmen and membership for standing committees shall be appointed by the board chairman, assisted by the vice-chairman. Board members shall be notified of committee assignments at the annual November meeting of the library board.
(2)
Special committees. Special committees may be appointed by the chairman from time to time as deemed necessary. Such committees shall serve at the discretion of the chairman.
(f)
Absence from meetings. Members of the library board shall attend all regular meetings unless hindered by illness, business or absence from the county. Three consecutive absences from regular meetings, unless excused by action of the board, shall automatically terminate membership on the board. Such vacancies shall be filled as provided in the bylaws.
(g)
Duties and compensation of members. Members of the board shall be advised of their duties by the chairman. Members shall serve without remuneration except for actual expenses incurred on behalf of the library as approved by the finance committee.
(Code 1987, §§ 13½-3—13½-9)
Sec. 50-4. - Same—Duties.
The duties and responsibilities of the library board include:
(1)
Employing a competent and qualified librarian at such salary schedule for librarians as determined by the state department of education.
(2)
Determining and adopting written policies to govern the operations and program of the library.
(3)
Determining the purposes of the library and securing adequate funds to carry on the library's program.
(4)
Knowing the program and needs of the library in relation to the community and keeping abreast of standards and library trends.
(5)
Establishing, supporting and participating in a planned public relations program.
(6)
Assisting in the preparation of the annual budget.
(7)
Knowing local and state laws and actively supporting library legislation in the state and nation.
(8)
Establishing among the library policies those dealing with book and material selection.
(9)
Attending all board meetings and seeing that accurate records are kept on file at the library.
(10)
Attending regional, state and national trustee meetings and workshops, and affiliating with the appropriate professional organizations.
(11)
Being aware of the services of the state library extension agency.
(12)
Reporting regularly to the governing officials and the general public.
(Code 1987, § 13½-10)
Sec. 50-5. - Same—Amendments to bylaws; notification of exceptional appropriations.
Amendments to the bylaws of the library board must be proposed one month in advance of the regular meeting at which action shall be taken. A majority of two-thirds of the members present shall be necessary for the adoption of each amendment. All proposed amendments shall be voted on separately. The secretary shall notify all board members one week in advance when amendments to the bylaws or exceptional appropriations are to be voted on.
(Code 1987, § 13½-13)
Sec. 50-6. - Duties of librarian.
The duties of the librarian include:
(1)
Acting as technical advisor to the library board, recommending needed policies for board action, and recommending employment of all personnel and supervising their work.
(2)
Carrying out the policies of the library as adopted by the board.
(3)
Suggesting and carrying out plans for extending the library's services.
(4)
Preparing regular reports embodying the library's current progress and future needs.
(5)
Maintaining an active program of public relations.
(6)
Preparing an annual budget for the library in consultation with the board and give a current report of expenditure against the budget at each meeting.
(7)
Knowing local and state laws; actively supporting library legislation in the state and nation.
(8)
Selecting and ordering all books and other library materials.
(9)
Attending all board meetings other than those in which his own salary or tenure are under discussion. He may serve as secretary of the board.
(10)
Affiliating with the state and national professional organizations and attend professional meetings and workshops.
(11)
Making use of the services and consultants of the state library extension agency.
(12)
Reporting regularly to the library board, to the officials of local government and to the general public.
(Code 1987, § 13½-11)
Sec. 50-7. - Annual report.
A state of the library report shall be prepared annually by the public relations committee of the library board, assisted by the librarian and the chairman of the board. The report shall be published annually in the legal gazette immediately following last regular board meeting of fiscal year.
(Code 1987, § 13½-12)
