ARTICLE X. - PLUMBING AND DRAINAGE

Section 10-1. - Authority for establishment, maintenance, extension of sewerage and drainage system.
The mayor and council of the city shall have authority to provide for the establishment and maintenance and extension from time to time of a system of sewerage and drainage for the city and shall have power and authority to contract with any person or persons for the purchase of lands or premises to be used in connection therewith, whether inside or outside the city, and shall have the authority and power to condemn private property, either inside or outside the city, in the manner provided for by law, for such purposes. The mayor and council shall have authority to purchase all machinery and plant, to make all contracts with the inhabitants of the city and with others for the furnishing of sewerage and drainage, and to do any and all things necessary for the establishment, operation, maintenance, and extension of the system of sewerage and drainage.
Section 10-2. - Same—Bond election authorized.
The mayor and council of the city shall have the authority and they are empowered to incur debt, including issuing general obligation or revenue bonds, for the purpose of establishing, improving, and extending a system of sewerage and drainage for the city, and for the purpose of carrying out the provisions of section 10-1 of this Charter, in a manner consistent with the Constitution of the State of Georgia and the general laws of the State of Georgia.
Section 10-3. - Power, authority over pipes, sewers, private drains.
The mayor and city council shall have full power and authority over and absolute control of all pipes, sewers, private drains for filthy waters or other substances or fluids in the city; and full power and authority to limit or prescribe their location and structure, use, and preservation and to make such regulations concerning them in all particulars as may seem best for the preservation of the health of the inhabitants of the city. They shall have full power and authority to limit or prescribe the kind of sewage disposal facilities or systems and other receptacles or drains for filthy water or other fluids or substances to be used within the corporate limits of the city. They shall have power and authority to condemn and destroy any individual sewage disposal facilities or systems or other receptacle or drain now in use or hereafter to be erected and put in use which do not conform to and are not of the kind prescribed for use by the mayor and council of the city and which may be detrimental to the public health.
They shall also have full power and authority to compel all property owners to connect individual sewage disposal facilities or systems or other receptacles or drains on the premises of such property owners with the sanitary sewer of the city, under such rules and regulations as may be prescribed by them; and if such property owner shall fail to connect any individual sewage disposal facilities or system or other receptacles or drain within the time and in the manner prescribed, which time shall not be less than 30 days, the city authorities may cause such connection to be made and provide all necessary fixtures therefor and assess the cost of the same against the real estate of the property owner on which the same is done. The city clerk shall issue execution against the property owner and against the real estate so improved, which is declared to be a first lien on the real estate, superior to all other liens except liens for taxes; and the chief of police or marshal shall levy the same on the real estate, and advertise and sell the same in the manner as sheriff's sales under judgment and execution. The city may become the purchaser thereof if it chooses to offer the highest bid therefor at the sale. The officer making the sale is authorized to execute to the purchaser a deed to the property so sold, which shall pass the title thereto as fully and completely as sheriff's deeds under sales made by judgment and execution, and he shall proceed at once to dispossess the owner and put the purchaser in possession. The city authorities shall also have the right, power, and authority to arrest and prosecute the owner of such property and if on trial before the municipal court, he is found guilty, to punish the owner for maintaining a nuisance.
The city authorities or any agent of the city shall have the right, power, and authority to enter and go upon or into any private house or other building for the purpose of inspecting the individual sewage disposal facilities or systems and other drains and pipes, to remove the same whenever condemned, and to insert the connections and fixtures necessary to connect the same with the sanitary sewers of the city, without being deemed a trespasser, or becoming responsible in any way to the owner or any tenant in possession of the same.
