Chapter 1 - GENERAL PROVISIONS[1]

Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
State Law reference— County boundaries, O.C.G.A. § 36-3-1 et seq.

Sec. 1-1. - Designation and citation of Code.
The ordinances and other enactments embraced in the following chapters and sections shall constitute and be designated as "The Code of Stephens County, Georgia," and may be so cited. It may also be referred to as "The Stephens County Code."
Sec. 1-2. - General rules of construction; definitions.
In the construction of this Code, the definitions and rules of construction in this section shall be observed, unless such construction would be inconsistent with the manifest intent of the board of commissioners.
General. In the interpretation and application of any provision of this Code, it shall be held to be the minimum requirement adopted for the promotion of the public health, safety, convenience and general welfare. Where any provision of the Code imposes greater restrictions upon the subject matter than the general provision imposed by this Code, the provision imposing the greater restriction or regulation shall be deemed to be controlling. The ordinary signification shall be applied to all words, except words of art or words connected with a particular trade or subject matter, which shall have the signification attached to them by experts in such trade or with reference to such subject matter.
State Law reference— Similar provisions, O.C.G.A. § 1-3-1(b).
Board, board of commissioners. The term "board" or "board of commissioners" shall mean the Board of Commissioners of Stephens County, Georgia.
Code and this Code. Whenever the terms "Code" and "this Code" are referred to without further qualification, it shall mean The Code of Stephens County, Georgia, as designated in section 1-1.
Computation of time. When a period of time measured in days, weeks, months, years or other measurements of time except hours is prescribed for the exercise of any privilege or the discharge of any duty, the first day shall not be counted but the last day shall be counted; if the last day falls on Saturday or Sunday, the person having such privilege or duty shall have through the following Monday to exercise the privilege or to discharge the duty. When the last day prescribed for such action falls on a public and legal holiday provided for in O.C.G.A. § 1-4-1, the person having the privilege or duty shall have through the next business day to exercise the privilege or to discharge the duty. When the period of time prescribed is less than seven days, intermediate Saturdays, Sundays and legal holidays shall be excluded in the computation.
State Law reference— Similar provisions, O.C.G.A. § 1-3-1(d)(3).
County. The term "the county" or "this county" shall mean Stephens County, Georgia.
Delegation of authority. Whenever a provision appears requiring the head of a department of the county to do some act, it is to be construed to authorize him to designate, delegate and authorize subordinates to perform the required act unless the terms of the provision or section designate otherwise.
Fee, charge, rate, deposit. The term "fee," "charge," "rate" or "deposit" shall mean a fee, charge, rate or deposit set from time to time by the board of commissioners and kept on file in the office of the board.
Following. The term "following" means next after.
State Law reference— Similar provisions, O.C.G.A. § 1-3-3(8).
Gender. The masculine gender shall include the feminine and the neuter.
State Law reference— Similar provisions, O.C.G.A. § 1-3-1(d)(4).
Joint authority. A joint authority given to any number of persons or officers may be executed by a majority of them.
State Law reference— Similar provisions, O.C.G.A. § 1-3-1(d)(5).
Keeper, proprietor. The terms "keeper" and "proprietor" shall include persons, firms, associations, corporations, receivers, trustees, personal representatives, clubs and partnerships, whether acting by themselves or through a servant, agent or employee.
Month. The term "month" shall mean a calendar month.
State Law reference— Similar provisions, O.C.G.A. § 1-3-3(11).
Number. The singular or plural number shall each include the other.
State Law reference— Similar provisions, O.C.G.A. § 1-3-1(d)(6).
Oath. The term "oath" shall include affirmation.
State Law reference— Similar provisions, O.C.G.A. § 1-3-3(12).
O.C.G.A. The abbreviation "O.C.G.A." shall mean the Official Code of Georgia Annotated, as amended.
Officers, departments, etc. Whenever titles of various officers, employees, departments, boards, commissions or other agencies are used, they shall refer to such officers, employees, departments, boards, commissions or agencies of Stephens County, Georgia.
Or, and. The term "or" may be read "and," and the term "and" may be read "or," if the sense requires it.
Owner. The term "owner," applied to a building or land, shall include any part owner, joint owner, tenant in common or tenant in partnership of the whole or of a part of such building or land.
Person. The term "person" shall extend and be applied to organizations, associations, clubs, societies, companies, proprietorships, firms, partnerships, either general or limited, joint ventures, trusts, estates, bodies politic and/or corporate, and other entities as well as to individuals.
State Law reference— "Person" defined, O.C.G.A. § 1-3-3(14).
Personal property. The term "personal property" shall include every species of property except real property.
Preceding. The term "preceding" shall mean next before.
State Law reference— Similar provisions, O.C.G.A. § 1-3-3(15).
Property. The term "property" shall include real and personal property.
State Law reference— Similar provisions, O.C.G.A. § 1-3-3(16).
Public place. The term "public place" shall mean any park, cemetery, schoolyard or open space adjacent thereto, or any area available and/or accessible to the public, regardless of whether it is privately or publicly owned.
Real property. The term "real property" shall include lands, tenements and hereditaments.
Residence. The term "residence" shall mean the place adopted by a person as his place of habitation and to which, whenever he is absent, he has the intention of returning. When a person eats at one place and sleeps at another, the place where such person sleeps shall be deemed his residence.
Seal. The term "seal" shall mean the county seal.
Shall, may. The term "shall" is mandatory; the term "may" is permissive.
State Law reference— "May" defined, O.C.G.A. § 1-3-3(10).
Sidewalk. The term "sidewalk" shall mean that portion of a street between the curblines, or the lateral lines of a roadway, and the adjacent property lines, intended for use by pedestrians.
State Law reference— "Sidewalk" defined, O.C.G.A. § 40-1-1(57).
Signature, subscription. The "signature" or "subscription" of a person shall include a mark of an illiterate or infirm person.
State Law reference— Similar provisions, O.C.G.A. § 1-3-3(19).
State. The term "the state" or "this state" shall mean the State of Georgia.
Street. The term "street" shall mean the entire width between the boundary lines of every way publicly maintained when any part thereof is open to the use of the public for purposes of vehicular travel.
State Law reference— Similar provisions, O.C.G.A. § 40-1-1(63).
Tenant, occupant. The term "tenant" or "occupant," applied to a building or land, shall include any person holding a written or oral lease or who occupies the whole or a part of such building or land, either alone or with others.
Tense. The present or past tense shall include the future.
State Law reference— Similar provisions, O.C.G.A. § 1-3-1(d)(7).
Week. The term "week" shall mean seven days.
Writing. The term "writing" shall include printing and all numerals.
State Law reference— Similar provisions, O.C.G.A. § 1-3-3(23).
Year. The term "year" shall mean a calendar year.
State Law reference— Similar provisions, O.C.G.A. § 1-3-3(24).
Sec. 1-3. - Statutory rules of construction.
Except as otherwise provided in this Code, the same rules shall be applied in construing provisions of this Code, and other ordinances of this county, as are applied in construing the statutes of this state, which rules are found in O.C.G.A. §§ 1-3-1—1-3-3, and the same meanings are to be given words found in the ordinances as are given similar words found in the statutes of this state.
Sec. 1-4. - Catchlines and other headings.
The catchlines of the sections of this Code and the headings of articles and divisions thereof are intended as mere catchwords to indicate the contents and shall not be deemed to be titles, nor as any part of the section, article or division, nor unless expressly so provided shall they be so deemed when any of such sections, articles or divisions, including the catchlines and headings, are amended or reenacted. No provision of this Code shall be held invalid because of deficiency in any such catchline or in any heading to any chapter, article or division.
State Law reference— Notes and catchlines of Code sections not part of law, O.C.G.A. § 1-1-7.
Sec. 1-5. - History notes.
The history notes appearing in parentheses after sections in this Code are not intended to have any legal effect, but are merely intended to indicate the source of matter contained in the sections.
Sec. 1-6. - Editor's notes and references.
The editor's notes, cross references and state law references in this Code are not intended to have any legal effect but are merely intended to assist the user of this Code.
Sec. 1-7. - Provisions considered as continuations of existing ordinances.
The provisions appearing in this Code, so far as they are the same as those of ordinances existing on the adoption date of this Code, shall be considered as continuations thereof and not as new enactments.
Sec. 1-8. - Severability.
The sections, paragraphs, sentences, clauses and phrases of this Code, and of codes or other provisions adopted by reference in this Code, are severable, and if any such phrase, clause, sentence, paragraph or section or the application thereof to any person or circumstance shall be declared invalid by the valid judgment or decree of any court of competent jurisdiction, such invalidity shall not affect any of the remaining phrases, clauses, sentences, paragraphs and sections of this Code and provisions adopted by reference, nor the application thereof to any persons or circumstances, since they would have been enacted by the board of commissioners without the incorporation therein of any such invalid phrase, clause, sentence, paragraph or section.
State Law reference— Severability of statutes, O.C.G.A. § 1-1-3.
Sec. 1-9. - Penalties; continuing violations.
(a)
Whenever in this Code or in any other ordinance of the county any act is prohibited or is made or declared to be unlawful or an offense, or the doing of any act is required or the failure to do any act is declared to be unlawful, where no specific penalty is provided therefor, the violation of such provision shall be punishable by the imposition of a fine not to exceed $1,000.00, by imprisonment in the county jail for a period of time not to exceed 60 days, or by both such fine and imprisonment, or up to the limits of any penalty provided by state law for the ordinance.
(b)
Each day any violation of this Code or other ordinance shall continue shall constitute a separate offense.
State Law reference— Violations of county ordinances, O.C.G.A. §§ 15-10-60 et seq., 36-1-20; punishment for misdemeanors, O.C.G.A. § 17-10-3; nuisances, O.C.G.A. title 41.
Sec. 1-10. - Provisions not affected by Code.
Nothing in this Code or the ordinance adopting this Code shall be construed to repeal or otherwise affect the validity of any of the following:
(1)
Any offense or act committed or done or any penalty or forfeiture incurred or any contract or right established or accruing before the effective date of this Code.
(2)
Any ordinance promising or guaranteeing the payment of money for the county or authorizing the issuance of any bonds of the county or any evidence of the county's indebtedness.
(3)
Any contract or obligation assumed by the county.
(4)
Any right or franchise granted by the county.
(5)
Any ordinance relating to specific public improvements or assessments therefor.
(6)
Any ordinance, consistent with this Code, providing for the levy or collection of taxes or for an annual budget or appropriations.
(7)
Any ordinance pertaining to zoning.
(8)
Any ordinance relating to the investment of county funds.
(9)
Any ordinance, consistent with this Code, prescribing regulations, compensation, positions, classification, retirement and other matters pertaining to county officers or employees.
(10)
Any ordinance dedicating or accepting any plat or subdivision in the county.
(11)
Any ordinance naming, renaming, opening, closing, prescribing grades, etc., of streets, roads, bridges and other public ways.
(12)
Any ordinance, consistent with this Code, establishing fees, rates, deposits, service charges or other charges.
(13)
Any ordinance creating, establishing, prescribing or abolishing urban renewal projects.
(14)
Any ordinance prescribing or providing traffic regulations at specific places, such as speed limits, through streets, stop intersections, yield intersections, one-way travel, no left turns, no right turns, traffic control by electrical devices, truck routes, loading zones, no parking zones and limited parking zones.
(15)
Any ordinance continuing in force and effect local constitutional amendments.
(16)
Any ordinance or resolution relating to civil defense or emergency management.
All such ordinances are recognized as continuing in full force and effect to the same extent as if set out at length in this Code.
Sec. 1-11. - Unlawful alteration of Code.
It shall be unlawful for any person to change or amend by additions or deletions any part of this Code, or to insert or delete pages or portions thereof, or to alter or tamper with such Code in any manner (except by ordinance or other official act of the board of commissioners or the General Assembly) which will cause the law of the county to be misrepresented.
State Law reference— False writings and documents, O.C.G.A. § 16-10-20.
Sec. 1-12. - Amendments; new provisions.
(a)
All ordinances passed subsequent to this Code which amend, repeal or in any way affect this Code may be numbered in accordance with the numbering system of this Code and printed for inclusion in this Code. In the case of repealed chapters, sections and subsections or any part thereof by subsequent ordinances, such repealed portions may be excluded from the Code by omission from reprinted pages affected by the repeal. Any and all additions and amendments to this Code, when passed in such form as to indicate the intention of the board of commissioners to make the same a part of this Code, shall be deemed to be incorporated in this Code. A reference to this Code shall be understood and intended to include such additions and amendments.
(b)
Amendments to any of the provisions of this Code may be made by amending such provisions by specific reference to the section number of this Code in the following language: "That section _____ of The Code of Stephens County, Georgia, is hereby amended to read as follows:…." The new provisions may then be set out in full as desired.
(c)
If a new section not heretofore existing in the Code is to be added, the following language may be used: "That The Code of Stephens County, Georgia, is hereby amended by adding a section (or division, article or chapter) to be numbered _____, which reads as follows:…." The new section (or division, article or chapter) may then be set out in full as desired.
(d)
All sections, articles, chapters or other provisions desired to be repealed should be repealed specifically by section, article or chapter number, as the case may be.
Sec. 1-13. - Supplementation of Code.
(a)
By contract or by county personnel, supplements to this Code shall be prepared and printed whenever authorized or directed by the board of commissioners. A supplement to the Code shall include all substantive parts of permanent and general ordinances passed by the board during the period covered by the supplement and all changes made thereby in the Code. The pages of a supplement shall be so numbered that they will fit properly into the Code and will, where necessary, replace pages that have become obsolete or partially obsolete. The new pages shall be so prepared that, when they have been inserted, the Code will be current through the date of the adoption of the latest ordinance included in the supplement.
(b)
In the preparation of a supplement to this Code, all portions of the Code which have been repealed shall be excluded from the Code by their omission from reprinted pages.
(c)
When preparing a supplement to this Code, the codifier (meaning the person authorized to prepare the supplement) may make formal, nonsubstantive changes in ordinances or parts of ordinances included in the supplement, insofar as it is necessary to do so to embody them in a unified code. For example, the codifier may:
(1)
Organize ordinances and resolutions into appropriate subdivisions;
(2)
Provide appropriate catchlines, headings and titles for sections and other subdivisions of the Code printed in the supplement, and make changes in such catchlines, headings and titles;
(3)
Assign appropriate numbers to sections and other subdivisions to be inserted in the Code and, where necessary to accommodate new material, change existing section or other subdivision numbers;
(4)
Change the words "this ordinance" or words of the same meaning to "this chapter," "this article," "this division," etc., as the case may be or to "sections _____ to _____" (inserting section numbers to indicate the sections of the Code which embody the substantive sections of the ordinances incorporated in the Code); and
(5)
Make other nonsubstantive changes necessary to preserve the original meaning of the ordinance or resolution sections inserted in the Code; but in no case shall the codifier make any change in the meaning or effect of material included in the supplement or already embodied in the Code.
Sec. 1-14. - Effective date of ordinances and resolutions.
Ordinances and resolutions which do not provide for their taking effect at a different time take effect immediately after their passage, or as otherwise provided by law.
State Law reference— Effective date of legislative Acts, O.C.G.A. § 1-3-4.
Sec. 1-15. - Effect of repeal of ordinances and resolutions.
(a)
The repeal of an ordinance or resolution shall not revive any ordinance or resolution in force before or at the time the ordinance or resolution repealed took effect.
(b)
The repeal of an ordinance or resolution shall not affect any punishment or penalty incurred before the repeal took effect, nor any suit, prosecution or proceeding pending at the time of the repeal, for an offense committed or cause of action arising under the ordinance or resolution repealed, nor any right acquired or liability incurred under any ordinance or resolution repealed.
State Law reference— Operation of laws, O.C.G.A. § 1-3-5.
Sec. 1-16. - Ordinances powers effective.
(a)
To carry into effect the powers and authority conferred upon Stephens County by the provisions of this chapter, or any past or future act of the Legislature of the State of Georgia, the governing body has plenary power and authority to:
(1)
Make and pass all needful ordinances, orders, bylaws, acts, resolutions, rules and regulations not contrary to the constitution and laws of State of Georgia; and
(2)
Prescribe reasonable penalties for violation of its ordinances, orders, bylaws, acts, resolutions, rules and regulations, in the form of fines, forfeitures and confinement in the county jail, for a term not exceeding thirty days per offense.
(b)
The fines, forfeitures and confinement shall be recovered, imposed or enforced under the judgment of the Magistrate Court of Stephens County unless required to be brought in the Superior Court of Stephens County pursuant to the laws of the state.
(Ord. of 1-26-2010)
Sec. 1-17. - Ordinance procedures.
(a)
Notwithstanding any chapter provision to the contrary, which chapter provision was in effect on the effective date of this section, it shall not be necessary, except where otherwise provided in this Code, for the governing body of Stephens County to publish in a newspaper any proposed ordinance prior to the adoption thereof or any enacted ordinance subsequent to the adoption thereof, and any and all ordinances of Stephens County shall be adopted in accordance with the following requirements, except where different or additional requirements are specified in other provisions of this Code, in which event such other different or additional requirements shall be applicable:
(1)
A proposed ordinance shall be read by title at not less than two meetings of the governing body with at least one week intervening between each meeting, unless a member of the governing body demands that the ordinance be read in full at one or both meetings. If such demand is made, the ordinance shall be read in full as demanded.
(2)
At least two weeks before the meeting at which a proposed ordinance is to be finally adopted, the governing body shall cause notice of the proposed adoption of said proposed ordinance, to be published as a legal advertisement, and the publication area for such publication shall be the legal section of the legal organ for Stephens County, Georgia. The notice shall state the subject matter in synopsis form and general title or titles of such proposed ordinance, the date, time and place of the proposed final vote on adoption, and the place or places within the county where the public may inspect such proposed ordinance. A reasonable number of copies of the proposed ordinance shall be kept at such place or places and be made available for public inspection. Said notice shall also advise that interested parties may appear at the meeting and be heard with respect to the proposed ordinance.
(3)
A proposed ordinance shall not be materially amended at the same meeting at which finally adopted.
(b)
Notwithstanding any chapter provision to the contrary, which chapter provision was in effect on the effective date of this section, the governing body of Stephens County may adopt, by ordinance, building codes, housing codes, plumbing codes, sanitary codes, electrical codes, fire prevention codes, or any other technical codes dealing with general public health, safety or welfare, or a combination of the same, or a comprehensive code of ordinances, in the manner prescribed in this subsection (b).
(c)
Before any such ordinance shall be adopted, the code shall be either printed or typewritten and shall be presented in pamphlet form to the governing body of the county two weeks before a regular meeting, and copies of such code shall be made available for public inspection at same time. The ordinance adopting such code shall not set out said code in full, but shall merely identify the same. The vote on adoption of said ordinance shall be the same as on any other ordinance. After adoption of the ordinance, such code or codes shall be certified by the board of commissioners and shall be filed as a permanent record in the office of the Stephens County Clerk, who shall be required to transcribe and record the same in the ordinance book as other ordinances are transcribed and recorded.
(d)
Consistent with the provisions of subsection (a) of this section, it shall not be necessary that any such ordinance, either as proposed or after adoption, be published in legal section of the newspaper, and it shall not be necessary that the code itself be so published, but before final adoption of any such proposed ordinance, notice of the proposed adoption of such ordinance and code shall be given by publication as herein provided for ordinances, the principal object of which notice shall also state where, within Stephens County, the code or codes will be available for public inspection.
(e)
By a chapter framed and adopted, revision of a chapter as a whole, or a chapter amendment or amendments, as the case may be, subsequent to the effective date of this section, the county may require any or all ordinances to be published, two weeks in advance, in a legal section of the local newspaper prior to the adoption thereof, may expressly adopt the provisions of this section, may specify other additional requirements for the enactment of ordinances, or may prescribe a procedure for the enactment of ordinances in greater detail than prescribed in this section, but the county shall not, except in an emergency as specified in subsection (f) of this section, or except as otherwise provided in this code, have the power and authority to lessen or reduce the requirements of this section.
(f)
The governing body of the county may enact an ordinance without complying with the rules prescribed in this section only:
(1)
In the case of a pressing public emergency making procedure in accordance with the provisions of this section dangerous to the public health, safety or morals, and by affirmative vote of two-thirds of the members elected to the governing body;
(2)
When otherwise provided in this Code. The nature of any such emergency shall be set out in full in the ordinance; or
(3)
When deemed appropriate by affirmative vote of two-thirds of the members elected to the governing body and not otherwise required by Georgia law.
(g)
Each ordinance when adopted shall be entered in the ordinance record book, and the original copy of the ordinance shall be kept in clerk records along with the minutes of the meeting in which the ordinance received its second reading and was enacted.
(h)
It shall be unlawful to change or amend by addition or deletion any part of the ordinances or to insert or delete pages or portions thereof, or to alter or tamper with the ordinances in any manner whatsoever which will cause the law of the Stephens County to be misrepresented.
(Ord. of 1-26-2010)
Sec. 1-18. - Resolutions records.
(a)
Each resolution shall, before its introduction, be reduced to printed or typewritten form and shall be signed by the person who introduces it; and the clerk shall then number it, and, when adopted, shall spread it in full upon the minutes of board of commission. The clerk shall then place the original copy of such resolution in his/her office in a file to be known as the record of resolutions.
(b)
Resolutions and portions of resolutions which are repealed or amended by subsequent resolutions or ordinances shall be noted and initialed in the margin thereof by the clerk, so as to show the date and number of the repealing or amendatory ordinance or resolution, but shall not be removed from the record of resolutions.
(Ord. of 1-26-2010)
