ARTICLE I. - EMPLOYMENT PRACTICES

Sec. 54-1. - Personnel policy actions.
(a)
Adoption of personnel policies. The Stephens County Personnel Policies and Procedures were established by a resolution adopted by the Board of Commissioners on March 5, 1996, superseding any previous rules, policies, or other issuances relevant to personnel administration.
(b)
Purpose of personnel policies. The purpose of these policies and procedures includes the following:
(1)
To establish uniform benefits and procedures;
(2)
To ensure equal employment opportunity; and
(3)
To comply with all mandatory state and federal laws related to employment.
(c)
Establishment of personnel policies. The personnel policies and procedures contained in this handbook have been voluntarily established by the board of commissioners and constitutional officers of the county. They are intended to standardize the personnel practices in the various departments where standardization is possible, and to extend certain privileges to the employees of some departments headed by Constitutional officers.
In establishing these policies and procedures, the constitutional officers are not relinquishing their constitutional authority as appointing authorities, nor are they or the board of commissioners creating a property interest for employees in any county department that leads to the expectancy of continued employment at any time, in any position, pay grade, or pay step. The policies and procedures are considered good personnel practices and are consistent with the above-stated goals.
(d)
Personnel policy coverage. The personnel polices contained in this handbook apply to all employees in the departments under the authority of the board of commissioners and to certain employees of constitutional officers who voluntarily agree to participate in the Stephens County personnel management system.
Participating constitutional officers will accept by signature the policies and procedures as desirable standard practice. Federal law recognizes that neither elected officials nor members of their personal staffs should be covered by rules or regulations which imply specific employment practices. Therefore, the elected officials will determine which positions in their departments are policy-making or personal staff and will exclude those positions from the classification plan. By including certain positions, the elected officials are not redefining the relationship between themselves and their employees as defined by the Constitution of the State of Georgia; they are merely voluntarily extending the personnel policies and procedures to as many employees as possible.
(e)
Personnel policy administration. In general, department heads are responsible for administering the policies and procedures within this handbook within their respective departments. The county commissioners will provide administrative support to departments under constitutional officers, and will directly administer policies and procedures for departments under the board of commissioners. The county commissioners will become directly involved in administering policies in all departments when budget and funding are concerned, and when discipline and hearings are involved.
It is the responsibility of each employee to cooperate with the policies and practices described in this handbook. Any employee or applicant who believes that they have not been accorded treatment conforming to these policies is urged to discuss the matter with his/her supervisor or department head, or with the county management personnel.
(f)
Qualification of personnel policies. Under article IX of the Constitution of the State of Georgia, the General Assembly may, by general law, authorize the establishment by county governing authorities of civil service systems covering county employees. The General Assembly has passed such an Act, but there is not intention of establishing a civil service system with the policies contained within this handbook. Stephens County is an "at-will" employer, and reserves the rights, powers, privileges, responsibilities, duties, and circumstances unique to and associated with an "at-will" employer.
(g)
Printing and distribution of policies. The personnel polices and procedures contained in the Stephens County Employment Handbook will be printed and distributed to each county employee who is covered by these policies. Each department head will be responsible for reviewing policies and procedures with each covered employee in that department. Each covered employee will be required to acknowledge by signature that they have received and reviewed a copy of the policies and procedures. That signed acknowledgment will be maintained in the employee's personnel file.
(h)
Policy changes. The policies, procedures, and provisions of this handbook have been developed at the discretion of the county commissioners and constitutional officers and, except for its policy of employment at will, may be amended or cancelled at any time, at management's sole discretion. These provisions supersede all existing policies and practices and may not be amended or added to without the express written approval of the county commissioners and constitutional officers. These polices shall reflect, and be superseded by, any changes mandated by state and federal legislation.
Stephens County benefit plans are defined in legal documents such as insurance contracts, official plan documents, and trust agreements. If questions should arise about the nature and/or extent of plan benefits, or if there is conflicting language, the formal language of the plan documents will govern, not the informal wording of this policy handbook. Plan documents are available for inspection in the human resource office.
All County programs, policies, and procedures are dependent on economic, political, and legal considerations and may be changed from time to time by the County at its discretion and without prior notice to employees. The County retains all of its rights to change, modify, revise, or alter policies, benefits, or other conditions of employment at any time and for any reason, and to hire, transfer, discipline, separate, and otherwise manage its employees as it feels appropriate.
(Ord. of 5-26-2009, § A-1)
Sec. 54-2. - Chain of command (channel of communication).
For all matters to be presented before the county commissioners from any employee, the following chain of command (or channel of communication) will be followed:
(1)
The employee will pass the matter/communication to be considered to his/her immediate supervisor;
(2)
The supervisor will pass the matter/communication to the department head;
(3)
The department head will pass the matter/communication to the county administrator;
(4)
The county administrator will pass the matter/communication to the commissioners for their information and appropriate action.
However, no such matter for communication may be stopped by a supervisor, department head, or the county administrator without the knowledge and consent of the employee. If any employee feels that this chain of command is not sufficient, they may send a copy of such matter/communication directly to the chairman of the board of commissioners.
Exceptions to the normal chain of command may include complaints of sexual harassment, unlawful discrimination, or other unlawful acts by a supervisor, department head, or county administrator; in such situation, the employee may communicate the complaint directly to the board of commissioners for appropriate action.
(Ord. of 5-26-2009, § A-2)
Sec. 54-3. - "At-will" nature of employment.
All employees of Stephens County government are "at-will" employees. Employment with Stephens County is entered into on a voluntary basis, and all employees are employed for an indefinite time period. Either the employer or the employee is free to terminate the employment relationship at any time without notice, for any reason or for no reason at all.
Policies and guidelines set forth in this employment handbook are not intended to create a contract, nor are they to be construed to constitute contractual obligations of any kind or a contract of employment between the county and any of its employees. In no case should any provisions of this handbook be interpreted as an act of conveying the expectation of continued employment to an employee or any other relaxation of the employment "at will" doctrine of Stephens County.
(Ord. of 5-26-2009, § A-3)
Sec. 54-4. - Equal employment opportunity.
It is the policy of Stephens County government to provide equal employment opportunities to all applicants and employees of the county. Stephens County government does not unlawfully discriminate on the basis of race, religion, color, national or ethnic origin, age, gender, sexual orientation, marital status, veteran status, disability, political affiliation, or any other characteristic protected by law. All employment decisions by the county will be based on merit, qualifications, and abilities, and will be made in a fair, equitable, and nondiscriminatory manner. This policy relates to all phases of employment, including recruitment, placement, transfer, promotion, demotion, termination, compensation, benefits, county-sponsored training, layoff, recall from layoff, participation in county-sponsored employee activities, and all other aspects of personnel administration.
The county does not and will not permit its employees to engage in unlawful discriminatory practices. Any county employee found to be engaging in any type of unlawful discrimination will be subject to disciplinary action, up to and including termination of employment.
Any applicant or employee with questions or concerns about any type of discrimination in the workplace is encouraged to bring these issues to the attention of the immediate supervisor or to appropriate county management personnel. A thorough investigation of the complaint will be conducted. If any employee is not satisfied with the outcome of the investigation, the employee should follow the grievance procedures described in this handbook.
(Ord. of 5-26-2009, § A-4)
Sec. 54-5. - Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) compliance.
Stephens County government is committed to complying fully with the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) and ensuring equal opportunity in employment for qualified persons with disabilities. The ADA required that individuals with disabilities be given the same employment opportunities and services available to people without disabilities. Qualified individuals with disabilities are entitled to equal pay and other forms of compensation (or changes in compensation).
The Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) describes an individual with a disability as one who has either a physical or mental impairment that substantially limits a person's ability to perform "life activities" such as eating, sleeping, walking, talking, hearing, breathing, learning, working, or taking care of oneself. A qualified individual is anyone who has the skills, experience, and education required for the job and can perform the job's essential functions, with or without reasonable accommodation.
It is Stephens County government's policy that all employment actions be conducted on a nondiscriminatory basis. All employment decisions are based on the merits of the situation in accordance with defined criteria, not the disability of the individual. This policy governs all aspects of employment, including selection, job assignment, compensation, discipline, termination, and access to benefits and training.
If a person with a disability is unable to perform an essential function of the job because of the disability, the county will then consider whether there is reasonable accommodation that would enable the person to perform the job (such as restructuring the job, changing the work schedule, or acquiring/modifying equipment). Reasonable accommodation is available to all disabled employees, in cases where their disability affects the performance of job functions, unless doing so would result in an undue hardship.
Employees with life-threatening illnesses such as cancer, heart disease, and AIDS often wish to continue their normal pursuits, including work, to the extent allowed by their condition. The county supports these endeavors as long as employees are able to meet acceptable performance standards. As in the case of other disabilities, the county will make reasonable accommodations, in accordance with all legal requirements, to allow qualified employees with life-threatening illness to perform the essential functions of their jobs.
(Ord. of 5-26-2009, § A-5)
Sec. 54-6. - Harassment.
Stephens County is committed to maintaining a work environment that is free of discrimination and unlawful harassment, including general harassment, sexual harassment, or harassment on the basis of an individual's race, religion, color, national or ethnic origin, age, gender, sexual orientation, marital status, veteran status, disability, political affiliation, or any other characteristic protected by law. In keeping with this commitment, the county will not tolerate harassment of employees by anyone, including any manager, supervisor, employee, coworker, vendor, client, or customer of the county. The county condemns and prohibits any form of harassment by managers, supervisors, fellow employees, and outside contractors or vendors. Harassment may take many forms, as described below.
(1)
General harassment. General harassment may include any conduct that creates a hostile work environment for an employee, whether verbal, physical, or visual. Comments, jokes, practical jokes, pictorial representations, or gestures that are negative or derisive of the categories mentioned above may constitute harassment. Any such conduct which interferes with an employee's ability to perform his/her job or which creates a hostile, offensive, or intimidating work environment will not be tolerated and will subject the employee displaying such conduct to disciplinary action.
(2)
Sexual harassment. Sexual harassment may include unwelcome sexual advances, requests for sexual favors, promises of benefits in exchange for sexual favors, threats of reprisal for refusal to engage in social or sexual relations, sexually suggestive and offensive language, and other verbal and physical contact of a sexual nature. Sexual harassment occurs when submission to such conduct is made either explicitly or implicitly a term or condition of the individual's employment, submission to or rejection of such conduct is used as a basis for employment decisions affecting the individual, or such conduct has the purpose or effect of substantially interfering with the individual's work performance or creating an intimidating, hostile, or offensive work environment. A sexually offensive environment can be created by behavior which includes sexually oriented jokes, kidding, or teasing; display of sexual objects or of nude or partially nude photographs; unwelcome touching, brushing, or "feeling" of a fellow employee; unwelcome flirtation, requests for dates, or requests for after-hours meetings; or any other conduct which makes an employee feel uncomfortable while at work.
(3)
Complaint procedures. Any employee who believes that they have been the victim of general harassment or sexual harassment or who has knowledge of that kind of behavior is urged to report such conduct immediately to his/her supervisor, any other member of management, or directly to the county administrator. The county will initiate a prompt, thorough, and confidential investigation. All complaints or reports of harassment will be treated confidentially, and no employee will be penalized in any way for making a complaint of harassment or for reporting knowledge of harassment (unless investigation shows a report or complaint to be false and made with malicious intent). If an investigation confirms that harassment has occurred, the offender will be subject to disciplinary action, up to and including termination of employment.
(4)
Retaliation prohibited. Stephens County prohibits retaliation against any individual who reports discrimination or harassment or participates in an investigation of such reports. Retaliation against an individual for reporting harassment or discrimination or for participating in an investigation of a claim of harassment or discrimination is a serious violation of this policy and, like harassment or discrimination itself, will be subject to disciplinary action.
(Ord. of 5-26-2009, § A-6)
Sec. 54-7. - Immigration law compliance.
Stephens County government is committed to full compliance with federal immigration laws, and will hire only United States citizens and aliens who are authorized to work in the United States. These laws require that all individuals pass an employment verification procedure before they are permitted to work.
In compliance with the Immigration Reform and Control Act of 1986, each new (and rehired) employee, as a condition of employment, must complete the Employment Eligibility Verification Form I-9 and present documentation establishing identity and employment eligibility. This proof of legal authority to work in the United States must be presented within no later than three business days of the first day of employment. Failure to provide such identification as outlined on the Form I-9 will result in an immediate termination of employment.
Former employees who are rehired must also complete the form if they have not completed an I-9 with Stephens County within the past three years, or if their previous Form I-9 is no longer retained or valid.
(Ord. of 5-26-2009, § A-7)
Sec. 54-8. - Safety in the workplace.
Stephens County government strives to provide a safe and healthy work environment for all employees. To do this, all employees have a responsibility to learn and practice safe methods of performing their jobs, and to report any potentially hazardous condition observed in the workplace.
(1)
Injury/accident reporting. All injuries and accidents must be reported to the immediate supervisor and/or department head, no matter how minor the injury may appear to be. This ensures prompt and appropriate medical treatment, allows for timely completion of required reports in accordance with law, and enables eligible employees to qualify for coverage as quickly as possible. If medical attention by a physician is needed, the employee must use one of the physicians specifically listed on the worker's compensation notice posted by the county on the official bulletin board (or other designated location). Failure to report an injury or to receive medical treatment will jeopardize payment of medical bills or other benefits under workers compensation insurance.
(2)
Safety guidelines for all employees. All employees should be trained in the correct way to perform their jobs. Any questions or suggestions about better or safer methods of performing tasks should be discussed with the supervisor or manager. Employees should always be conscious of the safety of others, as well as themselves. Employees should always observe the following guidelines:
a.
Observe all safety practices and procedures relating to the work performed.
b.
Only operate machinery assigned to them and for which they have received full training.
c.
Use proper safety clothing, equipment, and personal protective gear whenever provided, assigned, or required, as designated for the work performed.
d.
Use appropriate, safe methods to lift heavy objects, and use back braces, handcarts, or other devices to assist with lifting or moving activities.
e.
Never endanger themselves or another individual through inappropriate actions or by taking unnecessary chances.
f.
Be prepared for fire or other emergency situations. Know what to do; what actions to take; where to go; and the location of exits, firefighting equipment, and alarm pulls within the work environment.
g.
Notify supervisors or managers of any unsafe conditions, accidents, damaged or malfunctioning vehicles or equipment, any employee who is performing his/her job in an unsafe manner, or any other type of hazardous situation.
h.
Observe proper maintenance practices to keep work area, vehicles, tools, or other equipment in clean, safe, and operable condition.
i.
In compliance with state law, no employee under the age of 18 is allowed to operate heavy motor-driven equipment.
(Ord. of 5-26-2009, § A-8)
Sec. 54-9. - Security in the workplace.
(a)
[Personal property.] Stephens County government cannot be responsible for any loss or damage to personal property or valuables of employees or others using the premises. However, it is the county's intent to take the necessary actions to safeguard employees while on the job, as well as to protect county property. Packages, handbags, briefcases, or other personal items brought onto or taken off of county property are subject to inspection by supervisors or other authorized personnel. All county property including, but not limited to, desks, file cabinets, and vehicles, is subject to being searched and the contents held by county management at any time. Employees are encouraged to report to supervisors any suspicious individuals or happenings on or near County property.
(b)
Security clearance. In certain employment areas, such as accounting, finance, public safety, or other areas where the public has a compelling interest in the security of property or life, applicants for employment, promotion, or transfer may be required to provide additional personal information that would no be needed in other areas of employment. Such applicants/employees may also be subject to additional background screening, which may include driver's history records, criminal history reports, credit reports, or other review. County employees may also be required to meet requirements to be bonded under a blanket policy at the county's expense, to satisfy the requirements of state and federal agencies.
(Ord. of 5-26-2009, § A-9)
Secs. 54-10—54-15. - Reserved.
