Chapter 60 - SIGNS
ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Secs. 60-1—60-29. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - PURPOSE AND INTENT
DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Sec. 60-30. - Purpose and intent.
The following regulations in this chapter are designed to promote the public health, safety, order, aesthetics and general welfare of the community by: controlling the number, placement, size and height of signs to prevent excessive and undue distraction to motorists and pedestrians and to prevent traffic hazards; avoiding an environment that encourages visual blight; and encouraging a more attractive urban environment.
Regulation of the location, size, placement, and certain features of signs is necessary to enable the public to locate goods, services and facilities in the county without difficulty and confusion, to improve the general attractiveness of the county, to take advantage of the beauty of the county's natural environment, and to protect property values therein. Such regulation is also necessary to facilitate and aid in the identification and location of businesses in the county in the event of police, fire, or other emergencies and to avoid confusion and delay in response to such emergencies. Accordingly, it is the intention of the county to establish regulations governing the display of signs that will:
(1)
Promote and protect the public health, safety, and general welfare.
(2)
Provide for the expression of commercial and noncommercial speech by citizens and businesses in the county.
(3)
Enhance the economy of the county and the success of business and industry by promoting the reasonable, orderly, and effective display of signs.
(4)
Restrict signs and lights that increase the probability of traffic accidents by obstructing or confusing the vision of motorists, bicyclists, or pedestrians.
(5)
Ensure property maintenance, for safety and structural soundness, as well as the appearance and functionality of signs.
(6)
Preserve and protect the scenic beauty, natural surroundings and rural character of Stephens County.
(Ord. of 9-26-2017)
Sec. 60-31. - Definitions.
[The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:]
Abandoned sign or billboard. A sign or billboard that is left without care, maintenance, no longer in use, is in a state of disrepair, neglected or deserted.
Animated sign. A sign with action, motion, sound, changing colors or changing lighting effects. This includes signs that blink, flash or fluctuate lights or other illuminating devices which have a changing light intensity, brightness or color; provided however, that this definition does not include changeable copy signs as defined by this article.
Area of sign. The area within a continuous perimeter enclosing the limits of writing, representation, emblem, or any figure of similar character together with any frame, other material, open space, or color forming an integral part of the display or used to differentiate such writing, representation, emblem or any figure of similar character from the background against which it is placed. For double-faced signs, only the largest display face shall be measured in computing the sign area.
Banner. A temporary sign with or without characters, letters, illustrations or ornamentation applied to natural or synthetic paper or fabric, vinyl and other flexible, roll stock materials that is located on a building face or window or is attached to a fence, post(s), pole(s) or a pedestrian light fixture. Posters, labels, decals, characters or designs applied to, or sign materials produced in, sheet form such as corrugated plastic, PVC and acrylic, are excluded from this definition and may not be used to create a banner. For purposes of this chapter, a banner is a sign.
Billboard. A large panel sign or structure used to carry outdoor advertising or an outdoor message that is usually found in high traffic areas along roadsides.
Blade sign. A double-sided sign oriented perpendicular to the building wall.
Canopy. A fixed overhead shelter used as a roof which is attached to a building.
Canopy sign. A sign with a single or double face copy hung from a canopy.
Changeable copy sign. A sign, usually freestanding, containing copy that changes electronically. This definition includes electronic message boards, tri-visions and similar signs.
Commercial and industrial land use districts. For the purposes of this chapter the following land use districts are defined as commercial and industrial: CG and CI.
Currahee Parkway. The unincorporated portions of Highway 17 extending from the Franklin County line to the intersection of the Toccoa Bypass and then continuing on the Toccoa Bypass until it reaches the Habersham County line.
Department. For the purposes of this chapter the term department shall include the Stephens County Building Official, Stephens County Administrator, Stephens County Building Inspector, Stephens County Marshal or the designee of the Stephens County Board of Commissioners.
Discontinued sign. A sign intended to identify, announce, direct, inform, or bring to the attention of others a subject that has been discontinued.
Double-faced sign. A sign which has two display areas against each other or where the interior angle formed by the display areas is 60 degrees or less, where one face is designed to be seen from one direction and the other face from another direction.
Electronic message board. A sign with a fixed or changing message composed of a series of lights that may be changed through electronic means. This definition docs not include animated signs or projected copy.
Expression sign. A sign device not otherwise specifically defined and permitted in this chapter, which involves the expression of any idea. An expression sign shall not be in the form of a banner.
Externally illuminated sign. A sign supplied with light from an external light source aimed at the face of the sign.
Frontage, building. The width in linear feet of the front exterior wall of a particular establishment.
Frontage, road. The width in linear feet of each lot where it abuts the right-of-way of any public street.
Ground sign. A permanently affixed sign which is wholly independent of a building for support (i.e., freestanding).
Height of sign. The distance in vertical feet from the ground to the highest point of the sign face.
Internally illuminated sign. A sign supplied with light from an internal light source.
Interstate system. The term "Interstate System" means the Dwight D. Eisenhower National System of Interstate and Defense Highways described in section 23 USCS § 103(c).
Kiosk sign: A freestanding and multiple sided structure owned by the county and located in public rights-of-way that displays directional information to residential and commercial developments.
Land disturbance permit. A site development permit, road construction permit, or clearing and grubbing and/or grading permit issued by Stephens County, the Georgia Environmental Protection Division or any other state or local agency.
Lot. A designated parcel, tract, or area of land established by plat, subdivision, or as otherwise permitted by law, to be separately owned, used, developed, or built upon.
Marquee. A roofed structure and attached to and supported by a building and projecting over private sidewalks or private pedestrian travel ways.
Marquee sign. A sign painted on, attached to or hung from a marquee. For purposes of this chapter, marquee signs shall be considered wall signs.
Monument blade sign. A freestanding sign where the base of the sign structure is on the ground and the sign face hangs from a support that is oriented perpendicular to the sign base.
Monument sign. A freestanding sign where the base of the sign structure is on the ground. The width of the sign structure can be no more than 120 percent of the width of the base.
Nit. A of unit brightness equal to one candle per square meter, measured perpendicular to the rays of the light source.
Nonconforming sign. Any sign that lawfully existed on the effective date of this chapter but which does not conform to the provisions of this chapter.
Office residential land use district. For the purposes of this chapter the following land use district is defined as an office residential district: CC.
Permittee. A person and/or entity erecting a sign on the property of an owner and/or permittee.
Planned center, office, commercial, or industrial. A group of retail stores, service establishments, offices, industries, or any other businesses, institutions or activities planned to serve the public, which is in common ownership or condominium ownership.
Portable sign. A sign which is not permanently affixed, including but not limited to signs mounted or painted on vehicles which are parked in such a manner as to serve the purpose of a sign.
Primary highway. Any state highway that is part of the National Federal-Aid Primary System as of June 1, 1991, or any highway on the National Highway System, as designated by the administration and approved by the United States Secretary of Transportation under Title 23 of the United States Code.
Projecting wall sign. A wall sign projecting more than 13 inches from the outside wall or walls of any building upon which it is located.
Pylon sign. A freestanding sign that rests upon a pylon or pole(s).
Residential land use district. For the purposes of this chapter the following land use districts are defined as residential AG, RS and RM.
Roof sign. A sign projecting above the coping of a flat roof, above the ridge of a gable, hip or gamble roof or above the height of a parapet structure. A wall sign attached to a parapet structure, which is an extension of an exterior wall, shall not be considered a roof sign as long as the parapet structure is not in excess of six feet in height and the sign does not reach beyond the height of the exterior wall.
Sidewalk sign. A movable sign not secured or attached to the ground or surface upon which it is located.
Sign. A lettered, numbered, symbolic, pictorial, or illuminated visual display, device, or communication designed or used for the purpose of identifying, announcing, directing, informing, or bring to the attention of others the subject thereon, that is visible from the public right-of-way of a county, city, or state road.
Sign face. That part of a sign that is or can be used for communicating a message.
Temporary sign. A sign of a nonpermanent nature.
Time, place, and manner restriction. Regulations to protect governmental interests unrelated to speech, such as size, shape, location, appearance, and number. Time, place, and manner restrictions on signs have a content neutral effect on speech.
Trailer sign. Any sign mounted on wheels and that may be moved from one location to another.
Wall sign. A sign applied to or mounted to the wall or surface of a building or structure, the display surface of which does not project more than 12 inches from the outside wall of such building or structure. The total lettering on one side of a building or structure shall constitute one wall sign.
Window sign. A sign installed inside a window and intended to be viewed from the outside. For purposes of this chapter, the area of any window sign shall be measured on the basis of the proportion of area within each individual window frame, not the total window area of a building window visible from a public street.
(Ord. of 9-26-2017)
Sec. 60-32. - Signs shall meet applicable codes.
Signs and other advertising structures shall be constructed and maintained in strict conformity with building and electrical codes and all other applicable regulations including but not limited to the Stephens County Building Regulations (chapter 18 of the Code of Stephens County, Georgia).
(Ord. of 9-26-2017)
Sec. 60-33. - Signs are permitted structures.
Signs and other advertising structures are permitted as accessory uses, subject to all applicable limitations as specified in this chapter. All regulation of signs are governed by this chapter and no land use or other permit shall be required except those permits required by this chapter.
(Ord. of 9-26-2017)
DIVISION 2. - PERMITS

Sec. 60-34. - Permit required.
Except as otherwise excepted by the provisions of this chapter, any sign 64 square feet in area or larger shall require a permit to be issued by the building official before installation, construction, or erection. It shall be unlawful for any person to erect, construct, enlarge, move, or convert any sign, 64 square feet or larger, without first obtaining a permit from the building official: provided, however, that nothing in this section shall be constructed to require a permit for the repainting, cleaning or other normal maintenance or repair of a sign or sign structure.
(Ord. of 9-26-2017)
Sec. 60-35. - Permit application.
Applications for permits to erect, construct, enlarge, move or convert signs shall be made to the county clerk upon forms furnished by the building department. The application for permit shall include any such information such as, but not limited to, ownership information, location, construction cost, scaled site plans and elevation drawings, structural details or other information necessary to ensure compliance with the provisions of this chapter and all applicable codes.
(Ord. of 9-26-2017)
Sec. 60-36. - Permit fees.
No permit shall be issued until the appropriate application has been filed and fees have been paid as established by the board of commissioners from time to time.
(Ord. of 9-26-2017)
DIVISION 3. - PROHIBITED

Sec. 60-37. - Signs and sign devices prohibited.
The following signs and sign devices shall be prohibited in accordance with O.C.G.A. § 32-6-75:
(1)
No sign authorized by any section of this Code shall be erected or maintained which:
a.
Advertises an activity that is illegal under Georgia or federal laws or regulations in effect at the location of such sign or at the location of such activity;
b.
Is obsolete;
c.
Is not structurally safe, clean, and in good repair;
d.
Is not securely affixed to a substantial structure which is permanently attached to the ground;
e.
Is attached to, drawn, or painted upon trees, rocks, or other natural features;
f.
Moves or has any moving or animated parts, except as expressly allowed under subsection (3) of this Code section;
g.
Emits or utilizes in any manner any sound capable of being detected on the main traveled way by a person with normal hearing;
h.
If illuminated, contains, includes, or is illuminated by any flashing, intermittent, or moving light or lights except those giving public service information such as time, date, temperature, weather, or other similar information except as expressly permitted. The illumination of mechanical multiple message signs is not illumination by flashing, intermittent, or moving light or lights, except that no multiple message sign may include any illumination which is flashing, intermittent, or moving when the sign is in a fixed position;
i.
If illuminated, is not effectively shielded so as to prevent beams or rays of light from being directed at any portion of the traveled way, which beams or rays are of such intensity or brilliance as to cause glare or to impair the vision of the driver of any motor vehicle or which otherwise interfere with the operation of a motor vehicle;
j.
If illuminated, is illuminated so that it obscures or interferes with the effectiveness of an official traffic sign, device, or signal;
k.
Contains an area, to be measured by the smallest square, rectangle, triangle, circle, or combination thereof, which encompasses the entire sign, in excess of 300 square feet for billboards and 75 square feet for all other signs or exceeding 35 feet in height or 60 feet in length, inclusive of any border, trim, base, apron, supports, and other structural members;
l.
Contains more than two faces visible from the same direction on the main traveled way; provided, no sign shall be erected that contains more than one face vertically stacked visible from the same direction on the main traveled way. Double-faced, back-to-back, and V-type constructed signs shall, for the purpose of determining compliance with size and spacing limitations, be considered as one sign;
m.
Is in an area not zoned for commercial or industrial activity and within 300 feet of a residence without the written consent of the owner;
n.
Is within 500 feet in any direction of a public park, public playground, public recreation area, public forest, scenic area, or cemetery; provided, however, that such sign may be located within 500 feet of a public park, public playground, public recreation area, public forest, scenic area, or cemetery when the sign is separated by buildings or other obstructions so that the sign located within the 500-foot zone is not visible from the public park, public playground, public recreation area, public forest, scenic area, or cemetery;
o.
Is located so as to obscure or otherwise interfere with the effectiveness of an official traffic sign, signal, or device;
p.
Is located so as to obscure or otherwise interfere with a motor vehicle operator's view of approaching, merging, or intersecting traffic;
q.
Is located adjacent to an interstate highway and which is within 1,000 feet of another sign on the same side of the highway; provided, however, that such sign may be located within 1,000 feet of another sign when the signs are separated by buildings or other obstructions so that only one sign face located within the 1,000-foot zone is visible from the interstate highway at any time;
r.
Is located outside of the corporate limits of a municipality and adjacent to an interstate highway within 1,000 feet of an interchange, intersection at grade, or safety rest area. The foregoing 1,000-foot zone shall be measured along the interstate highway from the point at which the pavement commences or ceases to widen at exits from or entrances to the main traveled way. In circumstances where both the exit and entrance ramps on one side of an interchange constitute continuous lanes of travel to the exit and entrance ramps of the adjacent interchange, this side of the interchange shall be treated as if no ramps exist and the foregoing 1,000-foot zone on this side of the interchange shall be measured from the survey centerline of the main traveled way and crossroad forming the interchange or intersecting road. In all circumstances where this definition conflicts with any agreement with the United States secretary of transportation pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 32-6-87, said agreement shall be deemed to control for purposes of this Code section;
s.
Is located outside of the corporate limits of a municipality and adjacent to a highway on the primary system and which is within 1,000 feet of another sign on the same side of the highway; provided, however, that such sign may be located within 1,000 feet of another sign when the signs are separated by buildings or other obstructions so that only one sign face located within the 1,000-foot zone is visible from the primary system highway at any one time;
t.
Depicts any material which is obscene as such term is defined in O.C.G.A. § 16-12-80.
(2)
Signs imitating warning signals are prohibited. No sign shall display lights resembling the flashing lights customarily used in traffic signals or in police, fire, ambulance or rescue vehicles, nor shall any sign use the words, slogans, dimensional shape and size, or colors of the governmental traffic signs.
(3)
a.
Multiple message signs shall be permitted on the interstate system, primary highways, and other highways under the following conditions:
1.
Each multiple message sign shall remain fixed for at least ten seconds;
2.
When a message is changed mechanically, it shall be accomplished in three seconds or less;
3.
No such multiple message sign shall be placed within 5,000 feet of another mechanical multiple message sign on either side of the highway;
4.
Any such sign shall contain a default design that will freeze the sign in one position if a malfunction occurs;
5.
Any maximum size limitations shall apply independently to each side of a multiple message sign; and
6.
Non-mechanical electronic multiple message signs that are otherwise in compliance with this subsection and are illuminated entirely by the use of light emitting diodes, back lighting, or any other light source shall be permitted under the following circumstances:
(i)
Each transitional change occurs within two seconds;
(ii)
If the department finds an electronic sign or any display or effect thereon to cause glare or to impair the vision of the driver of any motor vehicle or to otherwise interfere with the safe operation of a motor vehicle, then, upon the department's request, the owner of the sign shall promptly and within not more than 48 hours reduce the intensity of the sign to a level acceptable to the department; and
b.
If a multiple message sign on a primary highway or other highway is in violation of any of the above conditions, its permit shall be revoked and the sign shall be removed. During the appeal of any violations of paragraph a. of this subsection, the sign shall remain fixed until the matter is resolved. The board of commissioners may allow the continued operation of a multiple message sign during part or all of the appeals process.
(4)
No billboard will be permitted to be constructed on the Currahee Parkway in order to preserve the natural scenic beauty of this corridor from obstruction for current and future generations, to protect visual encroachment on neighboring properties, to protect the distraction of drivers, to minimize the lowering property values and to minimize the negative affect that clusters of signs have on economic growth.
(Ord. of 9-26-2017)
ARTICLE III. - REQUIREMENTS

Sec. 60-38. - General requirements for signs.
Signs, regardless of the district in which they are located, shall conform to the following requirements:
(1)
Signs, together with any supporting members, shall be kept in good repair and maintained so as to present a neat, clean appearance and be in a safe state of preservation. Painted areas and sign surfaces shall be kept in good condition, and illumination, if provided, shall be maintained in safe and good working order.
(2)
Signs shall be set back a minimum of 25 feet for billboards and ten feet for all other signs from any public street right-of-way or private road.
(3)
No sign shall be erected where it will interfere with vision clearance along any street or obstruct the vision of either drivers or pedestrians.
(4)
Any illuminated sign shall be placed so that the rays and illumination therefrom shall not be cast upon neighboring dwellings.
(5)
All permitted marquee or projecting signs shall be erected under the supervision of the building official.
(6)
Other attached signs shall be inspected for safety and compliance with this chapter at the discretion of the building official or other official designated by the board of commissioners.
(7)
When a building is constructed, remodeled, or expanded, all signs shall be approved by the appropriate official before an occupancy permit is issued. Drawings containing dimensions of signs and/or descriptions of sign dimensions, construction materials, and methods of erection or design and stress diagrams may be approved by the building official or other appropriate official, when, in their best judgement, erection of the sign will not constitute a safety hazard and upon determination that the sign meets all the requirements of this chapter and the building code of the county.
(Ord. of 9-26-2017)
Sec. 60-39. - Variances permitted.
(a)
Recognizing that the strict application of the provisions of this chapter may, in limited instances involving unique or unusual physical conditions or other such unanticipated situations, pose an unnecessary hardship to the owner or user of a sign, the board of commissioners is authorized to permit variances from the provisions of this chapter, including but not limited to the following:
(1)
An increase in the height of a sign.
(2)
Reduction of the required setback for a sign.
(3)
A sign of such type that is prohibited by this chapter.
(4)
An increase in the maximum area of a sign.
(5)
Temporary signs and sign devices.
(b)
Applications for any of the variances set out in subsection (a) of this section shall be filed and considered in accordance with the requirements and procedures for variances and in addition shall require the filing of an elevation drawing of the sign or signs proposed to be erected, constructed, modified or continued, along with written justification that unusual conditions warrant such consideration.
(Ord. of 9-26-2017)
Sec. 60-40. - Procedures for dangerous or unlawful signs.
Should any sign become insecure or in danger of falling or otherwise unsafe in the opinion of the building official, the owner thereof, or the person or firm maintaining the sign, shall upon written notice from the building official or the administrative officer, forthwith in the case of immediate danger, and in any case within ten days, secure the sign in a manner to be approved by the building official, in conformity with the applicable provisions of the building code of the county. If such order is not complied with in ten days, the sign shall be removed under instruction of the appropriate official at the expense of the owner or lessee thereof. In case any sign shall be installed, erected, or constructed in violation of any of the terms of this chapter the administrative officer shall notify by certified mail, or written notice served personally, the owner or lessee thereof to alter such sign, secure the necessary permit, make required alterations, or remove the sign. If such order is not completed within 24 hours from the time of notice being received, the sign shall be removed under instruction of the appropriate official at the expense of the owner or lessee thereof.
(Ord. of 9-26-2017)
Sec. 60-41. - Nonconforming signs.
(a)
Signs which on the effective date of the ordinance from which this article is derived were legally erected and maintained under all applicable state, federal and local laws and ordinances, and which become nonconforming under the provisions of this article, may continue in existence, unchanged in structure and size.
(b)
A nonconforming sign shall not be expanded, relocated or replaced by another sign except in accordance with the provisions of this article. The substitution or interchange of panels or painted boards shall be allowed, however.
(c)
Minor repairs and maintenance of nonconforming signs, such as repainting or electrical repairs shall be allowed. However structural repairs or changes in the size or shape of the sign shall not be permitted except to make the sign comply with the provisions of this article, unless a variance is granted pursuant to section 60-39.
(d)
If a sign is damaged or destroyed by wind, accident, fire or other disaster, the sign may be rebuilt at the same location using new materials except the in-ground supports may be reused if the building department determines they are sound and undamaged. Any rebuilding requires a permit.
(e)
If the owner of a nonconforming sign applies for a permit to modify the sign in order to bring the sign into compliance with this article, the permit application fee is hereby waived, but all other requirements must be met.
(f)
In the case of any nonconforming signs which in its present location blocks or spoils any scenic view in the county, if the owner agrees to relocate the nonconforming sign within 180 days of the effective date of the ordinance from which this article is derived to an allowed location as provided in this chapter; the governing authority may grant a reasonable variance from the requirements of this article pertaining to square footage, setbacks, height, distance between signs and number of faces only. If there are multiple sets of signs requested to be moved under this provision, they shall be relocated separately in accordance with the provisions of this article.
(Ord. of 9-26-2017)
Sec. 60-42. - Abandoned billboards.
The county is authorized to remove any abandoned billboard. If an owner and an owner's address can be determined, advance notice by certified mail shall be given to the owner, providing the owner with 15 days' notice to bring the billboard into compliance with this article in addition to any other penalties imposed by this article. If no owner and address can be determined, then affixing a notice to the billboard for 15 days shall be sufficient. Any notice shall inform the owner that failure to bring the billboard fully into compliance with this article shall subject the billboard to removal by the county and that the owner shall be liable for repayment to the county for the complete cost of removal and restoration of the site.
(Ord. of 9-26-2017)
ARTICLE IV. - ADMINISTRATION AND INTERPRETATION
The provisions of this chapter shall be administered by the planning director who shall be appointed by the board of commissioners and serve at its pleasure. The planning director shall be responsible for interpretation of the provisions of this chapter.

Sec. 60-43. - Enforcement.
The provisions of this chapter shall be enforced by the Stephens County Marshal, building official, planning director or lawful designee of the board of commissioners.
(Ord. of 9-26-2017)
Sec. 60-44. - Penalties for violation.
Any person, firm or corporation violating, neglecting or refusing to comply with any of the provisions of this chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction, shall be fined (1) not less than $50.00 nor more than $1,000.00 for each offense, or (2) as determined by the court of proper jurisdiction. Each day such violation continues shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. of 9-26-2017)
Sec. 60-45. - Remedies.
In addition to any other penalty herein, if (1) any building or structure is or is proposed to be erected, constructed, reconstructed, altered, converted or maintained, or (2) any building structure or land is or is proposed to be used in violation of any provision of this chapter, then appropriate actions will be taken to ensure compliance.
The building official, planning director, lawful designee of the board of commissioners or any other appropriate authority may, in addition to other remedies and after due notice to the owner of the violation, (1) issue a citation for violation of this chapter requiring the presence of the violator in the court of [proper jurisdiction] (2) institute an injunction or (3) take other appropriate actions or proceedings to prevent such unlawful erection, construction, reconstruction, alteration, conversion, maintenance or use to correct or abate such violation to prevent the occupancy of such building, structure or land.
(Ord. of 9-26-2017)
