Title 1 - GENERAL PROVISIONS
Chapters:
Chapter 1.01 - CODE ADOPTION

1.01.010 - Adoption.
There is hereby adopted the "Stockbridge Municipal Code," as compiled, edited and published by Book Publishing Company, Seattle, Washington.
(Ord. 92-1 § 1, 1991)
1.01.020 - Title—Citation—Reference.
This code shall be known as the "Stockbridge Municipal Code" and it shall be sufficient to refer to the code as the "Stockbridge Municipal Code" in any prosecution for the violation of any provision thereof or in any proceeding at law or equity. It shall be sufficient to designate any ordinance adding to, amending, correcting or repealing all or any part or portion thereof as an addition to, amendment to, correction or repeal of the "Stockbridge Municipal Code." Further reference may be had to the titles, chapters, sections and subsections of the "Stockbridge Municipal Code" and such references shall apply to that numbered title, chapter, section or subsection as it appears in the code.
(Ord. 92-1 § 2, 1991)
1.01.030 - Reference applies to all amendments.
Whenever a reference is made to this code as the "Stockbridge Municipal Code" or to any portion thereof, or to any ordinance of the City of Stockbridge, Georgia, codified herein, the reference shall apply to all amendments, corrections and additions heretofore, nor or hereafter made.
(Ord. 92-1 § 3, 1991)
1.01.040 - Title, chapter and section headings.
Title, chapter and section headings contained herein shall not be deemed to govern, limit, modify or in any manner affect the scope, meaning or intent of the provisions of any title, chapter or section hereof.
(Ord. 92-1 § 4, 1991)
1.01.050 - Reference to specific ordinances.
The provisions of this code shall not in any manner affect matters of record which refer to, or are otherwise connected with ordinances which are therein specifically designated by number or otherwise and which are included within the code, but such reference shall be construed to apply to the corresponding provisions contained within this code.
(Ord. 92-1 § 5, 1991)
1.01.060 - Ordinances passed prior to adoption of the code.
The last ordinance included in this code was Ordinance 3.16, Hotel/Motel Tax, passed November 11, 1991.
The following ordinances, passed subsequent to Ordinance 3.16, Hotel/Motel Tax, but prior to adoption of this code, are adopted and made a part of this code:
1.
Non-Exclusive Franchise Agreement Between the City of Stockbridge and Bi-Jo Cablevision, Incorporated, dated December 9, 1991.
(Ord. 92-1 § 6, 1991)
1.01.070 - Effect of code on past action and obligations.
The adoption of this code does not affect prosecutions for ordinance violations committed prior to the effective date of this code, does not waive any fee or penalty due and unpaid on the effective date of this code, and does not affect the validity of any bond or cash deposit posted, filed or deposited pursuant to the requirements of any ordinance.
(Ord. 92-1 § 7, 1991)
1.01.080 - Constitutionality.
If any section, subsection, sentence, clause or phrase of this code is for any reason held to be invalid or unconstitutional, such decision shall not affect the validity of the remaining portions of this code.
(Ord. 92-1 § 8, 1991)
Chapter 1.04 - USE OF CODE AND PENALTIES

1.04.010 - How code designated and cited.
The ordinances embraced in the following chapters and sections shall constitute and be designated "Code of Ordinances, City of Stockbridge, Georgia," and may be so cited.
(Code 1971, Sec. 1-1)
1.04.020 - Rules of construction.
In the construction of this code, and of all ordinances, the following rules shall be observed, unless such construction would be inconsistent with the manifest intent of the governing body:
"City." "The city" or "this city" means the city of Stockbridge, Georgia.
Computation of time. When a number of days is prescribed for the exercise of any privilege, or the discharge of any duty, only the first or last day shall be counted; and if the last day shall fall on Saturday or Sunday, the party having that privilege or duty shall have through the following Monday to exercise that privilege or to discharge such duty.
Council, City Council, Governing Body. Whenever the words "council," "city council" or "governing body" are used, they shall mean the mayor and council of the city of Stockbridge, Georgia.
County. "The county" or "this county" means the County of Henry, Georgia.
Gender. A word importing the masculine gender only shall extend and be applied to females and to firms, partnerships and corporations as well as to males.
Interpretation. In the interpretation and application of any provision of this code, it shall be held to be the minimum requirements adopted for the promotion of the public health, safety, comfort, convenience and general welfare. Where any provision of this code imposes greater restrictions upon the subject matter than the general provision imposed by this code, the provision imposing the greater restriction or regulation shall be deemed to be controlling.
Joint Authority. All words giving a joint authority to three (3) or more persons or officers shall be construed as giving that authority to a majority of those persons or officers.
Month. "Month" means a calendar month.
Number. Words used in the singular include the plural, and the plural includes the singular number.
Oath. "Oath" shall be construed to mean and include an affirmation in all cases in which, by law, an affirmation may be substituted for an oath, and in such cases the words "swear" and "sworn" shall be equivalent to the words "affirm" and "affirmed."
Other Officials or Officers. Whenever reference is made to officials, boards, commissions, departments, etc., by title only, i.e., "city clerk," "chief of police," etc., they shall be deemed to refer to the officials, boards, commissions and departments of the city of Stockbridge, Georgia.
Or, And. "Or" may be read "and," and "and" may be read "or" if the sense requires it.
Person. "Person" means and shall extend and be applied to firms, partnerships, associations, organizations and bodies politic and corporate, or any combination thereof, as well as to individuals.
Preceding, Following. "Preceding" and "following" mean next before and next after, respectively.
Signature or Subscription includes a mark when the person cannot write.
State. "The state" or "this state" shall be construed to mean the state of Georgia.
"Street." "Street" means streets, avenues, boulevards, roads, alleys, lanes, viaducts and all other public streets and ways in the city, and shall embrace all parts thereof constituting the designated right-of-way, unless otherwise stated.
Time. Words used in the past or present tense include the future as well as the past and present.
"Week." means seven (7) days.
Written, in Writing. "Written" or "in writing" means and shall be construed to include any representation of words, letters or figures, whether by printing or otherwise.
"Year." means a calendar year.
(Amended during 1991 codification: Code 1971, Sec. 1-2)
1.04.030 - Catchlines of sections.
The underlined catchlines of sections of this code are intended as mere catchwords to indicate the contents of the section, and shall not be deemed or taken to be titles of such section, nor as any part of the section, nor, unless expressly so provided, shall they be so deemed when any of such sections, including the catchlines, are amended or reenacted.
(Code 1971, Sec. 1-3)
1.04.040 - Effect of repeal of ordinances.
The repeal of an ordinance shall not revive any ordinances in force before or at the time the ordinance repealed took effect.
(Code 1971, Sec. 1-4)
1.04.050 - Severability of parts of code.
It is hereby declared to be the intention of the governing body that the sections, paragraphs, sentences, clauses and phrases of this code are severable, and if any phrase, clause, sentence, paragraph, or section of this code shall be declared unconstitutional by the valid judgment or decree of a court of competent jurisdiction, such unconstitutionality shall not affect any of the remaining phrases, clauses, sentences, paragraphs and sections of this code.
(Code 1971, Sec. 1-5)
1.04.060 - Amendment to code—Effect of new ordinances—Form of amendatory language.
A.
All ordinances passed subsequent to this code of ordinances which amend, repeal or in any way affect this code may be numbered in accordance with the numbering system of this code and printed for inclusion therein. When subsequent ordinances repeal any chapter, section or subsection or any portion thereof, such repealed portions may be excluded from the code by omission from reprinted pages.
B.
Amendments to any of the provisions of this code should be made by amending such provisions by specific reference to the section of this code in substantially the following language :"That section _____ of the Code of Ordinances, City of Stockbridge, Georgia, is hereby amended to read as follows: (Set out new provisions in full) _______."
C.
When the governing body desires to enact an ordinance of a general and permanent nature on a subject not heretofore existing in the code, which the governing body desires to incorporate into the code, a section in substantially the following language shall be made a part of the ordinance:
"Section _____. It is the intention of the governing body, and it is hereby ordained that the provisions of this ordinance shall become and be made a part of the Code of Ordinances, City of Stockbridge, Georgia, and the sections of the ordinance may be renumbered to accomplish such intention."
D.
All sections, articles, chapters or provisions of this code desired to be repealed should be specifically repealed by section or chapter number, as the case may be.
E.
The repeal of an ordinance shall not affect any punishment or penalty incurred before the repeal took effect, nor any suit, prosecution or proceeding pending at the time of the repeal, for an offense committed under the ordinances repealed.
F.
When necessary, sections and subsections to the code may be renumbered by the official codifier for the city to fulfill the intent of the governing body but all such changes shall be approved in advance by the city attorney.
(Amended during 1991 codification: Code 1971, Sec. 1-6)
1.04.070 - Altering code.
It is unlawful for any person in the city to change or amend by additions or deletions, any part or portion of this code, or to insert or delete pages or portions thereof, or to alter or tamper with such code in any manner whatsoever which will cause the law of the city of Stockbridge, Georgia, to be misrepresented thereby. Any person violating this section shall be punished as provided in Section 1.04.080 hereof.
(Code 1971, Sec. 1-7)
1.04.080 - General penalty for code violations.
A.
Whenever in this code or in any ordinance of the city any act is prohibited or is made or declared to be unlawful or an offense, or whenever in such code or ordinance the doing of any act is required or the failure to do any act is declared to be unlawful, where no specific penalty is provided therefor, such violation of any such provision of this code or any ordinance shall be punishable by a fine not exceeding one thousand ($1000) dollars, by sentence of imprisonment not exceeding three hundred sixty-five (365) days and to work on the streets or public works for a period not exceeding three hundred sixty-five (365) days, any or all such penalties in the discretion of the recorder.
B.
The imposition of any such punishment shall not prevent the forcible removal or abatement of unlawful conditions and the imposition of a lien on the subject property for the cost thereof.
(Amended during 1991 codification; Code 1971, Sec. 1-8)
1.04.090—1.04.130 - Reserved.
Editor's note— Ord. No. 14-345, §§ 1—5, adopted May 12, 2014, repealed former §§ 1.04.090—1.04.130 in their entirety. The subject matter and legislative history of these repealed sections are contained in the table below.
EXPAND
Former
Section Subject History
1.04.090 Imposition of additional penalty upon persons convicted of any criminal offense, traffic offense or any criminal ordinance violation. Ord. 08-197 § 1, 2008; Ord. 97-12 §§ 1—3, 1997
1.04.100 Imposition of additional penalty upon persons convicted of any criminal offense, traffic offense or criminal ordinance violation for the purpose of providing training for law enforcement officers and prosecutorial officials. Ord. 98-7 §§ 1—3, 1998
1.04.110 Imposition of additional penalty upon persons convicted of any criminal offense, traffic offense or criminal ordinance violation for the purpose of providing funding for constructing, operating and staffing county jails, county correctional facilities and county detention facilities. Ord. 98-6 §§ 1—3, 1998)
1.04.120 Imposition of additional penalty upon persons convicted of a violation of Official Code of Georgia Annotated Section 40-6-391. Ord. 98-8 §§ 1—3, 1998
1.04.130 Imposition of additional penalty upon persons convicted of any offense prohibited by Official Code of Georgia Annotated Sections 16-13-30, 16-13-30.1, 16-13-31. Ord. 98-9 §§ 1—3, 1998
  1.04.140 - Imposition of an additional monthly surcharge upon persons sentenced to probation.
A.
Purpose. The ordinance codified in this section is enacted for the purpose of imposing and collecting supervision fees from persons sentenced to probation to be paid into the general fund of the city treasury as provided by law.
B.
Fee Imposed. The judge of the municipal court of this city shall assess and collect from each person sentenced to probation, as a condition of said probation, a monthly surcharge for the city. Said surcharge shall be the amount that is set by resolution from time to time by the city council.
C.
Payment of Funds. These funds shall be collected by the court officer charged with the duty of collecting moneys arising from probation fees and shall be paid over to the City Probation Department by the last day of the month following in which sums are collected. All probation fees collected by the department are to be paid into the general fund of the city treasury as provided by law.
(Ord. 02-52 § 1, 2002)
1.04.150 - Imposition of an additional monthly surcharge upon persons sentenced to probation for the purpose of providing funding for the Crime Victims Compensation Fund.
A.
Purpose. The ordinance codified in this section is enacted for the purpose of providing funding for the Georgia Crime Victim Emergency Fund as provided by law.
B.
Fee Imposed. The judge of the municipal court of this city shall assess and collect from each person sentenced to probation, as a condition of said probation, a monthly surcharge for the Georgia Crime Victim Emergency Fund. Said surcharge shall be the maximum amount that is set from time to time by the legislature of the State of Georgia.
C.
Payment of Funds. These funds shall be collected by the court officer charged with the duty of collecting moneys arising from probation fees and shall be paid over to the Georgia Crime Victim Emergency Fund by the last day of the month following in which sums are collected.
(Ord. 02-51 § 1, 2002)
1.04.160 - Reserved.
Editor's note— Ord. No. 14-345, §§ 6, adopted May 12, 2014,repealed former § 1.04.160 in its entirety which pertained to the imposition of additional penalty upon persons convicted of a violation of Official Code of Georgia Annotated Section 40-6-391 and derived from Ord. No. 99-1 §§ 1—3, 1999.
