Chapter 3.04 - GENERAL PROVISIONS

3.04.010 - Fiscal year.
The fiscal year of the city shall commence on January 1st and end on December 31st of each year.
(Added during 1991 codification)
3.04.020 - Annual budget and appropriations ordinances.
An annual budget and an appropriations ordinance shall be adopted by the mayor and council prior to the first day of the fiscal year. However, if for good and sufficient reasons the budget cannot be adopted by the first day of the fiscal year, the budget shall be adopted not later than forty-five (45) days subsequent to the beginning of the fiscal year. If the budget and the appropriations ordinance are not adopted prior to the beginning of the fiscal year, this section automatically authorizes the continuation of necessary and essential expenditures to operate the city. The budget as adopted shall be a balanced budget with anticipated revenues (including appropriated unencumbered surplus) equal to appropriated expenditures. All funds within the budget shall also be balanced. The city manager, or his designee, shall serve as budget control officer for the city.
(Added during 1991 codification)
3.04.030 - Bank accounts and check signing procedure.
A.
The mayor, chairman of the finance committee, city clerk, treasurer, and city administrator are hereby authorized to open such bank accounts at a financial institution as may be needed by the city to conduct the business of the city, including but not limited to checking, savings escrow, and trust accounts in the name of the city.
B.
The signature of either the city clerk or the city manager and either the mayor, treasurer or chairman of the finance committee shall be required to sign all checks for the payment of money or to withdraw or transfer funds on deposit on behalf of the city.
(Code 1971, Sec. 2-7)
(Ord. No. 10-215, § 1, 4-28-2010; Res. No. 10-274, § 1, 5-3-2010; Ord. No. OR 13-290, § 1, 1-14-2013; Ord. No. 14-361, 11-10-2014)
3.04.040 - Delinquent debts.
A.
Definitions. The following words, terms and phrases shall, for the purposes of this chapter and except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning, be defined as follows:
"Account payable" is any debt owed by the city to another person or entity.
"Account receivable" is any debt owed to the city by another person or entity.
"Bad debt" is a debt or any portion thereof which has become worthless or uncollectible, as determined under professional standards employed by licensed accountants and auditors.
"Debt" means any outstanding or unpaid fee, tax, charge, bill, permit, fine or account which is due and payable to the city, regardless of source. For purposes of this chapter, the term shall also include any fees, costs, penalties, expenses or interest which may be due and payable to the city as a result of, or incident to, a debt.
"Debtor" means any person owing a debt to the city.
"Delinquent debt" means any debt which remains unpaid for a period of thirty (30) days or more from the due date.
"Due date" is the date upon which a debt becomes due and payable.
B.
Collection of Delinquent Debts. The city manager or his designee shall be responsible for monitoring the status of the debts owed to the city. In the event any debt remains unpaid for more than ninety (90) days, the city manager or his designee may, but shall not be required to, take one (1) or more of the following actions: (1) initiate collection efforts on behalf of the city in any manner prescribed by law; or (2) issue and record a writ of fieri facias (fi. fa.) and execution as provided for by law; or (3) refer the same to the city attorney for collection through civil action; or (4) assign the delinquent debt to a collection agency; or (5) forwarding to the Tax Commissioner of Henry County the amount of the debt(s) for collection by placing the amount of the debt(s) on the ad valorem tax bill of the person or entity owing the debt(s). All funds so collected under any method shall be remitted to the city.
To the extent authorized by law, the city shall have lien rights for the collection of debt(s) due the city. Lien rights may be perfected through the filing of a writ of fieri ficias (fi. fa.) against all property of the person or entity who owes the debt(s). Upon issuance of the fi. fa., recording the same on the General Execution Docket of the Superior Court, and forwarding of same to the sheriff, the sheriff shall be authorized, pursuant to the laws of the state of Georgia, to levy same upon the property of the person or entity owing the debt to satisfy the amount owed to the city.
A fi. fa. issued upon a judgment issued by any court of this state can be recorded on the General Execution Docket of the Superior Court of any other county in this state. The sheriff of the county in which the fi. fa. is recorded and property of the debtor is located shall be authorized to levy same upon the property of the owner to satisfy the fi. fa. and the debt(s) owed to the city.
C.
Determination of Bad Debt. The city manager or his designee shall be authorized to determine if a delinquent debt under one hundred dollars ($100.00) constitutes a bad debt under this chapter. In the event such a determination is made, it shall be recorded on the official records of the city along with the basis for the determination, and said records shall be available to the public for inspection.
The city council shall be responsible for determining if any delinquent debt of one hundred dollars ($100.00) or more constitutes a bad debt. In the event such a determination is made, it shall be recorded on the minutes of the city and available to the public for inspection. Provided, however, that the failure to so record an official determination under this subsection shall not impair the city's action in any way.
Notwithstanding any other provision of this section, a delinquent debt which remains uncollected for a period of three (3) years after the due date shall be deemed a bad debt absent affirmative action to the contrary by the city council.
D.
Treatment of Bad Debts. Bad debts shall be charged off solely for accounting, tax and audit purposes in the manner prescribed by law and standard accounting procedures. In the event the bad debt is subsequently collected or paid, in whole or in part, the city manager or his designee shall report that payment during the reporting period in which the payment is made.
E.
No Forgiveness of Debts. No action by the city council, city manager or his designee, city attorney, or any other entity engaged by the city for collection purposes shall be construed as forgiving any debt owed to the city or taking any other action which is contrary to the Georgia Constitution.
(Ord. 110 §§ 1, 2, 2004; Ord. 01-7 § 1, 2001)
3.04.050 - Rules governing payments by check.
A.
General. All sums due the city, including but not limited to ad valorem taxes, occupation taxes, fines, forfeitures, penalties, license fees, permit fees and registration fees, may be paid by the use of personal checks issued by a person or business entity ("Payor") which comply with the procedures, if any, adopted by the city for acceptance of check payments.
B.
Charge for Returned Checks. Upon notification by a financial institution that a check presented to the city will be returned for insufficient funds ("NSF") because it is not properly payable or for any other reason, the city shall be authorized to charge the payor a penalty equal to $25.00 for each returned check or instrument. The city may, but shall not be required to, post a notice to this effect at one or more places where payments are delivered to the city.
C.
Liability for Payment of Obligation. No person making payment by check to the city is released from liability for the underlying obligation except to the extent that this city actually receives final payment of the obligation in cash or its equivalent. If final payment is not paid by the payor, a financial institution, or any other guarantor of payment in the transaction, the underlying obligation for money due is not extinguished. All applicable penalties, interest and collection fees on the unpaid amount shall be due from the payor.
Such penalties, interest and fees on any unpaid amount shall accrue from the date the unpaid obligation is first due under the applicable statute or ordinance. The city shall follow the collection procedures for the unpaid amount that would have otherwise been applicable had the check payment not been attempted.
(Ord. 02-43 § 1, 2002
3.04.060 - Required documentation for certain budget amendments.
Whenever the city council shall amend the budget to provide for a new employee position, the following documents shall be included as exhibits to an ordinance providing for the new employee position:
A.
A numbered budget amendment which indicates the budget line item where funding for the new employee position(s) is to be located within the budget and establishing the amount of funds within that line item allocated for the new employee position(s);
B.
A restated organizational chart indicating the new employee position(s); and
C.
A job description and salary range for the new employee position(s).
(Ord. No. 14-359, § 1, 9-8-2014)
3.04.070 - Limited authorization of certain fund transfers.
The treasurer after consultation with the city manager shall be authorized to reallocate departmental appropriations among various line item expenditures within that department as said the treasurer believes necessary. The treasurer shall also be authorized to effect interdepartmental transfers, in the same fund, not to exceed fifty thousand dollars ($50,000.00). Any such transfers shall identify particular functions that will use the transferred funds, and shall be reported to the city council at its next regular meeting and shall be entered in the minutes, as well as, reported in the monthly financial statements.
(Ord. No. 14-359, § 2, 9-8-2014)
