Chapter 2.16 - CLAIMS AGAINST THE CITY

2.16.010 - Claims for damage—Submittal conditions.
All claims for damage or loss against the city are to be in writing, attested to under oath, and signed and dated by the claimant; if a claim is submitted by a claimant's representative, the claimant must nevertheless attest to and sign the claim. The claim is to be addressed to the mayor and council, and shall be entitled "Notice of Claim."
(§ 1 of Ord. dated 6/11/90)
2.16.020 - Notice of claim—Delivery and receipt procedures.
All notices of claims are to be hand delivered to the city clerk, who shall date stamp the receipt on the notice of claim itself; alternatively, the claim may be mailed to the attention of the city clerk, by registered mail, return receipt requested, and the city clerk shall date stamp the receipt of each notice of claim on the notice itself.
(§ 2 of Ord. dated 6/11/90)
2.16.030 - Notice of claim—Information required.
All notices of claims shall describe in detail:
A.
The date, time and place of the incident or loss in question;
B.
The identity of any city employees or officials involved or connected in any way with the incident or loss;
C.
The nature of the incident allegedly resulting in the damage or loss;
D.
The dollar amount of the claimant's alleged injury or loss; and
E.
A description of all meetings or discussions between the claimant and any city employee or official wherein the claim was discussed or investigated, including:
1.
The date and place of the meeting or discussion;
2.
The identity of each and every city employee or official involved in the meeting or discussion; and
3.
A description of any statements or representations made by any city employee or official.
(§ 3 of Ord. dated 6/11/90)
2.16.040 - Accompanying documents in support of claim.
Each notice of claim shall be accompanied by any and all receipts, estimates, appraisals, bills, invoices or other documents upon which the claimant relies in support of his/her claim for damage or loss.
(§ 4 of Ord. dated 6/11/90)
2.16.050 - Clerk as custodian of notices of claims—Notice of claim file.
A.
The city clerk is designated as the official custodian of all notices of claims. The city clerk shall maintain a notice of claim file, which shall include an index of each notice of claim received by the city; the index shall be maintained in two (2) separate forms:
1.
By the claimant's last name (including the date received); and
2.
By chronological order received (i.e., by date received).
B.
The original of each notice of claim and all accompanying documents thereto shall be kept in the notice of claim file.
(§ 5 of Ord. dated 6/11/90)
2.16.060 - Procedure upon receipt of notice of claim.
Upon receipt of a notice of claim, the city clerk shall apprise the claimant of any deficiencies in the form or content thereof; the city clerk may return any notice of claim not in substantial compliance with this chapter, and shall maintain a written record of all notices of claims so returned. Upon receipt of each notice of claim in compliance with this chapter, and after indexing same in the notice of claim file referred to above, the city clerk shall immediately transmit a copy of the notice of claim (together with any accompanying documents) to:
1.
The mayor and council;
2.
The city manager;
3.
The city attorney; and
4.
The agent for each insurance company that may possibly have coverage for the loss or claim, by certified mail, return receipt requested.
(§ 6 of Ord. dated 6/11/90)
