ARTICLE XI. - COMMUNITY GARDEN COMMITTEE[6]

Footnotes:
--- (6) ---
Editor's note— Ord. No. 2021-01, § 1(Exh. A), adopted Feb. 2, 2021, set out provisions intended for use as Art. X, §§ 2-311-2-315. Inasmuch as there were already provisions so designated, said section has been codified herein as Art. XI, §§ 2-313—2-317 at the discretion of the editor.

Sec. 2-313. - Purpose.
The City of Stone Mountain, Georgia (referred to in this article as the "city") owns a community garden located on the grounds of the city's VFW Park at 888 Gordon Street, Stone Mountain, Georgia. The community garden has historically been operated in partnership with the DeKalb County Extension Office and Georgia Master Gardeners in DeKalb County. This article is enacted by the City Council of Stone Mountain (hereinafter referred to as the "city council") to provide an organizational structure for a committee of appointed volunteers who are committed to managing the proper operation and maintenance of the community garden to the benefit of the public.
(Ord. No. 2021-01, § 1(Exh. A), 2-2-21)
Sec. 2-314. - Creation, appointment and compensation.
A committee is hereby created called the "City of Stone Mountain Community Garden Committee" (hereinafter referred to as the "community garden committee").
(1)
Membership, qualifications and terms of office. The community garden committee shall consist of at least three (3) members but no more than five (5) members, each of whom shall be appointed by the city council as provided below. All committee members shall be active participants in the community garden and must have actively participated in the community garden for at least two years prior to serving as a committee member. The term of office for the initial committee members shall expire on December 31, 2021, and shall be subject to reappointment annually thereafter.
(2)
Nomination, appointment and vacancies.
a.
Nominations for appointment to the community garden committee may be made by the mayor and city council members in their discretion. The mayor or any member of the city council may move for the appointment of a qualified individual to fill an open position on the community garden committee. Upon majority vote of the city council, such nominated individual shall be appointed to fill the open position to serve in accordance herewith.
b.
If requested by the city council, when appointing community garden committee members, the city clerk shall take action as may reasonably be required to inform city residents and business owners that an opening exists on the community garden committee, including the publication of a notice in the principal newspaper of general circulation in Stone Mountain for a period no less than three (3) days or more than ten (10) days. The city clerk shall accept applications from interested individuals. Acting as a committee of the whole, the city council, chaired by the mayor, shall review the applications and recommend a short list of potential candidates to the mayor. The mayor shall nominate individuals for confirmation within thirty (30) days of receipt of recommendations from the city council. Confirmation shall be by a majority vote of the city council. In the event of a tic vote, the mayor shall cast the deciding vote.
c.
If a member is unable to complete a term of office, then an appointment to fill the unexpired term shall be made in the same manner as making an initial appointment.
(3)
Members shall serve without compensation but may be reimbursed for reasonable expenses as approved by the city council.
(Ord. No. 2021-01, § 1(Exh. A), 2-2-21)
Sec. 2-315. - Powers and duties.
The community garden committee shall:
(l)
Manage the operation and maintenance of the city's community garden located at VFW Park using best practices;
(2)
Create and maintain rules, regulations and policies regarding access, use, operation, and maintenance of the community garden;
(3)
Create and maintain a user agreement for individual gardeners who desire to use the community garden;
(4)
Create and maintain a fee structure for use of the community garden;
(5)
Coordinate with the city's purchasing agent for all acquisitions in accordance with the city's purchasing policies;
(6)
Coordinate with area food pantries and food banks regarding the donation of excess produce grown at the community garden; and
(7)
Report at least annually to the mayor and city council regarding the operation and maintenance of the community garden and the committee activities during the preceding year.
(Ord. No. 2021-01, § 1(Exh. A), 2-2-21)
Sec. 2-316. - Assistance by the city.
The city administration shall provide technical and clerical assistance as the community garden committee may require and shall maintain permanent and complete records of the activities of the community garden committee.
(Ord. No. 2021-01, § 1(Exh. A), 2-2-21)
Sec. 2-317. - Bylaws, officers and quorum.
(a)
The community garden committee shall adopt rules and procedures, such as bylaws for the transaction of its business. The community garden committee shall have the prerogative to adopt reasonable rules and bylaws without amendment to this article or the vote of the mayor and city council. The community garden committee shall provide for the time and place of regular meetings and a method for the calling of special meetings. The community garden committee shall meet at least quarterly. Meeting notices shall be conducted in accordance with the Georgia Open Records Act, Title 50-18-70.
(b)
A quorum shall consist of a majority of the members.
(c)
The community garden committee shall elect a chair and such other officers as it deems appropriate from among its members. Officers shall serve one-year terms and shall be eligible for reelection. The community garden committee shall elect its officers at the first meeting following their annual appointment each year.
(Ord. No. 2021-01, § 1(Exh. A), 2-2-21)
Secs. 2-318—2-320. - Reserved.
