ARTICLE XI. - COMMUNICATIONS POLICY[1]

Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Editor's note— Article XI of this chapter contains the City of Stonecrest Communications Policy as adopted in Exhibit A as attached to Ordinance No. 2018-02-01.

Sec. 2-393. - Purpose.
The purpose of this policy is to establish guidelines that provide the foundation for efficient, effective, timely, and transparent communications with the Stonecrest internal and external stakeholders, media, residents, and the general public.
Sec. 2-394. - Policy Statement.
It is the policy of the City of Stonecrest to:
1.
Inform citizens about the city's services, projects, policies, ordinances and initiatives through timely, accurate, effective communication. Information shall be disseminated in the most effective manner within a reasonable time frame of its availability. The way information is disseminated on behalf of the City of Stonecrest will be at the discretion of the mayor, communications director, and the city managers only. The only exception will be the handling of open records request in accordance with the Georgia Open Records Act. The city clerk will be responsible for communicating with the public and media to provide documents requested.
2.
Reasonably anticipate the needs of the community, mayor, council, staff and residents for the timely release of internal and external information.
3.
Engage in a proactive, up-to-date communications programs that employ a variety of formats designed to accommodate the diverse needs of the community.
4.
Develop and employ communications practices that enhance and support the city's economic development efforts.
5.
Establish and reasonably foster a good working relationship with local and national media by providing accurate, timely information through the proper city channels.
6.
In a crisis or emergency situation, have a communications plan that works in conjunction with the Federal Emergency Management Agency and the DeKalb Emergency Management Agency.
Sec. 2-395. - External Communications.
Media Relations.
a.
Good working relationships with media can yield an increase in public awareness and support of city initiatives. Stonecrest's media policy is to provide accurate, timely information for which the media and the public have a just and reasonable claim. The communications director or in his absence, a designee will be responsible for reviewing all information submitted to the local or national media in any form, to include, but not limited to, video files, press releases, newsletters, and emails.
b.
Should a member of the media contact a city staff member, to include city subcontractors, regarding city matters, the staff member shall refer the media representative to the communications director, the mayor or the city managers. Staff members are prohibited from speaking with the media as part of their official duties or employment on city matters unless it is approved by the communications director, mayor or city managers.
c.
City councilmembers may speak with the media regarding their voting position on city ordinances, taxes, resolutions or city council meeting agenda items but may not speak on behalf of the City of Stonecrest. Councilmembers are not allowed to write opinion articles, or editorials on any city business, personnel or contractors which imply or otherwise give the impression that they are on behalf of the City of Stonecrest. Councilmembers must refrain from using the City of Stonecrest's logo and are not permitted to utilize the City of Stonecrest's property or resources unless approved by the city manager or communications director. Councilmembers are not allowed to disclose any matter discussed in executive session and any information protected by the attorney-client privilege unless 1) the information is no longer exempt under the Georgia Open Records Act or the Georgia Open Meetings Act or 2) the privilege has been waived by a vote of the City Council. The mayor and councilmembers will consult with city staff, to include the communications director, prior to engaging in a press conference.
All city elected officials will be allowed to defend themselves should personal accusations arise in the media. This may include news stories on campaign disclosures, ethics, campaign finance, etc.
All information given to the media must be true and without slander or ill-intent.
For more information see Appendix A - Guidelines for Communicating with the Media.
Social Media.
a.
Personal social media pages are permitted for city employees, contractors, and elected officials. The City of Stonecrest logo may not be used for personal communications and may only be used at the direction of the city manager and the communications director. Personal social media pages should not be used by city employees and contractors to disseminate messages or information pursuant to their official duties or employment. Elected officials should refrain from using their personal social media page to discuss city business.
b.
City councilmembers must refrain from disseminating any message on behalf of the City of Stonecrest and not individually. To the extent City councilmembers engage in social media, said media may be subject to the Georgia Open Records Act and/or otherwise create a forum protected by the First Amendment.
c.
Staff members, contractor, mayor and council must always be conscious of the fact that they represent the City of Stonecrest. Using negative images, including, but not limited to, racial, vulgar language, sexually degrading, homophobic or gender insensitive, is prohibited. If a staff member's social media page lists the City of Stonecrest as his employer, all communication on the social media page becomes a reflection of the individual as an employee; therefore, all communication on such pages should remain professional.
d.
The mayor, city managers, and communications director or their designee are the only individuals allowed to speak on behalf of the city on any social media page.
e.
The mayor, city managers, and communications director, will determine how the city's social media pages are promoted. Some pages have paid promotions. Councilmembers and staff are prohibited from submitting paid promotions for events on the city's social media pages.
f.
Submissions, such as town hall meeting announcements, council newsletters and events not sponsored by the city, are to be made at the discretion of the mayor, city managers, and communications director.
City's Website.
a.
The city's website is managed by the communications director and maintained by an outside contractor. On the date of this policy, SJ6 Media is maintaining the website at www.stonecrestga.gov. Modifications, additions or deletions to this site may only be made by the city managers and the communications directory. The exception will be the city clerk in the case of submitting council meeting agendas and minutes only.
b.
The communications director will work with department heads, mayor, and council to determine the information for the city website. This group will also determine the ways in which the website is promoted.
City Email.
a.
All city business communications should be made using the city email. The use of personal emails for city business is prohibited.
b.
Communications on city email should remain professional. Email users should refrain from initiating or forwarding humor, cartoons, videos, etc. that are not job-related. Remember, all city emails are subject to an open records request and therefore, may be viewed by the public and exposed in the media. Failure to adhere to the city's email policies may result in disciplinary action.
Open Records.
a.
All open records request made in accordance with the Georgia Open Records Act will be handled by the city clerk with assistance, if needed, from the communications director. In accordance with Georgia law, open records requests will be responded to within three business days. Within this time, the requestor shall be either given the documents requested or given a time frame in which the documents can be produced. During this initial response, the requestor will be given the price for producing the documents. The clerk shall email the communications director a copy of all open records request from all media sources. This will allow the communications director to have a working knowledge of the type of information requested and the potential for various news investigations if applicable.
Sec. 2-396. - Proclamations and Congratulatory Letters or Commendations.
Proclamations are ceremonial documents signed by the mayor to honor, celebrate or recognize noteworthy acts or events that positively affect the citizens or business community of Stonecrest. Proclamations, congratulatory letters, and commendations are public service documents and do not constitute an endorsement by the mayor or city council.
a.
All proclamations, congratulatory letters or commendations must be signed and approved by the mayor and are at the discretion of the mayor. A two-week notice is required along with all the necessary information and a completed Communications Request Form. (See Appendix B) If a communications request is made for a proclamation, letter or commendation to be presented at a council meeting, a four-week prior notice must be given and all information must be provided for the request to be considered.
Proclamations may be issued for:
•
Recognition of a day, week, month, or year.
•
Special honors
•
Recognition and to raise the public's awareness of charitable fundraising campaigns within the city. The campaigns must be sponsored by a nonprofit organization.
•
Honoring other civic, religious or government organizations and their leadership as deemed appropriate by the mayor.
STATE OF GEORGIA
COUNTY OF DEKALB
CITY OF STONECREST
ORDINANCE 2018-01-01
