ARTICLE IX. - RULES AND PROCEDURES FOR CITY COUNCIL MEETINGS AND PUBLIC HEARINGS FOR THE CITY OF STONECREST, GEORGIA

Sec. 2-331. - Open meetings.
All meetings of the Mayor and City Council shall be held in accordance with the provisions of Title 50, chapter 14 of the Official Code of Georgia Annotated. The public shall be afforded access to meetings other than Executive Sessions, in compliance with Georgia law. Only Executive Sessions held in accordance with Georgia law may be closed to the public.
(Ord. No. 2017-08-10, § 1, 8-7-2017)
Sec. 2-332. - Executive sessions.
Executive sessions of the Council may be held for the purpose of discussing topics exempted from public access requirements by Title 50, chapter 14 of the Official Code of Georgia Annotated. Meetings will only be closed to the public for the purposes allowed within State law, and provisions of State law will be followed for all Executive Sessions.
(a)
Non-Exempt Topics. If a Councilmember attempts to discuss a non-exempt topic during an Executive Session, the Mayor shall immediately rule that Councilmember out of order and such discussion shall cease. If the Councilmember persists in discussing the non-exempt topic, the Mayor shall adjourn the meeting immediately.
(b)
Mayor or Presiding Officer Affidavit. The Mayor or other presiding officer shall execute an affidavit stating, under oath, that the Executive Session was devoted to topics exempt from the public access requirements. The affidavit shall include the specific exemption to the open meetings law. The City Attorney shall review and approve the form of the affidavit to be utilized, as well as the completed affidavit to be executed for each Executive Session. The affidavit shall be notarized and filed with the minutes of the open meeting.
(Ord. No. 2017-08-10, § 2, 8-7-2017)
Sec. 2-333. - Visual and sound recordings.
Visual and sound recordings shall be permitted for all public hearings, as long as such recordings are in accordance with State law. The City Manager may designate suitable areas for the placement of recording equipment.
(Ord. No. 2017-08-10, § 3, 8-7-2017)
Sec. 2-334. - Quorum.
As provided in the City Charter, a quorum must be present for conducting meetings of the City Council. Any Councilmember may raise a point of order directed to the Mayor or presiding officer if he believes that a quorum is not present. If, during the course of a meeting, a Councilmember or Councilmembers leave and a quorum no longer exists, the meeting may not continue.
(Ord. No. 2017-08-10, § 4, 8-7-2017)
Sec. 2-335. - Mayor.
As provided in article III, section 3.01(a)(1) of the City Charter, the presiding officer of the City Council shall be the Mayor. As presiding officer, he is responsible for the orderly conduct of the meeting. In order to fulfill this duty, the Mayor shall enforce the rules of procedure that are adopted by the City Council. The Mayor shall be impartial and conduct the meeting in a fair manner. The Mayor may name a Sergeant-at-Arms to assist in maintaining the orderly conduct of the Council Meetings.
(Ord. No. 2017-08-10, § 5, 8-7-2017)
Sec. 2-336. - Mayor pro-tempore.
As provided in section 2.09(b) of the Charter, by a Majority Vote, the Councilmembers shall elect a Councilmember to serve as mayor pro tempore. The Mayor Pro-Tempore shall fulfill the duties of the Mayor if the Mayor is not in attendance. Council shall select a Mayor Pro-Tempore from the Councilmembers at their first meeting following each general election by a Majority Vote. The Mayor Pro-Tempore shall serve a term of two years and until a successor is elected and qualified.
(Ord. No. 2017-08-10, § 6, 8-7-2017)
Sec. 2-337. - Presiding officer.
If the Mayor and the Mayor Pro-Tempore are absent or otherwise unable to serve as presiding officer at a meeting and a quorum of Councilmembers is present, the remaining Councilmembers shall select a Councilmember to serve as presiding officer of the meeting until either the Mayor or Mayor Pro-Tempore is present at the meeting.
(Ord. No. 2017-08-10, § 7, 8-7-2017)
Sec. 2-338. - Parliamentarian.
The City Attorney shall serve as the parliamentarian for City Council meetings.
(Ord. No. 2017-08-10, § 8, 8-7-2017)
Sec. 2-339. - Amendment to the rules.
Any amendments to the rules of order may be made by Resolution and require a Majority Vote to be adopted.
(Ord. No. 2017-08-10, § 9, 8-7-2017)
Sec. 2-340. - Suspending the rules of order.
Rules of Order may be suspended in the case of an emergency. A motion to suspend the rules requires a second, is debatable, and requires a two-thirds vote of the Council. Rules governing quorums, voting methods and requirements, the notification to Councilmembers of meetings and rules necessary for compliance with state law may not be suspended; provided, however, that in the event that a state of emergency is declared by the Governor or other authorized state official, the City Council may waive time-consuming procedures and formalities imposed by state law.
(Ord. No. 2017-08-10, § 10, 8-7-2017)
Sec. 2-341. - Regular meetings.
Regular meetings of the City Council shall be held at a time determined by a Majority Vote of the City Council but shall include at least one regular meeting per month, as provided in the City Charter article II, section 2.09(d). No later than the month of December for each year, the City Council should adopt a schedule detailing an annual Meeting Calendar for the following calendar year that prescribes the dates and times of regular meetings for such following year. All regular meetings shall be held in the City Council meeting room; provided, however, that other sites may be used that are within the City and appropriate public notice is given as provided by other sections of this document. A notice containing the foregoing information shall be posted and maintained in a conspicuous place available to the general public at the regular meeting place of the City Council. Prior to the establishment of a regular meeting place, the public notice shall be posted at the location at which the meeting will be held.
(Ord. No. 2017-08-10, § 11, 8-7-2017)
Sec. 2-342. - Meetings other than regular meetings.
The City Council may meet at times and locations other than those regularly scheduled meetings.
(a)
Special Meetings and Rescheduled Regular Meetings. A regular meeting may be canceled, rescheduled, recessed or moved to a new location within the City by the Mayor or by a majority of the Council in office for any reason. As provided in article II section 2.09(e) of the City Charter, special meetings of the City Council may be held on call of either:
(1)
The Mayor and one councilmember; or
(2)
Three Councilmembers.
Notice of such special meetings shall be served on all Councilmembers, the Mayor and the City Manager personally, by registered mail, hand delivery or by electronic means at least 24 hours in advance of the meeting. Such notice of any special meeting may be waived by the Mayor, any Councilmember or the City Manager in writing before or after such a meeting. Attendance at a meeting shall also constitute a waiver of notice on any business transacted in such Councilmember's presence. Only the business stated in the call may be transacted at the special meeting. Notice to the public shall be given in accordance with State law.
(b)
Meetings with Less than 24 Hours' Notice. When emergency circumstances occur, the City Council may hold a meeting as allowed by State law.
(c)
Meetings During a State of Emergency. When it is imprudent, inexpedient or impossible to hold City Council meetings at the regular meeting place due to emergency or disaster resulting from manmade or natural causes, as declared by the Governor or other authorized state official, the City Council may meet anywhere within or outside of the city. Such a meeting may be called by either:
(1)
The mayor and one councilmember; or
(2)
Three Councilmembers.
At the meeting, the Councilmembers shall establish and designate emergency temporary meeting location where public business may be transacted during the emergency. Any action taken in such meeting shall have the same effect as if performed at the regular meeting site.
(Ord. No. 2017-08-10, § 12, 8-7-2017)
Sec. 2-343. - Order of business.
All regular City Council meetings shall substantially follow an established order of business. The order shall be as follows:
1.
Call to Order.
2.
Roll Call.
3.
Invocation.
4.
Pledge of Allegiance.
5.
Approval of Agenda.
6.
Review and Approval of Minutes.
7.
Public Comments.
8.
Public Hearing (if any).
9.
Consent Agenda.
10.
Announcements.
11.
Reports and Presentations.
12.
Old Business.
13.
New Business.
14.
Comments by Mayor and Council.
15.
Executive Session (if needed).
16.
Adjournment.
(Ord. No. 2017-08-10, § 13, 8-7-2017)
Sec. 2-344. - Agenda.
The City Manager shall prepare an agenda of subjects to be acted on for each meeting. The meeting agenda shall be approved by the Mayor, and made available to the City Council at least two days before every City Council meeting.
(a)
Requests for Agenda Items. Members of the public may request that a particular subject be placed on the agenda for a meeting at the discretion of the Mayor. To be considered, this request shall be submitted in writing to the City Manager no later than one week prior to such meeting date.
(b)
Changing the Agenda. The order of the agenda may be changed during a meeting by a Majority Vote of the City Council. A new item, other than a zoning decision, may be added to the agenda by a Majority Vote of the City Council only if it becomes necessary to address the item during the meeting. An existing item may be removed from the agenda by the Majority Vote of the City Council.
(c)
Agenda Must Be Made Public. The agenda of all matters to come before the City Council shall be made available to the public upon request and shall be posted at the meeting site as far in advance as reasonably possible, but not less than 24 hours prior to the start of the meeting. Notice of the agenda for emergency meetings will be handled in accordance with State law.
(Ord. No. 2017-08-10, § 14, 8-7-2017)
Sec. 2-345. - Consent agenda.
A consent agenda may be prepared by the City Manager and approved by the Mayor for the City Council to unanimously adopt motions on routine items. Any items of business that are expected to receive unanimous approval without debate may be placed on a consent agenda. At the appropriate time of the meeting, the Mayor, or his designee, shall read all of the items on the consent agenda. If a Councilmember objects to an item being on the consent agenda, that particular item shall be moved to the regular agenda. Following the reading of the consent agenda, the Mayor may ask for unanimous approval of the items on the consent agenda. If there are no objections, all the items on the consent agenda shall be approved by a Majority Vote.
(Ord. No. 2017-08-10, § 15, 8-7-2017)
Sec. 2-346. - Conduct and decorum guidelines for elected and appointed officials City of Stonecrest.
1.
Elected and appointed officials' conduct with each other in public meetings. Elected and appointed officials are community leaders from a wide variety of backgrounds, with diverse personalities, values, opinions, and goals. Despite this diversity, all have chosen to serve in public office to protect and enhance the present and future of the community. In all cases, this common goal should be acknowledged even though individuals may not agree on every issue.
(a)
Respect the role of chair while maintaining order. It is the responsibility of the chair to conduct meetings in an orderly and effective manner. All members present at a public meeting have a duty to respect the role of chair and provide the support needed for the furtherance of matters on the agenda for each meeting. In the event of a discrepancy with an agenda item or an action taken by the chair, members at the meeting shall address their concerns in a polite and rational way, following procedures outlined in parliamentary procedure.
(b)
Practice civility and decorum in discussions and debate. It is the duty of elected and appointed officials to ask and answer difficult questions, challenge positions, take and receive criticism and offer up healthy debate. However, during the course of discussion and debate it is not accepted or tolerated for any member to provide crude, inappropriate, vulgar or offensive comments.
(c)
Avoid personal comments that could offend other members. A "point of personal privilege" should be used by a member active in a public meeting to challenge remarks made by another member that they find personally offensive. Members are encouraged to share feedback in private.
(d)
Demonstrate effective problem-solving approaches. It's the responsibility of members to work together to find common ground and seek a compromise that benefits the community, regardless of their varying points of view. Meeting decorum is governed by the behavior of members.
2.
Elected and appointed officials' conduct with the public in public meetings. It is the responsibility of elected and appointed officials to make constituents feel welcome to participate in each public forum. No signs of partiality, prejudice or disrespect should exist to members of the public. Every effort should be made to be fair and impartial in listening to public testimony.
(a)
Listening to the public. Listen to public speakers and be responsive to their concerns and comments exercising an appropriate level of care.
(b)
Speaking limits. Adhere to public meeting laws to govern time and of individual speakers. The chair will announce and moderate the limits on speakers at the start of each public meeting.
(c)
Practice active listening. Members attending public meetings shall provide the appropriate level of attentiveness towards speakers, presenters and fellow members. They should be conscious of facial expressions, avoiding the urge to look disinterested, sleepy, angry or bored. Members will always be polite and respectful and focus on taking next steps to address the issue at hand.
(d)
Maintain an open mind. Elected and appointed officials should maintain an open mind and remain receptive to ideas and opinions of the public.
(e)
Ask for clarification but avoid debate and argument with the public. Only the chair, not individual members, can interrupt a speaker during a presentation. Members can ask the chair for a point of order if the speaker is off the topic or exhibiting behavior or language the member finds disturbing.
(f)
Non-partisan comments and actions. Elected and appointed officials serve in roles that are non-partisan in nature. As such, any comment, action or direction given by councilmembers while serving in their official capacities as city leaders should not reflect views of a partisan opinion. Views made by councilmembers should be in line with goals and objectives of their roles as public officials serving the city and its constituents. The City Charter will act as a guide to understanding the overall needs of the city. Partisan political comments or opinions can and should always be expressed as a private citizen away from sanctioned City of Stonecrest meetings and events.
(g)
Be respectful of colleagues' time and city staff. Members of city council and appointed officials will be respectful of their colleagues' time and efforts needed to efficiently prepare materials in advance of all meetings.
3.
Elected and appointed officials' conduct with city staff. The governance of a city relies on the cooperative efforts of elected officials who set policy, appointed officials who advise the elected, and city staff who implement and administer the council's policies. Therefore, every effort should be made to be cooperative and show mutual respect for the contributions made by each individual for the good of the community.
(a)
Treat all staff as professionals. All city staff should be treated with dignity and respect. Poor behavior towards staff is not acceptable.
(b)
Never publicly criticize or ridicule a city employee. Elected and appointed officials should never express concerns about the performance of a city employee in public, to the employee directly, or to the employee's manager. Comments about staff performance should only be made to the city manager through private correspondence or conversation. Appointed officials should make their comments regarding staff to the city manager or the mayor.
(c)
Do not get involved in administrative functions. Elected and appointed officials acting in their individual capacity must not attempt to influence city staff on the making of appointments, awarding of contracts, selecting of consultants, processing of development applications, or granting of city licenses and permits.
(d)
Do not solicit political support from staff. Elected and appointed officials should not solicit any form of political support (financial contributions, display of posters or lawn signs, name on support list, etc.) from city staff. City staff have a constitutional right as private citizens to support political candidates, they may do so, but all forms of support must be done away from the workplace.
(e)
No attorney-client relationship. Members shall not seek to establish an attorney-client relationship with the city attorney, including his or her staff and attorneys contracted to work on behalf of the city, for matters outside of the scope of said members' official duties.
4.
Council conduct with boards, committees and commissions. The city has established several boards, committees and commissions as a means of gathering more community input. Citizens who serve on boards, committees and commissions become more involved in government and serve as advisors to the city council. They are a valuable resource to the city's leadership and should be treated with appreciation and respect.
(a)
Attendance at board, committee and commission meetings. Elected and appointed officials are a welcomed presence at city board, committee or commission meetings of which they are non-members. While attending, the opinions expressed by such officials are their own and not a representation of the feelings of the city council or the official's respective board, committee, or commission as a whole. Officials should be careful that their participation is not viewed as unfairly influencing the process.
(b)
Limit contact with board, committee and commission members to questions of clarification. It is inappropriate for an elected or appointed official to contact a member of a board, committee or commission, of which they are non-members, to lobby on behalf of an individual, business, or developer, and vice versa. It is acceptable for elected or appointed officials to contact such board, committee or commission members in order to clarify a position taken by the board, committee or commission.
(c)
Respect that boards, committees and commissions serve the community, not individual councilmembers or elected officials. The city council appoints individuals to serve on boards, committees and commissions, and it is the responsibility of boards, committees and commissions to follow policy established by the city council. But board, committee and commission members do not report to individual councilmembers, nor should councilmembers feel they have the power or right to threaten board, committee and commission members with removal if they disagree about an issue. Appointment and re-appointment to a board, committee or commission membership should be based on such criteria as expertise, ability to work with staff and the public, and commitment to fulfilling official duties. A board, committee or commission appointment should not be used as a political "reward."
(d)
Be respectful of diverse opinions. Boards, committees and commissions are established to provide a complete outlook on the subject matter, manner and activities of a particular body. Councilmembers may have a closer working relationship with some individuals serving on boards, committees and commissions, but must be fair and respectful of all citizens serving on boards, committees and commissions.
(e)
Keep political support away from public forums. During a public forum or while conducting official duties board, committee and commission members may not offer political support to a councilmember.
(f)
Communicate accurately and be timely with administrative responsibilities. All elected and appointed officials will strive to communicate in terms that accurately reflect the issues they are addressing; and will timely and accurately submit required administrative reports (expense reports, campaign finance reports, etc.).
5.
Penalties.
(a)
Any person found guilty of violating section 2-346 shall be punished as follows:
i.
First and second offense—A censure by the Stonecrest City Council.
ii.
Third offense—Removal from office.
(Ord. No. 2017-08-10, § 16, 8-7-2017; Ord. No. 2021-11-02 , § 1(Exh. B), 11-22-2021)
Sec. 2-347. - Voting.
Under normal circumstances, passage of a motion shall require a Majority Vote. Voting on the adoption of ordinances shall be by voice vote and the vote shall be recorded in the minutes, but any member of the City Council shall have the right to request a roll-call vote and such vote shall be recorded in the minutes.
Except as otherwise provided in the City Charter, a Majority Vote shall be required for the adoption of any ordinance, resolution, or motion. In the event vacancies in office result in less than a quorum of Councilmembers holding office, then the remaining Councilmembers in office shall constitute a quorum and shall be authorized to transact business of the City Council. A Majority Vote of the remaining Councilmembers shall be required for the adoption of any ordinance, resolution, or motion.
(Ord. No. 2017-08-10, § 17, 8-7-2017)
Sec. 2-348. - Abstentions.
Neither any Councilmember nor the Mayor shall abstain from voting on any matter properly brought before the City Council for official action except when such Councilmember has a reason which is disclosed in writing prior to or at the meeting and made a part of the minutes.
(Ord. No. 2017-08-10, § 18, 8-7-2017)
Sec. 2-349. - Public participation.
Public participation in meetings of the City Council shall be permitted in accordance with the provisions of this section.
(a)
Public Comments. The floor shall be open for public comments at one point during the meeting. The public comments section will be provided immediately following the approval of the minutes. This public comments period will last a maximum of 30 minutes, and speakers' comments will be limited to two minutes each.
All members of the public wishing to address the City Council shall submit their name and the topic of their comments to the city clerk prior to the start of any meeting held by the City Council. Individuals will be held to established time limits.
(b)
Public Hearings. The City Council may schedule public hearings for the purpose of soliciting public comment on any subject of interest to the City Council. Hearings may be held immediately prior to, during, or following a meeting of the City Council or at such other places and times as the City Council may determine. Hearings may last up to, but not more than ten minutes per side. These limits may be waived by a Majority Vote. No official action shall be taken during any such public hearing. Hearings on zoning decisions shall be governed in accordance with the zoning policies and procedures. If the applicants of rezoning actions or individuals who wish to oppose or support a rezoning action have contributed more than $250.00 to the campaign of a Councilmember, the individual shall file a campaign disclosure form prior to the first hearing by the City Council.
(c)
Decorum. Members of the public shall not make inappropriate or offensive comments at a City Council meeting and are expected to comply with the rules of decorum that are established for Councilmembers. Individuals violating any rules of the City Council may be ruled out of order by the Mayor. An individual violating the rules of decorum may be removed from the meeting at the direction of the Mayor.
(Ord. No. 2017-08-10, § 19, 8-7-2017)
Sec. 2-350. - Meeting summary.
A summary of the subjects acted upon in a meeting and the names of the Councilmembers present at a meeting shall be prepared by the City Clerk and made available to the public for inspection within two business days of the adjournment of the meeting. This summary will be noted as unofficial prior to adoption by the Council of the minutes for the meeting.
(Ord. No. 2017-08-10, § 20, 8-7-2017)
Sec. 2-351. - Minutes.
The clerk of the City Council shall promptly record the minutes for each City Council meeting. The minutes shall specify the names of Councilmembers present at the meeting, a description of each motion or other proposal made at the meeting, the name of the Councilmember who proposed each motion; the name of the Councilmember who seconded each motion, and a record of all votes. In the case of a roll call vote, the name of each Councilmember voting for or against a proposal shall be recorded. It shall be presumed that a Councilmember has voted in the affirmative unless the minutes show otherwise. More detailed information may be included in the minutes at the request of the City Council.
The City Council shall approve the minutes before they may be considered as an official record of the City Council. The minutes shall be open for public inspection once approved as official by the City Council but in no case later than immediately following the next regular meeting of the City Council. A copy of the minutes from the previous meeting shall be distributed to the City Council in the agenda package for the following meeting. The minutes of the previous meeting shall be corrected, if necessary, and approved by the City Council at the beginning of each meeting. A Majority Vote is required for approval. Conflicts regarding the content of the minutes shall be decided by a Majority Vote. Upon being approved, the minutes shall be signed by the Mayor and attested to by the clerk of the City Council.
(Ord. No. 2017-08-10, § 21, 8-7-2017)
Sec. 2-352. - Procedure and deadline.
The Mayor and City Council are authorized to establish detailed procedures and deadlines as necessary to ensure the effective organization of Council proceedings and orderly handling of business to come before the Council, in accordance with the Rules and Procedures adopted by the Mayor and Council.
(Ord. No. 2017-08-10, § 22, 8-7-2017)
Sec. 2-353. - Roberts Rules of Order.
This document shall serve as the rules and procedures of the Mayor and City Council. In the absence of applicable rules and procedures which may from time to time be encountered during the public meetings, Roberts Rules of Order shall be followed.
(Ord. No. 2017-08-10, § 23, 8-7-2017)
Sec. 2-354. - Majority vote.
The term "Majority Vote" shall mean the greater of three affirmative votes or the affirmative vote of a majority of those Councilmembers voting at which a quorum is present. For clarification, the Mayor and each Councilmember when present at a meeting shall have one vote on all matters brought before the Council.
(Ord. No. 2017-08-10, § 24, 8-7-2017)
Sec. 2-355. - Public hearings for zoning decisions—Appearances and testimony.
All persons appearing before the City Council for the purposes of a zoning hearing shall state their name, address and relationship to the case, and shall then state all facts and arguments relevant to the subject matter of the case. All statements shall be taken as though made under oath.
(Ord. No. 2017-08-10, § 25.1, 8-7-2017)
Sec. 2-356. - Public hearings for zoning decisions—Time limit on argument.
Each party shall have ten minutes to present evidence to support their argument for approval or denial of an application. This time is cumulative and applies to the interested party and all other individuals on the same side of the case. The City Council may, at the Mayor' discretion, allow additional time for argument. If a party is granted additional time, the opposing side shall be granted the same amount of additional time.
(Ord. No. 2017-08-10, § 25.2, 8-7-2017)
Sec. 2-357. - Public hearings for zoning decisions—Order of argument.
Each case shall proceed as follows:
a)
A sounding of the summary of the application.
b)
Opening statement and argument by the applicant.
c)
Statements of parties supporting the application.
d)
Statement and argument of parties opposing the application.
e)
The applicant may save part of his time for rebuttal.
(Ord. No. 2017-08-10, § 25.3, 8-7-2017)
Sec. 2-358. - Public hearings for zoning decisions—Evidence.
A.
Admissibility, form. Oral statements and documentary evidence submitted to the City Council shall be received when in a form commonly relied upon by reasonably prudent persons in the conduct of their affairs even if the Rules of Evidence applied in the trial of civil non-jury cases in the Superior Courts of Georgia would preclude consideration in the form tendered. Such Rules of Evidence may be used as guides in considering objections. The receipt or exclusion of evidence shall be ordered by the presiding officer in such a manner that hearings will be expedited without substantial prejudice to the interest of any party. Irrelevant, immaterial or unduly repetitious evidence need not be received. The rules of privilege recognized by the law shall be given effect.
B.
Official notice. Official notice of technical, scientific or community facts within the specialized knowledge of the City Council may be taken.
C.
Record. There shall be an official record maintained by the Clerk, as custodian, for each case. This record shall consist of all oral, documentary, or other evidence of any kind received by the City Council, and shall also be deemed to include:
(1)
The records of any cases previously before the City Council involving the same property and substantially similar or otherwise related issues;
(2)
A certified copy of the Rules of Procedure; and
(3)
A certified copy of chapter 27 of the City of Stonecrest Code of Ordinances.
(Ord. No. 2017-08-10, § 25.4, 8-7-2017)
Secs. 2-359—2-374. - Reserved.
