ARTICLE IV. - PAWNBROKERS AND PAWNSHOPS[2]
Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
State Law reference— Pawnbrokers, O.C.G.A. § 44-121-130 et seq.; municipal regulation of pawnbrokers, O.C.G.A. § 44-121-136.

DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Sec. 18-106. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Employee means:
(1)
Any owner or pawnbroker who, in the performance of his or her duties or the management of the business affairs of a pawnshop, comes into contact with members of the public; or
(2)
Any person working for an owner or pawnbroker; or
(3)
Any person who is employed on a part-time or full-time basis, either with or without remuneration, by a pawnshop.
Pawn or pledge means a bailment of personal property as security for any debt or engagement, redeemable upon certain terms and with the power of sale on default.
Pawnbroker means any person engaged in whole or in part in the business of lending money on the security of pledged goods, or in the business of purchasing tangible personal property on the condition that it may be redeemed or repurchased by the seller for a fixed price within a fixed period of time, or in the business of purchasing tangible personal property from persons or sources other than manufacturers or licensed dealers as part of or in conjunction with the business activities described in this chapter.
Pawnshop means any business wherein a substantial part thereof is to take or receive, by way of pledge, pawn, consignment or exchange, any goods, wares, merchandise, or any kind of personal property whatever, as security for the repayment of money lent thereon.
Pawnshop transaction means to take or receive any article of property from any customer, by pawning, pledging, trading, exchanging, purchasing, or other means.
(Code 1988, § 18-121; Ord. of 4-8-1991, § 1; Ord. of 3-14-2005(2))
Sec. 18-107. - Pawnbroker and employee regulations.
(a)
Permit card. No person shall be employed by a pawnshop in any capacity until such person is found to be in compliance with the qualifications as described in this section and has paid the required fee which shall be established by the city council. Upon complying with the requirements of this chapter, a permit card authorizing such person to be a pawnshop employee will be issued. The permit card and occupation tax certificate will expire annually, on the date established generally for expiration of the occupation tax certificate. All persons having any interest in the proposed business including each owner, employee, manager, and pawnbroker shall while on the pawn shop premises, have in their possession and available for inspection such permit card. It shall be the duty of the pawnbroker to insure compliance with the provisions of this section.
(b)
Qualifications for employees and managers. The following qualifications shall apply to all employees and managers:
(1)
No permit shall be issued until such time as a signed application has been filed with the county police department, chief of police or his designee and a search of the criminal record of the person completed. Such application shall include the applicant's name, fingerprints, social security number, date of birth, and prior arrest record; though an applicant's arrest record shall be used for investigative purposes only and shall not give rise to a presumption or inference of guilt. Applicant must also provide positive identification (only official government issued pictured identification accepted, e.g. driver's license, passport, military card, or state ID card).
(2)
The chief of police or his designee shall conduct a complete and exhaustive search relative to any police record of the applicant.
(3)
In the event the applicant is qualified for employment in a pawnshop under this section and there is no record of a violation of this chapter, the chief of police or his designee shall issue a permit to the applicant, by mail, stating that the person is eligible for employment. If it is found that the person is not qualified for a permit and therefore ineligible for employment in a pawnshop, the chief of police or his designee shall notify the person in writing, that they are not eligible for employment, the cause of such denial and their right to appeal.
(4)
No person who has been convicted or pled guilty or entered a plea of nolo contendere to any crime involving moral turpitude, illegal gambling, or any felonies, or any crime involving theft or fraudulent practices shall be issued a permit for the five years preceding the date of application. For purposes of this chapter, a conviction or plea of guilt or nolo contendere entered under the Georgia First Offender Act, O.C.G.A. § 42-8-60 et seq., shall be ignored. Provided, however, that any such offense shall not be ignored where the defendant violated any term of probation imposed by the court granting first offender status or committed another crime and the sentencing court entered an adjudication of guilt as to the crime for which the defendant had previously been sentenced as a first offender.
(5)
No person shall be issued a permit if it is determined that the person falsified, concealed, or misrepresented any material fact by any device, trick, or scheme while making application to the police department for a pawnshop permit under this section.
(6)
All permits issued through administrative error can be terminated and seized by the city and its agents of the chief of police or his designee or the licensing and revenue manager or his designee.
(7)
Replacement permits will be issued within 30 days of original date, upon paying one-half of the fee charged for pawnshop permits. After 30 days of original application date, a new application and fee must be submitted.
(8)
All permits issued hereunder remain the property of the city, and shall be produced for inspection upon the demand of any officer or designee of the city or any county police department or employee of the licensing and revenue department.
(9)
No pawn shop owner shall allow any employee or manager to work on the premises unless the employee or manager has in their possession a current valid city permit. For new employees, a receipt issued by the county police permit unit may be used for a maximum of 30 days from the date of issue. Pawnshop owners are required by this chapter to inspect and verify that each employee or manager has in their possession a valid current pawnshop permit. Issuance of this fee receipt shall allow the applicant to work in the position applied for only until such time as the required criminal history background investigation is completed. The temporary privilege conferred by issuance of this fee receipt shall expire immediately upon completion of such background investigation. If the background investigation indicates that the applicant does not meet the requirements for issuance of a pawnshop permit, the applicant may appeal the denial of the permit as provided in this chapter. However, issuance of this fee receipt and the temporary privilege granted thereby shall not be construed as conferring any right or privilege to the applicant to continue working in the position for which the permit sought during the pendency of the appeal from the denial of a permit under this chapter.
(10)
It shall be the duty of all persons holding a pawnshop occupation tax certificate issued by the city to file with the chief of police or his designee, the name of the establishment, the occupation tax certificate number and a list of all employees, including their date of birth, social security number, home address and home telephone numbers twice annually; during the month of June and again during the month of December.
(11)
If it is determined that any person issued a pawn shop permit has falsified, concealed, or misrepresented any material fact by any device, trick, or scheme in the application for the pawn shop permit, such permit shall be revoked or canceled.
(12)
City or county employees who are directly involved in the issuance of pawnshop permits or in the regulation of pawnshops shall not be eligible for a permit.
Sec. 18-108. - Pawnbrokers and employees, restrictions as to character; hearing.
(a)
A permit may be denied, suspended or revoked by the chief of police or his designee where the pawnbroker or employee furnishes fraudulent or untruthful information in the application for a permit or fails to meet all qualifications set forth under the provisions of this chapter.
(b)
No permit shall be denied, suspended or revoked without the opportunity for a hearing as hereinafter provided.
(1)
The city clerk or the chief of police or his designee shall provide written notice to the applicant of his order to deny, suspend or revoke the permit. Such written notification shall set forth in reasonable detail the reasons for such action and shall notify the applicant of the right to appeal under the provisions of this chapter. Any applicant who is aggrieved or adversely affected by a final action of the chief of police may have a review thereof by appeal to the city council. Such appeal shall be by written petition, filed in the city clerk's office within 15 days after the final order or action of the city or the chief of police and in order to defray administrative costs, must be accompanied by a filing fee of $100.00. The city clerk, at his discretion, may waive or reduce the filing fee amount if it is determined the fee would create a hardship on the individual filing such appeal. The city council may, at the request of the appellant, refund the filing fee by a majority vote.
(2)
A hearing shall be conducted on each appeal within 30 days of the date of filing with the city clerk unless a continuance of such date is agreed to by the appellant and the licensing and revenue manager. The appellant at such hearing shall have the right to be represented by an attorney, at the expense of the appellant, and to present evidence and cross-examine witnesses. Should the appellant desire an official transcript of the appeal proceedings, then such request must be made at least three days prior to such hearing. The appellant shall have the burden of proof on any such appeal. Before hearing an appeal, each member of the city council shall sign an affidavit to be part of the record that he or she is not related to or personal friends with any owner of the establishment in question in the appeal being considered and that he or she has no financial interest in the outcome of the appeal. Should any member be unable to sign such an affidavit, that member shall not serve on that appeal and the case shall be heard by the remaining eligible members of the city council.
(3)
The findings of the city council shall be forwarded to the city clerk within five days after the conclusion of the hearing if no decision is made at the time of the hearing, and it shall be the duty of the city clerk to notify the appellant of the action in writing of the city council.
(4)
The findings during the hearing of the appeal of the city council shall not be set aside unless found to be:
a.
Contrary to law or ordinances;
b.
Unsupported by substantial evidence on the records as a whole; or
c.
Unreasonable.
(5)
The findings of the city council shall be final unless appealed within 30 days of the date of such finding by certiorari to the superior court of the county.
Sec. 18-109. - Records and information to be maintained; display of pawnshop transaction number; identification; digital photographs; fingerprints; records storage; presentation upon request.
As set forth herein, all pawnbrokers shall maintain records documenting all pawnshop transactions.
(1)
Information to be maintained; transaction number. In addition to any other information required by the city or the chief of police, all pawnbrokers shall maintain records documenting accurate descriptions of all property pledged, traded, pawned, exchanged, or sold to the pawnbroker. Such description shall include, to the extent possible, the manufacturer, model, serial number, style, material, kind, color, design, number of stones if jewelry, and all other identifying names, marks, and numbers. The pawnbroker shall assign a pawnshop transaction number documenting each transaction, and ensure each item received is tagged with the pawnshop transaction number.
(2)
Tag. The tag bearing the pawnshop transaction number must remain attached to the item until the property is disposed of by sale, trade, or other lawful means. This subsection does not apply to the purchase of property from licensed wholesale or distributor businesses for the purpose of retail sales; however the pawnbroker shall be required to maintain all purchasing records for property exempted from this paragraph.
(3)
Identification. The pawnbroker shall require all persons pledging, trading, pawning, exchanging, or selling property to show proper identification prior to conducting a pawnshop transaction. Proper identification is defined as a government issued photo identification card such as a driver's license, military identification card, state identification card, or passport.
(4)
Documentation of identity and time of transaction. The pawnbroker shall also document the name, address, telephone number, race, sex, height, weight, drivers license number, date of birth, and social security number of the person pledging, trading, pawning, exchanging, or selling the property, along with the date and time of transaction. This documentation shall be made at the time of the transaction.
(5)
Digital photographs. The pawnbroker shall photograph with a digital camera the person pledging, trading, pawning, exchanging, or selling the property, with the photograph clearly showing the pawnbroker's ticket and/or transaction number. Digital images shall be labeled and stored in such a manner that they are safe from corruption, readily identifiable, and readily available for review.
(6)
Fingerprints. The pawnbroker shall obtain from each person pledging, trading, pawning, exchanging, or selling any property, the fingerprint of the right hand index finger, unless such finger is missing, in which event the print of the next finger in existence on the right hand shall be obtained with a notation as to the exact finger printed. The fingerprint shall be imprinted onto the pawn transaction form in the designated area along with the signature of the person pawning, trading, pledging, exchanging, or selling the property. In the event that more than one pawn transaction form is required, a fingerprint and signature should be obtained for each form. Fingerprints and the information required herein shall be obtained each time such person pledges, trades, pawns, exchanges, or sells any property. The fingerprint taken in accordance with this provision must be clear and legible.
(7)
New or unused items. Items of property that appear to be new, unused, and in their original packaging cannot be accepted by the pawnbroker unless the customer can supply a copy of the original sales receipt, or other proof of purchase from the place of purchase, to the pawnbroker who shall retain the receipt or proof of purchase on file.
(8)
Record storage; presentation upon request. The pawnbroker shall store the above records, digital images, and fingerprints for a period of four years and make them available to a city official or any law enforcement personnel upon request.
(Ord. of 3-14-2005(2))
State Law reference— Required records, O.C.G.A. § 44-12-131.
Sec. 18-110. - False entries or statements.
It shall be a violation of this article for any person engaged in the business of a pawnbroker, or his clerk, agent, or employee, or any person hearing or wishing to leave, any articles for pawn or pledge, to make any false entry or cause any false entry to be made on any records required by this article.
(Code 1988, § 18-129; Ord. of 4-8-1991, § 9)
Sec. 18-111. - Hours of operation.
The hours during which pawnbrokers may conduct business shall be no earlier than 7:00 a.m. to no later than 9:00 p.m. Monday through Saturday.
(Code 1988, § 18-130; Ord. of 4-8-1991, § 10)
Sec. 18-112. - Property not to be disposed of for 30 days after acquisition; location of property; police holds.
(a)
All property received through any pawnshop transaction shall be held for at least 30 days before disposing of same by sale, transfer, shipment, or otherwise, except when property is redeemed as per a pawn transaction contract.
(b)
All property pledged, traded, pawned, exchanged, or purchased shall be held and maintained by the pawnbroker on the premises of the pawnshop or, if impracticable, at such other location as may have been previously approved in writing by the chief of police or his designee. The chief of police shall not approve any off-premises storage facilities located outside the county.
(c)
The police department has the authority to place property that is the subject of police investigation on "Police Hold." In that event, the county police department shall notify the pawnbroker of the need for a Police Hold and identify all property subject to the Police Hold. Upon notification, it shall be the responsibility of the pawnbroker to maintain the subject property until such time as the property is released from Police Hold status or the property is confiscated as evidence.
State Law reference— Duration of pawn transactions, O.C.G.A. § 44-12-131.
Sec. 18-113. - Dealing with minors.
It shall be unlawful for any pawnbroker, his agent or employees, to receive in pawn, from minors, goods of any character or description. A minor, for the purpose of this article, is an individual 17 years of age or under.
(Code 1988, § 18-132; Ord. of 4-8-1991, § 12)
Sec. 18-114. - Penalties for violation of article; suspension or revocation of license.
Any person who violates any provision of this article may, upon conviction, be punished by a fine not to exceed $500.00 or imprisonment in the county jail for a period not to exceed 30 days or by both such fine and imprisonment. Further, any person failing to comply with any provisions of this article or other such laws, ordinances, and regulations as may be passed by the council for the conduct of the business of a pawnbroker, shall have his business license revoked. Such revocation shall result from conviction in any court for a violation of any provision of this article or any other court for a violation of any provision of this article or any other ordinance or regulation covering the conduct of the business for which a permit and license shall have been issued.
(Code 1988, § 18-133; Ord. of 4-8-1991, § 13)
Sec. 18-115. - Enforcement responsibility.
The county police department shall have the responsibility for the enforcement of this article. Sworn officers of the county police department and civilian employees designated by the chief of police shall have the authority to inspect establishments licensed under this article during the hours in which the premises are open for business. These inspections shall be made for the purpose of verifying compliance with the requirements of this article and state law. This section is not intended to limit the authority of any other county officer to conduct inspections authorized by other provisions of the city code.
Secs. 18-116—18-140. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - ANNUAL PERMIT

Sec. 18-141. - Required.
All persons before beginning the business of operating a pawnshop or similar place where money is advanced on goods or other effects, or merchandise of any kind is taken in pawn, shall first file an application with the city clerk for an annual permit to conduct such business.
(Code 1988, § 18-122)
Sec. 18-142. - Background investigation; fee.
The issuance of such permit will be based on a criminal history background investigation of the applicant. The cost of the permit/criminal history background investigation shall be $100.00. This fee is imposed to cover investigative expenses and/or administrative costs associated with issuing an initial permit for all owners. In the event an owner has more than one pawnshop, then each location will be assessed the above fee. This fee is nonrefundable in the event an applicant, for any reason, is not issued a permit and/or an occupational tax certificate.
(Code 1988, § 18-122)
Sec. 18-143. - Renewal.
Owners are required to renew the permit upon expiration thereof and shall be required to pay a renewal fee established by the city council.
(Code 1988, § 18-122)
Sec. 18-144. - Application.
(a)
Contents. The application for the annual permit required by section 18-143 shall state the street number and address at which the business is proposed to be operated. The application shall contain the full name, address, phone number, date of birth, photograph, and social security number of all persons, including pawnbrokers and employees, having any interest in the proposed business, plus any additional information, including fingerprints, deemed necessary by the licensing and revenue manager and/or the county police department.
(b)
Annual updated application. It will be the responsibility of the owner or pawnbroker to provide an annual updated permit application in all employees in order to obtain a renewal permit. The cost of the renewal permit shall be $10.00 to cover any new administrative or investigative expenses. Renewal application shall be filed on or before January tenth of each calendar year.
(Code 1988, § 18-123)
Sec. 18-145. - Prerequisite to issuance of business license.
No business license shall be issued to any person until the annual permit required by section 18-143 shall have been approved by the county police department and issued by the city manager.
(Code 1988, § 18-124; Ord. of 4-8-1991, § 4)
Sec. 18-146. - Daily report to police.
(a)
Required. Every pawnbroker shall make a daily report to the county police department, in such form as may be prescribed by the chief of police or his designee, of all pawnshop transactions that occurred during the 24 hours ending at 9:00 p.m. on the date of the report. Such daily reports shall be computer generated in a software format that is compatible with software utilized by the Gwinnett County Police Department, or in other such written format as permitted by the chief of police. The reporting software may be obtained from the Gwinnett County Police Department.
(b)
Contents. In addition to any other information required by the chief of police, the reports shall show; the name and address of the pawnbroker; date and time of transaction; serial number of pawn tickets; amount paid or advanced; full description of the articles/property including kind, style, manufacturer, serial number, material, color, design, as well as the number of stones in jewelry and whether the jewelry is commonly worn by a male or female, and all identifying names, marks, and numbers; and a description of the person selling or pawning, including name, address, date of birth, driver's license number, social security number, race, sex, weight, and height.
(c)
Insufficient reports. Insufficient reports shall be rejected, and any pawnbroker making them shall be deemed guilty of being in violation of this section.
(Code 1988, § 18-128(a); Ord. of 4-8-1991, § 8; Ord. of 3-14-2005(2))
Secs. 18-147—18-170. - Reserved.
