Chapter 46 - OFFENSES AND MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Editor's note— By resolution dated October 2, 1989, the board of commissioners adopted a plan for the representation of indigent defendants in criminal cases pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 17-12-30 et seq. An official copy of the indigent defense plan is on file in the office of the county clerk.
State Law reference— Violation of county ordinances, O.C.G.A. § 15-10-60 et seq.; Criminal Code of Georgia, O.C.G.A. § 16-1-1 et seq.; limitation on home rule powers of municipal corporations with respect to duplication of state criminal offenses, O.C.G.A. § 36-35-6(a)(2).

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Secs. 46-1—46-30. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - REEVES LANDING REGULATIONS

Sec. 46-31. - Alcoholic beverages.
(a)
It shall be unlawful for any person to have or possess any open container that contains alcoholic beverages while in the perimeter of Reeves Landing.
(b)
It shall be unlawful for any person to consume alcoholic beverages while in the Reeves Landing perimeter.
(c)
It shall be unlawful for any person to be under the influence of alcoholic beverages while at Reeves Landing.
(Ord. of 9-11-90, § 1)
Cross reference— Alcoholic beverages generally, ch. 6.
Sec. 46-32. - Purpose of Reeves Landing.
(a)
The recreational purpose of Reeves Landing is for the citizens of the county to have a location for the purpose of launching boats, temporarily parking vehicles and boat trailers, fishing, and for any other purpose that is naturally and customarily related directly to those activities, and for no other purpose.
(b)
It is unlawful for any person to be and remain at Reeves Landing other than for the purpose stated in subsection (a) of this section.
(Ord. of 9-11-90, § 2)
Sec. 46-33. - Signs.
(a)
Signs shall be erected at the perimeter of Reeves Landing to advise the public of no alcoholic beverages at Reeves Landing.
(b)
A sign shall be erected advising the public that the Reeves Landing area is to be used only for fishing, launching of boats, and temporarily parking of vehicles and boat trailers.
(c)
A sign shall be erected along the river warning the public of the danger of swimming in the river off Reeves Landing.
(Ord. of 9-11-90, § 3)
Sec. 46-34. - Violation, penalty.
Each violation of this article may be punished as provided in section 1-11.
(Ord. of 9-11-90, § 4)
Secs. 46-35—46-65. - Reserved.
ARTICLE III. - DISORDERLY CONDUCT[2]

Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
State Law reference— Discharge of firearm near public highway or street, O.C.G.A. § 16-11-103; discharge of firearm on property of another, O.C.G.A. § 16-11-104; discharge of firearm on Sunday, O.C.G.A. § 16-11-105; loitering or prowling, O.C.G.A. § 16-11-36; ordinances proscribing loitering or related activities not preempted, O.C.G.A. § 16-6-24; parking, standing or driving vehicle in private parking areas after request not to do so, O.C.G.A. § 40-6-252.

Sec. 46-66. - Prohibited acts.
It shall be unlawful for any person or persons within the unincorporated areas of the county to engage in any conduct described in the following subsections:
(1)
To act in a violent or tumultuous manner toward another whereby any person is placed in fear of the safety of his life, limb, or health;
(2)
To act in a violent or tumultuous manner toward another whereby any the property of any person is placed in danger of being damaged or destroyed;
(3)
To cause, provoke or engage in any fight, brawl or riotous conduct so as to endanger the life, limb, health or property of another;
(4)
To assemble or congregate with another or others for the purpose of or with the intent to engage in illegal gaming;
(5)
To be in or about any place, alone with another or others with the purpose of intent to engage in any fraudulent scheme, trick or device to obtain in money or valuable thing; or to aid or abet any person or persons in doing so;
(6)
To be in or about any place, where gaming or the illegal sale or possession of alcoholic beverages or narcotics or dangerous drugs is practiced, allowed or tolerated, for the purpose of or intent to engage in illegal gaming or the purchase, use, possession or consumption of said illegal drugs, narcotics or alcoholic beverages;
(7)
To direct "fighting words" toward another, that is, words which by their very nature tend to incite a breach of the peace;
(8)
To interfere, by acts or physical obstruction, with another's pursuit of a lawful occupation;
(9)
To interfere in any manner, by acts or physical obstruction or otherwise, with a county officer, county employee or county law enforcement officer in the pursuit their duties or to disregard any lawful command or instruction by a county law enforcement officer or other officer in carrying out their duties;
(10)
To congregate with another or others in or on any public way so as to halt the flow of vehicular or pedestrian traffic, and to fail to clear that public way after being ordered to do so by a city police officer or other lawful authority;
(11)
To disrupt, by actions which tend to incite a breach of peace, the activities of any house of worship, hospital, home for the elderly or any lawful meeting, public or private gathering, or procession;
(12)
To disrupt, by actions which tend to incite a breach of peace, the activities of any county meeting, including, but not limited to board of commissioners meetings, county tax assessor meetings, planning and zoning meetings, public health department meetings, board of elections and voter registration meetings, Sumter County Parks and Recreation meetings, any court or tribunal, or any other county meeting, whether held on county property or not; or
(13)
To throw bottles, paper, cans, glass, sticks, stones, missiles, or any other debris on public property.
(Ord. No. 1990-3, § 1, 2-13-90; Ord. of 3-17-09)
Sec. 46-67. - Violation, penalty.
Upon finding of guilt for the violation of this section, the offender shall be subject to imprisonment for a term not to exceeding six months or by fine not exceeding $1,000.00, or both.
(Ord. No. 1990-3, § 2, 2-13-90; Ord. of 3-17-09)
Secs. 46-68—46-100. - Reserved.
ARTICLE IV. - PARADES, PROCESSIONS, OTHER ASSEMBLIES[3]
Footnotes:
--- (3) ---
Cross reference— Roads and bridges, ch. 50.
State Law reference— Preventing or disrupting lawful procession, O.C.G.A. § 16-11-34; authority to regulate or prohibit processions or assemblages on the highways, O.C.G.A. § 40-6-371(a)(3); funeral processions, O.C.G.A. § 40-6-76; operation of motorcycles and motor vehicles in parades, O.C.G.A. § 40-6-7.

DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Sec. 46-101. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Business day means Monday through Friday.
County courthouse means all that property in the City of Americus that is owned by the board of commissioners of the county, and upon which is situated the county courthouse and offices, jail, juvenile court building and offices, and other buildings used for county and public functions.
Manager means the person sponsoring or promoting the proposed parade, procession or assembly.
Parade means a procession or assembly of three or more persons whose use of the public streets, roads or rights-of-way of the county will impede, interfere with or cause a safety hazard to the normal use of the road, street or highway.
Permit means written authorization to a manager by the county administrator of the county to operate a parade, procession or assembly.
Unlawful assembly means an assembly of three or more persons who, having a common unlawful purpose assemble in such manner as to give rational, firm and courageous persons in the neighborhood of the assembly a well-grounded fear of a breach of the peace.
(Ord. of 10-12-93, § 4; Ord. of 11-13-18(3), § 1)
Cross reference— Definitions generally, § 1-2.
Sec. 46-102. - Violations, penalties.
Any person violating this article shall upon conviction be punished as provided in section 1-11.
(Ord. of 10-12-93, § 15)
Sec. 46-103. - Regulations regarding parades.
(a)
For the purpose of controlling traffic and pedestrian congestion, and of providing for the public health, safety and general welfare, the regulations given in subsections (b)—(l) of this section shall pertain to all parades conducted within the county.
(b)
All parade participants shall assemble for the parade at one location to be designated by the county administrator of the county.
(c)
No parade participant shall carry arms or other weapons, or bricks, bats, sticks, rocks, bottles, or other items that may be used as weapons.
(d)
The materials used in the construction of floats in the parade shall be of fire-retardant materials and shall be subject to such requirements concerning fire safety as may be determined by the fire marshal.
(e)
Once commenced, the parade shall not stop along the parade route but shall continue to move at a fixed rate of speed; and any willful delay or willful stopping of the parade, except when reasonably required for the safe and orderly conduct of the parade, shall constitute a violation of the permit.
(f)
The parade shall strictly follow the route designated in the permit application as submitted to the county.
(g)
Literature, publications, leaflets or other written materials shall not be distributed along the parade route.
(h)
Speeches shall be allowed only at the conclusion of the parade and at a location designated by the county administrator of the county.
(i)
Speeches, rallies or other activities to be conducted at the conclusion of the parade shall be limited to a total of 60 minutes, after which the parade participants shall disburse.
(j)
In no event shall speeches, rallies, or other activities be conducted in the public streets or along the sidewalks of the county.
(k)
The manager shall advise all participants in the parade, either orally or by written notice, of the terms and conditions of the permit, prior to the commencement of the parade, and shall sign and acknowledge that the manager has read, understands, and will comply with the regulations specified in this article and the conditions of the permit, and has advised all participants as so required in this subsection.
(l)
Any other reasonable regulation or restriction deemed necessary by the county administrator of the county for the protection and safety of the parade participants, viewing public, or for the public health, safety and general welfare of the citizens of the county, may be imposed by the county administrator of the county. However, such additional regulations or restrictions shall be specified in writing to the applicant with all reasons therefor clearly enumerated.
(Ord. of 10-12-93, § 4(C); Ord. of 11-13-18(3), § 1)
Sec. 46-104. - Exceptions.
This article shall not apply to:
(1)
Any assembly which is to be held in any regularly established permanent place of worship, athletic field, auditorium, coliseum.
(2)
Religious gatherings that are held for no more than seven days.
(3)
Funeral processions.
(4)
A governmental agency acting within the scope of its functions.
(5)
Parades, assemblies or processions that the board of commissioners deems it appropriate to exempt.
(Ord. of 10-12-93, § 5)
Sec. 46-105. - Public conduct during parades, processions or assemblies.
(a)
Interference. No person shall unreasonably hamper, obstruct or impede, or interfere with any parade, procession or assembly, or with any person, vehicle or animal participating or used in such parade, procession or assembly.
(b)
Driving through parades. No driver of a motor vehicle, bicycle, skateboard or scooter shall drive between the vehicles or persons comprising a parade when such vehicles or persons are in motion and are conspicuously designated as a parade.
(c)
Parking on parade route. The sheriff shall have the authority, when reasonably necessary, to prohibit or restrict the parking of vehicles along a highway or part thereof constituting a part of the route of a parade. The sheriff shall post signs to such affect, and it shall be unlawful for any person to park or leave unattended any vehicle in violation thereof. No person shall be liable for parking on a street unposted in violation of this article.
(Ord. of 10-12-93, § 10)
Secs. 46-106—46-125. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - PERMIT

Sec. 46-126. - Required.
No person shall hold, promote, engage in, participate in, aid, form or start, by advertising or otherwise, a parade, procession or assembly unless a permit has been issued for the parade, procession or assembly. Such permit shall be issued by the county administrator of the county; shall be in writing; shall specify the conditions under which issued; and shall remain in effect until suspended or revoked or until the parade, procession or assembly is terminated. The permit shall not be transferable or assignable; and a separate permit shall be required for each parade, procession or assembly.
(Ord. of 10-12-93, § 2; Ord. of 11-13-18(3), § 1)
Sec. 46-127. - Application.
Application for a permit to promote or hold a parade, procession, or assembly shall be made to the county administrator of the county, or a designee designated by the county administrator of the county for that purpose, on a form and in a manner prescribed by the board of commissioners by the person who will promote or hold the parade, procession or assembly. Application for a permit to promote or hold a parade, procession or assembly shall be made at least seven days before the first day of the parade, procession or assembly. Water and sewage facilities shall be provided and operational, if required, not later than 48 hours before the first day of the parade, procession or assembly. The application shall be accompanied by such plans, reports and specifications as the board of commissioners shall deem necessary. The plans, reports and specifications shall provide for adequate and satisfactory water and sewage facilities, adequate drainage, adequate toilet and lavatory facilities, adequate refuse storage and disposal facilities, adequate sleeping areas and facilities, wholesome food and sanitary food service, adequate medical facilities, insect control, adequate fire protection, and such other matters as may be appropriate for security of life and health. The application shall disclose the names and addresses of all persons providing financial backing to the parade, procession or assembly and the amounts of such backing.
(Ord. of 10-12-93, § 3; Ord. of 11-13-18(3), § 1)
Sec. 46-128. - Additional requirements.
(a)
In regard to an assembly, the applicant must provide:
(1)
A plan for limiting attendance, including methods of entering the area, number and location of ticket booths and entrances and provision for keeping persons not holding a ticket out of the area;
(2)
A statement verifying that all construction and installation of facilities, including water supply, sewage disposal, insect control, food service equipment, and garbage handling facilities will be completed at least 48 hours prior to the commencement of the event;
(3)
A detailed plan for food service, including a description of food sources, menu, mandatory use of single-service dishes and utensils, refrigeration, and food handling and dispensing;
(4)
A detailed plan for use of signs to locate all facilities and roadways;
(5)
A statement from the local fire and sheriff's offices having jurisdiction over the area acknowledging that they can oversee and approve of adequate security, traffic control, and law enforcement for the proposed gathering;
(6)
A detailed plan for emergency situations covering:
a.
Food supplies;
b.
Medical supplies, facilities and personnel;
c.
An evacuation plan; and
d.
Emergency access roads.
(b)
As applies to parades, processions and assembly, prior to the issuance of the permit, the applicant must:
(1)
Advise of the proposed date or dates of the event and the number of hours the event is likely to continue;
(2)
Provide the specific location of the event or the route of the procession or parade.
(3)
State the purpose and intent of the event.
(4)
Submit a detailed plan to provide for adequate security, which security can provide for traffic management (foot and motorized), crowd control that will provide for the peaceful and orderly function of the event.
(c)
If the event is a procession or parade and will include motor vehicles, the likely number of motor vehicles and the types of vehicles must be provided.
(d)
The board of commissioners may require such information on such documents and applications as they may deem necessary.
(Ord. of 10-12-93, § 4(A), (B), (D), (E))
Sec. 46-129. - Notice of rejection.
The county administrator of the county shall act upon the application for a permit within five days after the filing thereof. If the county administrator disapproves the application, he shall mail to the applicant within seven days after the date upon which the application was filed a notice of the action upon the application, stating the reasons for denial of the permit.
(Ord. of 10-12-93, § 6; Ord. of 11-13-18(3), § 1)
Sec. 46-130. - Appeal procedure.
Any person aggrieved shall have the right to appeal the denial of a permit to the board of commissioners. The appeal shall be taken within three days after notice. The board of commissioners shall act upon the appeal within ten days after its receipt.
(Ord. of 10-12-93, § 7)
Sec. 46-131. - Alternative permit.
The county administrator of the county, in denying an application for a parade permit, shall be empowered to authorize the conduct of the parade on a date, at a time, or over a route different from that named by the applicant. An applicant desiring to accept an alternate permit shall, within three days after notice of the action of the county administrator of the county, file a written notice of acceptance with the county administrator. An alternate parade permit shall conform to the requirements of and shall have the effect of a parade permit under this article.
(Ord. of 10-12-93, § 8; Ord. of 11-13-18(3), § 1)
Sec. 46-132. - Duties of manager.
A manager shall comply with all permit directions and conditions and with all applicable laws and ordinances. The manager shall carry the permit upon his person during the conduct of the parade, procession or assembly.
(Ord. of 10-12-93, § 9)
Sec. 46-133. - Revocation.
Any permit for a parade issued pursuant to this article may be summarily revoked on the day of the parade by the county administrator of the county when by reason of disaster, public calamity, riot, or other emergency, the county administrator determines that the safety of the public or property requires such revocation. If a permit is so revoked, the applicant shall be allowed to reapply for a new parade permit.
(Ord. of 10-12-93, § 11; Ord. of 11-13-18(3), § 1)
Sec. 46-134. - Bond requirement.
The county administrator of the county, after examining the application for the permit, and after consulting with the sheriff, officials with the health department, fire marshal and other officials deemed appropriate or necessary by the county administrator, may require, as a condition precedent to the issuance of the permit, that the applicant post a bond in an amount deemed sufficient by the county administrator and conditioned on the payment by the applicant of additional cost incurred by the county for traffic and pedestrian control, cleanup after the event or parade, special first aid or medical resources, security, temporary toilet facilities, and other similar special and extraordinary expenses occasioned by the applied for activity.
(Ord. of 10-12-93, § 12; Ord. of 11-13-18(3), § 1)
Secs. 46-135—46-155. - Reserved.
DIVISION 3. - UNLAWFUL ASSEMBLY

Sec. 46-156. - Prohibited.
(a)
No person shall engage in, participate in, aid, form or start any unlawful assembly.
(b)
No person who is a part of a lawful parade, procession or assembly shall conduct himself in any unlawful acts, or commit any acts of intimidation or disorder as are likely to produce danger to the tranquility and peace of the assembly, parade or procession, or to the neighborhood, offices and public, and have a material tendency to inspire rational, firm and courageous persons with well-grounded fear of serious breaches of public peace.
(c)
No person who is a part of a lawful assembly shall perform any lawful act in a boisterous, violent or tumultuous manner.
(Ord. of 10-12-93, § 13)
Sec. 46-157. - Conduct on courthouse grounds.
(a)
No person shall recklessly or knowingly commit any act that may reasonably be expected to prevent or disrupt the function of any office or court proceeding occurring at the county courthouse.
(b)
It shall be unlawful for any person other than a law enforcement officer or officer of the court to enter, occupy or remain within the courthouse property or grounds while in the possession of any firearm, knife designed for the purpose of offense and defense, explosive or incendiary device or compound, bludgeon, metal knuckles, or any other dangerous or deadly weapon, instrument or device.
(c)
No person shall purposely, or recklessly and without authority of law, obstruct any street, sidewalk, hallway, office or other passageway of the courthouse property in such manner as to render it impassable without unreasonable inconvenience or hazard, or fail or refuse to remove such obstruction after receiving a reasonable or official request, or the order of a law enforcement officer to do so.
(d)
No person shall willfully and knowingly enter or remain in any room, chamber, office or hallway within the courthouse property with intent to disrupt the orderly conduct of official business, or to utter loud, threatening or abusive language, or engage in any disorderly or destructive conduct on such courthouse property.
(e)
No person shall parade, demonstrate or picket on the courthouse property with intent to disrupt the orderly conduct of official business or to utter loud, threatening or abusive language or engage in any disorderly or disruptive conduct on such courthouse property.
(Ord. of 10-12-93, § 14)
