Chapter 1 - GENERAL PROVISIONS

Sec. 1-1. - Designation and citation of Code.
The ordinances, resolutions and other enactments embraced in the following chapters and sections shall constitute and be designated as the "Code of Ordinances, Sumter County, Georgia," and may be so cited.
Sec. 1-2. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this Code, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Board of commissioners, board, commissioners, commission, county commission, governing authority, governing body. Each such term shall mean the Board of Commissioners of Sumter County, Georgia.
Chairman, other officers and officials. Whenever the word "chairman" is used it shall mean the chairman of the Board of Commissioners of Sumter County. Whenever titles of various officers or officials are used, they shall refer to the persons holding such positions with Sumter County.
Code. The word "Code" shall mean "Code of Ordinances, Sumter County, Georgia," as designated in section 1-1.
Computation of time. Except as otherwise provided by time period computations specifically applying to other laws, when a period of time measured in days, weeks, months, years or other measurements of time except hours is prescribed for the exercise of any privilege or the discharge of any duty, the first day shall not be counted but the last day shall be counted; and if the last day falls on Saturday or Sunday, the party having such privilege or duty shall have through the following Monday to exercise the privilege or to discharge the duty. When the last day prescribed for such action falls on a public and legal holiday as set forth in O.C.G.A. § 1-4-1, the party having the privilege or duty shall have through the next business day to exercise the privilege or to discharge the duty. When the period of time prescribed is less than seven days, intermediate Saturdays, Sundays and legal holidays shall be excluded in the computation.
County. The words "the county" or "this county" shall mean Sumter County, Georgia.
County administrator. The term "county administrator" means the County Administrator of Sumter County, Georgia.
Day. The word "day" means a calendar day of 24 hours.
Delegation of authority. Whenever a provision appears requiring the head of a department of the county to do some act or make certain inspections it is to be construed to authorize the head of the department to designate, delegate and authorize subordinates to perform the required act or make the required inspection unless the terms of the provision or section designate otherwise.
Gender. A word importing the masculine gender only shall extend and be applied to females and to firms, partnerships and corporations as well as to males or any other legal entity when applicable under federal or state law.
Joint authority. All words giving a joint authority to three or more persons or officers shall be construed as giving such authority to a majority of such persons or officers.
Keeper and proprietor. The words "keeper" and "proprietor" shall mean and include persons, firms, associations, corporations, receivers, trustees, personal representatives, clubs and partnerships, whether acting by themselves or through a servant, agent or employee.
Month. The word "month" shall mean a calendar month.
Nontechnical and technical words. Words and phrases shall be construed according to the common and approved usage of the language, but technical words and phrases and such others as may have acquired a peculiar and appropriate meaning in law shall be construed and understood according to such meaning.
Number. A word importing the singular number only may extend and be applied to several persons and things as well as to one person and thing.
Oath. The word "oath" shall be construed to include an affirmation in all cases in which, by law, an affirmation may be substituted for an oath; and in such cases the words "swear" and "sworn" shall be equivalent to the words "affirm" and "affirmed."
O.C.G.A. The abbreviation "O.C.G.A." means the Official Code of Georgia Annotated.
Or, and. "Or" may be read "and," and "and" may be read "or" if the sense requires it.
Owner. The word "owner," applied to a building or land, shall include any part owner, joint owner, tenant in common or tenant in partnership, of the whole or of a part of such building or land.
Person. The word "person" shall extend and be applied to associations, clubs, societies, firms, partnerships and bodies politic and corporate as well as to individuals.
Personal property. The term "personal property" shall include every species of property except real property, as described in this section.
Preceding, following. The words "preceding" and "following" shall mean next before and next after, respectively.
Premises. Whenever the word "premises" is used, it shall mean place or places.
Property. The word "property" shall include real and personal property.
Public place. The term "public place" shall mean any park, cemetery, schoolyard or open space adjacent thereto, or any area available and/or accessible to the public, regardless of whether privately or publicly owned.
Real property. The term "real property" shall include lands, tenements and hereditaments.
Residence. The word "residence" shall be construed to mean the place adopted by a person as his place of habitation, and to which, whenever he is absent, he has the intention of returning. When a person eats at one place and sleeps at another, the place where such person sleeps shall be deemed his residence.
Schedule of fees and charges. The term "schedule of fees and charges" shall mean the official consolidated list maintained in the clerk of the commissioners' office which lists rates for utility or other public enterprises, fees of any nature, deposit amounts and various charges as determined from time to time by the board of commissioners.
Seal. The word "seal" shall mean the county seal.
Shall, may. The word "shall" is mandatory; the word "may" is permissive.
Sheriff. The word "sheriff " shall mean the Sheriff of Sumter County, Georgia.
Sidewalk. The word "sidewalk" shall mean any portion of a street between the curbline and the adjacent property line, intended for the use of pedestrians, excluding parkways.
Signature or subscription. The word "signature" or "subscription" of a person shall include a mark when the person cannot write.
State. The words "state" or "the state" shall mean the State of Georgia.
Street. The word "street" shall be construed to embrace streets, avenues, boulevards, roads, alleys, lanes, viaducts and all other public highways in the county.
Tenant, occupant. The word "tenant" or "occupant," applied to a building or land, shall include any person holding a written or oral lease or who occupies the whole or a part of such building or land, either alone or with others.
Tense. Words used in the past or present tense include the future as well as the past and present.
Week. The word "week" shall be construed to mean a calendar week of seven days.
Written or in writing. The term "written" or "in writing" shall be construed to include any representation of words, letters or figures, whether by printing or otherwise.
Year. The word "year" shall mean a calendar year.
(Ord. of 11-13-18(3), § 1)
State Law reference— Computation of time, O.C.G.A. § 1-3-1; statutory definitions and rules of construction, O.C.G.A. § 1-3-1 et seq.; construction of definitions, O.C.G.A. § 1-3-2; meaning of certain words, O.C.G.A. § 1-3-3; time, O.C.G.A. § 9-11-6.
Sec. 1-3. - Catchlines of sections; editor's notes, history notes and references.
The catchlines of sections in this Code printed in boldface type are intended as mere catchwords to indicate the contents of the section, and shall not be deemed or taken to be titles of such sections, nor as any part of the section; nor, unless expressly so provided, shall they be so deemed when any of such sections, including the catchlines, are amended or reenacted. The history notes appearing in parentheses after each section and the references and editor's notes scattered throughout the Code are for the benefit of the user of the Code and shall have no legal effect.
State Law reference— Notes and catchlines of code sections not part of law, O.C.G.A. § 1-1-7.
Sec. 1-4. - Amendments to Code.
(a)
All ordinances passed subsequent to this Code that amend, repeal or in any way affect this Code may be numbered in accordance with the numbering system of this Code and printed for inclusion herein. In the case of repealed chapters, sections and subsections or any part thereof, by subsequent ordinances, such repealed portions may be excluded from the Code by omission from reprinted pages affected thereby. The subsequent ordinances as numbered and printed or omitted, in the case of repeal, shall be prima facie evidence of such subsequent ordinances until such time that this Code and subsequent ordinances numbered or omitted are readopted as a new code by the board of commissioners.
(b)
The style of all ordinances shall be: "Be it ordained by the Board of Commissioners of Sumter County, as follows:"
(c)
Amendments to any of the provisions of this Code may be made by amending such provisions by specific reference to the section number of this Code in the following language: "That section _____ of the Code of Ordinances, Sumter County, Georgia, is hereby amended to read as follows:…." The new provisions shall then be set out in full as desired.
(d)
If a new section not heretofore existing in the Code is to be added, the following language may be used: "That the Code of Ordinances, Sumter County, Georgia, is hereby amended by adding a section (or article or chapter) to be numbered _____, which section reads as follows:…." The new section may then be set out in full as desired.
(e)
All sections, articles, chapters or provisions desired to be repealed should be specifically repealed by section, article or chapter number, as the case may be.
Sec. 1-5. - Provisions considered continuations of existing ordinances.
The provisions appearing in this Code, so far as they are the same as ordinances adopted prior to this Code and included in such Code, shall be considered as continuations thereof and not as new enactments.
Sec. 1-6. - Ordinances not affected by Code.
Nothing in this Code or the ordinance adopting this Code shall be construed to repeal or otherwise affect the validity of any of the following:
(1)
Any offense or act committed or done or any penalty or forfeiture incurred or any contract or right established or accruing before the effective date of this Code.
(2)
Any ordinance or resolution promising or guaranteeing the payment of money for the county or authorizing the issuance of any bonds of the county or any evidence of the county's indebtedness.
(3)
Any contract or obligation assumed by the county.
(4)
Any ordinance fixing the salary of any county officer or employee.
(5)
Any right or franchise granted by the county.
(6)
Any ordinance dedicating, naming, establishing, locating, relocating, opening, widening, paving, etc., any street or public way in the county.
(7)
Any appropriation ordinance.
(8)
Any ordinance which, by its own terms, is effective for a stated or limited term.
(9)
Any ordinance providing for local improvements and assessing taxes therefor.
(10)
Any zoning ordinance.
(11)
Any ordinance dedicating or accepting any subdivision plat.
(12)
Any ordinance describing or altering the boundaries of the county.
(13)
The administrative ordinances or resolutions of the county not in conflict or inconsistent with the provisions of this Code.
(14)
Any ordinance levying or imposing taxes not included herein.
(15)
Any ordinance establishing or prescribing street grades in the county.
No such ordinance shall be construed to revive any ordinance or part thereof that has been repealed by a subsequent ordinance which is repealed by this Code; and all such ordinances are hereby recognized as continuing in full force and effect to the same extent as if set out at length in this section.
Sec. 1-7. - Severability of parts of Code.
It is hereby declared to be the intention of the board of commissioners that the sections, paragraphs, sentences, clauses, and phrases of this Code are severable; and if any phrase, clause, sentence, paragraph or section of this Code shall be declared unconstitutional by the valid judgment or decree of any court of competent jurisdiction, such unconstitutionality shall not affect any of the remaining phrases, clauses, sentences, paragraphs and sections of this Code, since the same would have been enacted by the board of commissioners without the incorporation in this Code of any such unconstitutional phrase, clause, sentence, paragraph or section.
State Law reference— Severability, O.C.G.A. § 1-1-3.
Sec. 1-8. - Effect of repeal of ordinances.
(a)
The repeal of an ordinance shall not revive any ordinances in force before or at the time the ordinance repealed took effect.
(b)
The repeal of an ordinance shall not affect any punishment or penalty incurred before the repeal took effect, nor any suit, prosecution or proceeding pending at the time of the repeal, for an offense committed or cause of action arising under the ordinance repealed.
Sec. 1-9. - Supplementation of Code.
(a)
By contract or by county personnel, supplements to this Code shall be prepared at least on an annual basis. A supplement to the Code shall include all substantive, permanent and general parts of ordinances passed by the board of commissioners during the period covered by the supplement and all changes made thereby in the Code. The pages of a supplement shall be so numbered that they will fit properly into the Code and will, where necessary, replace pages that have become obsolete or partially obsolete; and the new pages shall be so prepared that, when they have been inserted, the Code will be current through the date of the adoption of the latest ordinance included in the supplement.
(b)
In preparing a supplement to this Code, all portions of the Code that have been repealed shall be excluded from the Code by the omission thereof from reprinted pages.
(c)
When preparing a supplement to this Code, the codifier (meaning the person authorized to prepare the supplement) may make formal, nonsubstantive changes in ordinances and parts of ordinances included in the supplement, insofar as it is necessary to do so to embody them into a unified code. For example, the codifier may:
(1)
Organize the ordinance material into appropriate subdivisions.
(2)
Provide appropriate catchlines, headings and titles for sections and other subdivisions of the Code printed in the supplement, and make changes in such catchlines, headings and titles.
(3)
Assign appropriate numbers to sections and other subdivisions to be inserted in the Code and, where necessary to accommodate new material, change existing section or other subdivision numbers.
(4)
Change the words "this ordinance" or words of the same meaning to "this chapter," "this article," "this division," etc., as the case may be, or to "sections _____ to _____" (inserting section numbers to indicate the sections of the Code that embody the substantive sections of the ordinance incorporated into the Code).
(5)
Make other nonsubstantive changes necessary to preserve the original meanings of ordinance sections inserted into the Code, but in no case shall the codifier make any change in the meaning or effect of ordinance material included in the supplement or already embodied in the Code.
Sec. 1-10. - Altering Code.
It shall be unlawful for any person in the county to change or amend by additions or deletions, any part or portion of this Code, or to insert or delete pages, or portions thereof, or to alter or tamper with such Code in any manner whatsoever except by ordinance or resolution or other official act of the board of commissioners, which will cause the law of the county to be misrepresented thereby. Any person violating this section shall be punished as provided in section 1-11.
State Law reference— Altering, falsifying or stealing public records unlawful, O.C.G.A. § 45-11-1.
Sec. 1-11. - General penalty; continuing violations.
(a)
Whenever in this Code or in any other ordinance of the county any act is prohibited or is made or declared to be unlawful or an offense, or the doing of any act is required or the failure to do any act is declared to be unlawful, where no specific penalty is provided therefor, the violation of such provision shall be punishable by the imposition of a fine not to exceed $1,000.00, by imprisonment in the county jail for a period of time not to exceed 60 days, or by both such fine and imprisonment, or up to the limits of any penalty provided by state law for the ordinance.
(b)
Each day any violation of this Code or other ordinance shall continue shall constitute a separate offense.
(c)
The information provided on all applications submitted to the board of commissioners or the building inspector or any department or agency of the county shall be relied upon for the issuance of any permit or any action to be taken by the board of commissioners or any department or agency, and any false statement on such application shall be punishable as provided in this section.
Sec. 1-12. - County jail fund.
(a)
In cooperation with the judges of the Superior Court of Sumter County, the judge of the State Court of Sumter County, and the judge of the Magistrate Court of Sumter County, in every case in which each court imposes a fine for any offense against a criminal or traffic law of this state, or any ordinance of the county, there shall be imposed as an additional penalty a sum equal to ten percent of the original fine; and the sheriff's office is charged with the duty of collecting the ten percent from the fines and forfeited bonds and pay the same over to the board of commissioners by the tenth day of the month following the month in which the sum is collected. The sum shall be paid into a separate account to be known as the county jail fund, and shall be expended solely and exclusively for constructing, operating and staffing county jails, county correctional institutions, and detention facilities in the county.
(b)
At the time any defendant in all traffic and criminal cases in any court in the county posts bail or bond, an additional sum equal to ten percent of the original amount of the bail or bond shall be posted. In every case in which any court of the county shall order the forfeiture of bail or bond, the additional sum equal to ten percent of the original bail or bond shall be paid over to the board of commissioners and shall be placed in the county jail fund.
(c)
The board of commissioners enters into a contract with the various municipalities located in the county which have a municipal court for those municipalities to impose and collect an additional ten percent of every fine, bail or bond and forfeiture of every bail and bond, and pay the same over to the board of commissioners; and those funds shall be placed in the county jail fund and used solely for the purpose of the constructing, operating and staffing of jails, correctional institutions and detention facilities located in the county.
(d)
The initial funds placed in the county jail fund shall be used to defray the cost of constructing the county law enforcement center.
(Res. of 5-10-94)
State Law reference— Magistrate courts, O.C.G.A. § 15-10-1 et seq.; violation of county ordinances, O.C.G.A. § 15-10-60 et seq.; imposition of additional penalty for certain drug offenses, O.C.G.A. § 15-21-100; imposition of additional penalty for offense of driving under the influence of alcohol or drugs, O.C.G.A. § 15-21-112; additional penalty to be imposed in criminal and traffic cases to provide training to law enforcement officers and prosecuting officials, O.C.G.A. § 15-21-73; additional penalty assessments for jail construction and staffing, O.C.G.A. § 15-21-93; punishment for misdemeanors generally, O.C.G.A. § 17-10-3; display of drivers license for violations of laws pertaining to traffic and motor vehicles, O.C.G.A. § 17-6-11; payments to peace officers annuity and benefit fund from revenues collected from fines and fees, O.C.G.A. § 47-17-60 et seq.; alternative punishments for violations involving a traffic offense, O.C.G.A. § 17-10-3(e); county responsibility for sentencing and maintenance of inmates, O.C.G.A. § 42-5-51(a); maximum punishments which may be imposed for violations of county ordinances, O.C.G.A. § 36-1-20(b); preemption of ordinances to general law, Ga. Const. art. III, § III, ¶ IV.
Secs. 1-13—1-19. - Reserved.
Sec. 1-20. - Disposal of real property without auction or bids.
If the Sumter County Board of Commissioners elects to sale or dispose of small or narrow strips of real property as provided by O.C.G.A. § 36-9-3(h), the below terms and conditions shall apply:
(a)
Preliminary inquiry. The board of commissioners, by and through its chief administrative officer, shall determine:
(1)
Whether the property is a small or narrow strip of land so shaped or so small as to be incapable of being used independently as zoned or under applicable subdivision or other development ordinances or land use plans or as streets, whether owned in fee or used by easement; and
(2)
Whether the sale or conveyance of such property to abutting property owners would facilitate the enjoyment of the highest and best use of the abutting owner's property.
(b)
Notice to abutting property owners. If the answer to each of the inquiries in subsection (a) of this section is in the affirmative, the board of commissioners shall notify each abutting property owner of the availability of the property for purchase. Said notification shall be made in writing via hand delivery, first class U.S. mail, certified mail, or overnight delivery to the last known address on record for said abutting property with the Office of the Sumter County Tax Commissioner. The notice shall provide the abutting property owners 30 days after the date the notice was issued within which to submit a written offer for purchase of the property.
(c)
Acceptance of best offer. Upon the passing of 30 days after the date the notices were issued to the abutting property owners, the board of commissioners may accept the best offer from an abutting property owner based upon the price offered and any other relevant factors.
(d)
No obligation to dispose of property. Nothing in this section shall obligate the board of commissioners to sell or dispose of any real property that meets the criteria of this section, regardless of whether offers have been solicited or received. All sales and conveyances shall be formally approved by the board of commissioners as provided by law.
(Ord. of 5-10-16)
