ARTICLE XVII. - I-2 HEAVY INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT

Sec. 17.01. - Statement of purpose.
The intent of the I-2 district is to provide for the development, in desirable areas of the county, of those heavy commercial and industrial establishments which may create nuisance. The uses are primarily of a manufacturing, assembling and fabricating nature. Reasonable regulations apply to uses in this district so as to permit the location of industries so as to not cause adverse effects on residential and commercial areas of the county. The I-2 district is especially designed for the following types of industries:
A.
Firms that process raw materials (minerals, forest products, chemicals, unfinished metal) into manufactured products ready for retail sale.
B.
Firms that process raw materials into products that will be used in the production of other manufactured products.
C.
Firms that produce or store toxic substances for direct sale or for distribution to retailers or other manufactures.
D.
Firms that use substantial quantities of water in the manufacturing process.
E.
Firms engaged in the slaughtering of animals.
Sec. 17.02. - Permitted uses.
A.
Automobile junk yard or wrecking:
1.
Automobile junk yards shall be enclosed by a solid fence or wall eight feet high to screen the storage yard from the street.
2.
This activity may not be conducted within 20 feet of any property line.
B.
Canning factories.
C.
Cement, lime, gypsum or plaster of Paris manufacturing, corrosive acid or alkali manufacture.
D.
Chemical plants.
E.
Machinery plants.
F.
Mobile home and manufactured home assembly plants.
G.
Metal stamping and pressing plants.
H.
Radio, cellular phone or similar transmission or receiving towers.
I.
Smelting of any kind.
J.
Stock yards, slaughter houses and meat packing plants.
Sec. 17.03. - Conditional uses.
The following are conditional uses in the I-2 Heavy Industrial District:
A.
Solar farms that satisfy the criteria of article V of chapter 70 of the county code of ordinances governing standards for solar farms and any other ordinances or conditions applicable to solar farms shall be permitted as conditional uses; and
B.
All conditional uses permitted in I-1 Light Industrial District.
(Ord. of 4-19-16(1), § 2)
Sec. 17.04. - Area and placement requirements.
I-2 HEAVY INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT
EXPAND
Minimum lot size per unit: 1. Open Ditch Rd: 5 acres
2. Curb and Gutter Rd: 3 acres
Minimum lot width at setback: 1. Open Ditch Rd: 400 feet
2. Curb and Gutter Rd: 225 feet
Minimum building setback: 1. Front yard:
• Local road: 75 feet
• Collector road: 90 feet
• Arterial road: 120 feet
2. Rear yard: 75 feet
3. Side yard: 50 feet
