Chapter 10 - AMUSEMENTS AND ENTERTAINMENTS[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Cross reference— Businesses, ch. 22.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Secs. 10-1—10-30. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - ADULT ENTERTAINMENT[2]

Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
State Law reference— Nudity and related acts on premises, O.C.G.A. § 3-3-41; employee solicitation of patrons for drinks on premises, O.C.G.A. § 3-3-42.

Sec. 10-31. - Findings; public purpose.
Based on the experience of other urban counties and municipalities, including but not limited to Atlanta and Fulton County, Georgia; Dekalb County, Georgia; Cobb County, Georgia; Richmond County, Georgia; and Ft. Lauderdale and Palm Beach, Florida, which experiences are relevant to the problems faced by the county, the notorious and self-evident conditions attendant to the commercial exploitation of human sexuality, which do not vary greatly among generally comparable communities within the country are noted. Moreover, it is the finding of the board of commissioners that public nudity (either partial or total) under certain circumstances, particularly circumstances related to the sale and consumption of alcoholic beverages in so-called "nude bars" or establishments offering so-called "nude entertainment" or "adult entertainment," begets criminal behavior and tends to create undesirable community conditions. Among the acts of criminal behavior identified with nudity and alcohol are disorderly conduct, prostitution, and drug trafficking and use. Among the undesirable community conditions identified with nudity and alcohol are depression of property values in the surrounding neighborhood, increased expenditure for and allocation of law enforcement personnel to preserve law and order, increased burden on the judicial system as a consequence of the criminal behavior hereinabove described, and acceleration of community blight by the concentration of such establishments in particular areas. Therefore, the limitation of nude conduct in establishments licensed to sell alcohol for consumption on the premises is in the public welfare; and it is a matter of governmental interest and concern to prevent the occurrence of criminal behavior and undesirable community conditions normally associated with establishments that serve alcohol and also allow and/or encourage nudity. To that end, this article is hereby adopted.
(Ord. of 11-8-93, § 1)
Sec. 10-32. - Prohibited acts.
The following types of entertainment, attire and conduct are prohibited upon any premises licensed to sell, serve or dispense alcohol beverages:
(1)
The employment or use of the services of any person, in any capacity, in the sale or service of alcohol beverages while such person is unclothed or in such attire, costume or clothing as to expose to view any portion of the female breast below the top of the areola or of any portion of the male or female pubic hair, anus, cleft of the buttocks, vulva or genitals.
(2)
Live entertainment where any person appears in the manner described in subsection (1) of this section or where such person performs acts of or acts that simulate any of the following:
a.
Sexual intercourse, masturbation, sodomy, bestiality, oral copulation, flagellation or any sexual act prohibited by law.
b.
The touching, caressing or fondling of the breasts, buttocks, anus, vulva or genitals.
c.
The displaying of the male or female pubic hair, anus, vulva or genitals.
(3)
The holding, promotion, sponsoring or allowing of any contest, promotion, special night, event or any other activity where patrons of the licensed establishment are encouraged or allowed to engage in any of the conduct described in subsections (1) and (2) above.
(Ord. of 11-8-93, § 2)
