ARTICLE III. - NUISANCES[3]
Footnotes:
--- (3) ---
State Law reference— Nuisances, O.C.G.A. § 41-1-1 et seq.

DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Sec. 34-81. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Nuisance means anything within the city that causes hurt, inconvenience or damage to another, and the fact that the act done may otherwise be lawful shall not keep it from being a nuisance. The inconvenience complained of shall not be fanciful or such as would affect only one of fastidious taste, but it shall be such as would affect an ordinary, reasonable person. Any such nuisance may be abated as provided in this article.
Cross reference— Definitions generally, § 1-2.
State Law reference— Similar provisions, O.C.G.A. § 41-1-1.
Sec. 34-82. - Enumeration.
(a)
The various nuisances described and enumerated in this section shall not be deemed to be exclusive but shall be in addition to all other nuisances described and prohibited in this Code.
(b)
The following are declared to be nuisances:
(1)
Things interfering with peace or comfort. Sounds, animals or things that interfere with the peace or comfort or disturb the quiet of the community.
(2)
Obnoxious, offensive odors. The emission of obnoxious and offensive odors, the tainting of the air rendering it offensive or unwholesome so as to affect the health or comfort of reasonable persons residing in the neighborhood thereof.
(3)
Discharging of offensive matter. The placing, throwing or discharging from any house or premises and flow from or out of any house or premises, of any filthy, foul or offensive matter or liquid of any kind, into any street, alley or public place or upon any adjacent lot or ground.
(4)
Water pollution. The obstruction or pollution of any watercourse or source of water supply in the city.
(5)
Emission of dense smoke. Any emission of dense smoke from any fire, chimney, engine, oil burner or other agency in the city so as to cause disturbance or discomfort to the public. For the purpose of testing and grading the density of smoke, the Ringelmann Smoke Chart as published and used by the United States Geological Survey shall be the standard for such grading, and smoke shall be defined and declared to be dense when it is of a degree of density of number three on the chart, or greater, for more than six minutes in any one hour, whether such period of time is consecutive or not.
(6)
Vacant lots. Any vacant lot whereon debris is permitted to accumulate and remain in such a manner as to create a fire hazard or other hazard to the public health, safety and welfare.
(7)
Nonconforming structures, machines, etc. Any building, business, thing, machine or machinery erected, repaired, conducted, maintained, operated or used contrary to or in violation of any of the fire and safety regulations of this Code, state law or city ordinance.
(8)
Animal enclosures. Any enclosure in which any animals are kept, dog kennels or runs and other animal or fowl pens wherein manure, dung, filth or litter is allowed to accumulate.
(9)
Dead animals. The carcass of any dead animal of any kind on any premises within the city.
(10)
Depositing trash, garbage, refuse, etc., on private or public property. The depositing and leaving on private or public property of trash, garbage, refuse, scrap building materials, paper, cardboard containers, brick, cement, rubbish, tree residue, cans, containers or any other rubbish or trash that is a menace to public health and safety in the city or which unreasonably annoys others.
(11)
Unoccupied buildings. Unoccupied buildings that are not properly whitewashed or cleansed.
(12)
Unsafe vehicles, machinery, etc. Unsheltered storage of old, unused, stripped, junked and other automobiles not in good and safe operating condition, and of any other vehicles, machinery, implements and/or equipment and personal property of any kind that is no longer safely usable for the purposes for which it was manufactured, for a period of 30 days or more, except in licensed junkyards. The absence of a license plate for the current year and/or the absence of a current motor vehicle registration shall be prima facie evidence that such vehicle is junked.
(13)
Gutters or spouts. Any gutter or spout that conveys filth into any street, lane or alley of the city.
Sec. 34-83. - Prohibited.
It shall be unlawful for any person to maintain or permit the existence of any nuisance on any property within the city.
Sec. 34-84. - Issuance of summons for abatement.
Whenever any nuisance exists within the city, or whenever any condition shall exist on any property within the city that is required or subject to be demolished, removed or abated under any of the ordinances of the city, and the owner or other person responsible for such nuisance refuses or fails after reasonable notice to demolish, remove or abate such nuisance, the chief of police, or the officer having responsibility for the enforcement of abating such nuisance, may issue a summons and cause the summons to be served upon such owner or other person responsible for such condition, describing the condition complained of and specifying the ordinances or parts thereof claimed to be violated, and requiring such person to appear before the municipal judge at a time, date and place specified in the summons, to show cause why such condition should not be demolished, removed or abated.
Sec. 34-85. - Order for abatement.
(a)
If the municipal judge at the hearing required by section 34-84 shall determine that a condition does exist as alleged that constitutes a nuisance or a condition which under this Code or the ordinances of the city is required or subject to be demolished, removed or abated, the judge shall issue his order and judgment so finding and shall order the property owner or other person responsible for such nuisance to demolish, remove or abate the condition within a period of time to be fixed by the judge. The order shall provide how the condition is to be abated, including, but not limited to, rehabilitation or demolition of any buildings or structures located on the property in question. The order shall further provide that if the property owner or other person responsible for such nuisance shall fail to comply with the order within the time specified, the city shall be authorized to proceed without further notice to demolish, remove or abate such condition and to take whatever action is deemed necessary to demolish, remove or abate such condition, and the expense thereof shall be charged against the owner of the property in question and shall be a lien against the property upon which the condition existed, ranking equally with the lien for city taxes.
(b)
Execution shall issue for such costs as in the case of city taxes, and the procedure for the enforcement of the execution shall be the same as in the case of city taxes.
State Law reference— Authorization and procedure for abatement of nuisances in cities, O.C.G.A. § 41-2-5.
Sec. 34-86. - Special provisions for old, unused, stripped, junked automobiles.
(a)
Unsheltered storage of old, unused, stripped, junked and other automobiles not in good and safe operating condition, and of any other vehicles, machinery, implements and/or equipment and personal property of any kind that is no longer safely usable for the purposes for which it was manufactured, for a period of 30 days or more, except in licensed junkyards, within the corporate limits of the city is a nuisance.
(b)
The owner, tenant, lessee and/or occupant of any lot within the corporate limits of the city upon which the storage of property is made, and also the owner and/or lessee of the property involved in such storage jointly and severally abate the nuisance by the prompt removal of the property into completely enclosed buildings authorized to be used for such storage purposes, if within the corporate limits of the city, or otherwise by removing it to a location without the corporate limits.
Sec. 34-87. - Nuisances constituting imminent danger.
Whenever any condition shall exist which constitutes an immediate and grave hazard to public health and safety requiring immediate action, the condition may be abated or otherwise remedied summarily and without following the procedures set forth in sections 34-84 and 34-85.
Sec. 34-88. - Other powers preserved.
Nothing in this article shall in any way affect the power and authority of the municipal judge to punish for any violations which the conditions may constitute, nor shall it affect the power and authority of the judge to punish by contempt the failure to comply with his order.
Secs. 34-89—34-110. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - VEGETATION

Sec. 34-111. - Certain weeds, grasses and plants declared a nuisance; exemptions.
(a)
Any weeds such as jimson, burdock, ragweed, thistle, cocklebur or other weeds of a like kind found growing on any lot or tract of land in the city, and any weeds, grasses or plants other than trees, brushes, flowers or other ornamental plants, growing to a height exceeding 12 inches anywhere in the city are declared to be a nuisance, subject to abatement as provided in this article.
(b)
Garden flowers, vegetables, cultivated agricultural crops, ornamental shrubbery and trees shall not be considered weeds, grass or vegetation within the meaning of this division.
(c)
The provisions of this division shall apply only to property located within subdivisions of record in the office of the clerk of the superior court of the county and to the original city lots. They shall not apply to undeveloped areas of unsubdivided land within the city.
Sec. 34-112. - Height permitted.
It shall be unlawful for the owner, lessee, tenant or other person having the possession and control of real property, or responsible for its management, maintenance or upkeep, to permit the growth and accumulation of weeds, grass or other vegetation to a height in excess of 12 inches above the ground.
Sec. 34-113. - Notice to abate.
(a)
For a violation of this division, the owner of the property shall be given notice to remove such excess growth within seven days from the receipt of the notice. Such notice may be served personally, by registered or certified mail or by attaching a copy of the notice to the principal entrance of the dwelling, and shall contain a description of the location of the property upon which such condition exists.
(b)
Where notice is given by registered or certified mail, the depositing of such notice in the U.S. registered or certified mail, return receipt requested, addressed to the owner of the property at the address shown on the latest ad valorem tax return of such owner for such property shall constitute sufficient service of such notice, where the return receipt shall be duly returned signed by the addressee or someone residing on the premises, or where the return receipt or other notification from the federal postal service indicates that the notice was refused, or that there was a refusal to sign the return receipt or that delivery of the notice at such address could not be made.
Sec. 34-114. - Abatement of city; notice of abatement.
(a)
Upon the failure to comply within the required time by the owner of the property when properly notified pursuant to the provisions of section 34-113, the city is authorized to have the contractor enter upon the property, and the contractor is authorized to enter such property, and cut and remove the weeds, grass and vegetation. The city shall issue a lot cleaning order to the contractor who shall promptly perform the work and submit his bill to the city. The city shall inspect the work, and if satisfactory, shall approve the bill for payment and forward it to the city treasurer for payment.
(b)
The city treasurer shall promptly send to the owner of the property a statement of account demanding payment thereof on or before a date named in such demand, which shall not be earlier than 15 days nor later than 45 days after payment to the contractor.
(c)
If payment under subsection (b) of this section shall not have been made on or before the date named, the city treasurer shall issue a notice directed to the owner of the property and signed by the municipal judge, notifying such owner to show cause before the judge at a time, place and on a date named in such notice, why execution should not issue against the property for its approved amount.
(d)
If it shall appear at such hearing that the property was in violation of this division, the notice required in section 34-113 was given, the work was performed and the cost thereof paid by the city and the city has not been reimbursed, execution shall issue for such amount, signed by the city treasurer and shall be executed by the chief of police in the same manner as tax executions are executed.
(e)
If the owner of the property is unknown, or cannot be located, the provisions of subsections (b) and (c) of this section shall not apply, but in lieu thereof a notice shall be published once a week for four weeks in a newspaper of general circulation in the city, which notice shall be addressed "To Whom It May Concern," shall describe with reasonable particularity the property involved, a statement of the amount due for the removal of the weeds, grass or other vegetation and shall notify all persons interested to show cause before the municipal judge at a time and place and on a date named in the notice why execution should not issue in rem against the property for such amount. In such event, subsection (a) of this section will apply, but the execution shall issue against the property in rem.
Sec. 34-115. - Remedies.
The remedies provided in this division are cumulative of all other remedies the city has for the accomplishment of the objectives set forth in this division. Nothing in this article shall be construed as relieving any person from the obligation to comply with this Code, all ordinances, laws or regulations of the city or to permit the maintenance by any person of a nuisance, and any nuisance shall be subject to be abated in the manner provided by law.
Sec. 34-116. - Award of contracts for clearing of lots by city.
Prior to the commencement of each fiscal year, the city may obtain bids from contractors or other qualified persons for clearing lots of weeds, grass and other vegetation not in excess of two inches in diameter, and for clearing lots of weeds, grass and other vegetation in excess of two inches but not in excess of four inches in diameter, and the mayor and city council shall award a contract to the lowest and best bidder and such contract shall remain in effect during the ensuing fiscal year.
Secs. 34-117—34-140. - Reserved.
DIVISION 3. - MOSQUITO CONTROL

Sec. 34-141. - Violation declared nuisance.
A violation of any provision of this division is a nuisance.
Sec. 34-142. - Keeping water in which mosquitoes may breed.
(a)
It shall be unlawful to have, keep, maintain, cause or permit within the city any collection of standing or flowing water in which mosquitoes breed or are likely to breed, unless such collection of water is so treated as to effectively prevent such breeding.
(b)
The collection of water prohibited by subsection (a) of this section shall be those contained in ditches, pools, ponds, excavations, holes, depressions, open cesspools, privy vaults, fountains, cisterns, tanks, shallow wells, barrels, troughs (except horse troughs in frequent use), urns, cans, boxes, bottles, tubs, buckets, defective house roof gutters, tanks of flush closets or other similar water containers.
Sec. 34-143. - Treatment of collections of water.
The method of treatment of any collections of water that are specified in section 34-142 directed toward the prevention of breeding of mosquitoes, shall be approved by the health officer and may be one or more of the following:
(1)
Screening with wire netting of at least 16 meshes to the inch each way, or with any other material that will effectively prevent the ingress or egress of mosquitoes.
(2)
Complete emptying every seven days of unscreened containers followed by thorough drying and cleaning of such containers.
(3)
Using a larvicide approved and applied under the direction of the health officer.
(4)
Covering completely the surface of the water with kerosene, petroleum or paraffin oil once every seven days.
(5)
Cleaning and keeping sufficiently free of vegetable growth and other obstructions, and stocking with mosquito-destroying fish.
(6)
Filling and draining to the satisfaction of the health officer, his agent or accredited representative.
(7)
Proper disposal by removal or destruction of tin cans, tin boxes, broken or empty bottles and similar articles likely to hold water.
Sec. 34-144. - Mosquito larvae as evidence of breeding.
The natural presence of mosquito larvae in standing or running water shall be evidence that mosquitoes are breeding there, and failure to prevent such breeding within three days after notice by the health officer, his authorized agent or representative, shall be deemed a violation of this article.
Sec. 34-145. - Failure to remedy conditions after notice.
Should the person responsible for conditions giving rise to the breeding of mosquitoes fail or refuse to take necessary measures to prevent such breeding, within three days after due notice has been given to him, the health officer or his authorized agent is authorized to do so, and all necessary costs incurred by him for this purpose shall be a charge against the property owner or other offending person, as the case may be.
Sec. 34-146. - Right of entry of health officer.
For the purpose of enforcing the provisions of this division, the health officer or his duly accredited agent under his authority, may at all reasonable times lawfully enter in and upon any premises within his jurisdiction.
Secs. 34-147—34-170. - Reserved.
DIVISION 4. - ABANDONED MOTOR VEHICLES[4]

Footnotes:
--- (4) ---
Cross reference— Traffic and vehicles, ch. 54.
State Law reference— Authority to provide by ordinance for removal and disposal of junked vehicles, O.C.G.A. § 36-60-4; abandoned motor vehicles, O.C.G.A. § 40-11-1 et seq.
State Law reference— Abandoned motor vehicles, O.C.G.A. § 40-11-1 et seq.

Sec. 34-171. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this division, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Abandoned motor vehicle means a motor vehicle or trailer which:
(1)
Has been left by the owner or some person acting for the owner with an automobile dealer, repairman or wrecker service for repair or for some other reason and has not been called for by such owner or other person within a period of 30 days after the time agreed upon; or within 30 days after such vehicle is turned over to such dealer, repairman or wrecker service when no time is agreed upon; or within 30 days after the completion of necessary repairs;
(2)
Is left unattended on a public street, road, highway or other public property for a period of at least five days and it reasonably appears to a law enforcement officer that the individual who left such motor vehicle unattended does not intend to return and remove such motor vehicle;
(3)
Has been lawfully towed onto the property of another at the request of a law enforcement officer and left there for a period of not less than 30 days without anyone having made claim thereto;
(4)
Has been lawfully towed onto the property of another at the request of a property owner on whose property the vehicle was abandoned and left there for a period of not less than 30 days without the owner having made claim thereto; or
(5)
Has been left unattended on private property for a period of not less than 30 days without anyone having made claim thereto.
Motor vehicle or vehicle means a motor vehicle or trailer.
Owner means the owner, lessor, lessee, security interest holders and all lienholders as shown on the records of the state department of revenue.
Cross reference— Definitions generally, § 1-2.
State Law reference— Similar provisions, O.C.G.A. § 40-11-1.
Sec. 34-172. - Prohibited.
It shall be unlawful for any person either as owner, occupant, lessee, agent, tenant or otherwise, to store or deposit, or cause or permit to be stored or deposited, any abandoned motor vehicle upon any public or private property within the corporate limits of the city.
Sec. 34-173. - Removal—Required.
Any abandoned, junked or discarded motor vehicle shall be removed upon ten days' written notice to the owner or occupant of any premises upon which the motor vehicle is stored or deposited, or to the owner thereof if the identity of such owner of the motor vehicle can be ascertained through license plates or otherwise. If such motor vehicle is not removed after ten days' written notice, the city police department shall remove such motor vehicle or cause the removal and sale of such motor vehicle at the cost of the owner or occupant of the premises or the owner of such motor vehicle if such owner can be ascertained. Sale shall be made to the highest of two bids obtained from dealers in such property.
Sec. 34-174. - Same—Notice to owner and state.
(a)
Any person who removes a motor vehicle from public or private property at the request of someone other than the owner, or who stores any motor vehicle which has been left unattended, shall seek the identity of the owner of the vehicle and shall, within 15 days of the day the vehicle became an abandoned motor vehicle, give notice in writing to the state department of revenue and the state bureau of investigation, stating the manufacturer's vehicle identification number, the license number, the fact that such vehicle is an abandoned motor vehicle and the present location of the vehicle, and requesting the name and address of all owners, lessors, lessees, security interest holders and lienholders of such vehicle. If a person removing or storing the vehicle has knowledge of facts which reasonably indicate that the vehicle is registered or titled in a certain state other than this state, he shall check the motor vehicle records of the other state in an attempt to ascertain the identity of the owner of the vehicle.
(b)
Upon ascertaining the owner of the motor vehicle, the person removing or storing the vehicle shall, within three days, by certified or registered mail, notify the owner, lessors, lessees, security interest holders and lienholders of the location of the vehicle and of the fact that such vehicle is deemed abandoned and shall be disposed of if not redeemed.
(c)
If the identity of the owner of the motor vehicle cannot be ascertained, the person removing or storing the vehicle shall place an advertisement in a newspaper of general circulation in the county where the vehicle was obtained or, if there is no newspaper in the county, shall post such advertisement at the county courthouse in such place where other public notices are posted. The advertisement shall run in the newspaper once a week for two consecutive weeks or shall remain posted at the courthouse for two consecutive weeks. The advertisement shall contain a complete description of the motor vehicle, its license and manufacturer's vehicle identification numbers, the location where the vehicle was initially left unattended by the owner, the present location of the vehicle and the fact that the vehicle is deemed abandoned and shall be disposed of if not redeemed.
State Law reference— Similar provisions, O.C.G.A. § 40-11-2.
Sec. 34-175. - Penalties.
For violations of this article the director, or designee may, in addition to other remedies, and after due notice to the appropriate person(s), issue a citation to the alleged violator requiring such person to appear in a court of competent jurisdiction to answer charges for such violation. Upon conviction, such person shall be punished by a fine not to exceed $1,000.00 or imprisonment for 60 days or both. Each act of violation and each day upon which any violation shall occur shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. No. 2012-001, 5-22-2012)
Secs. 34-176—34-205. - Reserved.
