ARTICLE XI. - C-1 COMMERCIAL (CENTRAL BUSINESS DISTRICT)[4]

Footnotes:
--- (4) ---
Cross reference— Businesses, ch. 26.

Section 11.01. - Statement of purpose.
The C-1 commercial district established in this article is intended to permit retail business and service uses which are needed to serve the nearby residential areas. In order to promote such business development so far as is possible and appropriate, uses are prohibited which would create hazards, offensive and loud noises, vibrations, smoke, glare, heavy truck traffic, or late hours of operation. The intent of this district is also to encourage the concentration of local business to the mutual advantages of both the consumers and merchants, and thereby promote the best use of land in the central business district.
Section 11.02. - Permitted uses.
modified
[Permitted uses in the C-1 district shall include the following:]
A.
Barbershops/beauty shops.
B.
Custom dressmaking and tailoring.
C.
Eating or drinking places in which there is no dancing, floor show, or other live entertainment.
D.
Laundry or dry cleaning and laundry operated by customers, such as launderettes, laundromats and the like.
E.
Offices, either business, professional or governmental.
F.
Repairs, electrical or other household appliances, locks, radios, televisions and the like.
G.
Retail businesses selling convenience goods and serving the adjacent residential neighborhoods, such as apparel, drugs and food.
H.
Boarding[houses] or roominghouses.
I.
Commercial recreation activity centers, publicly owned recreation centers, clubs, lodges, YMCAs and similar institutions.
J.
Animal hospitals, commercial kennels, veterinary clinics or animal boarding places (located at least 200 feet from the nearest residential zoned district).
K.
Art studio, photography studio, dance school/studio, or music studio/school (not as a home occupation).
L.
Automobile, truck, farm equipment, or motorcycle sales, repair of upholstery, laundromats, paint shops, tire retreading (including rebuilding of parts or sales of parts and equipment indoors only).
M.
Commercial automobile parking lot or parking garage.
N.
Book binding, printing, engraving, blueprinting, photostating or letter shop.
O.
Building contractors and related activities, such as sale and storage of building supplies and materials.
P.
Mail and freight express offices.
Q.
Farmers' market.
R.
Feed, seed, fertilizer, and insecticide retail sales.
S.
Hotels, and motels.
T.
Medical, dental or similar clinic.
U.
Drycleaning stores.
V.
Pawnshops.
W.
Pest control (provided, no outside storage).
X.
Reserved.
Y.
Service station (provided that major auto repair shall not be permitted, nor shall there be outside storage of materials or equipment, other than merchandise offered for sale).
Z.
Loft dwellings (defined as residential dwelling units located on any floor, other than the ground or street level floor, within existing commercial buildings), provided that plans shall be first submitted to and approved by the planning commission and by the mayor and council, showing compliance with the minimum floor space requirements and maximum number of occupant provisions of the Southern Building Codes, and all commercial building codes and fire codes, including fire wall requirements existing at the time of submission, and shall include plans for private parking for the occupants of the loft dwelling. Loft dwellings shall be subject to the following restrictions:
Restrictions:
1.
All window treatments must be off-white colors, with no signs, drawings or photographs incorporated therein. Nothing shall hang from the outside of the windows.
2.
No outside mailboxes shall be permitted; inside mailboxes or mail slots shall be used.
3.
No outside television or radio antennas or satellite reception dishes shall be permitted unless they are less than 36 inches and are located on the roof or [in] such a way as not to be visible from the street; cable connectors shall be permitted and located at the rear of the establishment.
4.
No daily or weekly boarding room shall be permitted, only complete dwelling units as defined herein.
5.
Outside building identification numbers shall not exceed six inches in height.
6.
No drying of clothes shall be permitted on the outside of the building.
7.
Entry to the unit or to a hallway serving one or more units shall be provided by a stairway opening directly to the outside at street level. All stairways shall be enclosed in the event where the stairway faces the street. Open stairways may be permitted only in alley ways or secondary entrances only. No unit shall occupy street level frontage.
8.
All window air conditioning units shall not be visible from any public street.
9.
No washing or waxing of vehicles shall be permitted.
10.
No recreation, entertainment, public gathering or placement of furniture shall be allowed on the sidewalks.
11.
No sales of the type commonly known as garage sales, yard sales, or estate sales shall be allowed.
12.
Parking. Each residential unit shall have its own off-street parking with direct access to a public alley or street between the hours of 8:00 a.m.—6:00 p.m. (Monday through Friday). Public parking shall not be permitted.
( Ord. No. 2021-03 § II, 4-5-2021)
Section 11.03. - Conditional uses.
modified
[Conditional uses permitted in the C-1 district shall include the following:]
A.
Other uses similar to the above, subject to the following restrictions:
1.
All business establishments shall be retail or service establishments dealing directly with consumers. All goods produced on the premises shall be sold at retail on the premises where produced.
2.
All business, servicing or processing, except for off-street parking or loading, shall be conducted within completely enclosed buildings.
B.
Churches, synagogues and temples (see section 5.03A.).
C.
Hospitals, animal hospitals or sanitariums for the care of contagious, mental, drug, or liquor addiction cases.
D.
Public buildings.
E.
Schools, nursery schools, kindergartens, and day care centers.
F.
All radio, cellular phone or similar transmission/receiving towers and radio studios.
G.
Reserved.
( Ord. No. 2021-03 § III, 4-5-2021)
Section 11.04. - Protective screening.
Protective screening for C-1 districts adjacent to or near residential districts shall be in compliance with the regulations set forth in section 4.11 of the ordinance.
(Ord. No. 2004-12, § 1, 7-19-2004)
Section 11.05. - Signs.
(See article XVIII.)
Section 11.06. - Off-street parking.
(See article XVII.)
Section 11.07. - Area, height and setback requirements.
[Area, height and setback requirements in the C-1 district shall be] in accordance with the attached schedule of regulations, [as set forth in] article XIX.
