ARTICLE V. - ELECTRICAL CONTRACTORS' LICENSES[5]

Footnotes:
--- (5) ---
State Law reference— Electrical contractors, plumbers, conditioned air contractors, low-voltage contractors, and utility contractors, O.C.G.A. § 43-14-1 et seq.

Sec. 18-106. - Application.
Any person doing any type of electrical work within the city must have a current electrical license issued by the city. Such electrical license shall be issued upon such individual presenting to the city clerk a valid license issued under the Georgia Electrical Contractors Act, which is sometimes also referred to as a state electrical card, together with such additional information as shall be reasonably required to establish that the person tendering such card is the same person whose name appears thereon.
(Code 1976, § 6-1081)
Sec. 18-107. - Renewal.
Any person who, on the effective date of the ordinance from which this section derives, already has a license to do electrical work under any provision of the charter and Code of the city as same existed prior to the enactment of this article, shall be entitled to the issuance of a new license hereunder without the necessity of going through the procedure outlined in the Georgia Electrical Contractors Act. Such license, however, shall expire annually. Upon such annual expiration the license shall be renewed by application to the city clerk within 30 days of the expiration date, which application shall state that the applicant has held a city electrical license for the preceding year and shall be accompanied by such fee as shall be set from time to time by the mayor and council. Should such license not be renewed within 30 days of the annual expiration thereof, the holder of such expired license may obtain a new license only upon complying with the requirements of the Georgia Electrical Contractors Act, as well as paying whatever fee shall be set by the mayor and council.
(Code 1976, § 6-1082)
Sec. 18-108. - Fee.
The mayor and council shall from time to time establish the fee for the granting of a city electrical license. The amount of such fee shall be readily available to the public at the offices of the city.
(Code 1976, § 6-1083)
Sec. 18-109. - Installation and disconnection of electric load management devices.
(a)
Any electrical contractor licensed under this article to do business in the city:
(1)
Shall not disconnect a load management device which is installed, connected and operating without giving prior notice to the city manager.
(2)
Shall notify the city manager immediately upon discovering a load management device which is inoperative or disconnected.
(3)
Shall notify the city manager of all new central air conditioning installations which are to be made at locations served with electrical power by the city, such notification to be prior to the installation so that the city manager can advise the property owner of the merits and benefits of installing a load management device.
(b)
Failure to abide by the terms of this section may result in the suspension of a license granted under this article and shall also be considered a violation of this Code punishable as provided in section 1-12 upon conviction.
(Ord. No. 237, 12-6-83)
Secs. 18-110—18-130. - Reserved.
