ARTICLE III. - OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES[2]
Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
Cross reference— Any ordinance providing for salaries or other employee benefits not codified in this Code saved from repeal, § 1-13(5); plumbing inspector, § 22-151 et seq.; gas inspector, § 22-231 et seq.; emergency management director, § 34-33; appointment of judge; presiding officer, § 38-31; chief of police, § 62-71 et seq.; zoning administrator to enforce zoning ordinance, app. A, § 20-01.
State Law reference— Powers relating to administration of municipal government, O.C.G.A. § 36-34-2.

DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Sec. 2-61. - Classification and pay plan; personnel rules and regulations.
(a)
For the purpose of governing the administration of the compensation functions of the city, there will be adopted by resolution a classification and pay plan.
(b)
For the purpose of governing the administration of the personnel policy function of the city, there will be adopted by resolution personnel rules and regulations.
(c)
Such documents are on file in the office of the city clerk.
(Ord. No. 80-3, §§ 1—3, 5-5-1980)
Sec. 2-62. - Oath of office.
All officers and employees of the city shall, before entering upon the discharge of their respective duties, take and subscribe the following oath, before some officer authorized by law to administer oaths: "I ___________ do solemnly swear that I will properly perform the duties of the office of ___________ in and for the City of Sylvester, to the best of my knowledge, skill and ability; so help me God." The oath shall be entered upon the minutes of the mayor and council.
(Code 1965, § 2-38)
Sec. 2-63. - Certificate; acceptance of office.
All officers and employees of the city shall, before qualification, receive a warrant or certificate of election, which shall state that the election or appointment is made subject to the laws and ordinances of the city then or thereafter applicable to the office. The certificate or warrant shall be signed by the mayor and attested by the city clerk under the seal of the city. At the time of taking the oath of office the person to whom such certificate or warrant is issued shall, before being finally qualified, sign a written acceptance of the office, stating that the appointment is accepted subject to all rules, regulations, laws and ordinances of the city then or thereafter applicable.
(Code 1965, § 2-42)
Sec. 2-64. - Grounds for fine, suspension or removal from office.
All municipal officers and employees shall be subject to fine, suspension or removal from office for malpractice, inattention, incompetency or insufficiency in the discharge of the duties of their respective offices, or insubordination. In addition to the causes for removal specified, intoxication at any time during the term of office by any salaried officer or employee shall be sufficient cause for discharge. All officers elected by the city council shall take and hold office with the understanding that this section is a part of their contract of employment.
(Code 1965, § 2-44)
Sec. 2-65. - Absence from duty.
No officer or employee of the city shall absent himself from the city without the permission of the mayor or other officer acting in his stead, or of the head of the department to which the officer or employee may belong. Any officer or employee violating this section shall be subject to fine, suspension or dismissal, as provided in section 2-68.
(Code 1965, § 2-45)
Sec. 2-66. - Loans to employees from city funds.
No loans to city employees from city funds shall be made.
(Code 1965, § 2-46)
Sec. 2-67. - Return of property and materials upon leaving city employment.
At any time an officer or employee of the city leaves the employ of the city, all property, equipment, materials and clothing furnished to him, and which are the property of the city, shall be returned to the city.
(Code 1965, § 2-48)
Sec. 2-68. - Proceedings against city officers.
(a)
Complaints. All complaints against municipal officers shall be in writing, setting forth distinctly the cause of complaint and giving the names of the witnesses thereto, if any, shall be directed to the mayor and council and shall be filed with the city clerk, who, immediately upon receipt of the complaint, shall notify the mayor, who shall call a meeting of the council. If at such meeting a majority of the council deems the complaint sufficient to authorize proceedings, they shall order the suspension of the officer complained of until a further meeting of the council, which shall be called at the earliest date practicable for the trial of the officer; provided that, if the mayor in his discretion deems it advisable, he may suspend the officer against whom complaint has been filed, until a meeting of the mayor and council can be had.
(b)
Notice to defendant. Upon determination that the complaint is sufficient, it shall be the duty of the clerk to prepare a notice directed to the officer complained against, which notice shall specify the time and place of trial and command the appearance of the officer complained against. The notice shall be served upon such officer by any police officer of the city at least two days before the trial.
(c)
Subpoenas. It shall be the duty of the clerk, on application, to issue under his hand and seal subpoenas for all witnesses, directing them to appear at any trial by the mayor and council; provided, however, that a verbal summons of any witness by any police officer shall be a valid summons. The mayor and council may compel the attendance of witnesses by attachment and fine for contempt.
(d)
Trial procedure. Trial shall be conducted in the manner employed by the courts, both the city and the officer charged having the right to introduce evidence and appear by counsel, it being the duty of the city attorney, except in cases of his own trial, to act as prosecuting officer. The council may either suspend, dismiss or fine any officer whom it may, upon such trial, deem guilty of any of the charges preferred.
(e)
Verdict and judgment. The council shall render a verdict, which shall be followed by the judgment of the council, to be entered by the city attorney upon the complaint. The verdict shall be signed by the mayor, and the verdict and judgment shall be spread upon the minutes of the council.
(Code 1965, § 2-49)
Secs. 2-69—2-90. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - CITY MANAGER

Sec. 2-91. - Position established; appointment; removal.
(a)
There is hereby created the office of city manager.
(b)
The appointment of a city manager will require the affirmative vote of at least three members of the council or two councilmembers and the mayor, but the affirmative vote of at least four councilmembers or three councilmembers and the mayor shall be required for firing or removal from office of the city manager.
(c)
Neither the mayor nor a member of the council shall be appointed city manager or acting city manager during the term of office for which he was elected or for a period of one year thereafter.
(Ord. No. 92-2, § 1, 8-17-1992)
Sec. 2-92. - Compensation.
The city manager shall be paid an annual salary to be fixed by the mayor and council. The annual salary shall be paid in monthly installments.
(Ord. No. 92-2, § 2, 8-17-1992)
Sec. 2-93. - Qualifications.
The city manager shall be chosen by the mayor and council solely upon the basis of his executive and administrative qualifications with special reference to his special experience in, or knowledge of, accepted practice in respect to the duties of his office, as set forth in this division. A bachelor's degree in public or business administration is required and a master's degree in public or business administration is preferred.
(Ord. No. 92-2, § 3, 8-17-1992)
Secs. 2-94—2-120. - Reserved.
DIVISION 3. - CITY CLERK

Sec. 2-121. - Duties as to council; custody of records; custody of city seal.
It shall be the duty of the city clerk to keep minutes and records of the council, to keep an index to the record and enter alphabetically therein the acts and doings of the council, and to have the custody and charge of all records, books and papers belonging to the city. All deeds, leases and other instruments executed by the council shall be attested by him, and he shall affix thereto the official seal of the city, of which seal he shall be custodian.
(Code 1965, § 2-50(a))
Sec. 2-122. - Issuance of licenses; ordinance book; accounts; finances.
(a)
The city clerk shall issue all licenses granted in accordance with city ordinances or authorized by the council, and keep a record of such licenses. He shall keep an ordinance book, in which he shall record or have printed the city ordinances, properly indexed. It shall be his duty to issue all executions, as required by the ordinances or authorized by the council. He shall keep an execution docket in which he shall enter all executions issued by him. He shall keep a book in which he shall enter all orders or warrants of the mayor and council, and shall keep a record of all bonds issued by authority of the council, and all other obligations entered into and collected by the city council, that a fair exhibit may be at any time made of the liabilities of the city. He shall deposit immediately all money coming into his hands belonging to the city, and shall open an account with the chief of police, charging him with the amount of all executions and claims of the city which the chief of police is liable and bound to collect for the city, filing his receipts as vouchers for the council and in settlement of his accounts. He shall report upon the condition of these accounts as often as may be required by the council. He shall be charged with the gross amount of the city tax digest, and shall specify the time allowed by ordinance for collecting the same.
(b)
He shall keep a record book in which he shall enter, under the appropriate heads, the receipts and disbursements of his office, keeping separate accounts for the funds specially appropriated and their disbursements; also, separate accounts showing the different sources of revenue, that a true statement of the finances, as well as the condition of the different funds, will, at any time, appear at a glance. It shall be his duty to receive all moneys and securities belonging to the city, whether notes, bonds, mortgages, leases, stocks or other evidence of debt, for which he shall properly receipt, to be filed with the city clerk as vouchers for the council in their settlement of his accounts. All moneys arising from fines, or from other sources, collected by any other officer of the city or member of the council, shall be delivered to the city clerk, and he shall receipt therefor in like manner. He shall receive no funds that are not lawful, solvent or current at the time, unless specially ordered to do so by the council. He shall so keep the funds as to guard the city from loss through any possible contingency of fire, theft or otherwise. His books, papers, vouchers and other documents of his office shall be subject, at all reasonable times, to the inspection of the mayor and council, or any member thereof.
(Code 1965, §§ 2-50(b), 2-52(b))
Sec. 2-123. - Inventory of city property.
The city clerk shall keep in some convenient form and manner a list or inventory of the effects and assets, books, furniture and property of the city, designating in his report thereon to the council the uses for which they are employed, and the general conditions thereof.
(Code 1965, § 2-50(c))
Sec. 2-124. - Inspection of clerk's records.
The books and records of the city clerk shall at all reasonable times be subject to the inspection of the mayor and council, or any member thereof.
(Code 1965, § 2-50(d))
Sec. 2-125. - Delivery of records to successor in office; final settlement of accounts.
(a)
Before retiring from office, the city clerk shall turn over to his successor in office all the books, records, papers, maps, and vouchers of the city and the seal of the city, taking his receipt therefor, which shall be recorded by his successor, for all of which articles coming into the hands of the clerk he shall be held accountable.
(b)
Immediately upon the expiration of his term of office he shall surrender all money remaining in his hands, notes, bonds, and other evidences of debt due the city, or assets of any kind whatever that may come into his hands during his term of service, not otherwise accounted for, for which his successor shall give proper vouchers, which vouchers he shall file in final settlement of his accounts with the city council.
(Code 1965, §§ 2-50(e), 2-52(c))
Sec. 2-126. - Records retention schedule.
(a)
Those local government records retention schedules as promulgated by the Office of the Secretary of State of the State of Georgia, as amended from time to time, and found on the following website:
http:/sos.georgia.gov.archives/pdf/state_spec_reports/Local_Government_Schedules_Nov_07.pdf
are hereby approved and adopted as Records Retention Schedules for the City of Sylvester.
(b)
The city clerk is responsible for records management activities and is charged with the responsibility for directing and coordinating all records management matters.
(c)
No record shall be destroyed except in accordance with approved retention schedules.
(d)
Whenever any records are destroyed, a certificate of destruction shall be prepared and forwarded to the city clerk who shall show the type of records destroyed, the approved retention schedule number, the dates covered, and the volume destroyed.
(Ord. No. 2004-03, §§ 1—4, 2-16-2004; Ord. No. 2008-14, §§ 1—4, 10-20-2008)
Secs. 2-127—2-150. - Reserved.
DIVISION 4. - CITY ATTORNEY

Sec. 2-151. - Qualifications.
No one shall be elected city attorney who has not been duly admitted to the State Bar of Georgia.
(Code 1965, § 2-51(b))
Sec. 2-152. - Compensation.
The city attorney shall receive such salary as may be prescribed by resolution of the mayor and council, and the salary shall not be increased or diminished during his term of office.
(Code 1965, § 2-51(c))
Sec. 2-153. - Representation of city in legal actions.
The city attorney is hereby appointed as the legal representative of the city in all cases of litigation brought by or against the city.
(Code 1965, § 2-51(a))
Sec. 2-154. - Additional duties.
The city attorney shall be the legal adviser of the city when called on for opinions from the proper heads of the different departments of the city, provided he may demand that the question proposed shall be made in writing. He shall be under no duty to act until the different matters properly referable to the legal department are referred to him for attention by the respective heads of the departments of the city. He shall keep a record of all opinions rendered by him and of all cases brought by or against the city. On request of the mayor and council, or any member thereof, it shall be his duty to draft any ordinance or resolution for introduction, and in such cases he may demand that the request be in writing, setting forth in detail the subject matter of the proposed legislation. When requested, he shall attend all committee or commission meetings of the city. In addition to the duties prescribed in this section, he shall perform such other duties as are by ordinance imposed upon his office.
(Code 1965, § 2-51(d))
Secs. 2-155—2-180. - Reserved.
DIVISION 5. - SUPERINTENDENT OF PUBLIC WORKS[3]

Footnotes:
--- (3) ---
Cross reference— Utilities, ch. 94.

Sec. 2-181. - Compensation.
modified
The superintendent of public works shall be the department head of the public works department, and it shall be appointed by the city manager and subject to supervision, removal and suspension by the city manager as set forth in Section 3.10 of the Charter of the City of Sylvester.
(Code 1965, § 2-53(a); Ord. No. 2021-06 , § I, 8-2-2021)
Sec. 2-182. - Duties generally; police powers.
The superintendent of public works shall perform such duties as are prescribed by lawful order of the mayor and council, and he shall be clothed with police authority to arrest for violations of all regulations pertaining to his office.
(Code 1965, § 2-53(c))
Sec. 2-183. - Property inventory.
(a)
The superintendent of public works shall make and keep a correct inventory of all property belonging to the city and coming into his charge, and shall make an annual report of such property, which report shall show:
(1)
The number of articles (named) on hand at the date of the last report;
(2)
The number of articles (named) received since the last report;
(3)
The number of articles (named) at the date of the present report; and
(4)
A note of the condition of the property on hand.
(b)
The report shall show all property, or account for its absence. On retiring from office he shall take, and file with the city clerk, a receipt from his successor for all property in his hands belonging to the city, which receipt shall be credited on his account with the city, and all property unaccounted for shall be charged to him at the cost price, and, unless paid for, suit shall be entered on his bond for the amount due.
(Code 1965, § 2-53(d))
Secs. 2-184—2-200. - Reserved.
DIVISION 6. - BONDS

Sec. 2-201. - Terms; payment of cost.
All officers and employees of the city shall give good and solvent bond, acceptable to the mayor and council, payable to the mayor and his successors in office, for the benefit of the city, and for the use and benefit of the public, to secure and indemnify the city and the public for any loss or damage by reason of their default, misfeasance, malfeasance, nonfeasance or negligence. No officer or employee shall be qualified until such bond has been given and approved, and the bond shall be filed with the clerk and safely kept by him. The amounts of the bonds shall be as in this Code provided for the respective officers, and the cost thereof shall be paid by the city.
(Code 1965, § 2-39)
Sec. 2-202. - Amount.
Employees of the city shall be bonded in the following amounts:
(1)
City clerk: $15,000.00.
(2)
Employees in city office: $5,000.00.
(3)
Chief of police: $5,000.00.
(4)
City manager: $100,000.00.
(Code 1965, § 2-40)
Sec. 2-203. - Authority to increase amount of bond or require additional security.
All bonds given by officers and employees of the city may, by a majority of the council whenever the interests of the city shall require it, be required to be increased in amount, or additional security may be required. In case any officer elected shall fail or refuse to give bond, or shall fail to give additional security or to increase the amount of his bond, his office shall be declared vacant, and the vacancy shall be filled in the manner prescribed by law or ordinance.
(Code 1965, § 2-41)
Secs. 2-204—2-220. - Reserved.
DIVISION 7. - SOCIAL SECURITY[4]

Footnotes:
--- (4) ---
State Law reference— Social security coverage for employees of political subdivisions, O.C.G.A. § 47-18-1 et seq.

Sec. 2-221. - Authorized.
It is hereby declared to be the policy and purpose of the city, at the earliest date possible under the agreement entered into by the state and the federal Social Security Administration, to extend to the employees and officials thereof, and its instrumentalities, not excluded by law or by this division, the benefits of the system of Old Age and Survivors Insurance as authorized by the federal Social Security Act, the state enabling act, and amendments thereto. In pursuance of such policy, and for that purpose the city shall take such action as may be required by applicable state or federal laws or regulations.
(Code 1965, § 2-64)
Sec. 2-222. - Execution of necessary documents.
The mayor shall execute all necessary agreements and amendments thereto with the Employees' Retirement System of Georgia for coverage of city employees and officials as provided for in section 2-221, to include any employees that are in positions covered by a public retirement system, in the manner by such law provided, namely, firefighters.
(Code 1965, § 2-65)
Sec. 2-223. - Amendment to original plan.
(a)
The mayor or other designated official of the city is hereby authorized and directed to execute an agreement amending the original plan and agreement with the Employees' Retirement System of Georgia, providing for the release of social security escrow deposits.
(b)
The city agrees to abide by the rules and regulations of the Employees' Retirement System of Georgia, referred to in this section as the "state agency," in regard to collections from city employees and in making reports and payments to the state agency.
(c)
The city hereby pledges an amount which it would receive in state grant funds as security for assurance that it will make collections from its employees, submit required reports, and remit payments to the state agency as agreed to in its plan of coverage of employees for social security benefits. The city further agrees that if the amount of state grant funds which it is entitled to receive in a calendar year is less than its annual payment to the state agency, as may be determined by the state agency, then the city shall deposit in escrow, when so notified in writing by the state agency and in accordance with its rules and regulations, an amount which, when added to the city's state grant funds, would total an amount sufficient to meet its obligations of reporting and remitting collections to the state agency.
(Code 1965, § 2-65.1)
Editor's note— The agreement mentioned in the above section is on file in the city clerk's office.
Sec. 2-224. - Withholding from salaries and wages.
Withholdings from salaries or wages of employees and officials for the purpose provided for in section 2-221 are hereby authorized to be made in the amounts and at such times as may be required by applicable state or federal laws or regulations, and shall be paid over to the state agency.
(Code 1965, § 2-66)
Sec. 2-225. - Appropriations by city.
There shall be appropriated from general funds such amounts at such times as may be required by applicable state or federal laws or regulations for employer's contributions, administrative expenses, and guaranty fund to ensure that the state will not incur any debt or loss as a result of the agreement referred to in section 2-221. Such funds shall be paid over to the Employees' Retirement System of Georgia in accordance with regulations established by such agency.
(Code 1965, § 2-67)
Sec. 2-226. - Records and reports.
The city shall keep such records and make such reports pursuant to this division as may be required by applicable state or federal laws or regulations.
(Code 1965, § 2-68)
Sec. 2-227. - Limitation on coverage.
There is hereby excluded from this division any authority to make any agreement with respect to any position or any employee or official not authorized to be covered by applicable state or federal laws or regulations.
(Code 1965, § 2-69)
Secs. 2-228—2-250. - Reserved.
