ARTICLE XV. - FH FLOOD HAZARD DISTRICT[7]

Footnotes:
--- (7) ---
State Law reference— Floods, ch. 54.

Section 15.01. - Statement of purpose.
[The intent of the FH flood hazard district is] to restrict or prohibit uses which may be dangerous to health, safety or property in times of flood, or which may cause increased flood heights or velocities; to require that uses vulnerable to floods, including public facilities which serve such uses, be provided with physical flood protection features at the time of initial construction; to protect individuals from buying lands which are unsuited for intended purposes because of flood hazards; and other public requirements to protect against floods.
Section 15.02. - District boundaries.
For the purpose of these regulations, the Flood Insurance Study for the City of Sylvester, as prepared by the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development, Federal Insurance Administration, is hereby made a part of these regulations. The Housing and Urban Development reports shall be kept permanently in the office of the zoning administrator, where said reports shall be accessible to the general public. The boundaries of the flood hazard district shall be synonymous with the limits of the flood region as determined in the above said study (100-year floodplain).
Section 15.03. - Permitted uses.
[Permitted uses in the FH district shall include the following:]
A.
Single-family residences.
B.
Agriculture, poultry and livestock raising and riding stables.
C.
Noncommercial recreational facilities involving only light structures primarily for purposes of shelter and equipment storage, such as, fishing lakes, golf courses, tennis courts, archery clubs, and swimming pools.
D.
Park and outdoor recreational facilities.
Section 15.04. - Required plans.
No permit shall be issued for the construction of any building or structure within the flood hazard district until the plans for such construction or use have been submitted to the planning commission and approval is given in writing for such construction or use. In its review of plans submitted, the planning commission shall be guided by the following standards, keeping in mind that the purpose of this district is to prevent encroachment into the floodway which will unduly increase flood heights and endanger life and property:
A.
Any structure or the filling of land permitted shall be of a type not appreciably damaged by floodwaters.
B.
Any permitted structure or the filling of land shall be designed, constructed and placed on the lot so as to offer the minimum obstruction to and effect upon the flow of water.
C.
Any structure, equipment or material permitted shall be firmly anchored to prevent it from floating away and thus damaging other structures and threatening to obstruct bridge openings and other restricted sections of the stream.
D.
Where, in the opinion of the planning commission, topographic data, engineering and other studies are needed to determine the effects of flooding on a proposed structure or fill and/or the effect of the structure or fill on the flow of water, the planning commission may require the applicant to submit such data or other studies prepared by competent engineers and other technical people.
E.
The granting of approval of any structure or use shall not constitute a representation, guarantee or warranty of any kind or nature by the City of Sylvester or by any officer or employee thereof of the practicality or safety of any structure or use proposed and shall create no liability upon of [or] cause action against such public body, officer or employee for any damage that may result pursuant thereto.
Section 15.05. - Warning of disclaimer of liability.
The degree of flood protection required by these regulations is considered reasonable for regulatory purposes and is based on engineering and scientific methods of study. Larger floods may occur on rare occasions or the flood height may be increased by manmade or natural causes, such as bridge openings restricted by debris. These regulations do not imply that areas outside the flood [hazard] district boundaries or land uses permitted within such district will be free from flooding or flood damages. These regulations shall not create liability on the part of the government or any officer or employee thereof for any flood damage that results from reliance on these regulations or any administrative decision lawfully made thereunder.
Section 15.06. - Area, height, bulk and placement required.
[Area, height, bulk and placement requirements in the FH district shall be] in accordance with the attached schedule of regulations, [as set forth in] article XIX.
