PART I - CHARTER AND RELATED LAWS[1]

Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Editor's note— Part I of this Code consists of Ga. Laws 1939, page 81, and the Charter of Sylvania, Ga. Laws 1963, page 2030, as amended. The origin of and amendments to each section are shown in parentheses following each section. Additionally, the comparative tables immediately following this part show the disposition of all Ga. Laws and amendatory ordinances included herein.
The provisions of Ga. Laws 1963, page 2030, have been arranged by subject matter and numbered consecutively for purposes of indexing and ease of reference. The editors have supplied catchlines and inserted material in brackets where necessary to correct obvious errors or for clarification, and have omitted all titles and enacting, repealing, severability and effective date clauses. Obvious punctuation errors have been corrected without notation and a uniform style of number expression and citation to state statutes has been employed.

Section 1.101. - Incorporation, name and style.
The City of Sylvania, in Screven County, Georgia, is hereby incorporated as a city under the name and style of the City of Sylvania, hereinafter referred to as "the city."
(1963 Ga. Laws, page 2030, § 1)
Section 1.102. - Continuation of existing laws, rights and liabilities.
All ordinances and resolutions of said city not inconsistent with this charter shall remain in full force and effect for the city until altered, amended or repealed. All property and property rights held, owned or possessed by the city and all pending suits or claims by or against said city are preserved and unaltered.
(1963 Ga. Laws, page 2030, § 2)
Section 1.103. - Corporate seal.
The city shall have a corporate seal which shall consist of a round metal stamp with the words "City of Sylvania, Screven County, Georgia, Corporate Seal" so fixed and arranged in such metal stamp that said seal can be impressed on documents and written instruments to which the city is a party. The city clerk shall have custody of the corporate seal and shall impress documents therewith when duly authorized.
(1963 Ga. Laws, page 2030, § 3)
Section 1.104. - Territorial boundaries.
The corporate limits of the city shall extend for a radius of one mile from the center of the county courthouse in the City of Sylvania.
(1963 Ga. Laws, page 2030, § 4)
Section 1.105. - Specific powers enumerated.
The city shall have power and authority to:
(1)
Buy and sell water, gas, electricity and other public utilities at cost or for a profit, both within and without the territorial boundaries of the city. Erect, establish, and operate all facilities including lines, mains, pipes, machinery, plants, and structures necessary for the maintenance and operation of such utilities, including the repair and replacement of the same.
(2)
Adopt ordinances binding on everyone within the city to protect the health, peace, safety, good order, dignity and general welfare of the city and the inhabitants thereof.
(3)
Exercise complete control over all the public streets, roads, ways, drives, lanes, alleys, sidewalks, crossings, and parks of the city. They shall have full and complete power and authority to open, curb, locate, relocate, replace, work, straighten, abandon, close, drain, pave and repave the same, or cause the same to be done.
(4)
Establish a system of numbering houses in the city, and to assign appropriate street numbers to the various houses on the various streets, alleys, roads, lanes, drives and ways of the city, and to compel said houses to be properly numbered.
(5)
Control by ordinance the time, manner, terms, conditions, and places of all sewer connections and how much surface or drainage water may flow into such sewers, and the terms and conditions on which it will be permitted, and at what points, and generally all matters relating to the construction, use, control, maintenance, repair, replacement, improvement and removal of sewers and sewer connections, and the cutting and replacing of pavement and other adjacent structures shall at all times be under the control and regulation of the city council in its fair and legal discretion.
(6)
Control by ordinance the construction, maintenance and removal and replacement of all city culverts, pipes, sewers, drains, private drains, water closets, urinals, privies, toilets, and the like, and provide for their location, structure, size and use, in all particulars, as may be deemed best for the health, comfort and general welfare of the inhabitants of the city. The city council shall have power and authority to prescribe by ordinance the kind of water closets, urinals, privies and plumbing which shall be used in the corporate limits, and to condemn and compel the disuse of same when they shall become and are declared a nuisance by a court having jurisdiction. The city council shall also have power and authority to compel the owner or owners of property within the city to connect water closets, sinks, commodes and urinals on their property with the sewers and sanitary system of said city when such property is located within a reasonable distance of such sewer, and under such rules and regulations as may be prescribed by ordinance. If any property owner shall fail or refuse to make connections as required by city ordinance or resolution, such owner shall be punished as provided by ordinance.
(7)
Contract with other municipalities and political subdivisions, and to cooperate with the other municipalities and political subdivisions, in acquiring, establishing, constructing, building, maintaining, and/or operating such garbage disposal, water, sewerage, electric and/or gas plants, lines and/or facilities, and streets, sidewalks and parks within and/[or] without the limits of the city, as well as library and other institutions, utilities and/or services, in addition to existing plants, systems, building[s], facilities, lines and services as the city council may at any time deem for the best interest of said city.
(8)
Levy, assess and collect taxes to raise sufficient revenue to pay for the improvements, services, equipment and/or facilities provided for in any contract or agreement to which the city is or may become a party.
(9)
Issue and sell bonds for the purpose of paying bonds of the city and interest thereon, and for any public or other purpose allowed by the constitution and laws of this state, and to issue and sell revenue anticipation certificates as now or hereafter allowed by law.
(10)
Provide by ordinance for reporting all property in the city subject to taxation by the city, whether such property be realty or personalty, tangible or intangible, and to require all persons owning such property to file a written statement and description of such property with the fair market value thereof under oath.
(11)
Prescribe by ordinance a penalty for failure to make such return or report within the time prescribed by ordinance; provided such penalty shall not exceed the sum of double the amount of tax levied against such person or taxpayer failing to make or file such return. Such penalty shall be a lien upon property of the defaulter and shall be collected in the same manner as the taxes of the city. Such penalty shall be established at the discretion of the mayor and council at the time taxes are levied.
(12)
Assess the costs of sewers against abutting lots of real estate and the owners thereof on each side of a street in which such sewer is laid or constructed, and the owners of such abutting real estate shall have the right to have the drains from their abutting lots connected with such sewer at their cost under such rules and regulations as the city council may prescribe by ordinance.
(13)
Control and/or prohibit the manufacture and/or sale of all alcoholic beverages, and to tax, license, regulate and control hotels, boardinghouses, apartments, restaurants, theatres, dance halls, athletic and sporting events and places and all other entertainment activities and places, regulate the operation of all vehicles used for pleasure or business, and garages, mills, factories, ginneries, gas and water companies; regulate the use of its streets for all purposes, and prevent their use for business, or regulate business use by taxation and otherwise, including the right to impose a reasonable license tax for use of streets for business purposes; to prevent stock and poultry from running at large, and to seize and impound any domestic or wild animal or fowl found at large within the city limits; and to provide by proper ordinance for the redemption or sale of the same; and to adopt such ordinances as may be considered necessary to carry out the provisions of this act.
(14)
Grant franchises, easements and rights-of-way over, in, under and on public streets, lanes, alleys, sidewalks, parks and other property of said city on such terms and conditions and for such lengths of time as it may fix; provided, franchises shall not be granted without fair and adequate compensation provided for in the franchise ordinance; and provided further, that no such franchise shall be granted until notice has been published at least one time one week preceding the week in which the city council meets to consider such application, stating the nature of the franchise, the streets, lanes, alleys, sidewalks, parks or other property on or through which it is desired, the terms of such grant and the time at which the city council will act upon such application.
(15)
Employ or cause to be employed a certified public accountant to examine and audit all books of account and pertinent records of all officers, employees, and agencies of said city relative to the financial affairs of the city whenever and as often as the city council shall consider proper, and shall fix his compensation. The compensation of such accountant may be fixed on an hourly or other basis before, after, or at the time of his employment. It shall require at least one examination and report every year.
(16)
Pave or otherwise improve the whole or any part of any street, sidewalk or alley of said city, without giving any railroad company, or other property holder or occupant on the street the option to pave or otherwise improve the same or any part thereof by themselves or by contract.
(17)
Define a nuisance in the city and provide for its abatement. The recorder's court of the city shall have jurisdiction of all nuisance abatement proceedings in the city.
(18)
Remove any building, stall, booth, tent, awning, steps, gate, fence, post, wires, stump, tree, structure, pole, or other obstruction or nuisance in a public street, sidewalk or way or so near thereto as to constitute a defect or render the city liable in damages for not removing it, or cause the aforesaid to be removed at the owner's expense if the owner shall fail or refuse to remove the same within such reasonable time as may be fixed by order of the city recorder, or mayor when acting as recorder, and execution shall issue against said owner for the expense thereof as in case of executions for unpaid taxes, and said owner shall also be subject to punishment for maintaining a nuisance.
(19)
Regulate, lay out, open, relocate, straighten, improve, grade, and control old and new streets, lanes, alleys, street curbing, street crossing and sidewalks, and no person or corporation shall at any time hereafter lay out, locate, relocate, open, extend, or close any street, lane, road, alley, way, sidewalk, park or square contrary to the plan of the city nor without the consent of the city council, and any application for this purpose shall, with an appropriate plat, first be filed with the city engineer or such officer as the city council may designate by ordinance, and notice thereof shall be given the public or parties in interest by publication of notice as required by law and the ordinances of the city. If such application is granted, the owner shall relinquish all rights and titles to the area involved and the same shall pass to and become vested in the city, and all management and control over the same shall pass unequivocably to the city.
(20)
Impose and collect a license and a tax on dogs within the city in such a manner and mode as it may deem best.
(21)
License electricians, plumbers, contractors and others and to require examinations as conditions precedent to granting of such license; create examining boards and prescribe by ordinance the minimum requirements in such examinations, and to appoint the members of such boards.
(22)
Condemn or cause worn out sewers, street pavement, street curbing, or sidewalks within the city to be condemned, reconstructed, replaced or repaired, as the case may require, at the expense of owners of lots of real estate abutting thereon (or against the real estate and owner or owners thereof for whose sole benefit such improvement exists in case of sewers laid solely for the benefit of persons other than owners of real estate abutting thereon), and assess the cost thereof (or in case of street paving such part of the costs as the city council shall deem just and proper) against such abutting lots of real estate and the owners thereof (or in cases of sewers constructed solely for the benefit of a person or persons other than abutting lot owners against other real estate, and the owners thereof for the sole benefit of which such sewer exists), as in the case of original construction of the same kind of improvements.
(23)
Provide, by ordinance, a civil service system for city officers and employees and/or provide by ordinance for a system of retirement for city officers and employees, which retirement system may be that of old age and survivor's insurance.
(24)
Regulate the subdivision of land in the city by requiring and regulating the preparation and presentation of preliminary plats, by establishing minimum improvements to be made or to be guaranteed to be made by the subdivider, by setting forth the procedure to be followed by the planning commission in applying rules, regulations, and standards, and by providing for penalties for violation of aforesaid rules, regulations and standards.
(25)
Advertise the advantages of the city and promote the growth and interests of the city, or the welfare of its inhabitants, in such manner as shall be determined by the mayor and council of the city, including, but not limited to, the encouragement and promotion of economic development, including retail, commercial and residential development, to contract with public and private entities to carry out such purposes, and to appropriate funds for such purposes.
(26)
To enter into contracts and agreements with other governmental entities and with private persons, firms, corporations and other private entities.
(27)
To make appropriations for the support of the government of the city; to authorize the expenditure of money for any purposes authorized by this charter and for any purpose for which a municipality is authorized by the laws of the State of Georgia, and to provide for the payment of expenses of the city.
(28)
Receive and accept federal and state funds for, and to engage and participate in, any "transportation enhancement activity" as defined in 23 USC § 101 or other federal or state law now existing or hereinafter enacted, whether within or outside of the City, and to appropriate funds and provide in-kind services, labor, materials or real estate required for the local contribution to receive such federal or state funds.
(1963 Ga. Laws, page 2030, § 9; Ord. No. 460, § 1, 3-16-10; Ord. No. 468, § 1, 12-21-10; Ord. No. 478, 11-20-12)
Section 1.106. - Real estate.
The city shall have power and authority to rent, lease, buy, sell or otherwise hold or dispose of any or all of its buildings, parks or other real estate for a fair and adequate consideration.
(1963 Ga. Laws, page 2030, § 7)
Section 1.107. - Power of eminent domain.
The city, as a body politic, shall have the full power and authority to acquire, by the exercise of the power of eminent domain, any real property or any interest therein, within or without the corporate limits of the said city, which it may deem necessary for any corporate purpose.
(1963 Ga. Laws, page 2030, § 51)
Section 1.108. - Power to condemn land and property for public use.
The city shall have the power and authority to condemn under the rules and methods and regulations provided by law, land and property for any public use, to wit: for streets, alleys, sidewalks, ditches, drainage, public playgrounds, parks, public libraries, waterworks, light plants, cemeteries, jails and for any and all public uses, when needed.
(1963 Ga. Laws, page 2030, § 52)
Section 1.109. - Board of health, authorized.
The mayor and city council shall also have authority to provide by ordinance for a board of health to be composed of such members as may be provided for in said ordinance; to prescribe their terms of office and define their powers, authority and compensation. The mayor and council in their discretion may provide for a joint city-county board of health.
(1963 Ga. Laws, page 2030, § 75)
Section 2.101. - Mayor and councilmen.
The office of mayor and three seats on the city council, presently filled by a mayor and councilmen whose terms expire on December 31, 1963, shall be filled for an initial period of three years or until December 31, 1966, in an election to be held on Thursday after the first Monday in December, 1963, and thereafter said three council seats and the office of mayor shall be filled by elections for terms of four years. The three seats on the city council, the terms of which expire on December 31, 1964, shall be filled by an election to be held on Thursday after the first Monday in December, 1964, for four-year terms all of which shall expire on December 31, 1968.
After the expiration of the terms of three members of the city council and the mayor, all of which terms shall expire on December 31, 1966, all seats on the city council shall then be filled by election for a term of four years for the mayor and all city councilmen.
(1963 Ga. Laws, page 2030, § 22)
Section 2.102. - Vacancy in office of mayor, councilmen.
In the event there shall occur a vacancy in the office of mayor, caused by the death, resignation or removal of the incumbent, the city council shall immediately call an election to fill such vacancy, which election shall be called to be held within ten days. In the filling of such vacancy they shall give due and timely notice by appropriate notice and advertising. But in the event of vacancy occurring in the office of councilmen, the mayor and city council, as soon thereafter as possible, shall elect some qualified citizen to fill such vacancy and he shall hold office until the next regular municipal election. Provided, however, that should a vacancy occur in the office of mayor from one of the above causes, the mayor pro tem shall assume all of the duties of the office of mayor until the vacancy is filled by the election aforesaid.
(1963 Ga. Laws, page 2030, § 23)
Section 2.103. - Qualifications of mayor and councilmen; oath.
(a)
No person shall be eligible to qualify or hold office of mayor or councilman of said city unless he shall have been a resident thereof for a period not less than one year immediately preceding the election in which he is to be a candidate; and shall be a qualified voter in the municipal elections for officers of said city; and shall qualify as a candidate by filing his name with the city clerk and by giving to the city clerk, in writing, the oath hereinafter prescribed; and shall not be indebted for any tax due said city which is more than 12 months past due.
(b)
Any person desiring to qualify as a candidate for office of mayor or councilman in said city shall take the following written oath, setting forth the information called for therein, which oath shall be kept on file in the city clerk's office: "I do solemnly swear that I have resided in the City of Sylvania, Screven County, Georgia, for a period not less than one year immediately preceding the election in which I am a candidate; further that I am a qualified voter in the municipal elections for officers of the City of Sylvania; further that I am not indebted to the City of Sylvania for any tax which is more than 12 months past due; so help me God."
(1963 Ga. Laws, page 2030, § 24)
Section 2.104. - Oath of office.
On January 1, or within ten days thereafter after the election of said mayor and councilmen, and before they enter upon the discharge of their official duties, the mayor shall, before some officer authorized to administer oaths, take and subscribe the following oath: "I do solemnly swear that I will, to the best of my ability, discharge the duties of the mayor of the City of Sylvania during my continuance of office, so help me God," and the mayor, after being so qualified, shall have full power and authority to administer a like oath to each member of the council.
(1963 Ga. Laws, page 2030, § 25)
Section 2.105. - Mayor's duties and powers.
Said mayor shall have the same power as the justice of the peace, to witness and attest papers, to administer oaths, to issue criminal warrants and to hold courts of inquiry; he may commit offenders tried before him as a court of inquiry, or may admit them to bail in cases where a justice of the peace has power to bail. He shall have the right to remit or reduce the fines imposed by the municipal court imposed upon defendants charged with violating any of the city laws; he shall have authority to pardon all offenders convicted before the recorder's court. He shall be clothed with the power of veto; it shall be his right to veto all ordinances, resolutions, permits and privileges passed on or granted by said council if he sees fit to do so, and said veto shall in no wise be affected except by a two-thirds vote of council.
(1963 Ga. Laws, page 2030, § 26; 1963 Ga. Laws, page 2835, § 1)
Section 2.106. - Salaries.
The mayor, municipal court judge and each member of the council shall be paid such salaries for their services as may be fixed each year by the mayor and city council in December of each year prior to the annual election, to apply to the ensuring term of office. The salary of the mayor shall not be less than $600.00 per annum nor more than $4,800.00 per annum; the salary of the municipal court judge shall be not less than $1,200.00 per annum nor more than $7,200.00 per annum; and the salary of the members of the city council shall not be less than $300.00 per annum nor more than $2,400.00 per annum, which amounts shall not be increased or diminished during the terms of office.
(1963 Ga. Laws, page 2030, § 27; Ord. No. 248, 1-5-85; Ord. No. 316, 8-20-91)
Section 2.107. - Mayor pro tempore; election of; duties; etc.
At the first regular meeting after election and organization, the council shall elect some one of their number as mayor pro tempore who shall preside over their body in the absence of the mayor and shall be clothed with all the rights and powers of the mayor during the absence of the mayor. Before entering upon any of the duties as such mayor pro tempore, he shall take such oath as the council shall prescribe for the faithful discharge of his duties; in the event of the absence of both the mayor and mayor pro tempore, the council shall elect a chairman from their body who shall be clothed with all the rights and powers of the mayor and shall serve during the absence of both the said mayor and mayor pro tempore upon his taking the same oath as mayor. In case of the death, resignation, removal, or disqualification of the mayor, the mayor pro tempore upon taking the oath as mayor shall serve as mayor with all rights, powers and duties of the latter officer.
(1963 Ga. Laws, page 2030, § 28)
Section 2.108. - Municipal officers.
The mayor and council at their first meeting in January of each year, or as soon thereafter as practicable, shall elect the following officers, a majority of the votes cast being in every case sufficient to elect, to wit: a municipal court judge, a city attorney, and a board of tax assessors consisting of at least three members and no more than five members, and the said mayor and council shall by ordinance prescribe the duties, fix the bonds and fix the compensation of said officers elected by their body, each of the said officers before entering upon the discharge of their duties shall give bond and take and subscribe an oath to discharge the duties of the office to which he has been elected.
(1963 Ga. Laws, page 2030, § 29; 1963 Ga. Laws, page 2835, § 2)
Section 2.108(a). - City physician.
The mayor and council, at their first meeting in January of each year, or as soon thereafter as practicable, shall elect by majority vote a city physician for a term of one year, or, in the discretion of the mayor and council, for a term of less than one year, and provide for the appointment on a rotational basis of any two or more physicians within the said one-year period for a term or terms as may be prescribed by the mayor and council.
(Ord. No. 320, 2-4-92)
Section 2.109. - Council meetings, time and place; presiding officer; quorum.
The mayor and council shall meet for the transaction of business at such times and places as they may prescribe. At all the meetings of the mayor and council, the mayor, if present, shall preside, and he may vote in all cases of a tie; he may also vote in all elections for officers who are elected by the board, whether there be a tie or not, the mayor and four members of the council to constitute a quorum for the transaction of business. A less number, in the absence of a quorum, may adjourn a regular meeting to future time.
(1963 Ga. Laws, page 2030, § 32)
Code reference—Council meetings, § 2-26.
Section 2.110. - Power to enact ordinances; maximum penalty.
Said mayor and council shall have full power to pass all ordinances, bylaws and regulations which they may deem necessary to the good government of said city, the protection of property, peace, good order, health, comfort and convenience of the citizens thereof, and to fix suitable penalties for the violation of the same. They may provide for punishing violators of their ordinances, bylaws, resolutions by fine, imprisonment in the city prison, or working in the public works camp; the fines in no case to exceed $1,000.00 and the imprisonment in the city prison not to exceed six months, and sentence in the public works camp not to exceed six months, and either one or all of said penalties may be imposed at the discretion of the municipal court.
(1963 Ga. Laws, page 2030, § 33; Ord. No. 460, § 1, 3-16-10)
Section 2.111. - Legal publication.
After being read in the council meeting all ordinances shall be published at least once in a newspaper of general circulation within the city and, in addition, a copy shall be posted on the bulletin board in the lobby of the city hall for a period of at least five days; the newspaper publication of such ordinances may be by title only, but in such event it shall give notice that a complete copy of such ordinances shall be posted as hereinabove provided; no ordinance shall come up for passage prior to the expiration of the aforementioned five-day period.
(1963 Ga. Laws, page 2030, § 5)
Section 2.112. - Failure or refusal to vote on measure.
The failure or refusal of a member of the city council or of any commission, committee, board, bureau or agency of the city to vote when the proper time comes to vote, on a question pending before such city council, commission, committee, board, bureau, or agency, at a meeting legally held and at which such member is in attendance, shall be construed as a vote in favor of the pending proposal. The failure or refusal of a majority of the members of any body duly convened shall be counted as votes in favor of the measure under consideration and amounts to its adoption.
(1963 Ga. Laws, page 2030, § 34)
Section 2.113. - Existing ordinances preserved.
This act shall not abolish any of the ordinances now in effect in said city except where they are in conflict with the provisions of this act, but the same shall be preserved and continued.
(1963 Ga. Laws, page 2030, § 76)
Section 2.114. - Compensation of employees.
The salary or compensation of heads of departments and other administrative employees shall be fixed by ordinance or resolution of council upon the recommendation of the city manager, such ordinance or resolution of council to provide uniform compensation for like services except that an increase in compensation of any department head of [or] employee may be granted upon the basis of seniority and efficiency.
(1963 Ga. Laws, page 2835, § 6)
Section 2.115. - Ordinances, bylaws, rules and regulations, passage for good order, peace, health and general welfare.
The said mayor and council shall have the authority to make and pass such ordinances, bylaws, rules and regulations for the government of said city as may be necessary and proper to carry into effect the powers herein enumerated and to provide for the good order, peace, health and general welfare of said citizens of said city as the mayor and council may deem proper and necessary, being also authorized to appoint such committees of counsel as may be necessary and such boards, bureaus and officials as may be necessary to carry into effect the power herein granted. The said mayor and council shall also have the power and authority to appropriate and pay out such funds as may be necessary for carrying into effect the powers above granted.
(1963 Ga. Laws, page 2030, § 35)
Section 2.116. - Committees of council.
The mayor and city council may provide by ordinance for such committees as they may deem fit for the best interest of said city, prescribing the duties of such committees and define their authority.
(1963 Ga. Laws, page 2030, § 36; 1963 Ga. Laws, page 2835, § 9)
Section 2.117. - Impeachment; causes.
If the mayor or any member of the city council of said city shall be guilty of malpractice, willful neglect of their duties, abuse of their powers, or any other unbecoming conduct, they shall be subject to impeachment by the city council, and upon conviction, shall be removed from office.
(1963 Ga. Laws, page 2030, § 37)
Section 2.118. - Same; trial.
In impeachment trials before the city council, the affirmative vote of at least four members shall be required to convict, and the mayor shall be entitled to vote, except in case he is on trial, in which case he may not vote. The city recorder shall preside in all impeachment trials unless he is disqualified, in which case the presiding judge of the Superior Court of Screven County shall designate some qualified lawyer to preside over such trial, but such officer presiding over said impeachment trial shall not vote, even in case of a tie. The city recorder shall not be qualified to preside over such impeachment trial unless he shall have been engaged actively in the practice of law for at least five years next preceding such trial. On an impeachment trial, a tie-vote shall acquit the accused. An impeachment resolution against the mayor shall not be subject to his veto. A judgment of conviction in an impeachment proceeding shall vacate the office of the convicted mayor or councilmen.
(1963 Ga. Laws, page 2030, § 38)
Section 2.201. - Election for mayor and council.
On Thursday after the first Monday in December of each even numbered year, except as set out in section 2.101, there shall be held in the City of Sylvania at some public place designated by the mayor and councilmen, a general election to fill vacancies in the offices of mayor and councilmen, whose terms of office shall be for four years concurrent with the calendar year. Any qualified person seeking election as mayor or councilman in such election shall file notice of his intention to be a candidate with the clerk of council at least two weeks prior to such election, before noon. Should there for any cause fail to be an election at the time specified, the mayor and council, shall order an election to be held and shall post a notice of the time of such election in the City of Sylvania at the public place designated by the mayor and councilmen for at least ten days previous thereto. At all such elections the polls shall not be opened earlier than 7:00 a.m., and shall close at 7:00 p.m. All elections shall be held by a justice of the peace, or ordinary of Screven County, assisted by two or more freeholders, all of whom shall be citizens of said city and own real estate therein, and each of said managers before entering upon his duties shall take and subscribe before some officer qualified to administer an oath, or before each other, the following oath: "We, and each of us, do swear that we will faithfully and impartially conduct this election and prevent illegal voting to the best of our skill and power, so help us God." Such election shall be conducted under the rules and regulations governing elections for members of the General Assembly, except that only two lists of voters and two tally sheets shall be kept.
(1963 Ga. Laws, page 2030, § 48)
Code reference—Elections, § 2-51.
Section 2.202. - Voter registration.
The mayor and city council may provide by ordinance for the registration of voters, and no person shall be allowed to vote at any city election except such persons as shall have duly registered in compliance with the terms of said ordinance.
(1963 Ga. Laws, page 2030, § 49)
Section 2.203. - Preservation of election ballots.
In all city elections after the votes have been counted by the election managers, they must sign a certificate stating the number of votes each person voted for received, which certificate shall be delivered to the city clerk at the city hall not later than 10:00 in the morning after the said election. The ballots shall not be examined by the managers or bystanders, but shall be carefully sealed in a strong envelope or box, together with all tally sheets which must bear the signatures of the managers. Said box or envelope shall then be securely sealed with the names of the managers across the seals thereof and delivered immediately after the completion of the election (and the counting of the ballots) to the ordinary of Screven County, by whom they shall be kept, and who shall securely lock same in his vault and they shall be kept unopened and unaltered for a period of 30 days, after which time if said election is not contested, the said ballots shall be destroyed by said ordinary, without examining the same himself, or permitting others to do so. And if said ordinary or any other person shall violate any of this section he shall, upon conviction, be punished as provided in section 27-2506 of the Code of Georgia of 1933.
(1963 Ga. Laws, page 2030, § 50)
Section 2.301. - City manager.
The city council after the passage of this act shall select and appoint a city manager whose salary shall be fixed by council and whose term of office shall be indefinite and whose duties, powers and qualifications shall be as hereinafter provided. The mayor and members of the city council shall be ineligible to hold any other municipal office, and shall further be ineligible for employment in any capacity by the city during the term of office for which the mayor or councilmember was chosen unless he first resigns as mayor or councilman before entering such other municipal office or other employment with the city.
(1963 Ga. Laws, page 2030, § 30; 1963 Ga. Laws, page 2835, § 3; Ord. No. 254, 8-6-85)
Section 2.302. - Qualifications.
It shall be the duty of the city manager to execute and administer the policies of the city government fixed by the mayor and council and the city manager shall be vested with sole authority over all administrative matters of the city, and he shall be accountable only to the city council. The city manager first appointed under the provisions of this act and all persons subsequently appointed to such office shall be selected by the council on the basis of ability, experience in, or his knowledge of acknowledged practice in respect to the duties of his office. During his tenure in office, he shall reside within Screven County and shall devote his entire time to the duties of his office and shall not engage in any other business or profession.
(1963 Ga. Laws, page 2835, § 4; Ord. No. 479, 1-15-13)
Section 2.303. - Administrative duties and powers.
The city manager shall have the power to appoint, prescribe the duties or supervise and remove all administrative employees, except the city recorder, city physician, city attorney and the board of tax assessors. The affairs of each department of the city, including the collection and disbursement of revenue, are to be administered under his supervision and control, and he is to be responsible therefor. Neither the council nor any of its committees shall direct or request the appointment of any person to, or his removal from office by the city manager, or in any manner take part in the appointment or removal of officers and employees in the administrative service of the city. Except for the purpose of inquiry, the council and its members shall deal with the administrative service solely through the city manager, and neither the council nor any member thereof shall give orders to any subordinate of the city manager, either publicly or privately. The city manager shall give bond for the faithful administration of his office in such amount as council may determine, but in no event in the sum less than $100,000.00, the premium for which is to be paid by the city. The city manager may require subordinate employees to likewise give bond in an amount to be determined by him, but subject to the approval of the council, the premiums of such bond as may be required to be paid by the city.
It shall also be the duty of the city manager to act as chief conservator of the peace within the city; to supervise the administration of the city; to see that the ordinances of the city and the laws of the state are enforced therein; to make such recommendations to the council concerning the affairs of the city as may seem to him desirable; to keep the council currently advised of the financial condition and future needs of the city; to prepare and submit to the council regular quarterly reports of the affairs and finances of the city, these reports to be in such form as to be readily understood by the public, and cause the same to be published in some local newspaper of general circulation; to act in an advisory capacity to the city council in the formulation of policies of the city government; it shall be the duty and the responsibility of the city manager to do all the buying for the different departments of the City of Sylvania; said department heads shall make written requisition for the needs of their department and present the same to the city manager; the city manager shall then make such purchases not exceeding amounts prescribed by ordinance and for which funds are provided in the budget. To perform such other duties and exercise such other authority as city council may fix by resolution or ordinance [sic]. All formal contracts on behalf of the city shall be executed by the city manager, or in his absence, by the mayor, and attested by the city clerk, or in his absence, the assistant city clerk, after an approving resolution of city council.
(1963 Ga. Laws, page 2835, § 5; Ord. No. 270, 11-4-86)
Section 2.304. - Combination of offices, authorized.
The city manager is authorized at his discretion to combine two or more of the city officers so that one person may hold and discharge the duties of more than one office, provided, however, that no member of the city council shall be eligible to hold any other municipal office during the term for which he was elected.
(1963 Ga. Laws, page 2030, § 31; 1963 Ga. Laws, page 2835, § 8)
Section 2.305. - Removal of city manager.
Removal of city manager; substitute during his absence or disability. While council has the right to remove the city manager at any time, at least 30 days before such removal becomes effective, the manager shall be furnished with a formal statement in the form of a resolution passed by a majority vote of the members of council, stating council's intention of removing him and the reasons therefor. If requested in writing by city manager so to do the council shall fix a time for a public hearing upon the question of his removal, giving a notice of the time and place of same by publishing said notice in some local newspaper of general circulation, and the final resolution, removing the city manager, shall not be adopted until such public hearing shall be had. The action of council in removing the city manager shall be final. In the case of the absence or disability of the city manager, council may designate a qualified administrative officer of the city to perform the duties of the city manager during such absence or disability.
(1963 Ga. Laws, page 2835, § 7)
Section 2.306. - City clerk; secretaries to agencies.
The city clerk may be required to act as clerk or secretary to any board, commission, committee, agency or authority of said city.
(1963 Ga. Laws, page 2030, § 43)
Section 2.307. - Group insurance for city officers and employees, authorized; deductions, etc.
The mayor and council of said city is hereby authorized and empowered to make deductions periodically from the wages and salaries of its employees and officers, including the mayor and council themselves, with which to pay the premium for life, health, accident, hospitalization or annuity of such officers or employees, upon a group insurance plan, and to that end to enter into agreements with insurance companies whereby the kind of group insurance desired by the employees may be furnished to them and the premiums therefor remitted periodically by said city.
The participation in such group insurance by such officers or employees shall be entirely voluntary on the part of such persons at all times. Any officer or employee, upon any pay day, may withdraw or retire from such group plan upon giving notice in writing to his employer directing the discontinuance of deductions from his wages or salary in payment of such plan.
The mayor and council of said city in carrying out any provision of this section shall have the right to contribute or pay any part of the premium due on the coverage afforded its officers or employees in an amount not to exceed 50 percent of the amount of said premium being charged for the plan of protection afforded out of the general funds of said city.
(1963 Ga. Laws, page 2030, § 71)
Section 2.401. - Fiscal year.
The fiscal year of and for the city shall be from the first day of January through the thirty-first day of December of each year.
(1963 Ga. Laws, page 2030, § 59)
Section 2.402. - Budget.
No money shall be expended by the mayor and council during any year until a budget has been prepared and adopted, as herein provided. The budget shall include in its anticipations for the year a sum not to exceed the normal revenue collections by the city from all sources during the preceding year. The council shall appropriate a sum sufficient to cover the debt service, including the sinking fund and interest on bonded indebtedness, which sum shall not be diverted to any other department or departments by the mayor and council during the year. Should the income of the city be decreased by law or otherwise, it shall be the duty of the mayor and council to immediately adjust its budget so as to comply with such decreased revenue. In the event of an increase in revenue, which increase has become definite and reasonably certain by an increase in tax rate or the schedule of charges for city services, the mayor and council may revise the budget accordingly and take such anticipated receipts into consideration in the budget.
(1963 Ga. Laws, page 2030, § 60)
Section 2.403. - Transfer of funds.
After the budget has been adopted, the mayor and council may transfer or reallocate funds, with the exceptions of appropriations for debt services.
(1963 Ga. Laws, page 2030, § 61)
Section 2.404. - Deficit.
Should at any time during any year the expenditures exceed the revenue collected, and a deficit be created, it shall be the duty of the mayor and council, before appropriating any other sum for any other purpose, to appropriate a sufficient sum to immediately discharge any such deficit which has accrued during the preceding year.
(1963 Ga. Laws, page 2030, § 62)
Section 2.405. - Audit of finances.
The mayor and council are hereby required, at the end of each fiscal year, to have an annual audit made covering all of the financial transactions made and entered into by said mayor and council for that year.
(1963 Ga. Laws, page 2030, § 63)
Section 2.406. - Taxes, power to levy and collect.
The city council may assess, levy and collect an ad valorem tax on all real and personal property within the corporate limits of the city that is subject to such taxation by the state and county. This tax is for the purpose of raising revenues to defray the costs of operating the city government, of providing governmental services, for the repayment of principal and interest on general obligations, and for any other public purpose as determined by the city council in its discretion.
The city council, shall establish a millage rate for the city property tax, a due date, and the time period within which these taxes must be paid. The city council, by ordinance, may provide for the payment of these taxes by two installments or in one lump sum, as well as authorize the voluntary payment of taxes prior to the time when due.
(1963 Ga. Laws, page 2030, § 64; Ord. No. 498, 7-7-20)
Section 2.407. - City tax assessors; returns of assessments, etc.; appeals.
The mayor and council shall annually appoint three disinterested freeholders, who shall be discreet, upright persons, citizens and qualified voters of said city, and owners of real estate therein, as city tax assessors, whose term of office shall be one year, and who shall be sworn to assess the real and personal property, including notes, bonds, accounts, and every other species of property of said city at a fair market value, according to the best of their skill and knowledge. The mayor and council shall have authority to prescribe rules for the government of said assessors. Said assessors shall make returns of the assessments made by them to the said mayor and council each year, 30 days before the time for collecting taxes. When said return has been made, said mayor and council shall appoint a place and time for hearing objections to the assessments, said objections to be heard by said mayor and council, of which public notice shall be given as may be prescribed by ordinances, and the recorder shall give each owner of property whose tax returns have been increased at least five days' notice of such hearing, stating therein the amount of such increase. If the property has been given in by an agent, executor, administrator or guardian notice to such agent, executor, administrator or guardian shall be sufficient. If the owner is not a resident of said city and has no agent residing therein, the mayor and council shall prescribe by ordinance what notice, if any, shall be given. Said mayor and council shall have the power to provide by ordinance for assessing all property, both real and personal, not returned for taxation, and for double taxing defaulters. Such city tax assessors shall take such oath and receive such compensation as the mayor and council shall prescribe. Such city tax assessors shall have the power to require all taxpayers in said city to furnish them with a list of all notes, accounts, mortgages, stocks, bonds and other securities and investments, when in their opinion their production is necessary for a correct and true assessment. All assessments made by said assessors shall become final if no objection is made on or before the time set for a hearing of objections by the mayor and council, notice—such as the mayor and council may, by ordinance, prescribe—having been given of such hearing; and if no objection is made at the said hearing to any assessment, the decision of the mayor and council, on the hearing of subjects, may increase or decrease the assessment as made by the city tax assessors, and in all cases the decision of the mayor and council is final; the said board of assessors, as well as the mayor and council, shall have authority to punish for a contempt any person failing or refusing to furnish any of the evidences of investment, such as notes, accounts, stocks, bonds and mortgages heretofore set out.
(1963 Ga. Laws, page 2030, § 65)
Section 2.408. - Defaulters, back taxes, double taxing defaulters.
In case any property which is subject to taxation was not assessed, or for any reason has not been assessed in any past year, the city tax assessors may, at any time, assess said property for said year or years, and double tax it if there has been a failure to return it for taxation as required by law, and if the mayor and council have provided for double taxing of defaulters, execution shall then issue therefor, as in other cases, at the rate obtaining the several years in which no taxes were paid. This section shall apply to the assessment of property which before the passage of this act in any year was not assessed for taxation, or was not returned for taxation and taxes collected thereon, as well as to property which in the future may be omitted for any cause from return or assessment, and the collection of taxes omitted in any year. The mayor and council may provide by ordinance for notice to parties whose property has been or may be assessed for back taxes, and the hearing of any complaint. All assessments referred in this section shall be made by the city tax assessors.
(1963 Ga. Laws, page 2030, § 66)
Section 2.409. - License tax, authority to levy, etc.
The mayor and council shall have full power and authority to license, regulate, control or prohibit theatrical exhibitions, merry-go-rounds, circuses, dance halls, skating rinks, shows and exhibitions of all kinds, drays, automobiles, jitneys, taxis, and public or private vehicles of all kinds, traveling vendors of patent medicines, soaps, notions and all other articles; also hotels, boardinghouses, restaurants, lunch stands, fish stands, or markets, meat markets, mercantile establishments, chain stores, laundries, billiard, pool and other kinds of tables, tenpins, shooting galleries, and bowling alleys, slot machines or any games operated by "coin-in-slot" devices for carrying on games, as well as vending machines, generally; also bakeries, dairies, barbershops, livery stables, sale stables, slaughterhouses, tanyards, garage or motor vehicle repair shops, blacksmith shops, gins, sawmills, planing mills; also auctioneers, peddlers and pawnbrokers; all agents of fire, health, accident, indemnity, casualty and life insurance companies; the sale of all kinds of beverages, cigars, cigarettes, and tobacco products of all kinds; also retailers of malt, vinous, and spirituous liquors; also dealers in and/or dispensers of gasoline, either at wholesale or retail, from tanks or otherwise; and all businesses, occupations, professions, callings, trades, or avocations which, under the laws of the state, are subject to license. The city shall have the power to require registration of, to assess and to collect a license tax on, all such businesses, etc., and all other businesses, trades, professions, occupations, or callings conducted or engaged in within the corporate limits of the city, and such occupation tax or license tax shall constitute a lien upon all the property of the taxpayer or person liable and shall take rank and be enforceable in the same manner as ad valorem taxes due the city; and the city may require the registration of, and payment of license tax on, all such businesses, etc., as a prerequisite to the right to operate or engage in said business in the city; and the city shall have power to punish anyone conducting or engaging in any such business, etc., without first registering and paying said license taxes. The city shall have full and complete power to provide by ordinance for classification of all classes and businesses, and all other rules and regulations necessary and proper in the premises.
(1963 Ga. Laws, page 2030, § 67)
Section 2.410. - Executions; fi. fas.
In all cases where any taxes, fines, or license fees are not paid when due, the tax collector shall issue executions against the delinquents, which executions shall be directed to the chief of police of said city and his deputies, and it is hereby made the duty of the chief of police and his deputies to proceed to levy and collect all such fi. fas., as in the case of fi. fas. issued for the state and county taxes. To any execution issued by the city, the defendant shall have the right to file an affidavit denying for any reason that the whole or any part of the amount for which the execution issued is due, stating the reason why the same is not due by and from the defendant, and stating what amount is admitted to be due, if any; and said amount admittedly due shall be paid before the affidavit shall be received for the balance; and said affidavit so received shall be returned to the Superior Court of Screven County, and there be tried and the issued [issue] determined as in cases of illegality, subject to all the penalties provided for in cases of illegality for delay.
(1963 Ga. Laws, page 2030, § 68)
Section 2.411. - Executions; issuing; carrying out, etc.
All executions for the enforcement or collection of fines, assessments, forfeitures, public improvement costs or other claims, demands, or debts, except ad valorem taxes, shall be issued by the city clerk and bear teste in the name of the mayor or mayor pro tempore (unless otherwise provided), and shall be directed to the city marshal, chief of police, all police officers of the city, and to all and singular the sheriffs and constables of this state, and shall state the purpose or purposes for which issued, and shall be made returnable to the city council 90 days after the date of its issue; and it shall be the duty of the city marshal or other levying officer into whose hands such executions are placed to levy the same, to advertise the sale of the property so levied upon, and to sell the same in the same manner as sheriff's sales of real estate and constable's sales of personal property, are levied, advertised, and sold under common law executions, as nearly as is practicable. In such cases, the defendant in execution shall have the right to file an affidavit of illegality if such execution shall have issued illegally or if it is proceeding illegally in either of which cases such execution shall be returned by the levying officer to the Superior Court of Screven County for trial as in other cases of affidavit of illegality; provided bond shall be made as in other cases of illegality. Such sale shall have the same force and effect as a sheriff's or constable's sale of similar property, and the officer making such sale shall have the same power as a sheriff to put purchasers in possession. Whenever at any such sale no one present shall offer as much for the property levied upon as the amount of such execution together with all interests and costs thereon, after such property shall have been offered a reasonable time the city, through its authorized agent, shall bid on such property and shall purchase the same on behalf of the city for not more than the amount of such execution and costs, if the value of such property is sufficient to cover such principal, interest and cost, and the marshal or other officer making the sale shall make and deliver to the city a deed to the property so sold, and the title thus acquired by the city shall be and become perfect and valid when the owner's right of redemption, if any, shall have expired, and the marshal or other officer making the sale shall put the city in possession, and the city council shall have no right or authority to divest or alienate the title of the city to the property so purchased except by public sale for cash to the highest bidder in the manner prescribed by law or by ordinance of the city.
(1963 Ga. Laws, page 2030, § 14)
Section 2.412. - Same; forms.
The forms of executions for taxes, costs of construction of streets, street curbing, sidewalks and sewers and for repairs or improvements thereof and for fines and forfeitures in the recorder's court of the city and for any other expenses, costs, charge, license or assessments shall be prescribed by ordinance, provided this section shall not invalidate any form now in use by the city.
(1963 Ga. Laws, page 2030, § 15)
Section 2.413. - Donations for public institutions.
The mayor and city council shall have authority to make donations out of the funds in the city treasury, not otherwise appropriated, for the support of the poor, for public libraries, and for public hospitals, public rest rooms and other institutions of like character.
(1963 Ga. Laws, page 2030, § 70)
Section 2.414. - Refunding bonds; tax.
Article 7, section 7, paragraph 1, of the Constitution of Georgia, which has heretofore been amended, shall be further amended by adding at the end thereof a new paragraph in the following words to wit:
And except that the City of Sylvania, in Screven County, Georgia, may issue refunding serial bonds not in excess of the aggregate sum of $20,000.00, for the purpose of refunding and retiring any bonded indebtedness of said city outstanding, passed due and unpaid up to and including January 1, 1940, and providing for the assessment and collection of an annual tax sufficient in amount to pay the principal and interest of said bonds as they fall due; the proceeds of all such refunding bonds so issued by the City of Sylvania to be used exclusively for the purpose of paying and retiring said bonded indebtedness that is or may become due and unpaid as of January 1, 1940. Said refunding bonds shall be issued when authorized by a vote of the mayor and councilmen and shall be validated by law.
(1939 Ga. Laws, page 81, § 1)
Section 3.101. - Police arrests without warrants, authorized.
It shall be lawful for the chief of police or any special policeman lawfully appointed to arrest, without warrant, any and all persons violating the ordinances and laws of said state and city, in the city limits, and to confine such person or persons so arrested in the city prison, until a hearing can be had before the proper officer; said chief of police or policeman shall have power and authority to call to his assistance to arrest and detain such offenders any bystander, and such person when summoned shall be bound to aid and assist said officers; should such person fail to do so, he shall be liable to prosecution pursuant to section 9.101. The chief of police or policeman may call sheriffs and their deputies, constables, and other state or counties' officers for assistance, in the arrest, detention, investigation and conviction of offenders.
(1963 Ga. Laws, page 2030, § 46)
Section 3.102. - Fire department.
The city shall provide by ordinance for the establishment and maintenance of a fire department for said city, and for this purpose they may acquire property and equipment therefor to be paid out of the revenues of said city or by municipal bonds properly voted and validated therefor, as now prescribed by law. They may provide either for a voluntary service or for a paid service if the revenues of said city authorize such payment, and they may provide by ordinance such rules and regulations as they may deem necessary for the government and control of said fire department, which ordinance shall provide officers therefor and prescribe their duties, authority, terms of office, manner of election and compensation.
(1963 Ga. Laws, page 2030, § 74)
Section 4.101. - Streets, etc., powers conferred.
Said mayor and council shall have the superintendence and control of the streets, sidewalks, bridges, and alleys and of the public square, parks and cemeteries of said city, and may prohibit or remove all obstructions of or encroachments thereon or interference therewith. They are vested with the power to lay out new streets or alleys; to widen or straighten any of the streets or sidewalks or alleys of the city. Said mayor and council shall have the power and authority to pave or otherwise permanently improve the sidewalks of said city with whatever material and in whatever manner they deem proper and best and to assess one-half the cost of so paving or otherwise improving the sidewalks, including all necessary curbings, against the real estate abutting on the sidewalk so paved or otherwise improved, and to enforce the collection thereof they shall have power to issue executions against the owner or owners of said abutting property, as city tax executions are issued, and to order, levy on and sell the abutting property.
(1963 Ga. Laws, page 2030, § 53)
Section 4.102. - Streets, powers generally.
The city shall have the power and authority to open, lay out, grade, widen, construct, pave, repave, curb, and otherwise permanently improve any and all streets, sidewalks, and ways, and to maintain, relocate, repair, repave, extend, abandon or close them, and to construct, maintain, repair, replace and remove street curbing, sidewalks, alleys or ways. To provide funds for these purposes, all sidewalks, curbing and service sewer construction costs, except costs of service sewers which cannot serve the abutting real estate nor the owners thereof, shall be assessed against the abutting real estate and owners thereof, as previously provided in section 4.101, but only on the side of the street on which such improvements are made, if on one side only. One-third of the cost of street construction may be assessed against abutting real estate and owners thereon on one side of such street, and one-third against abutting real estate and the owners thereof on the other side, the city paying the remaining one-third. In real estate subdivisions all street construction costs shall be assessed against the abutting real estate and owners. Cost of maintenance and repair of all city streets shall be paid out of the city treasury, except in special cases provided for by the city ordinances.
(1963 Ga. Laws, page 2030, § 55)
Section 4.103. - Bond issues authorized for street improvements.
The city may, in the manner prescribed by law, provide by ordinance for the issuing of bonds for enlarging or extending the public utilities of the city, including waterworks, sewerage, electric lights, natural gas, street and/or other public improvements.
(1963 Ga. Laws, page 2030, § 56)
Section 5.101. - Utilities; furnishing services and facilities.
The city shall have the power and authority to operate, enlarge, expand, extend, improve, construct, lay, maintain, remove, repair and replace water, electric and natural gas lines, sewer and sanitary systems and facilities, within and without the city, and to charge, contract for and receive compensation for such service, and on such terms and conditions as may be prescribed by the city ordinance, and for such purposes the city shall have the power of eminent domain which it is hereby authorized to exercise to acquire by condemnation any lands, easements, rights-of-way and other properties or rights therein deemed needful or convenient for any purposes when necessary to acquire the same.
(1963 Ga. Laws, page 2030, § 16)
Section 5.102. - Same; owning, maintaining and operating electric plants, waterworks and gas system.
The city shall have the right, power and authority to own, maintain and operate a system of waterworks, a natural gas system, and an electric plant and distribution system and to purchase, generate and sell electric energy and to sell water and gas and to fix rates for all the aforementioned and to develop, maintain and operate parks and recreation facilities.
(1963 Ga. Laws, page 2030, § 17)
Section 5.102.1. - Telecommunications.
The City shall have the power and authority to acquire, own, hold, lease, sell, resell, build, maintain, operate and contract with respect to a telecommunications systems network in order to provide telecommunications services and similar other services, including cable television services (CATV), to establish and charge rates, fees, tolls and charges for the services, facilities or commodities furnished or made available by such undertaking; to interconnect its system or services or both with the systems or services of consumers and other providers, to use telecommunications to respond to community needs, encourage the development of information-based organizations in the City of Sylvania, Georgia, to finance from time to time any such telecommunications systems through the issuance of revenue bonds as then permitted by the Constitution and laws of the State of Georgia; and to make any contract with respect to and furnish the services of any said systems to consumers within or outside the corporate limits of the City.
(Ord. No. 408, § 1, 8-6-02)
Editor's note— Ord. No. 408, § 1, adopted August 6, 2002, enacted provisions intended for use as § 17.1 of the Georgia Laws of 1963, page 2030. To preserve the style of this Code, and at the direction of the city, said provisions have been redesignated as § 5.102.1.
Section 5.103. - Same; contracting to furnish.
The city council shall have power and authority to make or cause to be made contracts to furnish customers with electric energy, lights, water and gas within and without the territorial limits of the city when this can be done without adversely affecting the inhabitants of the city.
(1963 Ga. Laws, page 2030, § 18)
Section 5.104. - Same; jurisdiction.
The city shall have complete power, authority and jurisdiction for all purposes over all of the lands on, over, or through which trunk or intercepting sewer, gas, water and/or electric transmission lines and/or facilities have heretofore been or may hereafter be constructed and maintained by the city or over which an easement is secured by the city and which it is the duty of the city to inspect, improve and maintain within or without the limits of the city; said power, authority and jurisdiction shall extend the full distance of said lines or facilities and a specified number of feet, to be determined by the mayor and council, in all directions from the same as well as over the land purchased by said city for the location and maintenance of such facilities, and all such lands are hereby incorporated in and made a part of said city, except such as is located within the corporate limits of another municipality.
(1963 Ga. Laws, page 2030, § 19)
Section 5.105. - Same; lien for charges.
For electricity, water and gas furnished and for all sewerage and sanitary services rendered, said city shall have a lien against the property served by said utilities and services; said lien shall run from the date the contract is made or the services commence up to and until all charges therefor shall have been paid in full.
(1963 Ga. Laws, page 2030, § 20)
Section 5.106. - Same; referendum for sale of facilities.
No sale, conveyance or disposition by the city of its water, electric and/or gas properties and franchises, or of its sewer system, or of any interests therein shall ever be of any force or effect unless or until approved by the duly qualified voters of the city voting at an election specially called for this purpose; a notice of which election shall be published once a week in the official newspaper of the city for four weeks next preceding such election, which notice shall state the name of the proposed buyer, the terms and conditions of the proposed sale, the date of the election, the location of the voting precincts, and such other information as the city council may order.
(1963 Ga. Laws, page 2030, § 21)
Section 5.107. - Utilities, referendum required for sale of; rights-of-way, easements, etc.
(a)
The city shall continue to supply all the public utilities of said city, to wit: waterworks, sewerage, electric lights; and for such purposes the mayor and city council shall be invested with all the authority to enlarge such systems of public utilities as they may deem necessary, and they may have authority to prescribe by ordinances for the government and regulation of all public utilities. Provided, that before said mayor and council shall dispose of any one or all of the herein named public utilities by absolute sale in fee simple, an election shall be called submitting the matter to the qualified voters of said city for their approval or disapproval. Said election to be called, held, and the result determined under the election laws now in force, or that may be hereafter prescribed for creating a bonded indebtedness against said city.
(b)
The city shall have the power and authority to extend, construct, maintain and operate its water, sewerage, electric light and power lines and systems in all directions beyond the corporate limits of said city, as the same now exist or may hereafter be established; and the city shall have authority to furnish water, lights, power and sewerage connections to persons, firms and corporations within and without the corporate limits of said city, and to charge for the same; to purchase electrical current from any source, either within or without the city limits; to make reasonable rules and regulations, and the city may make different charges for the use of such utilities within and without the corporate limits of said city.
(c)
The city is hereby authorized and empowered to acquire, by contract, purchase, or condemnation, rights-of-way, easements, and privileges for water, sewerage, electric lights and power lines and systems within the corporate limits of the city, and without the corporate limits of the city in any direction beyond the corporate limits of the city as the same now exist or may be hereafter established.
(d)
The city is hereby authorized and empowered to furnish and supply electric power to any person, firm or corporation, at its distribution plant in the city, or at the point from which said city acquires its electric power, for serving nonresidents of said city, and to fix the rules and regulations on which the same may be furnished, and likewise to fix the terms on which the same are to be furnished, the manner of payment therefor, and the charges to be paid therefor.
(e)
The city is hereby authorized to purchase, construct, operate and maintain a system for the sale and distribution of natural or other gas within the city limits and in any direction beyond such corporate limits as now exist or as shall hereafter exist, and in connection therewith the city is authorized to acquire, by contract, purchase, or condemnation, all rights-of-way, easements, and property necessary to carry out these purposes; provided, that the power of condemnation granted in this section shall not apply to property within the limits of any other municipality, except with the prior approval of the mayor and council of said municipality. The city is hereby authorized and empowered to furnish and supply gas and gas services to any person, firm or corporation at its distribution plant in the city or at the point from which said city acquires its supply of gas for serving nonresidents of said city, and to fix the rules and regulations under which the same may be furnished, and likewise fix the terms on which the same are to furnished and the manner of payment therefor, and the charges to be paid therefor.
(1963 Ga. Laws, page 2030, § 58)
Section 5.108. - Franchises.
The mayor and council is hereby vested with the right to exercise and control franchise rights within the corporate limits of the city over all public utility corporations, to charge for the use of streets and alleys, and to control the use of poles, wires and other equipment used by the grantee of the franchise right.
(1963 Ga. Laws, page 2030, § 57)
Section 5.109. - Conveyance of franchise.
No franchise granted by said city may be sold, transferred, leased, or assigned to or used by anyone other than the grantee without adequate compensation and written consent of the city council.
(1963 Ga. Laws, page 2030, § 8)
Section 6.101. - Regulating use of streets.
The city council shall have power and authority by ordinance, to tax, license and regulate the operation of automobiles, railroad trains, steam engines, locomotives, street cars, buses, trolley cars, bicycles, motorcycles and other vehicles within the city limits and fix maximum and minimum speed limits for them, and to prescribe both minimum qualifications of operators of such vehicles and the manner in which the same may be operated, and to require such machines and their owners to be registered, and said council may make such other provisions as may seem prudent for the safety of the driver, passengers and the public.
(1963 Ga. Laws, page 2030, § 39)
Section 6.102. - Regulating charitable solicitations.
Soliciting charity or relief campaigns within the city shall be subject to ordinance regulation by the city council.
(1963 Ga. Laws, page 2030, § 40)
Section 6.103. - Regulating the sale, storage and keeping of inflammables and explosives.
The mayor and council shall regulate by ordinances the sale, storage and keeping of gasoline, kerosene, gunpowder, dynamite, nitroglycerine and other inflammable or explosive materials within the city limits.
(1963 Ga. Laws, page 2030, § 41)
Section 6.104. - Regulation of public entertainment, shows, etc.
The mayor and city council may prescribe by ordinance for the regulation of all public entertainments, shows, circuses, parades, [and] may prescribe when such entertainments, etc., may be held, as well as the manner in which the same may be conducted.
(1963 Ga. Laws, page 2030, § 73)
Section 7.101. - Regulating vehicular traffic.
The city shall have power and authority to regulate vehicular traffic and relieve congestion of the same by use of devices known as parking meters, by means of which the time a vehicle occupies a designated area for parking in a street is measured by a timing device which is operated by depositing a coin therein, and to use the proceeds from the operation of parking meters to pay for off-street parking facilities or to contract with one or more persons, firms or corporations to provide such off-street parking facilities, and to rent such facilities and use the rents therefrom to further provide off-street parking for all kinds of vehicles.
(1963 Ga. Laws, page 2030, § 10)
Section 7.102. - Control of streets, sidewalks and bridges.
The mayor and council shall have exclusive control of the streets, sidewalks, and bridges of the city; they may enact such ordinances as they may deem best for the regulation of traffic upon said streets, sidewalks and bridges, and provide suitable punishment for the violation of these ordinances.
(1963 Ga. Laws, page 2030, § 54)
Section 7.103. - Providing off-street parking facilities, authority.
The city council shall have the power and authority to construct, maintain and operate off-street parking facilities, and to acquire land and other necessary property for such purposes and to charge, contract for and receive rentals and parking fees for the use of such facilities and parking spaces therein.
(1963 Ga. Laws, page 2030, § 42)
Section 8.101. - Building regulations.
The mayor and council may prescribe by ordinance such rules and regulations as they see fit for the regulation of all buildings erected within the corporate limits of said city, or for the repair of such buildings, they may prescribe the materials to be used and the manner of erecting the same.
(1963 Ga. Laws, page 2030, § 72)
Code reference—Buildings and building regulations, ch. 14.
Section 8.102. - Authority to adopt codes.
The city council is hereby authorized to adopt, or incorporate by reference in an adopting ordinance, any code relating to a subject in regard to which the city council has authority to legislate. "Code" as used in this section means a printed or otherwise reproduced compilation of rules and regulations which have been prepared by a technical trade association or group, and shall include, but without being limited to, the following: building codes, plumbing codes, electrical codes, health or sanitation codes, fire prevention codes, together with any other codes embracing rules and regulations pertaining to subjects which are proper municipal legislative matters. Prior to the adoption or incorporation by reference of any such code, at least three copies of same shall be filed in the office of the city clerk and shall remain there on file subject to public inspection so long as such code remains in effect.
Any penalty clauses contained in such codes may not be adopted by reference, but shall be set forth in full in the adopting ordinance.
Amendments to or revisions of such codes may be adopted or incorporated by reference in the same manner as authorized for their original adoption.
The city council is hereby authorized to appoint officers, boards and commissions to administer and enforce codes adopted under authority of this section.
(1963 Ga. Laws, page 2030, § 69)
Section 8.103. - Fire limits.
The city council shall by ordinance establish fire limits, enlarge or reduce same as the safety of the city requires. When fire limits are established it shall be lawful to prohibit the erection of any structure therein of any substance except incombustible material, or such as may be allowed by ordinance.
(1963 Ga. Laws, page 2030, § 6)
Section 9.101. - [Municipal court.]
Editor's note— Ord. No. 472, adopted August 2, 2011, repealed the former § 9.101, and enacted new §§ 9.101.1—9.101.7 as set out herein. The former § 9.101 pertained to similar subject matter and derived from 1963 Ga. Laws, page 2030, § 45; Ord. No. 361, adopted November 3, 1998; Ord. No. 428, adopted January 18, 2005 and Ord. No. 460, adopted March 16, 2010.
Section 9.101.1. - Name.
There shall be a court known as the Municipal Court of the City of Sylvania.
(Ord. No. 472, 8-2-11)
Editor's note— Pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 36-32-1, the term "recorder's court" has been changed to "municipal court."
Section 9.101.2. - Judge.
a.
The municipal court shall be presided over by a judge appointed by the city council;
b.
No person shall be qualified or eligible to serve as a judge of the municipal court unless that person shall have attained the age of 21 years, shall be a member of the State Bar of Georgia, and shall possess all qualifications required by law. All judges shall be appointed by the city council and serve until a successor is appointed and qualified;
c.
Compensation of the municipal court judge shall be fixed by the city council;
d.
The municipal court judge shall serve at will and may be removed from office at any time by the city council;
e.
Before assuming office, the municipal court judge shall take an oath that he or she will honestly and faithfully discharge the duties of the office to the best of that person's ability and without fear, favor or partiality.
(Ord. No. 472, 8-2-11)
Section 9.101.3. - Convening.
The municipal court shall be convened at regular intervals and at a place set by resolution of the mayor and city council, or in absence thereof, by the municipal court judge.
(Ord. No. 472, 8-2-11)
Section 9.101.4. - Jurisdiction; powers.
a.
The municipal court shall have jurisdiction and authority to try and punish violations of this charter, all city ordinances, and such other violations as provided by law;
b.
The municipal court shall have authority to punish those in its presence for contempt, provided that such punishment shall not exceed $200.00 or ten days in jail, either or both;
c.
The municipal court may fix punishment for offenses within its jurisdiction not exceeding a fine of $1,000.00 or imprisonment not exceeding 180 days, or both such fine and imprisonment, or may fix punishment by fine, imprisonment, or alternative sentencing as now or hereafter provided by law or by city ordinance;
d.
The municipal court shall have authority to establish a schedule of fees to defray the cost of operation, and shall be entitled to reimbursement of the cost of meals, transportation, and caretaking of prisoners bound over to superior courts for violations of state law;
e.
The municipal court shall have the same authority as superior courts to compel the production of evidence in the possession of any party; to enforce obedience to its orders, judgments and sentences; and to administer such oaths as are necessary;
f.
The municipal court may compel the presence of all parties necessary to a proper disposal of each case by the issuance of summons', subpoenas, and warrants which may be served as executed by any officer as authorized by this charter or by law;
g.
The judge of the municipal court shall be authorized to issue warrants for the arrest of persons charges with offenses against any ordinance of the city, and the judge of the municipal court shall have the same authority as a magistrate of the state to issue warrants for offenses against state laws committed within the city.
(Ord. No. 472, 8-2-11)
Section 9.101.5. - Certiorari.
The right of certiorari from the decision and judgment of the municipal court shall exist in all criminal cases and ordinance violation cases, and such certiorari shall be obtained under the sanction of a judgment of the Superior Court of Screven County under the laws of the State of Georgia regulating the granting and issuance of writs of certiorari.
(Ord. No. 472, 8-2-11)
Section 9.101.6. - Rules for court.
The Uniform Rules of the municipal courts of Georgia promulgated by the Georgia Supreme Court, as they may be amended from time to time, shall govern the operations of the Municipal Court of the City of Sylvania.
(Ord. No. 472, 8-2-11)
Section 9.101.7. - Clerk.
The city manager, or in absence thereof, the municipal court judge, is authorized to appoint a clerk of the municipal court together with any deputy clerks as needed, to prescribe the duties of such offices.
(Ord. No. 472, 8-2-11)
Section 9.102. - Appearance bonds.
The mayor and city council of Sylvania may provide by ordinance for the taking of appearance bonds, to be made by persons charged with violations before the municipal court. The mayor and city council may prescribe by ordinance for the taking of cash collateral bonds or have bonds issued by personal solvent securities or property bonds, and they provide for the summary forfeiture of all cash bonds and for the summary forfeiture of all other appearance bonds by order of the municipal court, which order when entered may be enforced by executions therefor, issued by the city clerk.
(Ord. No. 472, 8-2-11)
Editor's note— Ord. No. 472, adopted August 2, 2011, repealed the former § 9.102, and enacted a new § 9.102 as set out herein. The former § 9.102 pertained to similar subject matter and derived from 1963 Ga. Laws, page 2030, § 47.
Section 10.101. - Nuisances; order adjudging and abatement.
The city shall provide by ordinance for any building, structure, or condition maintained in violation of any valid law of this state or any valid ordinance of the city to be adjudged a nuisance and for its abatement at the owner's expenses upon his failure or refusal to abate same within ten days after written notice from the city to do so.
(1963 Ga. Laws, page 2030, § 11)
Section 10.102. - Same—Abatement notice to nonresidents.
In nuisance abatement proceedings by said city in the recorder's court of said city, where the nuisance consists of a condition or conditions of property of an individual residing without the limits of the city or of a corporation having its office without the limits of the city, notice shall be served upon such owner or his agent within Screven County, if either can be found within the county, but if said owner cannot be served in such manner, a warrant for the arrest of such individual owner shall issue against such owner and shall be executed by any sheriff, deputy sheriff, constable, marshal, policeman or coroner of any city, town or county in this state, and the city recorder of Sylvania shall cause such nuisance to be abated at the expense of such owner, and an execution for such expense shall be issued by the city clerk, which execution shall be levied on any real estate or personal property of the accused which may be located within the city or wherever it may be found, and such expense and execution shall constitute a lien against all property of such accused owner, which lien shall be prior and superior to all other liens except liens for taxes. Property levied upon under such action shall be advertised and sold as property is sold for taxes in the city, unless such levy is arrested by affidavit of illegality or other appropriate proceedings, and all further proceedings in relation to such execution shall be the same as in [the] case of executions of the city for street paving costs and similar assessments.
(1963 Ga. Laws, page 2030, § 12)
Section 10.103. - Subpoena power generally.
The city council, municipal court, all boards, commissions, committees or other agencies of the city charged with the administration of the affairs of the city (excluding individual officers, except in cases in which they are specially authorized by law or ordinance) shall have power and authority to compel the attendance of witnesses and the production of relevant and admissible documents in proper cases, and any person failing or refusing to attend as a witness or to produce relevant and pertinent documentary evidence within his power, custody or control when duly notified or called upon to do so in a proper case shall be subject to punishment prescribed by ordinance of the city.
(1963 Ga. Laws, page 2030, § 13)
