XIV. - Zoning Ordinance Amendments

14.1 - Review of Proposed Amendments.
This ordinance, including the map or maps, may be amended from time to time, but no amendment shall become effective unless it shall have been proposed by, or first submitted to the Planning Commission for review and recommendation.
1.
The Planning Commission shall conduct, on behalf of the County Commission, all public hearings on proposed amendments to this ordinance and maps.
2.
At least 15 but not more than 45 days prior to the date of the hearing, the Planning Commission shall cause to be published within a newspaper of general circulation within the territorial boundaries of the local government a notice of the hearing. The notice shall state time, place, and purpose of the hearing. If a zoning decision of a local government is for the rezoning of property and the rezoning is initiated by a party other than local government then:
a.
The notice shall include the location of the property, the present zoning classification of the property, and the proposed zoning classification of the property; and
b.
A sign indicating the present zoning classification shall be placed in a conspicuous location on the property not less than 15 days prior to the date of the hearing.
3.
The recommendations of the Planning Commission shall be submitted to the County Commission within 30 days. If the Planning Commission fails to submit a report within the thirty-day period, it shall have deemed to approve the proposed amendment.
14.2 - Application for Amendment.
Each application to amend this ordinance, including the map or maps, shall be filed with the Planning Commission and shall be in compliance with the following:
1.
A conference with the staff of the Planning Commission shall be held prior to submission of the application.
2.
A statement from the owner of the property submitting the petition, or a statement from the owner of the property designating his representative in the petition, shall be furnished with the petition on a form supplied by the Planning Commission.
3.
A properly prepared plat of the property showing distances and bearings of the boundaries and a tie to a known point shall be included with the petition.
4.
A letter from the owner or his authorized representative requesting the amendment, including a statement regarding the proposed use, address, and telephone number for correspondence, and any other information required elsewhere in this ordinance, shall be included with the petition.
5.
A fee that has been calculated by the Planning Commission as representative of the cost of processing and advertisement of the proposed amendment shall be listed on Taliaferro County Current Fee Schedule and shall be paid at the time of application.
14.3 - Planning Commission Action.
The Planning Commission shall review and make a recommendation of approval, denial, deferral, withdrawal without prejudice, or no recommendation, on each application at a public hearing held in accordance with this ordinance of the Commission of Taliaferro County, Georgia. Staff recommendations on application shall be submitted to the Planning Commission prior to the public hearing. A report of the Planning Commission's decision shall be submitted to the Governing Body. The action of the planning Commission may recommend a reduction of the land area for which the request is made and/or recommend conditions of rezoning which may be deemed advisable so that the purpose of this ordinance will be served.
14.4 - Governing Body Action.
The Governing Body having jurisdiction of the property under consideration shall, at a regular meeting, approve, deny, or defer action on such application. The action of the governing body may recommend a reduction of the land area for which the application is made and/or recommend conditions of rezoning which may be deemed advisable so that the purpose of this ordinance will be served. When such conditions are added to approval of an application, the governing body may require that a zoning restriction agreement be recorded with the clerk of the superior court of Taliaferro County, Georgia. The cost of recording such agreement shall be borne by the applicant.
14.5 - Reversionary Clause.
The Planning Commission Staff may submit information to the governing body having jurisdiction relative to property which has been rezoned for a period of 18 months from the date of approval, and for which no site plan or subdivision development plan approval or building permit has been obtained. The governing body may then review such information and, if considered appropriate, initiate reversionary zoning procedures. Such reversionary actions shall proceed in accordance with the amendment provisions of this ordinance.
14.6 - Repeat Rezoning Attempts.
When an application for rezoning is defeated, either by the County Commission or ultimately on appeal, the same property may not again be considered for rezoning until the expiration of at least six months immediately following the defeat of the rezoning.
