ARTICLE III - ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT

3-A - DELEGATION OF ADMINISTRATIVE DUTIES
3-A-1
Administrative Duties of the Land Development Officer
It shall be the duty of the duly appointed Land Development Officer to administer and interpret this Ordinance. To this end, the Land Development Officer is authorized to:
1.
Prepare administrative procedures, guidelines, application forms;
2.
To tend to other administrative details not inconsistent with the provisions of this Ordinance; and,
3.
To implement the provisions of this Ordinance.
The Land Development Officer may delegate administrative functions, powers and duties assigned by this Ordinance to other staff as may be appropriate, without the need to reflect such delegation by formal action.
3-A-2
Administrative Duties of the County Engineer
In addition to the duties delegated to him/her under other ordinances of the Taliaferro County, Georgia, the duly appointed County Engineer is authorized to conduct the following activities in order to assist the Land Development Officer in the implementation of the provisions of this Ordinance:
1.
Review and approve plans for subdivisions to ensure compliance with the requirements of this Ordinance;
2.
To prepare and promulgate standards, standard drawings, and specifications to more specifically implement the intent of the improvement requirements of this ordinance; and,
3.
To review and approve public improvements as per the requirements of this Ordinance.
3-B - DELEGATION OF ENFORCEMENT AUTHORITY
3-B-1
Enforcement Duties of the Land Development Officer
It shall be the duty of the duly appointed Land Development Officer to enforce this Ordinance and to bring to the attention of the County Attorney any violations or lack of compliance therewith. The Land Development Officer may delegate enforcement functions, powers, and duties assigned by this Ordinance to other staff as may be appropriate, without the need to reflect such delegation by formal action.
a.
Refusal of Permits or Permissions
The Land Development Officer is hereby authorized and directed to deny and withhold permits or permissions on any new project or application pursuant to this Ordinance or other ordinances of the County where the applicant, applicant's business, or agent has failed or refused to comply with this Ordinance.
b.
Stop Work Order
The Land Development Officer is hereby authorized to issue written "stop work" and "cease and desist" orders for any activity that fails to comply with the provisions of this Ordinance. Such "stop work" or "cease and desist" orders may be lifted at such time as the Land Development Officer is satisfied that a good faith effort is being made to comply with applicable provisions of this Ordinance. Nothing shall prevent the Land Development Officer from reissuing "stop work" and "cease and desist" orders where warranted.
c.
Injunction
If any land is used, or building, structure, or other activity is established or maintained in violation of this Ordinance, the Land Development Officer is authorized to and may institute, in addition to other remedies, an injunction or undertake other appropriate action to cause the violation to cease or to be corrected.
d.
Complaints
Whenever a violation of this Ordinance occurs or is alleged to have occurred, any person may file a written complaint. Such complaint shall state clearly and fully the causes and bases of the complaint and shall be filed with the Land Development Officer. The Land Development Officer shall record properly such complaint, investigate, and take action thereon as may be appropriate to enforce this Ordinance.
3-B-2
Penalties for Violation of Ordinances
Any person violating any of the provisions of the ordinances of Taliaferro County shall be punished by a fine or imprisonment, or both. In no case shall the maximum punishment for violation of any of these Ordinances exceed a fine of $500 or imprisonment for 60 days, or both. In addition to being subject to fine or imprisonment property owners who violate this ordinance shall be required to correct the infraction immediately and at their own expense with no expectation of reimbursement by the County.
3-C - APPEALS
3-C-1
Appeals of Administrative Decisions or Interpretations
Any person who alleges that there has been an error by the Land Development Officer in administration or interpretation of this Ordinance shall have the right to appeal the decision of the Land Development Officer to the Planning Commission within fifteen (15) days. Any appeals will be scheduled for the next available Planning Commission meeting.
3-C-2
Appeals of Decisions of the Planning Commission
Any person aggrieved by a decision of the Planning Commission shall have the right to appeal the decision to the Board of Commissioners within thirty (30) days of notice of the decision.
Any person thereafter aggrieved by a decision of the Board of Commissioners may, within thirty (30) days of notice of the decision, file an appeal to the Superior Court of Taliaferro County, Georgia. Upon failure to file said appeal within thirty (30) days, the decision of the Board of Commissioners shall be final.
3-D - VARIANCES
3-D-1
Purpose
Deviations from and exceptions to the standards and procedures of this Ordinance may be granted by the Planning Commission to provide relief from unusual hardship, inequitable construction procedures, design requirements which may be impractical and other conditions which occur within a parcel of land that do not occur in the normal subdivision process.
3-D-2
Considerations
In granting a variance, the Planning Commission shall ensure that the public interests of the County and its citizens are protected and the general spirit and intent of these regulations is preserved. No variance shall be granted unless it is found that:
1.
The granting of the variance will not be detrimental to the public safety, health or welfare or injurious to other property or improvements within close proximity of where the subdivision or development is located;
2.
The conditions upon which the request for the variance is based are unique to the property for which the variance is sought, and are not applicable generally to other property;
3.
Because of the particular physical surroundings, shape or topographical conditions of the specific property involved, a particular hardship to the owner would result, as distinguished from a mere inconvenience, if the strict letter of this Ordinance is carried out; and,
4.
The variance will not in any manner vary the provisions of County zoning regulations or other land development regulations, conflict with the general intent of the Taliaferro County Comprehensive Plan, and will not conflict with the intent of this Ordinance.
3-D-3
Conditions
If determining to approve a variance request, the Planning Commission may require such conditions as will, in its judgment, secure substantially the objectives of the standards and requirements contained in this Ordinance.
3-D-4
Variance Procedures
An application for a variance shall be submitted in writing by the subdivider at the time when the preliminary plat is filed for consideration by the Planning Commission, or when a summary plat is filed for consideration by the Land Development Officer. The application shall state fully the grounds for the variance, the specific provision from which a variance is being sought and facts relied upon by the subdivider to support such application.
3-E - AMENDMENTS
For the purpose of providing for the public health, safety and general welfare, the board of commissioners may from time to time amend the provisions imposed by these subdivision regulations. public hearings on all proposed amendments shall be held by the board of commissioners in the manner prescribed by law.
