I. - General Scope and Purpose

1.1 - Jurisdiction.
The provisions of this Code shall apply to all land, buildings, and structures within the county limits of Taliaferro County, Georgia.
1.2 - General Intent.
For the purpose of promoting health, safety, and the general welfare of the people of Taliaferro County, including, among other things, present conditions and the future growth of Taliaferro County with due regard to its relations to neighboring territory and to incorporated territory within the unincorporated territory of Taliaferro County, and to guide and accomplish a coordinated, adjusted, and harmonious development of Taliaferro County and its future needs, best promote health, safety, morals, order, convenience, prosperity, and general welfare as well as efficiency and economy in the process of development, including, among other things, adequate provision for traffic, the promotion of safety from fire and other dangers, adequate provision for light and air, the efficient expenditure of funds, and the adequate provisions of public utilities and other public requirements as will lend to facilitate economical and adequate provisions for transportation, roads, soil conservation, water supply, drainage, education, sanitation, recreation, conservation, and development of Taliaferro County's natural resources, fostering Taliaferro County's agriculture and other industries for the purpose of lessening traffic and other hazards to life, limb, and health in Taliaferro County, and the civil defense of the population, we do adopt this comprehensive zoning ordinance of Taliaferro County, Georgia, on this day, January 2, 2002.
1.3 - Planning Commission created; duties.
1.
There is created the county planning commission, which shall consist of five members who shall be appointed by the Taliaferro County Board of Commissioners. The initial members of the planning commission shall be appointed to the following terms: two members shall serve a term commencing June 1, 2003, and expiring May 31, 2004; three members shall serve a term commencing June 1, 2003 and expiring May 31, 2006. Thereafter, successors to the initial members of the planning commission shall serve a four-year term and until their successors are duly appointed. The Board of Commissioners shall have the right to remove any member of the planning commission for cause.
2.
Annually the planning commission shall elect one of its members as chairman.
3.
The duties of the planning commission shall include:
a.
Annually assess the county's adopted growth management plan with regard to changing conditions, rezoning approvals and other data, as appropriate.
b.
Recommend approval or disapproval to the board of commissioners of all amendments to the growth management plan.
c.
Recommend approval, disapproval or other action to the board of commissioners on all requests for zoning changes or variances as provided in this Code.
d.
Hear and decide appeals from administrative decisions or for interpretation of the zoning map, in accordance with Section 12.
e.
Hear and decide all appeals and requests for variances from the requirements of this Code.
f.
Conduct such other business and affairs as may be designated by the board of commissioners from time to time.
