ARTICLE V - PROCEDURE FOR MINOR SUBDIVISION APPROVAL

5-A - PURPOSE
The purpose of this Article is to establish procedures for the expedient review and approval of minor subdivisions. Such subdivisions do not involve the platting of new developable lots or tracts to a degree that would alter or intensify existing development patterns and require the immediate oversight of elected or appointed public bodies; and, do not involve the dedication new streets and other infrastructure.
5-B - SUMMARY PLAT
5-B-1
Application
All applications for approval of a minor subdivision shall be submitted to the Land Development Officer and shall include those items contained in Appendix A, Table 4. Summary plats submitted in accordance with this Subsection shall adhere to the requirements contained in Appendix A, Table 5.
5-B-2
Supplemental Application Material
a.
Common Contiguous Parcels
Common contiguous parcels, shall be referenced on all applications for minor subdivisions, and shall be considered part of any application for minor subdivision, for purposes of determining whether or not the division of land proposed is a major subdivision or a minor subdivision as established in Subsection 5-B-4. Common contiguous parcels shall not be counted as lots in the case of a minor subdivision.
b.
Additional Supplemental Information
In the case where a minor subdivision results in the creation of at least one (1) new lot, parcel or tract, the subdivider shall provide additional certification that all lots, parcels and tracts, including the parent tract, are provided with adequate access to a public street and with adequate access to water and sewerage service.
(1)
Certification of Access.
Documentation shall be provided verifying that all lots have access to and frontage on a private road that is in accordance with Section 7-G of this ordinance or a public right-of-way which has been accepted by the County or the Georgia Department of Transportation.
(2)
Certification of Water and Sewer Service.
Documentation shall be provided verifying that all lots have access to public water and sewer service or, a privately owned water or sewer system, or are suitable for the provision of water and sewerage through the use of a well and/or septic system.
5-B-3
Summary Plat Approval
The Land Development Officer shall review the application for a minor subdivision and may submit it for review and comment to other agencies and departments as he/she deems necessary. The Land Development Officer shall approve or disapprove the application for minor subdivision within thirty (30) days of its submission. The Land Development Officer may alternatively defer his or her decision regarding the minor subdivision to the Planning Commission.
5-B-4
Limitations and Determination of Major Subdivision
Upon review of a summary plat, the Land Development Officer may determine that the minor subdivision actually constitutes a major subdivision. In considering whether an application constitutes a major subdivision, the Land Development Officer shall consider at least the following:
a.
Limitations
Land within a minor subdivision, including all common contiguous parcels owned by the subdivider, shall not be further divided for a period of three (3) years unless a preliminary plat application is filed and approved as a major subdivision pursuant to the requirements of this Ordinance. If property proposed to be subdivided was part of an original tract, and if the property proposed to be subdivided abuts land that has been divided as a minor subdivision in the last three (3) years, then minor subdivision of said property shall be prohibited. This provision shall not be construed to prohibit the approval of two (2) contiguous minor subdivisions under separate ownership; however, this provision is intended to be construed liberally so that one property owner does not develop a minor subdivision on part of an original tract and transfer or sell another part of the original tract for the purposes of minor subdivision within a three (3) year period. It is the intent that land abutting a minor subdivision that was owned by the subdivider of the abutting minor subdivision shall not be subdivided as a minor subdivision for a period of three (3) years, regardless of ownership.
b.
Future Road Right-of-Way
Minor subdivisions proposed in order to avoid the required provision of internal road access shall be prohibited. Showing future road rights-of-way or stub-outs is not permitted.
A subdivision determined by the Land Development Officer to constitute a major subdivision must be resubmitted by the subdivider in accordance with the standards and procedures contained in Article VI of this Ordinance.
