V. - Agricultural Districts

4.1 - Intent.
The Agricultural Districts will maintain the quality of life and aesthetic character of the rural areas of Taliaferro County, and will protect the character and suitability of such areas for particular uses. These districts will also promote open spaces and protect these areas from congestion and heavy traffic.
4.2 - Table of Standards.
EXPAND
A
Minimum Lot Size (sq. ft) 43,560 (1 acre)
Minimum Lot Width (ft) 100
Front Yard Setback (ft) 75
Rear Yard Setback (ft) 75
Side Yard Setback (ft) 25
  4.3 - A District.
1.
Permitted Uses:
a.
Agriculture, dairy, forestry and ranching, and other normal agricultural uses with a minimum of five (5) acres;
b.
Buildings incidental to agriculture, dairy, and ranching uses;
c.
Buildings incidental to forestry;
d.
Public or Private Schools;
e.
Public uses or structures;
f.
Single-family dwellings, one (1) additional single family dwelling is permitted on a single lot in the A-1 District provided the overall density of the lot is no more than one (1) dwelling unit per 1.5 acres of land, all required permits are obtained from the health department, and all setbacks requirements are met from both property lines and other buildings;
g.
Public and private parks and open spaces;
h.
Home occupations limited to personal services and restricted by the conditions outlined in Section 9.7;
i.
Churches;
j.
Accessory Buildings, subject to the restrictions outlined in Section 9.8;
k.
Manufactured houses, subject to restrictions in Section 9.6;
l.
Cemetery, with a minimum lot size of 25 acres, and subject to all applicable state codes and regulations;
m.
Signs: one exterior non-illuminated sign per lot pertaining only to a non-residential use conducted within the building shall be permitted in the A zone. A sign not located flat against the building shall be less than three square feet in area and less than six feet in height. Such sign shall not be located within 25 feet of the intersection of the right-of-way lines of intersecting streets, and shall be restricted by the conditions outlined in Section 9.2;
n.
Animal kennels, boarding of animals, and animal grooming establishments, provided that the following conditions are met:
(i)
No activity permitted under this section shall be conducted within 400 feet of a permanent dwelling or manufactured home located on another tract of land;
(ii)
The applicant for a Conditional Use under this section shall submit a site plan showing the boundaries of the property to be used, its dimensions, the location of existing and proposed structures to be used for the purpose of this section, and the distance from these locations to any dwelling or manufactured home located on adjacent tracts of land.
o.
Personal care homes restricted by the conditions outlined in Section 9.1;
p.
Automobile wrecking or junk yards, provided that the use is enclosed on all sides by a solid wall or board fence not less than six feet in height. In no case shall this use be allowed within 300 feet of an R Zone.
2.
Lot Size and Setback Requirements:
a.
Lot Size: All lots in an A-1 zone shall have a minimum width of 100 feet and a minimum area of 43,560 square feet (1 acre);
b.
Setback Requirements: No building or structure in an A-1 Zone any be located closer than thirty (30) feet to a front or rear lot line and twenty (20) feet to a side lot line. Accessory uses shall have a setback of not less than ten feet from a side or rear lot line, and shall be no closer than 20 feet to the principle structure on the lot.
