Chapter 14 - FIRE PREVENTION AND PROTECTION
ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Secs. 14-1—14-18. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - VOLUNTEER FIRE DEPARTMENT

Sec. 14-19. - Established.
There is hereby established a fire department which will be operated under the direction of a fire chief who shall be elected by the volunteers of the fire department and who shall report to the town council. The fire chief shall supervise and operate the fire department under the rules and regulations adopted by the town council and shall enforce the International Fire Code and fire safety regulations of the town.
(Ord. of 5-11-1989, § I)
Sec. 14-20. - Fire protection outside the corporate limits of the town.
The fire department shall be permitted to answer calls within a five-mile radius pursuant to contracts with the county. It is provided that at least one fire truck remain inside the corporate limits so as to provide protection for residents of the town.
(Ord. of 5-11-1989, § IV)
Sec. 14-21. - Operations.
The fire department shall operate under a regular operating budget in the general fund of the town. In addition, monies received by the volunteers will be accounted for in a special fund by the town council. Expenditures from said fund shall be subject to approval by the volunteers.
(Ord. of 5-11-1989, § V)
Secs. 14-22—14-45. - Reserved.
ARTICLE III. - FIRE PREVENTION CODE

Sec. 14-46. - Standards and application thereof.
The provisions of the International Fire Code, this article, rules and regulations, and other fire protection ordinances of the town, shall apply equally to both public and private property, and shall apply to all structures and their occupancies, except as otherwise specified.
(Ord. of 6-8-2006)
Sec. 14-47. - Exercise of police power.
This act shall be deemed an exercise of the police powers of the town for the preservation and protection of the public health, peace, safety, and welfare, and all the provisions of this article shall be liberally construed for that purpose.
(Ord. of 6-8-2006)
Sec. 14-48. - Applicability of provisions.
The provisions of this article shall apply equally to both public and private property, and shall apply to all structures and their occupancies, except as otherwise specified.
(Ord. of 6-8-2006)
Sec. 14-49. - Violations.
It shall be unlawful for any person to violate this article, to permit or maintain such a violation, to refuse to obey any provision thereof, or to fail or refuse to comply with any such provision or regulation. Proof of such unlawful act or failure shall be deemed prima facie evidence that such act is that of the owner or other person in control of the premises. Prosecution or lack thereof of either the owner, occupant, or the person in charge shall not be deemed to relieve any of the others.
(Ord. of 6-8-2006)
Sec. 14-50. - Penalties for violations.
Any person who shall violate any of the provisions of the International Fire Code, this article, or other fire-related ordinance or rule or regulation; or shall fail to comply therewith, or shall violate or fail to comply with any order made thereunder, or shall build in violation of any details, statements, specifications, or plans submitted or approved thereunder; or shall operate not in accordance with the provisions of any certificate, permit, or approval issued thereunder; and from which no appeal has been taken; or shall fail to comply with such order as affirmed or modified by the town council or by a court of competent jurisdiction within the time fixed herein shall severally for each and every violation and noncompliance, respectively, be guilty of a misdemeanor. The imposition of a penalty for any violation shall not excuse the violation nor excuse required correction or remedy of such violations or defects within a reasonable time, and when not otherwise specified, the application of the above penalty shall not be held to prevent the enforced removal of prohibited conditions.
(Ord. of 6-8-2006)
Sec. 14-51. - Inspection.
(a)
The fire chief, police chief or their designee shall inspect or cause to be inspected all premises on a periodic basis for compliance with the International Fire Code, this article, rules and regulations and other fire protection ordinances of the town, and shall make such orders as may be necessary for the enforcement of the laws and ordinances governing the same.
(b)
Additionally, upon complaint submitted in writing alleging a failure to comply with the International Fire Code, this article, and fire-related rules, regulations and ordinances, the fire chief, police chief or their designee may enter in or upon any building or premises complained of for the purpose of investigating the complaint.
(Ord. of 6-8-2006)
Sec. 14-52. - Order to remove fire hazard.
Whenever the fire chief, police chief or their designee shall find in any building, or upon any premises or other places, combustible or explosive matter or dangerous accumulations of rubbish or unnecessary accumulation of wastepaper, boxes, shavings, or any highly flammable material especially liable of fire, and which is so situated as to endanger property; or shall find obstructions to or on fire escapes, stairs, passageways, doors or windows, liable to interfere with the operations of the fire department or egress of occupants in case of fire, the fire chief, police chief or their designee shall order the same to be removed or remedied, and such order shall forthwith be complied with by the owner or occupant of such premises or buildings, subject to the appeals procedure provided for in the International Fire Code. Any owner or occupant failing to comply with such order within a reasonable period after the service of the said order shall be liable to penalties as hereinafter provided.
(Ord. of 6-8-2006)
Sec. 14-53. - Service of order to remove hazard.
The service of any such order may be made upon the occupant or owner of the premises to whom it is directed, either by delivering a copy of same to such occupant or owner personally, or leaving it with any person in charge of the premises, or, in case no such person is found upon the premises, by affixing a copy thereof in a conspicuous place on the door to the entrance of said premises. Such order may be served either by delivering to and leaving with said person a copy of the order, or, if such owner is absent from the jurisdiction of the officer making the order, by mailing such copy by certified mail to the owner's last known address.
(Ord. of 6-8-2006)
Sec. 14-54. - Submission of plans and specifications required.
Owners, their agents or designees, of all buildings and tenant spaces covered by this article are required to submit plans and specifications of the project to the town council. The town council shall approve prior to construction.
(Ord. of 6-8-2006)
Sec. 14-55. - Outdoor burning restrictions.
(a)
No open burning shall be conducted in violation of state department of natural resources environmental protection division regulations, chapter 391-3-1, as revised. In addition to any environmental protection division authorizations which may be required, no open burning shall take place in the town except as otherwise provided herein. The fire chief, police chief or their designee may prohibit any or all burning when local conditions make such fires hazardous.
(b)
Open burning, below the elevation of 2,000 feet, may be done with the appropriate permit for the open burning of leaves in areas where public collection of leaves is not provided, and any other organic material by the owner or person in control of a residential occupancy, provided such burning takes place after sunrise with all fires to be completely extinguished one hour before sunset. The fire shall not create a nuisance to neighbors nor be started during an air pollution advisory in effect or in periods of high winds or any other climatic conditions that would create a hazardous condition. All fires, of any kind, must be attended by responsible persons over 15 years of age. There will be no open burning above the elevation of 2,000 feet.
(c)
Exceptions for open burning without a permit.
(1)
Outdoor cooking of food for immediate human consumption.
(2)
Small outdoor fires using untreated wood are allowed to keep persons warm for working outdoors. Said fire shall be in a secure container and where no nuisance or public safety hazard is created.
(3)
Fires set for the purpose of firefighting training.
The burning of tires, asphaltic materials, heavy oils, petroleum based products, rubber or plastic products, pressure treated wood and household garbage is prohibited under all circumstances.
(Ord. of 6-8-2006)
Sec. 14-56. - Permits.
The appropriate permits for burning below the elevation of 2,000 feet shall be obtained from the Georgia Forestry Commission.
(Ord. of 6-8-2006)
