CHAPTER II. - MAYOR AND COUNCIL
ARTICLE I. - GENERAL PROVISIONS

Sec. 2.10. - Composition and election.
The legislative authority of the Government of the City of Tallapoosa shall be vested in a Mayor and five (5) Councilmen, who shall be elected in the manner provided by Chapter VI of this Charter and any other appropriate provisions of this Charter.
Sec. 2.11. - Terms and qualifications of office.
The Mayor and members of the Council shall serve for terms of four (4) years and until their successors are elected and qualified. No person shall be qualified or eligible to seek election as Mayor or Councilman unless he is at least twenty-one (21) years of age, shall have resided in the City continuously for one (1) year immediately preceding his election, and shall be registered and qualified to vote in the municipal elections for offices in the City of Tallapoosa.
Editor's note— Georgia House Bill 202, passed in 1987, provided for all terms of municipal office to be four years unless the city opts out for two-year terms by local law. The city has not opted out.
Sec. 2.12. - Vacancy in elected offices.
The Offices of Mayor or Councilmen shall become vacant upon the incumbent's death, resignation, removal from office in any manner authorized by law, or forfeiture of his office, or when he ceases to reside within the Corporate Limits of the City of Tallapoosa.
Sec. 2.13. - Compensation; expenses.
The Mayor shall receive as compensation for services a sum not to exceed $3,500.00 per year, and each Council member shall receive as compensation for services a sum not to exceed $2,500.00 per year. The Mayor and Council members may be reimbursed for actual and necessary expenses incurred in the performance of their official duties, as provided by ordinance of the Council.
(Ord. No. 01192, § 1, 5-12-1997)
Sec. 2.14. - Oath of office.
Each newly elected or appointed Mayor or Councilman, before entering upon the duties of his office, shall take and subscribe before the City Clerk, City Attorney or before some judicial officer, or Mayor, the following oath:
"I do solemnly swear that I will well and truly perform the duties of Mayor (or Councilman, as the case may be) of the City of Tallapoosa, Georgia, to the best of my skill and ability, and as to me shall seem to be the best interest and welfare of the City, without fear, favor or affection."
Sec. 2.15. - Prohibitions.
(a)
Holding other office. Except as authorized by law, neither the Mayor nor any member of the Council shall hold any other City Office or City employment during the term for which he was elected, and no former Mayor or Councilman shall hold any compensated appointive City office or City employment until one (1) year after the expiration of the term for which he was elected to office.
(b)
Personal interest. Neither the Mayor or any member of the Council shall vote upon any question in which he is personally interested.
Sec. 2.16. - Forfeiture of office.
The Mayor or any member of Council shall forfeit his office if he:
(1)
Lacks at any time during his term of office any qualification for the office as prescribed by this Charter;
(2)
Violates any expressed prohibition of this Charter; or
(3)
Is convicted of a crime involving moral turpitude.
Sec. 2.17. - Judge of qualifications.
The Mayor and Council shall be the judge of the election and qualifications of its members and of the grounds for forfeiture of their offices and for that purpose shall have the power to subpoena witnesses, administer oaths and require the production of evidence, by subpoena duces tecum or otherwise. A member charged with conduct constituting grounds for forfeiture of his office shall be entitled to a public hearing on demand, and notice of such hearing shall be published in a newspaper of general circulation in the City at least one week in advance of said hearing. Decisions made by the Mayor and Council under this Section shall be subject to the review of the Courts.
Sec. 2.18. - Inquiries and investigations.
The Mayor and Council may make inquiries and investigations into the affairs of the City and conduct of any department, office or agency thereof and for this purpose may subpoena witnesses, administer oaths, take testimony and require the production of evidence by subpoena duces tecum or otherwise. Any person who fails or refuses to obey a lawful order issued in the exercise of these powers by the Mayor and Council shall be punished as provided by ordinance.
ARTICLE II. - MAYOR

Sec. 2.20. - Mayor, duties and powers.
The Mayor shall be the official spokesman for the City and the chief advocate of policy. He shall preside at meetings of the Council, shall sign ordinances and resolutions on their final passage, shall sign deeds, bonds, contracts, and other instruments or documents authorized to be executed on behalf of the City. The Mayor shall perform such other duties imposed by this Charter or by ordinance of Council not inconsistent therewith.
Sec. 2.21. - Mayor pro tem.
During the absence or disability of the Mayor for any cause, the Mayor Pro Tem, or in his absence or disability for any reason, any one of the Councilmen chosen by the Council shall be clothed with all of the rights and privileges of the Mayor and shall perform the duties of the office of Mayor so long as such absence or disability shall continue.
ARTICLE III. - ORGANIZATION AND PROCEDURES

Sec. 2.30. - Organizational meeting.
The Mayor and Council shall meet for organization at the first regular meeting in January following each regular election. The meeting shall be called to order by the City Clerk and the Oath of Office shall be administered to the newly elected members. Following the induction of members, the Mayor and Council by majority vote of all of the members thereof shall elect one of their number to be Mayor Pro Tem, who shall serve for a term of two years.
Editor's note— Georgia House Bill 202 changed the terms of office to begin in January. The mayor pro tem serves for a period of two years.
Sec. 2.31. - Regular and special meetings.
(a)
The Mayor and Council shall hold regular meetings at least once in every month on the second Monday of said month at the city hall. The time and place for the regular meeting may be changed by the Mayor and Council by ordinance. The Mayor and Council may recess any regular meeting and continue such meeting on any weekday or hour they may fix. They may transact any business at such continued meeting as may be transacted at any regular meeting.
(b)
Special meetings of the Mayor and Council may be held on call of the Mayor or shall be held when requested in writing by a majority of the members of the Council and, except in the case of emergency, upon no less than twenty-four hours' notice to each member. Notice of any special meeting may be waived in writing and attendance at the meeting shall be a waiver of notice of any special meeting. The time and place of said special meeting must be specified in the notice.
(1990 Ga. Laws (Act No. 826), page 4054, § 1)
Sec. 2.32. - Quorum; voting.
The Mayor, or Mayor Pro Tem, if he is presiding, and a majority of the duly qualified and acting Councilmen shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business. The Mayor, or Mayor Pro Tem, if he is presiding, shall be entitled to vote only in the case of a tie. A majority of the votes cast shall determine all questions except as otherwise provided in this Charter. Voting, except on procedural motions, shall be by voice and the ayes and nays shall be recorded in the Minutes, but any member of the Council shall have the right to request a roll call vote.
ARTICLE IV. - LEGISLATIVE PROCEDURE

Sec. 2.40. - City legislation.
Any action of the Council, having a regulatory or penal effect, or required to be done by ordinance under this Charter shall be done only by ordinance. Each resolution and ordinance shall be in written form before being introduced. The affirmative vote of at least a majority of the duly elected and qualified members of the Council shall be required to pass any resolution or ordinance. After adoption of ordinances, the same shall be signed by the Mayor or Mayor Pro Tem, if the Mayor is not present, and by the City Clerk, and the City Clerk shall number said ordinances consecutively, in the order of their final adoption, and shall copy them into a permanent record book used solely for this purpose; and the City Clerk shall do likewise for resolutions, using a separate series of numbers and a separate record book. The original copies of all ordinances, resolutions and motions shall be filed and preserved by the City Clerk.
Sec. 2.41. - Legislative procedure.
The Mayor and Council may establish rules of procedure for the introduction and passage of ordinances and resolutions, and if such procedure is adopted, the same shall be followed in all instances until specifically changed by said Mayor and Council, provided, however, such rules of procedure are not in conflict with this Charter or any General Act of the State of Georgia.
