Subpart B - RELATED LAWS
ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL
ARTICLE II. - RECREATION AUTHORITY[1]

Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Editor's note— Printed herein is the act creating the Tallapoosa Recreation Authority for the City of Tallapoosa, Georgia, as adopted by 1996 Ga. Laws (Act No. EX2S), page 325. The act is printed herein as it was enacted. Paragraph headings and numbering correspond to that of the original. Amendments to the act are indicated by parenthetical history notes following amended provisions. The absence of a history note indicates that the provision remains unchanged from the original act. Obvious misspellings have been corrected without notation. For stylistic purposes, a uniform system of headings, catchlines and citations to state statutes has been used. Additions made for clarity are indicated by brackets.

Sec. 1. - [Title.]
This Act shall be known and may be cited as the "Tallapoosa Recreation Authority Act."
Sec. 2. - [Authority created; membership.]
(a)
There is created a body corporate and politic to be known as the Tallapoosa Recreation Authority, which shall be deemed to be a political subdivision of the State of Georgia and a public corporation by that name, style, and title and said body may contract and be contracted with, sue and be sued, implead and be impleaded, complain and defend in all courts of law and equity, except that the authority or the trustee acting under the trust indenture shall in no event be liable for any torts committed by any of the officers, agents, and employees. The authority shall not be a state institution, nor a department or agency of the state, but shall be an instrumentality of the state, a mere creation of the state, having a distinct corporate entity and being exempt from the provisions of O.C.G.A. tit. 50, ch. 17, art. 2 [O.C.G.A. § 50-17-20 et seq.], the "Georgia State Financing and Investment Commission Act." The authority shall have its principal office in Haralson County, and its legal situs or residence for the purposes of this Act shall be Haralson County. The authority is granted the same exemptions and exclusions from taxes as are now granted to cities and counties for the operation of facilities similar to facilities to be operated by the authority as provided under the provisions of this Act.
(b)
The authority shall consist of five members who shall be residents of the City of Tallapoosa and who shall be appointed by the mayor and council of the City of Tallapoosa. The mayor and council of the City of Tallapoosa shall initially appoint one member for a term of two years, two for terms of four years each, and two for terms of six years each. After expiration of the initial terms, the terms of all members shall be six years. If at the end of any term of office of any member, a successor to such member has not been elected, the member whose term of office has expired shall continue to hold office until a successor is elected. A majority of the authority shall constitute a quorum.
(c)
Any member of the authority may be selected and appointed to succeed himself. Immediately after such appointments, the members of such authority shall enter upon their duties.
(d)
Any vacancy on the authority shall be filled in the same manner as was the original appointment of the member whose termination of membership resulted in such vacancy and the person so selected and appointed shall serve for the remainder of the unexpired term.
(e)
The authority shall elect one of its members as chairperson and another member as vice chairperson. The city manager of the City of Tallapoosa shall be the secretary and treasurer. Said city manager shall not be a member of the authority.
(f)
Three members of the authority shall constitute a quorum. No vacancy on the authority shall impair the right of the quorum to exercise all the rights and perform all the duties of the authority.
(g)
The members of the authority shall be reimbursed for all actual expenses incurred in the performance of their duties out of funds of the authority.
(h)
The authority shall make rules and regulations for its own government. It shall have perpetual existence.
(i)
Any member of the authority may be removed from office by the governing authority which appointed such member for failure to perform his duties as a member of the authority. Such failure shall include without limitation the failure to attend a majority of the regularly scheduled meetings in a calendar year. Any office so vacated shall be filled within 60 days by appointment by the mayor and council of the City of Tallapoosa. The new appointee shall serve the remainder of the unexpired term to which he is appointed.
Sec. 3. - [Definitions.]
As used in this Act, the term:
(1)
"Authority" shall mean the Tallapoosa Recreation Authority created in Section 2 of this Act.
(2)
"Cost of the project" shall embrace the cost of acquisition and construction; the cost of all lands, properties, rights, easements, and franchises acquired and the cost of all conveyances in fee simple of the authority's title thereto and leases thereof; the cost of all machinery and equipment and financing charges and interest prior to and during construction and for one year after completion of construction; cost of engineering, architectural, fiscal, and legal expenses, and of plans and specifications and other expenses necessary or incident to determining the feasibility or practicability of the project; administrative expenses, and such other expenses as may be necessary or incident to the financing authorized by this Act; the acquisition and construction of any project, and the placing of the same in operation. Any obligation or expense incurred for any of the foregoing purposes shall be regarded as a part of the cost of the project and may be paid or reimbursed as such out of the proceeds of revenue bonds issued under the provisions of this Act for such project.
(3)
"Project" shall be deemed to mean and include the acquisition, construction, equipping, maintenance, and operation of athletic and recreation centers, facilities, and areas, including, but not limited to, golf courses, playgrounds, parks, hiking, camping and picnicking areas and facilities, swimming and wading pools, lakes, tennis courts, athletic fields and courts, club houses, gymnasiums, auditoriums, youth centers, senior citizen centers, civic centers, stadiums, and related buildings, and the usual and convenient facilities appertaining to such undertakings and extensions and improvements of such facilities; the acquisition of parking facilities or parking areas in connection therewith; the acquisition of the necessary property therefor, both real and personal, and the lease and sale of any part or all of such facilities, including real and personal property, so as to assure the efficient and proper development, maintenance, and operation of such recreational facilities and areas deemed by the authority to be necessary, convenient, or desirable.
(4)
"Revenue bonds," "bonds," and "obligations," as used in this Act, shall mean revenue bonds as defined and provided for in O.C.G.A. tit. 36, ch. 82, art. 3 [O.C.G.A. § 36-82-60 et seq.], the "Revenue Bond Law," and such type of obligations may be issued by the authority as authorized under said Revenue Bond Law and any amendments thereto and, in addition, shall mean obligations of the authority the issuance of which are specifically provided for in this Act.
(5)
Any project shall be deemed "self-liquidating" if, in the judgment of the authority, the revenues and earnings to be derived by the authority therefrom, including the anticipated revenues and earnings from the lease of any project, and all properties used, leased, and sold in connection therewith will be sufficient to pay the cost of acquiring, operating, maintaining and repairing, improving, and extending the project and to pay the principal of and interest on the revenue bonds which may be issued to finance, in whole or in part, the cost of such project or projects.
Sec. 4. - [Powers.]
The authority shall have powers:
(1)
To have a seal and alter the same at pleasure;
(2)
To acquire by purchase, lease, or otherwise and to hold, lease, and dispose of real and personal property of every kind and character for its corporate purposes;
(3)
To acquire in its own name by purchase, on such terms and conditions and in such manner as it may deem proper, real property or rights of easements therein or franchises necessary or convenient for its corporate purposes, to use the same so long as its corporate existence shall continue, to lease or make contracts with respect to the use of the same, or to dispose of the same in any manner it deems to the best advantage of the authority. If the authority shall deem it expedient to construct any property on any lands, the title to which shall then be in the State of Georgia, the Governor is authorized to convey for and in behalf of the state title to such lands to the authority upon payment to the State of Georgia for the credit of the general fund of the state of the reasonable value of such lands or upon the receipt of such lawful consideration as may be determined by the parties to such conveyance. If the authority shall deem it expedient to acquire and construct any project on any lands, the title to which shall then be in the City of Tallapoosa, Haralson County, or any other municipality incorporated in said county, the governing authority or body of said county or any of the said municipalities is authorized to convey title to such lands to the authority upon the receipt of such lawful consideration as may be determined by the parties to such conveyance or upon payment for the credit of the general funds of said county or municipalities of the reasonable value of such lands, such value to be determined by mutual consent of said county or municipality and the authority or by an appraiser to be agreed upon by the governing authority or body of said county or municipality and the chairman of the authority;
(4)
To appoint, select, and employ officers, agents, and employees, including engineering, architectural, and construction experts, fiscal agents, and attorneys and fix their respective compensations;
(5)
To make contracts and leases and to execute all instruments necessary or convenient, including contracts for the acquisition and construction of projects and leases of projects or contracts with respect to the use of projects which it causes to be erected or acquired, including contracts for acquiring, constructing, renting, and leasing of its projects for use of the City of Tallapoosa, Haralson County, or any municipality in Haralson County, and to dispose by conveyance of its title in fee simple of real and personal property of every kind and character, and any and all persons, firms, and corporations and the state and any and all political subdivisions, departments, institutions, or agencies of the state are authorized to enter into contracts, leases, or agreements with the authority upon such terms and for such purposes as they deem advisable; and, without limiting the generality of the above, authority is specifically granted to municipal corporations and counties and to the authority to enter into contracts and lease and sublease agreements with the State of Georgia or any agencies or departments thereof relative to parks and recreational centers, areas, and facilities and relative to any property which such department or other agency or department of the State of Georgia has now or may hereafter obtain by lease from the United States government or any agency or department thereof and the authority is specifically authorized to convey title in fee simple to any and all of its lands and any improvements thereon to any persons, firms, corporations, municipalities, the State of Georgia or the United States government, or any agency or department thereof, subject to the rights and interest of the holders of any of the bonds or obligations authorized to be issued pursuant to this Act, and by the resolution or trust indenture of the authority authorizing the issuance of any of its bonds or obligations as provided in this Act;
(6)
To construct, erect, acquire, own, repair, remodel, maintain, add to, extend, improve, equip, operate, and manage projects, as defined in this Act, the cost of any such project to be paid in whole or in part from the proceeds of revenue bonds or other funds of the authority or from such proceeds or other funds and any grant from the United States of America or any agency or instrumentality thereof;
(7)
To accept loans and grants of money or materials or property of any kind from the United States of America or any agency or instrumentality thereof, upon such terms and conditions as the United States of America or such agency or instrumentality may impose;
(8)
To accept loans and grants of money or materials or property of any kind from the State of Georgia or any agency or instrumentality or political subdivision thereof, upon such terms and conditions as the State of Georgia or such agency or instrumentality or political subdivision may impose;
(9)
To borrow money for any of its corporate purposes and to execute evidences of such indebtedness and to secure the same and to issue negotiable revenue bonds payable solely from funds pledged for that purpose, and to provide for the payment of the same and for the rights of the holders thereof;
(10)
To exercise any power usually possessed by private corporations performing similar functions which is not in conflict with the Constitution and laws of this state;
(11)
The authority and the trustee acting under a trust indenture are specifically authorized from time to time to sell, lease, grant, exchange, or otherwise dispose of any surplus property, both real and personal, or interest therein not required in the normal operation of and usable in the furtherance of the purpose for which the authority was created;
(12)
To borrow money for any of its corporate purposes from any bank, banks, or other lending institutions and to execute evidences of such indebtedness and to secure the same by assigning all rights to and pledging all funds to be received by the authority from a lease or leases entered into by the authority as the lessor and the City of Tallapoosa and Haralson County as the lessee;
(13)
To do all things necessary or convenient to carry out the powers expressly given in this Act; and
(14)
To advise the City of Tallapoosa on land acquisition, facilities development, and other matters relating to the provision of recreation and recreational opportunities to the citizens of the City of Tallapoosa and Haralson County.
Sec. 5. - [Bonds generally.]
The authority, or any authority or body which has or which may in the future succeed to the powers, duties, and liabilities vested in the authority created by this Act, shall have power and is authorized at one time or from time to time to provide by resolution for the issuance of negotiable revenue bonds for the purpose of paying all or any part of the cost as defined in this Act of any one or more projects. The principal of and interest on such revenue bonds shall be payable solely from the special fund provided for in this Act for such payment. The bonds of each issue shall be dated and shall bear interest at such rate or rates as determined by the authority, payable on such dates as determined by the authority. Principal on such bonds shall mature at such time or times not exceeding 40 years from their date or dates, shall be payable in such medium of payment as to both principal and interest as may be determined by the authority, and may be made redeemable before maturity at the option of the authority at such price or prices and under such terms and conditions as may be fixed by the authority in the resolution providing for the issuance of the bonds. Such revenue bonds or obligations shall be issued pursuant to and in conformity with O.C.G.A. tit. 36, ch. 82, art. 3 [O.C.G.A. § 36-82-60 et seq.], the "Revenue Bond Law," and all procedures pertaining to such issuance and the conditions thereof shall be the same as those contained in said Revenue Bond Law and any amendments thereto.
Sec. 6. - [Bonds exempt from taxation.]
All revenue bonds issued under the provisions of this Act are declared to be issued for an essential public and governmental purpose and the said bonds and the income thereof shall be exempt from all taxation within the state.
Sec. 7. - [Sale of bonds; use of proceeds.]
The authority may sell such bonds in such manner and for such price as it may determine to be for the best interest of the authority and the proceeds derived from the sale of such bonds shall be used solely for the purpose provided in the proceedings authorizing the issuance of such bonds.
Sec. 8. - [Proceedings and conditions for issuance of bonds.]
Such revenue bonds may be issued without any other proceedings or the happening of any other conditions or things than those proceedings, conditions, and things which are specified or required by this Act and O.C.G.A. tit. 36, ch. 82, art. 3 [O.C.G.A. § 36-82-60 et seq.], the "Revenue Bond Law." Any resolution providing for the issuance of revenue bonds under the provisions of this Act shall become effective immediately upon its passage and need not be published or posted, and any such resolution may be passed at any regular or special or adjourned meeting of the authority by a majority of its members.
Sec. 9. - [Responsibility for payment of bonds.]
Revenue bonds issued under the provisions of this Act shall not be deemed to constitute a debt of the State of Georgia or the City of Tallapoosa, or a pledge of the faith and credit thereof; but such bonds shall be payable solely from the rentals, revenues, earnings, and funds of the authority as provided in the resolution or trust agreement or indenture authorizing the issuance and securing the payment of such bonds; and the issuance of such revenue bonds shall not directly, indirectly, or contingently obligate the state or any political subdivision thereof, including specifically said city, to levy or to pledge any form of taxation whatever therefor or to make any appropriation for their payment, and all such bonds shall contain recitals on their face covering substantially the foregoing provisions of this section. However, the City of Tallapoosa and any other political subdivision contracting with the authority may obligate itself to pay the amounts required under any contract entered into with the authority from funds received from taxes to be levied and collected for that purpose to the extent necessary to pay the obligations contractually incurred under this section, and from any other source; and, the obligation to make such payments shall constitute a general obligation and a pledge of the full faith and credit of the obligor but shall not constitute a debt of the obligor within the meaning of the Constitution of the State of Georgia, Article IX, Section V, Paragraph I; and, when such obligation is made to make such payments from taxes to be levied for that purpose, then the obligation shall be mandatory to levy and collect such taxes from year to year in an amount sufficient to fulfill and fully comply with the terms of such obligation.
Sec. 10. - [Pledge of revenue for payment of bonds.]
The revenues, rents, and earnings derived from any particular project or projects, and any and all revenue, rents, and earnings received by the authority, regardless of whether such revenues, rents, and earnings, were produced by a particular project for which bonds have been issued, unless otherwise pledged, may be pledged by the authority to the payment of the principal of and interest on revenue bonds of the authority as may be provided in any resolution authorizing the issuance of such bonds or in any trust instrument pertaining to such bonds, and such funds so pledged, from whatever source received, may include funds received from one or more or all sources, and may be set aside at regular intervals into sinking funds for which provision may be made in any such resolution or trust instrument and which may be pledged to and charged with the payment of: (1) the interest upon such revenue bonds as such interest shall become due, (2) the principal of the bonds as the same shall mature, (3) the necessary charges of any trustee or paying agent for paying such principal and interest, and (4) any premium upon bonds retired by call or purchase. The use and disposition of any sinking fund may be subject to such regulation as may be provided for in the resolution authorizing the issuance of the bonds or in the trust instrument securing the payment of the same.
Sec. 11. - [Exemption from taxes and assessments.]
The exercise of the powers conferred upon the authority in this Act shall constitute an essential governmental function for a public purpose and the authority shall be required to pay no taxes or assessments upon any of the property acquired by it or under its jurisdiction, control, possession, or supervision or upon its activities in the operation and maintenance of property acquired by it or of buildings erected or acquired by it or any fees, rentals, or other charges for the use of such property or buildings or other income received by the authority. The tax exemption provided in this Act shall not include an exemption from sales and use tax on property purchased by or for the use of the authority.
Sec. 12. - [Immunity from liability.]
The authority shall have the same immunity and exemption from liability for torts and negligence as the State of Georgia, and the officers, agents, and employees of the authority, when in performance of work of the authority, shall have the same immunity and exemption from liability for torts and negligence as officers, agents, and employees of the State of Georgia. The authority may be sued the same as private corporations on any contractual obligation of the authority.
Sec. 13. - [Property of authority not subject to levy and sale.]
The property of the authority shall not be subject to levy and sale under legal process.
Sec. 14. - [Jurisdiction for legal actions pertaining to authority or bonds.]
Any action to protect or enforce any rights under the provisions of this Act or any suit or action against such authority shall be brought in the Superior Court of Haralson County, Georgia, and any action pertaining to validation of any bonds issued under the provisions of this Act shall likewise be brought in said court which shall have exclusive, original jurisdiction of such actions.
Sec. 15. - [Validation of bonds.]
Bonds of the authority shall be confirmed and validated in accordance with the procedure of O.C.G.A. tit. 36, ch. 82, art. 3 [O.C.G.A. § 36-82-60 et seq.], the "Revenue Bond Law." The petition for validation shall also make party defendant to such action the State of Georgia or any municipality, county, authority, political subdivision, or instrumentality of the State of Georgia or the United States government or any department or agency of the United States government, if subject to being sued and if consenting to same, which has contracted with the authority for the services and facilities of the project for which bonds are to be issued and sought to be validated and the state or such municipality, county, authority, political subdivision, or instrumentality shall be required to show cause, if any, why such contract or contracts and the terms and conditions thereof should not be inquired into by the court and the validity of the terms thereof be determined and the contract or contracts adjudicated as part of the basis of the security for the payment of any such bonds of the authority. The bonds when validated, and the judgment of validation, shall be final and conclusive with respect to such bonds and the security for the payment thereof and interest thereon and against the authority issuing the same, the state and any municipality, county, authority, political subdivision, or instrumentality, if a party to the validation proceedings, contracting with the authority.
Sec. 16. - [Preservation of rights of bondholders.]
While any of the bonds issued by the authority remain outstanding, the powers, duties, or existence of said authority or of its officers, employees, or agents shall not be diminished or impaired in any manner that will affect adversely the interest and rights of the holders of such bonds, and no other entity, department, agency, or authority will be created which will compete with the authority to such an extent as to affect adversely the interest and rights of the holders of such bonds, nor will the state itself so compete with the authority. The provisions of this Act shall be for the benefit of the authority and the holders of any such bonds and upon the issuance of bonds under the provisions of this Act shall constitute a contract with the holders of such bonds.
Sec. 17. - [Funds deemed trust funds.]
All funds received pursuant to the authority of this Act, whether as proceeds from the sale of revenue bonds or as revenue, rents, fees, charges, or other earnings, or as grants, gifts, or other contributions, shall be deemed to be trust funds to be held and applied by the authority solely as provided in this Act, and the bondholders entitled to receive the benefits of such funds shall have a lien on all such funds until the same are applied as provided for in any such resolution or trust instrument of the authority.
Sec. 18. - [Interpretation.]
This Act and any other law enacted with reference to the Tallapoosa Recreation Authority shall be liberally construed for the accomplishment of its purposes.
Sec. 19. - [Severability.]
Should any sentence, clause, phrase, or part of this Act be declared for any reason to be unconstitutional or invalid, the same shall not affect such remainder of this Act or any part hereof other than the part so held to be invalid, but the remaining provisions of this Act shall remain in full force and effect, and it is the express intention of this Act to enact each provision of this Act independently of any other provision hereof.
Sec. 20. - [Scope of operation.]
The scope of the authority's operation shall be limited to the territory embraced within Haralson County.
Sec. 21. - [Conveyance of title of property upon dissolution of authority.]
Should the authority for any reason be dissolved after full payment of all bonded indebtedness incurred under the provisions of this Act, both as to principal and interest, title to all property of any kind and nature, real and personal, held by the authority at the time of such dissolution shall be conveyed to the City of Tallapoosa; or title to any such property may be conveyed prior to such dissolution in accordance with provisions which may be made therefor in any resolution or trust instrument relating to such property, subject to any liens, leases, or other encumbrances outstanding against or in respect to said property at the time of such conveyance.
Sec. 22. - [Effective date.]
This Act shall become effective upon its approval by the Governor or upon its becoming law without such approval.
Sec. 23. - [Repeal of conflicting laws.]
All laws and parts of laws in conflict with this Act are repealed.
ARTICLE III. - DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY[2]

Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
Editor's note— Printed herein is the act creating the Tallapoosa Development Authority for the City of Tallapoosa, Georgia, as adopted by 1964 Ga. Laws (Act No. 139), page 923, and continued by 1986 Ga. Laws (Act No. 1147), page 4688. The original 1964 act is printed herein as it was enacted. Paragraph headings and numbering correspond to that of the original. Amendments to the act are indicated by parenthetical history notes following amended provisions. The absence of a history note indicates that the provision remains unchanged from the original act. Obvious misspellings have been corrected without notation. For stylistic purposes, a uniform system of headings, catchlines and citations to state statutes has been used. Additions made for clarity are indicated by brackets.

Sec. 1. - [Creation; membership; powers and duties.]
Article VII, Section V, Paragraph I of the Constitution is hereby amended by adding at the end thereof the following:
"A.
There is hereby created a body corporate and politic in the City of Tallapoosa in Haralson County to be known as the Tallapoosa Development Authority, which shall be an instrumentality of the City of Tallapoosa and a public corporation and which in this amendment is hereafter referred to as the 'Authority';
"B.
The Authority shall consist of five members who shall serve for a term of five years and who shall be eligible for reappointment. The members shall be appointed by the Mayor and Council of the City of Tallapoosa. The first members shall be appointed for terms of one, two, three, four and five years, and thereafter their successors shall be appointed for terms of five years. Vacancies shall be filled for the unexpired term by the Mayor and Council. A majority of the members shall constitute a quorum and a majority may act for the Authority in any matter. The members shall elect one from among themselves to serve as chairman from year to year. No vacancy shall impair the power of the Authority to act.
"C.
The property, obligations and the interest on the obligations of the Authority shall have the same immunity from taxation as the property, obligations and interest on the obligations of the City of Tallapoosa, Georgia;
"D.
The powers of the Authority shall include, but not be limited to, the power:
"(1)
To receive and administer gifts, grants and donations and to administer trusts;
"(2)
To borrow money, to issue notes, bonds and revenue certificates, to execute trust agreements or indentures, and to sell, convey, mortgage, pledge and assign any and all of its funds, property and income as security therefor;
"(3)
To contract with political subdivisions of the State of Georgia and with private persons and corporations and to sue and be sued in its corporate name;
"(4)
To have and exercise usual powers of private corporation except such as are inconsistent with this amendment, including the power to appoint and hire officers, agents and employees and to provide their compensation and duties, which officers and agents may or may not be members of the Authority, and the power to adopt and amend a corporate seal and by-laws and regulations for the conduct and management of the Authority;
"(5)
To encourage and promote the expansion and development of industrial and commercial facilities in the City of Tallapoosa and within a radius of 5 miles as measured from the center of said city so as to relieve insofar as possible unemployment within its boundaries, and to that end to acquire by purchase or gift any building or structure within aforesaid territorial limits suitable for and intended for use as a factory, mill, shop, processing plant, assembly plant, or fabricating plant, including all necessary and appurtenant lands and appurtenances thereto, and all necessary or useful furnishings machinery and equipment. Such acquisition may be through the acquisition of land and the construction thereon of a building, including the demolition of existing structures, or through the acquisition of an existing building and the remodeling, renovating, reconstructing, furnishing and equipping of such building;
"(6)
No building acquired hereunder shall be operated by the Authority but shall be leased or sold to one or more persons, firms or corporations. If sold, the purchase price may be paid at one time or in installments falling due in not more than thirty (30) years from the date of transfer of possession. The lessee or purchaser shall be required to pay all costs of operating and maintaining the building or buildings and to pay rentals or installments sufficient, together with other revenues which may be pledged for the purpose, to retire all bonds, both principal and interest, and to pay all other expenses which the Authority may have incurred in connection with the undertaking;
"(7)
To accumulate its funds from year to year and to invest accumulated funds in any manner that public funds of the State of Georgia or any of its political subdivisions may be invested;
"(8)
To designate officers to sign and act for the Authority generally or in any specific matter;
"(9)
To do any and all acts and things necessary or convenient to accomplish the purpose and powers of the Authority as herein stated.
"E.
The Authority shall not be authorized to create in any manner and [any] debt, liability or obligation against the State of Georgia, Haralson County, or City of Tallapoosa.
"F.
The members of the Authority shall receive no compensation for their services to the Authority;
"G.
In order to finance any undertaking with the scope of its power or to refund any bonds then outstanding, the Authority is hereby authorized to issue bonds bearing rate or rates of interest and maturing at the years and amounts determined by the Authority and the procedure of validation, issuance and delivery shall be in all respects in accordance with the Revenue Bond Law (Ga. L. 1937, p. 761), as amended, Ga. Code Ann. Supp. Chapter 87-8, as if said obligations had been originally authorized to be issued thereunder; provided, however, that any property, real or personal of the Authority may be pledged, mortgaged, conveyed, assigned, hypothecated or otherwise encumbered as security for any lawful debt of the Authority. The Authority may execute any trust agreement or indenture not in conflict with the provisions of this amendment to provide security for any bonds issued as provided herein, and such trust agreement or indenture may provide for foreclosure or forced sale of any property of the Authority upon default on such bonds either in payment of principal or interest or under any term or condition under which such bonds are issued. Nothing herein contained shall be construed to create a right to compel any exercise of the taxing power of either Haralson County or the City of Tallapoosa to pay any of the said obligations of said authority.
"H.
The Authority may authorize additional bonds, for extensions and permanent improvements to any industrial building acquired hereunder, to be placed in escrow and to be negotiated from time to time as proceeds for that purpose may become necessary. Bonds so placed in escrow shall, when sold and delivered, have such standing with the bonds of the same issue as may be provided in the authorizing proceedings.
"I.
No bonds except refunding bonds shall be issued hereunder unless the Authority shall have found and declared that:
"(1)
The undertaking for which the bonds are to be issued will increase employment within the territorial limits herein designated.
"(2)
The lessee or purchaser of the building or buildings involved will not by virtue of establishing operations in said territorial limits, reduce the number of employees employed by said lessee or purchaser elsewhere in the State of Georgia.
"J.
No moneys derived by the Authority from any source other than gifts and contributions from private individuals, firms or corporations shall at any time be used for entertainment, or other promotional expenses.
"K.
Should said Authority for any reason be dissolved, title to all property of every kind and nature, real and personal, held by the Authority at the time of such dissolution shall revert to the City of Tallapoosa subject to any mortgages, liens, leases or other encumbrances outstanding against or in respect to said property at that time.
"L.
This amendment is adopted for the purpose of promoting and expanding for the public good and welfare industry and trade in the City of Tallapoosa and its vicinity and reducing unemployment to the greatest extent possible, and this amendment and any law enacted with reference to the Authority shall be liberally construed for the accomplishment of these purposes.
"M.
This amendment shall be effective immediately upon proclamation of its ratification by the Governor and the first members of the Authority shall be appointed within thirty (30) days after such proclamation.
"N.
The General Assembly may by law further define and prescribe the powers and duties of the Authority and the exercise thereof, and may enlarge and restrict the same, and may likewise further regulate the management and conduct of the Authority. The Authority shall be an instrumentality of the City of Tallapoosa and the scope of its operations shall be limited to the territory embraced within said city and within a radius of 5 miles as measured from the center of said city. The General Assembly shall not extend the jurisdiction of the Authority nor the scope of its operations beyond such limits."
