CHAPTER V. - MUNICIPAL SERVICES AND REGULATORY FUNCTIONS
ARTICLE I. - MUNICIPAL SERVICES

Sec. 5.10. - Streets.
(a)
The Mayor and Council are hereby vested with the power and authority to open, lay out, grade, widen, construct, straighten, alter, relocate, pave, repave, curb, vacate, abandon, close and otherwise permanently improve any and all streets, sidewalks, alleys, ways and squares, and to maintain, relocate, repair, replace and remove streets, curbing, sidewalks, alleys, ways and squares, and to exercise complete control over the streets, alleys, ways, sidewalks and squares in the City of Tallapoosa.
(b)
The Mayor and Council are further vested with the power and authority to provide for the removal and disposition of any and all obstacles and nuisances in regard to the streets, alleys, ways and sidewalks and other public places within the City and are hereby empowered with the authority to adopt appropriate ordinances to accomplish these purposes.
Sec. 5.11. - Municipal utilities.
The Mayor and Council shall have the power and authority to acquire, own, hold, lease, build, maintain, and operate a system of waterworks, electric lights, sewerage and gas distribution; to establish rates and charge fees for services rendered to any of said systems; to finance any of said systems through appropriate bond issues in accordance with the laws of Georgia; to exercise the power of eminent domain in regard to any of said systems, both within and without the Corporate Limits; and to furnish the services of any said systems to consumers outside the Corporate Limits of the City of Tallapoosa by contract or otherwise.
State Law reference— Acquisition, operation of city water system, O.C.G.A. § 36-34-5.
Sec. 5.12. - Sewers and drains.
The Mayor and Council shall have the power and authority to provide for the establishment, extension and maintenance of a water system and a system of sewers and drains, together with a sewage disposal system. This power includes the authority to extend these systems beyond the Corporate Limits by contract or otherwise. For those purposes the City of Tallapoosa is granted the power of eminent domain within and without its Corporate Limits. The Mayor and Council may provide by ordinance for reasonable connections fees for tapping onto the water and sewer lines of the City and may compel City residents to tap onto the same when such service is made available. They may cause said connections to be made when the owners refuse, and issue executions for the amount so expended, which execution shall be special liens on the property connected with said water and sewerage systems from the date of the order of connection, and may be enforced and collected in the same manner as City tax executions or any general execution as provided by State law.
Sec. 5.13. - Right-of-way.
The City of Tallapoosa shall [have] the right, easement and franchise of laying the necessary mains, pipe, conduits and drains for waterworks and sewerage system purposes and gas systems along the highways and County maintained roads in the County of Haralson without cost; it shall have full power and authority to enact and enforce such rules, regulations and ordinances as may be necessary to protect the water basin and water shed, from which the water supply or any portion thereof is taken, from contamination and to protect said waterworks and sewerage system and gas system including the mains, pipes, and conduits, whether the same be situated within or without the Corporate Limits of the City.
Sec. 5.14. - Eminent domain.
The Mayor and Council are hereby empowered to acquire, construct, build, operate and maintain public ways, parks, public grounds, cemeteries, markets, market houses, public buildings, libraries, sewers, drains, sewage treatment, waterworks, impoundments for storage of water, electrical systems, gas systems, airports, hospitals, and charitable, educational, recreational, sport, curative, corrective, detentional, penal and medical institutions, agencies and facilities, and any other public improvements or purposes, inside or outside the City, and to regulate the use thereof, and for such purposes, property may be taken under section 36-202 of the Code of Georgia, 1933 [now repealed], subject to such amendments as shall be enacted thereto or under any power or procedure of eminent domain now or hereafter provided by the General Assembly of Georgia.
State Law reference— Power of eminent domain, O.C.G.A. § 36-61-9.
ARTICLE II. - REGULATORY FUNCTIONS

Sec. 5.20. - Power to regulate and license.
The Mayor and Council shall have the power and authority to provide by ordinance for the registration and licensing of any trade, business, occupation, vocation, personal gain or profit of whatever nature, engaged in or carried on within the City Limits, regardless whether or not the subject has an office or establishment within said City. The Mayor and Council shall be authorized to fix the amount, terms, and manner of issuing and revoking licenses, provided that this authority is subject to the Constitutions and Laws of the United States and the State of Georgia. This power is conferred for the purpose of regulation under the police powers of the City. This authority extends over individuals, partnerships, associations, corporations and their agents.
Sec. 5.21. - Franchises.
The Mayor and Council shall have authority to exercise control over the use of streets of the City of Tallapoosa. The power is hereby conferred upon the Mayor and Council to grant franchises for the use of said City's streets and alleys, for the purpose of railroads, street railways, telephone companies, gas companies, electric companies, ambulance companies, taxicabs, community antenna television companies, and transportation companies. This franchise right extends to, but is not limited to, the erection of poles, stringing of wires, laying of pipe, lines of conduits both above and below the surface. The Mayor and Council shall determine the duration, provisions, terms, whether the same shall be exclusive or non-exclusive, and the consideration of such franchises; provided, however, that no franchise shall be granted for a period in excess of forty (40) years and no franchise shall be granted unless the City receives just and adequate compensation therefor. The Mayor and Council shall provide for the registration of all franchises with the City Clerk in the Registration Book to be kept by him. The Mayor and Council may provide by ordinance for the registration within a reasonable time of all franchises previously granted.
Sec. 5.22. - Abatement of nuisance.
The Mayor and Council are hereby empowered to define a nuisance in the City of Tallapoosa and to provide for its abatement. The Mayor and Council shall have jurisdiction of all nuisance abatement proceedings therein unless under the ordinance said jurisdiction is granted to the Municipal Court of the City. The Mayor and Council may provide by ordinance for any building, structure, or condition maintained in violation of any law of this State or any ordinance of the City of Tallapoosa, to be adjudged a nuisance and for its abatement at the owner's expense upon his failure or refusal to abate the same within ten days after written notice from said City to do so. The Mayor and Council may by ordinance provide for the issuance of an execution for the expense of abatement which shall be a lien upon the property on which said nuisance existed, which execution may be enforced and collected in the same manner as City executions or in the same manner as general executions may be enforced and collected under State law.
State Law reference— Abatement of nuisances, O.C.G.A. § 41-2-1 et seq.
