PART I - SPECIAL ACTS AND RELATED LAWS
ARTICLE I. - TATTNALL COUNTY COMMISSIONERS[1]

Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Editor's note— Printed in this article is 1927 Ga. Laws (Act No. 266), page 674. Amendments are indicated by parenthetical history notes following amended provisions. The absence of a history note indicates that the provision remains unchanged from the original act. Obvious misspellings have been corrected without notation. The title, enactment, severability, repealer, transitional, ratification, publication and effective date provisions have been omitted, and where a section has been amended or repealed by a later provision, only the current language has been printed. For stylistic purposes, the same style of expression of numbers in text as appears in the Code of Ordinances has been used. A consistent scheme of capitalization has also been used. Section catchlines have been editorially supplied. Additions made for clarity are indicated by brackets.

Sec. 1. - [Board of commissioners created.]
Be it enacted by the General Assembly of the State of Georgia, and it is hereby enacted by authority of the same, that a Board of Commissioners of Roads and Revenues of the County of Tattnall is hereby created. Said commissioners shall be freeholders and qualified voters of said county, and of good moral character, and shall reside in the road district from which they are elected, which districts are to be defined later on in this Act. Said commissioners shall be men of good business qualities and experience.
(1939 Ga. Laws (Act No. 199), page 740, § 1)
Sec. 1A. - [Board of commissioners; method of election; vacancies; oath; bond; meetings; compensation; duties.]
(a)
Board of commissioners. A Board of Commissioners of Tattnall County is created to consist of six members, one of whom shall be chairman and each of whom shall be elected to office as provided in this section. Each commissioner shall be a qualified voter and a resident of Tattnall County for at least one year and shall have resided in the district from which such member is elected for a period of not less than six months prior to the time that such member qualifies for election. Each commissioner shall serve a term of four years and shall be eligible to succeed in office.
(b)
Method of election.
(1)
The chairman of the board shall be elected by a majority vote of the qualified voters of the entire county pursuant to Chapter 2 of Title 21 of the O.C.G.A., the 'Georgia Election Code,' as amended. The chairman shall be a resident and qualified voter of Tattnall County and shall have resided in the county for a period not less than one year prior to the time that such person qualifies for election.
(2)
The other five commissioners shall qualify for election in the road district in which such member resides and shall be elected by a majority vote of the qualified voters of such road district as the districts are set out in section 1B. Only residents of a district may vote in the primary and general elections for candidates for commissioners from that district.
(c)
(1)
The term of office of the chairperson of the commission elected in the November general election in 2000, who took office on January 1, 2001, shall end December 31, 2004. A successor shall be elected in the state-wide general election in 2004 and shall take office on January 1, 2005.
(2)
The provisions of paragraphs (3) and (4) of this subsection are intended to implement the consent order entered in Windgate, et al. v. Tattnall County, Georgia v. Williams, et al., Civil Action CV600-070, ___ Fed. Supp. ___ (S. D. Ga.) 2000.
(3)
A special election shall be held at the time of and in conjunction with the general primary election in July, 2002, to elect the five members of the board of commissioners from the road districts described in section 1B and enacted at the same time as this section. The term of office of the members of the commission elected in the November general election in 2001, who took office on January 1, 2002, shall end when their successors are elected in the special election provided for in this paragraph and qualified.
(4)
The terms of office of the members of the board of commissioners elected in July, 2002, in accordance with paragraph (2) of this subsection shall end December 31, 2004. Their successors shall be nominated and elected in the state-wide general election in 2004 and shall take office on January 1, 2005.
(5)
Thereafter, successors to the chairperson and members of the board of commissioners whose terms are to expire shall be elected at the time of the state-wide general election immediately preceding the expiration of such terms, shall take office the first day of January immediately following that election, and shall serve for terms of office of four years each. The chairperson and members of the board shall serve for the terms of office specified in this subsection and until their respective successors are elected and qualified.
(d)
Vacancies. In the event a vacancy occurs on the board of commissioners for any reason other than the expiration of the term of office, the vacancy shall be filled in accordance with the provisions of Code Section 36-5-21 of the O.C.G.A., Chapter 2 of Title 21 of the O.C.G.A., the 'Georgia Election Code,' and the residency requirements set out in this Act. In the event a member moves such member's residence from the district such member represents, a vacancy shall exist from such district and shall be filled in the same manner as other vacancies are filled.
(e)
Oath of office. All commissioners, before entering upon their duties as such, shall take an oath on the faithful and diligent performance of their duties as commissioners before the judge of the Probate Court of Tattnall County.
(f)
Bond. Before any commissioner shall qualify and assume any duties of office, such member shall give bond, approved by the probate judge, in the following amounts and payable to the probate judge of Tattnall County, Georgia, for the faithful performance of all duties of commissioners:
(1)
Chairman of county commissioners $25,000.00
(2)
Commissioners 10,000.00
All bonds shall be issued by some solvent surety company authorized to do business in the State of Georgia, and the premiums for such bonds shall be paid by the county.
(g)
Officers. At the first meeting of the board held during January of each year, or at such other times as vacancies in office may necessitate, the board shall elect such officers, other than the chairman, as they deem necessary to serve for the ensuing calendar year. The chairman shall be entitled to vote only in cases of a tie. The board is authorized to employ an administrative assistant to the board who shall receive such compensation as the board shall fix, serve at the pleasure of the board, and discharge such duties and responsibilities as shall be assigned and delegated to such administrative assistant by the board.
(h)
Meetings; quorum; voting. The board shall hold at least one session on the first Monday in each month in the courthouse, where the clerk of said board shall keep a regular office. At the request of a majority of the board, the chairman may, at any time, call an extra session. Written notice of such extra sessions shall be served on each member unless members in attendance waive such notice. The board shall have the right to adjourn from day to day until they finish their business. No fewer than four members of said board shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business on any subject matter, and all questions coming before the board shall be determined by a majority vote of those present and voting. The chairman shall be eligible to vote only in the case of a tie vote.
(i)
Salaries and expenses. Commissioners shall receive as compensation for their services as commissioners the sum of $428.83 per month. The chairperson shall receive as compensation for his or her services the sum of $818.92. In addition to the monthly salaries provided in this subsection, each commissioner shall receive an expense supplement in the sum of $400.00 per month and the chairperson shall receive an expense supplement in the sum of $500.00 per month. The expense supplement is an addition to all salaries and shall cover the costs of expenses incurred by said commissioners during the performance of their duties of office. Upon approval by a majority vote of the board of commissioners, the chairperson shall also be furnished a motor vehicle for use in carrying out the duties of his or her office. The cost of such motor vehicle and the reasonable expenses of operating and maintaining such motor vehicle shall be paid from county funds. The chairperson may allow any member of the board of commissioners to use such motor vehicle in carrying out the duties of such member's office. No other form of compensation or benefit, either directly or indirectly, shall be received by a commissioner, including the chairperson, for the performance of his or her official duties as a county commissioner of Tattnall County.
(j)
Duties. It shall be the duty of the commissioners, among other things, to keep up the roadways within the county; to provide for fair, equitable, and adequate distribution of maintenance and repair of roadways among the districts, both those existing now and those to exist in the future; to provide for the public welfare of the citizens of the county according to their requirements, from time to time; to keep accurate and permanent records of county business and affairs; to keep the courthouse and all county buildings, offices, and polling places in good repair; to provide for public health services as are authorized by law and to enforce existing health codes; to keep the county free of litter, trash, garbage, and all other forms of environmental pollution; to fairly and equitably levy and collect such taxes and assessments as are authorized by law; to fairly and equitably allocate the expenditure of taxes collected so that public needs shall be fairly and equitably addressed; to assist, from time to time, municipal governments within the county in providing for essential public services; to abide by all laws and ordinances respecting the operation of county government and the performance of commissioners' duties and to exercise only those powers granted in this subsection and by the Constitution and laws of the State of Georgia.
(1985 Ga. Laws (Act No. 432), page 4624, § 1; 1990 Ga. Laws (Act No. 874), page 4207, § 1; 2002 Ga. Laws (Act No. 452), page 3916, § 1; 2002 Ga. Laws (Act No. 612), page 4730, § 1)
Editor's note— Commissioners currently receive as compensation for their services as commissioners the sum of $428.83 per month. The chairperson currently receives as compensation for his or her services the sum of $818.92.
Sec. 1B. - [Road districts; new districts.]
(a)
For the purpose of electing members of the Tattnall County Board of Commissioners, Tattnall County is divided into five districts. Such districts shall be and correspond to those five numbered districts described in and attached to and made a part of this Act and further identified as 'Plan: tattnallccsb-2012[;] Plan Type: Local[;] Administrator: Tattnall[;] User: Gina'.
(b)
When used in such attachment, the term 'VTD' (voting tabulation district) shall mean and describe the same geographical boundaries as provided in the report of the Bureau of the Census for the United States decennial census of 2010 for the State of Georgia.
(1)
The separate numeric designations in a district description which are underneath a VTD heading shall mean and describe individual Blocks within a VTD as provided in the report of the Bureau of the Census for the United States decennial census of 2010 for the State of Georgia. Any part of Tattnall County which is not included in any such district described in that attachment shall be included within that district contiguous to such part which contains the least population according to the United States decennial census of 2010 for the State of Georgia.
(2)
Any part of Tattnall County which is described in that attachment as being in a particular district shall nevertheless not be included within such district if such part is not contiguous to such district. Such noncontiguous part shall instead be included within that district contiguous to such part which contains the least population according to the United States decennial census of 2010 for the State of Georgia.
(3)
Except as otherwise provided in the description of any district, whenever the description of such district refers to a named city, it shall mean the geographical boundaries of that city as shown on the census map for the United States decennial census of 2010 for the State of Georgia.
(1985 Ga. Laws (Act No. 432), page 4624, § 1; 2002 Ga. Laws (Act No. 452), page 3916, § 2; 2012 Ga. Laws (Act No. 445), § 1, page 4661, § 1)
Sec. 1C. - [County clerk and assistant clerks; county records.]
(a)
County clerk and assistant clerks. The commissioners shall employ a full-time county clerk and such assistant clerks as needs require. The commissioners shall fix their salaries and duties as the business affairs of the county require. It shall be the duty of the clerk to keep the business records of the county as well as the official minutes and records of all resolutions and ordinances; to manage the day-to-day business affairs of the commissioner's office; to assist the chairman and any commissioner in any county matter; and to perform such other duties as this Act or the laws of the State of Georgia require. It shall be the duty of the county clerk to maintain the business records of the county in an accurate, current, and permanent state. Neither the county clerk nor any assistant clerk shall be a member of the board of commissioners.
(b)
County records. The county clerk shall maintain separate and distinct record books for the keeping of official minutes, resolutions and ordinances, county right-of-way records, and the county road index. The county clerk shall make all county records available for public inspection upon request by any resident of the county; provided, however, that any such inspection shall be permitted at such times and under such circumstances as shall not interfere with the normal day-to-day operation of the county commissioner's office.
(1985 Ga. Laws (Act No. 432), page 4624, § 1)
Sec. 1D. - County employees.
The commissioner shall employ such full-time or part-time personnel as the needs of the county require and shall fix and determine their salaries consistent with job responsibility and performance requirements. The commissioners are authorized, but not required, from time to time, to establish pay raises for county employees and to establish retirement programs for county employees. Additionally, the commissioners are authorized to adopt and maintain a comprehensive personnel policy outlining and governing personnel job classifications, duties, responsibilities, vacations, holidays, eligibilities for county benefits, and all other matters pertaining to county employees.
(1985 Ga. Laws (Act No. 432), page 4624, § 1)
Sec. 1E. - County attorney.
The commissioners shall employ a county attorney to advise and assist the commissioners with the legal affairs of the county and shall fix such attorney's salary, duties, and responsibilities as they, in their discretion, shall determine. The county attorney shall be a resident of Tattnall County and an attorney with at least five years' experience in the practice of law. In addition, the commissioners may, from time to time, employ an additional attorney or attorneys to assist the county attorney in county matters requiring the services of more than one attorney.
(1985 Ga. Laws (Act No. 432), page 4624, § 1)
Sec. 2. - [Reserved.]
[Provision superseded by 1985 Ga. Laws (Act No. 432), page 4624, § 1(1B).]
Sec. 3. - [Reserved.]
[Provision superseded by 1985 Ga. Laws (Act No. 432), page 4624, § 1(1B).]
Sec. 4. - [Reserved.]
[Provision superseded by 1985 Ga. Laws (Act No. 432), page 4624, § 1(1A).]
Sec. 5. - [Reserved.]
[Provision superseded by 1985 Ga. Laws (Act No. 432), page 4624, § 1(1A).]
Sec. 6. - [Reserved.]
[Provision superseded by 1985 Ga. Laws (Act No. 432), page 4624, § 1(1A).]
Sec. 7. - [Exemption from jury duty.]
Be it further enacted by the authority aforesaid, that the members of the board of commissioners shall be exempt from all jury duty during their term of office.
Sec. 8. - [Reserved.]
[Provision superseded by 1985 Ga. Laws (Act No. 432), page 4624, § 1(1A).]
Sec. 9. - [Reserved.]
[Provision superseded by 1985 Ga. Laws (Act No. 432), page 4624, § 1(1A).]
Sec. 10. - [Expenditure without express authority, unlawful.]
Be it enacted by the authority aforesaid, that the said commissioners shall not expend one cent of money for any purpose without express law and authority for the same, and if they do they shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
Sec. 11. - [Reserved.]
Sec. 12. - [Accounts; prerequisites to payment.]
Be it enacted by the authority aforesaid, that said commissioners shall not pay out any money for any purpose except upon an itemized sworn account after it is examined and approved, and then it shall be filed away alphabetically, and all accounts paid at each monthly meeting shall be filed away together and indexed so any citizen can easily find said paid accounts, and said commissioners shall at once purchase proper files for the same; and that no account shall be paid at any time only at the regular monthly meeting, and said account shall be approved by a majority vote of the board, and the check or voucher for the same shall be signed by the chairman and clerk of the board.
Sec. 13. - [County depository.]
Be it further enacted by the authority aforesaid that said commissioners shall select one or more banks as depository or depositories for county moneys, under such plan and agreement as may be agreed upon between said commissioners and such bank or banks, but in no event shall any bank be paid compensation for acting as depository.
(1939 Ga. Laws (Act No. 199), page 740, § 5)
Sec. 14. - [Private financial interests forbidden.]
Be it further enacted by the authority aforesaid that no member of the said board of Commissioners shall buy anything from or sell anything to, or perform any contract of service either directly or indirectly with said board, and if he does, he shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
(1939 Ga. Laws (Act No. 199), page 740, § 6)
Sec. 15. - [Reserved.]
[Provision superseded by 1985 Ga. Laws (Act No. 432), page 4624, § 1(1A).]
Sec. 16. - [Chairman to be purchasing agent.]
Be it further enacted by the authority aforesaid that the chairman of said board shall be the purchasing agent for said county for all things needed by the different departments of said county including all supplies for the different county officers, for the convicts and their maintenance and in fact for everything purchased by said county. He shall at no time pay more than the fair market price for the same and shall monthly at the regular meeting of the board, report to the board all purchases made during the past month and exhibit an itemized statement for the same, and it sworn to by the party from whom he purchased. Said purchases shall then be approved by the commissioners, if they find the same just, fair, correct and reasonable.
(1939 Ga. Laws (Act No. 199), page 740, § 8)
Sec. 17. - [Reserved.]
[Provision superseded by 1985 Ga. Laws (Act No. 432), page 4624, § 1(1A).]
Sec. 18. - [Reserved.]
Sec. 19. - [Reserved.]
[Provision superseded by 1985 Ga. Laws (Act No. 432), page 4624, § 1(1A).]
Sec. 20. - [Reserved.]
[Provision superseded by 1985 Ga. Laws (Act No. 432), page 4624, § 1(1A).]
Sec. 21. - [Reserved.]
[Provision superseded by 1985 Ga. Laws (Act No. 432), page 4624, § 1(1A).]
Sec. 22. - [County physician.]
Be it enacted by the authority aforesaid, that said commissioners in employing and paying the county physician, either for the pauper farm or the county jail, or for the county convicts, shall pay him only for the actual services rendered at the standard prices now charged by the physicians of Tattnall County.
Sec. 23. - [Report of clerk of superior court, as to expenses.]
Be it enacted by the authority aforesaid, that the clerk of the superior court shall on every first Monday report in writing to the county commissioners a true statement of all money that has been spent by the judge of the superior court or the judge of the city court, or by the clerk, in paying jurors or otherwise.
Sec. 24. - [Reserved.]
[Provision superseded by 1985 Ga. Laws (Act No. 432), page 4624, § 1(1A).]
Sec. 25. - [Warrants.]
Be it further enacted by the authority aforesaid that at the first meeting of said board in which said chairman participates, one member shall be elected as vice-chairman and who shall act as chairman on all matters when the chairman is disqualified by interest, relationship or otherwise from presiding or acting. All warrants for the payment of any county money shall be drawn and signed by the clerk and countersigned by the chairman of the board, and the paying out of any county funds in any other manner is unauthorized and anyone paying out county money otherwise shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
(1939 Ga. Laws (Act No. 199), page 740, § 12)
Approval Date: Approved August 18, 1927.
ARTICLE II. - BOARD OF ELECTIONS[2]

Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
Editor's note— Printed in this article is 1995 Ga. Laws (Act No. 111), page 3869. Amendments are indicated by parenthetical history notes following amended provisions. The absence of a history note indicates that the provision remains unchanged from the original act. Obvious misspellings have been corrected without notation. The title, enactment, severability, repealer, transitional, ratification, publication and effective date provisions have been omitted, and where a section has been amended or repealed by a later provision, only the current language has been printed. For stylistic purposes, the same style of expression of numbers in text as appears in the Code of Ordinances has been used. A consistent scheme of capitalization has also been used. Section catchlines have been editorially supplied. Additions made for clarity are indicated by brackets.

Sec. 1. - [Created.]
There is created in and for Tattnall County the Tattnall County Board of Elections and Registration, sometimes referred to in this Act as the 'board.' The board is empowered with the powers and duties of the election superintendent relating to the conduct of primaries and elections and shall have the powers and duties of the board of registrars relating to the registration of voters and absentee balloting procedures.
(2002 Ga. Laws (Act No. 631), page 4843, § 1)
Sec. 2. - [Composition.]
The board shall be composed of three members, each of whom shall be an elector and resident of Tattnall County, and shall be appointed in the following manner:
(1)
One member shall be appointed by the chairperson of the Tattnall County executive committee of the political party whose candidate for Governor at the last preceding general election received the largest number of votes within the county. One member shall be appointed by the chairperson of the Tattnall County executive committee of the political party whose candidate for Governor at such election received the next largest number of such votes. One member shall be appointed by the governing authority of Tattnall County.
(2)
Each of the appointments made by the respective executive committee chairpersons shall have been ratified by a majority of the members of each of such respective executive committees voting at a meeting duly called and held for such purposes. In the event such appointments are not ratified by a majority of the members of such executive committees at least 30 days preceding the date on which such members are to take office, then such members shall be appointed in accordance with the provisions of section 3 of this Act.
Sec. 3. - [Appointment.]
The appointment of each member shall be made by the respective appointing authority by filing an affidavit with the clerk of the Superior Court of Tattnall County no later than 30 days preceding the date at which such member is to take office, stating the name and residential address of the person appointed or elected and certifying that such member has been duly appointed as provided in this Act. That clerk of the superior court shall record each of such certifications on the minutes of the court, shall certify the name of each such appointed member to the Secretary of State, and shall provide for the issuance of appropriate commissions to the members and chairperson within the same time and in the same manner as provided by law for registrars. In the event any appointing authority fails to make a regular appointment within the times specified in this section and in subsection (2) of section 2 or to make an interim appointment or election to fill a vacancy within 60 days after the creation of such vacancy, such regular member or the member to fill such vacancy shall be appointed forthwith by the governing authority of Tattnall County.
Sec. 4. - [Term of office.]
All appointees to the board shall serve for a term of two years beginning on the first day of January immediately following the expiration of such member's respective predecessor's term of office and until a successor is appointed and qualified, except in the event of a resignation or removal as provided in this Act.
(2002 Ga. Laws (Act No. 631), page 4843, § 2)
Sec. 5. - [Resignation; removal.]
(a)
Each member shall be eligible to succeed himself or herself and shall have the right to resign at any time by giving written notice of resignation to the county governing authority and to the clerk of the Superior Court of Tattnall County.
(b)
All members shall be subject to removal from the board at any time, for cause after notice and hearing, in the same manner and by the same authority as provided for removal of registrars.
Sec. 6. - [Vacancy.]
In the event a vacancy occurs in the office of any member of the board before the expiration of such person's term by removal, death, resignation, or otherwise, the appointing authority which appointed the member who has created the vacancy shall appoint a successor to serve the remainder of the unexpired term in the manner described in section 2 of this Act. The clerk of the Superior Court of Tattnall County shall be notified of interim appointments and shall record and certify such appointments and changes in the same manner as for the regular appointments of members.
Sec. 7. - [Oath.]
Before entering upon their duties, all members shall take substantially the same oath as required by law for registrars and shall have the same privileges from arrest.
Sec. 8. - [Elective office prohibited.]
No person who holds elective public office shall be eligible for appointment to the board during the term of such elective office, and the position of any member shall be deemed vacant upon such member's qualifying as a candidate for elective office.
Sec. 9. - [Chairperson.]
(a)
The member appointed by the governing authority of Tattnall County shall serve as chairperson of the board. The chairperson of the board shall be the chief executive officer of the board and shall generally supervise, direct, and control the administration of the affairs of the board pursuant to law and duly adopted resolutions of the board.
(b)
The board shall fix and establish by appropriate resolution entered on its minutes directives governing the execution of matters within its jurisdiction.
Sec. 10. - [Compensation.]
Compensation for the chairperson and members of the board, clerical assistants, and other employees shall be such as may be fixed by the governing authority of Tattnall County. Said compensation shall be paid totally from county funds of Tattnall County.
Sec. 11. - [Powers and duties.]
The board shall have the following powers and duties:
(1)
It shall succeed to and exercise all of the duties granted to and incumbent upon the election superintendent of Tattnall County pursuant to the provisions of Title 21 of the O.C.G.A., as now or hereafter amended, and any other provision of law.
(2)
It shall formulate, adopt, and promulgate rules and regulations, consistent with law and the rules and regulations of the state executive committee of each political party, governing the conduct of primaries to the end that, insofar as practicable, all primaries shall be uniformly conducted by the board, poll workers shall be properly trained, and voters shall be adequately informed and instructed. Any rule or regulation promulgated by a county executive committee under the provisions of Code Section 21-2-111 of the O.C.G.A., relating to the conduct of primaries, shall be null and void if in conflict with a valid rule or regulation of the board.
(3)
It shall be responsible for the selection, appointment, and training of poll workers in elections; and such workers shall be appointed, insofar as practicable, from lists provided to the board by the county executive committee of each political party.
Sec. 12. - [Procedural rules.]
The board shall be authorized and empowered to organize itself, determine its procedural rules and regulations, adopt bylaws, specify the functions and duties of its employees, and otherwise take such action as is appropriate to the management of the affairs committed to its supervision; provided, however, that no such action shall be in conflict with any other provision of law.
Sec. 13. - [Expenditure of public funds.]
With the consent of the governing authority of Tattnall County, the board shall be authorized to expend public funds for the purpose of distributing sample ballots, voter information booklets, and other material designed to inform and instruct adequately electors of the county with regard to elections.
Sec. 14. - [Custody of equipment.]
The election superintendent of Tattnall County is relieved from all powers and duties to which the board succeeds by the provisions of this Act and shall deliver thereafter to the chairperson of the board, upon that person's written request, the custody of all equipment, supplies, materials, books, papers, records, and facilities of every kind pertaining to such powers and duties. The judge of the Probate Court of Tattnall County shall continue to swear in all persons elected to public office.
Sec. 15. - [Offices and employees.]
The governing authority of Tattnall County shall provide the board with such proper and suitable offices and with such clerical assistants and other employees as the governing authority shall deem appropriate.
Sec. 16. - [Authority to contract with municipalities.]
The board shall have the authority to contract with any municipality located within Tattnall County for the holding of any primary or election by the board to be conducted within the municipality.
Sec. 17. - [Definitions.]
The words "election," "elector," "political party," "primary," "public office," "special election," and "special primary" shall have the same meaning ascribed to those words by Code Section 21-2-2 of the O.C.G.A. unless otherwise clearly apparent from the text of this Act.
Sec. 18. - [Authority granted.]
This Act is enacted pursuant to the authority granted by Code Section 21-2-40 of the O.C.G.A. to create boards of election by local Act.
Sec. 19. - [Board of registrars relieved from powers.]
On July 1, 2002, the board of registrars of Tattnall County shall be relieved from all powers and duties to which the board succeeds by the provisions of this Act. On and after July 1, 2002, no member of the board of registrars shall be entitled to any salary or salary supplement to which he or she may have been entitled as a result of holding such position. The board of registrars shall deliver thereafter to the chairperson of the board, upon his or her written request, the custody of all equipment, supplies, materials, books, papers, records, and facilities of every kind pertaining to such powers and duties. Also, at such time, the board of registrars and the office of chief registrar of Tattnall County shall be abolished.
(2002 Ga. Laws (Act No. 631), page 4843, § 2)
SPECIAL ACTS AND RELATED LAWS COMPARATIVE TABLE - GEORGIA LAWS
This table shows the location of the sections of the Special Acts and Related Laws, and any amendments thereto.
EXPAND
Ga. Laws
Year Act No. Page Section Section
this Special Acts
and Related Laws
1927 266 674 1 Art. I (note)
1939 199 740 1 Art. I, § 1
5, 6 Art. I, § 13,
Art. I, § 14
8 Art. I, § 16
12 Art. I, § 25
1985 432 4624 1 Art. I, § 1A
Art. I, § 1B—
Art. I, § 1E
1990 874 4207 1 Art. I, § 1A
1995 111 3869 Art. II (note)
2002 452 3916 1 Art. I, § 1A
2 Art. I, § 1B
612 4730 1 Art. I, § 1A
631 4843 1 Art. II, § 1
2 Art. II, § 4
Art. II, § 19
2012 445 4661 1 Art. I, § 1B
