ARTICLE VI. - RECOVERY RESIDENCES

Sec. 22-251. - Title.
This article shall be known as the "Tattnall County Recovery Residence Ordinance."
(Ord. of 10-4-2021, § I)
Sec. 22-252. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Person means any individual, corporation, company, partnership, trust or other entity.
Recovery residence means any facility located in, on or at any land within the unincorporated area of Tattnall County, which houses, shelters or supervises any individual for the purpose of assisting him or her in rehabilitating from and overcoming substance abuse and addiction; provided that, recovery residence also means safe and healthy residential environments in which skills vital for sustaining recovery are learned and practiced in a home-like setting, based on certain principles and standards recognized by the National Alliance of Recovery Residences ("NARR") and the Georgia Association of Recovery Residences ("GARR").
(Ord. of 10-4-2021, § I)
Sec. 22-253. - Permit(s) and certification(s).
(a)
Effective January 1, 2021, a recovery residence permit ("RRP") must be obtained from the governing authority before a person may operate any recovery residence in the unincorporated area of Tattnall County, Georgia.
(b)
Effective January 1, 2021, each and every recovery residence shall be certified by the GARR.
(Ord. of 10-4-2021, § I)
Sec. 22-254. - Compliance with GARR.
Each and every recovery residence shall comply with the principles and standards established by the GARR, as set forth in the most current edition of the NARR standards, 3.0, as amended, including but not limited to insuring that:
(1)
The recovery residence is in good repair, clean and well maintained.
(2)
There is 50 plus square feet per bed per sleeping room;
(3)
There is a minimum of one sink, toilet and shower per six residents;
(4)
Each resident has personal item storage;
(5)
Each resident has food storage space;
(6)
There are laundry services accessible to all residents;
(7)
All appliances are in safe, working, condition;
(8)
There is a meeting space large enough to accommodate all residents;
(9)
A comfortable group area providing space for small groups and socializing;
(10)
There are kitchen and dining areas large enough to accommodate all residents;
(11)
The recovery residence has a safety-inspection;
(12)
There is a policy regarding a smoke-free living environment and/or designated smoking area outside the recovery residence;
(13)
There are emergency numbers, procedures (including overdose and other emergency responses) and evacuation maps posted in a conspicuous location;
(14)
There are resident rights, rules, responsibilities, schedules, emergency procedures, emergency numbers, staff contact numbers, and grievance process posted in all recovery residences; and
(15)
There are resource directories, written or electronic, made available to all residents.
(Ord. of 10-4-2021, § I)
Sec. 22-255. - On-site sewage management administration and compliance.
(a)
The governing authority hereby authorizes the Tattnall County Health Department ("health department") to administer this article and ensure compliance with its provisions.
(b)
Effective January 1, 2022, the governing authority shall not authorize the issuance of any RRP until the health department has issued an on-site sewage management permit ("OSMP") to the person seeking issuance of any RRP.
(c)
The OSMP and on-site sewage system report form for recovery residences shall be obtained from the health department.
(Ord. of 10-4-2021, § I)
Sec. 22-256. - Punishment for violation(s).
Any person or individual who violates any part or provision of this article shall be punishable by a fine not to exceed $1,000.00 or imprisonment for 60 days or both.
(Ord. of 10-4-2021, § I)
