ARTICLE 98-2. - INTERPRETATION AND DEFINITIONS

Sec. 98-2.1. - Interpretation of certain terms.
Terms used in the singular shall include the plural; and the plural the singular; and terms used in the past or present tense shall include the future tense.
The term "shall" is always mandatory, not discretionary. The term "may" is permissive.
The term "lot" includes the terms "plot" and "parcel."
The masculine gender shall include the feminine.
The phrase "used for" as applied to any land or building shall include the phrases "arranged for," "designed for," "intended for," "maintained for" and "occupied as."
The term "building" shall include the term "structure."
The term "person" includes a firm, association, organization, partnership, trust, company or corporation and any other group acting as a unit, as well as an individual.
The term "zoning map" means the "official zoning map" of the city.
(Ord. No. 1166 , § 1(Exh. A), 4-5-22)
Sec. 98-2.2. - Rules of interpretation.
A.
Specific provisions of this chapter shall be followed in lieu of general provisions that may be in conflict with the specific provisions.
B.
In the interpretation and application of this chapter, all standards, provisions, and requirements shall be liberally construed in favor of the objectives and purposes of the city and shall not be construed to limit or repeal any other powers granted under state statutes.
C.
Where provisions of this chapter conflict with other regulations, the more stringent shall apply.
(Ord. No. 1166 , § 1(Exh. A), 4-5-22)
Sec. 98-2.3. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases when used in this article shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning. Any term not defined in this section shall be as described in the latest edition of the North American Industry Classification System published by the Executive Office of the President, Office of Management and Budget or as defined in Merriam-Webster's Collegiate Dictionary, Tenth Edition or later, as interpreted by the building official. To the extent any terms set forth in this chapter conflict with the definitions for such terms set forth in O.C.G.A. tit. 36, ch. 66, the definition of such term as set forth in O.C.G.A. § 36-66-1 et seq. shall control.
Abandoned vehicle. Any vehicle for which a valid license has not been issued by the state and does not have a valid and current license displayed on the vehicle shall constitute prima facie evidence that the vehicle is inoperative and abandoned.
Abandonment. The discontinuance of a use, activity or occupancy displaying no evidence of intent to continue or resume the use of a premises or land. Temporary or short-term interruptions to a use or activity during periods of remodeling, maintenance or otherwise improving or rearranging a building or property, during normal periods of vacation or seasonal closure or during a period of active marketing of a property for lease or sale shall not constitute abandonment. An "intent to resume" may be demonstrated by continuous operations in a building or portion of a building or land; maintenance of sewer, water and other public utilities; other evidence such as continuation of utility bills, delivery records, etc. See article 98-12, nonconforming uses, buildings and lots, section 98-12.3, re-establishment following abandonment.
Abutting. Having a common border with, or being separated by only a right-of-way, alley, or easement. The term is synonymous with adjacent, adjoining and contiguous.
Accessory building. A building detached from the principal building on the same lot that is clearly incidental and subordinate to the principal building. Examples of accessory buildings include detached garages and carports, storage buildings, gazebos and pool houses.
Accessory dwelling. A secondary dwelling established in conjunction with and clearly subordinate to the primary dwelling, whether part of the primary dwelling or located in a detached accessory building on the same lot.
Accessory use. A use located on the same lot and under the same ownership as the principal use that is customary, incidental and subordinate in size and purpose to the principal use on the lot.
Acre. An area of land equal to 43,560 square feet.
Addition. Any construction that increases the gross floor area of a building.
Administrative decision. Any determination made by the building official in applying this chapter.
Adult care home. A private residence that provides basic adult care or adult health services to a minimum of three, but not more than six adults, not related by blood or marriage, 24 hours per day. Such individuals do not function fully independently, but do not need 24-hour nursing care. Services include bathing, shaving, brushing teeth, combing hair, toileting, dressing, eating, grooming, taking medications, and transfers and/or ambulation. Adult care services facilities are administered by the division of aging services housed within the state department of human services. Adult care home includes any facility that regularly provides adult custodial services. This term does not include respite care services programs.
Adult day center. A facility serving aging adults that provides adult day care or adult day health services, for compensation to three or more persons. Adult day care is the provision of a comprehensive plan of services that meets the needs of aging adults under a social model which is a program that addresses primarily the basic social and recreational activities needed to be provided to aging adults, but also provides, as required, limited personal care assistance, supervision, or assistance essential for sustaining the activities of daily living. Aging adults are persons 60 years of age or older or mature adults below the age of 60 whose needs and interests are substantially similar to persons 60 years of age or older who have physical or mental limitations that restrict their abilities to perform the normal activities of daily living and impede independent living. Such programs of care shall be based on individual plans of care and shall be provided for less than 24 hours per day. This term shall not include programs which provide day habilitation and treatment services exclusively for individuals with developmental disabilities. Adult day health services are the provision of a comprehensive plan of services that meets the needs of aging adults under a medical model. Medical model is a comprehensive program that provides adults with the basic social, rehabilitative, health and personal care services needed to sustain the essential activities of daily living and to restore or maintain optimal capacity for self-care. Adult day centers are also administered by the division of aging services housed within the state department of human services. This term shall not include a respite care services program or programs which provide day habilitation and treatment services exclusively for individuals with developmental disabilities.
Affordable housing. Living quarters available for a monthly rent not exceeding 30 percent of the total monthly household income of low-income households defined as a household earning less than 80 percent of the median annual income adjusted for household size, as determined by the United States Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD); or living quarters that may be purchased with monthly payments including principal, interest, taxes, insurance, homeowners association fees, and assessments that do not exceed 30 percent of the total monthly household income of low-income households defined to be a household earning less than 80 percent of the median annual income adjusted for household size, as determined by HUD.
Agent. Any person authorized to act on behalf of a property owner.
Agriculture. Any form of farming, including plowing, tilling, cropping, seeding, cultivating, or harvesting for the production of food and fiber products (except commercial logging and timber harvesting operations); grazing or raising of livestock (except in feed lots); aquaculture; sod production; orchards; Christmas tree farms; nurseries; and the cultivation of produce as a commercial enterprise.
Air pollution. The emission of any contaminants in such place or manner which, when by itself or combined with other contaminants present in the atmosphere, is detrimental to or endangers public health, comfort, or safety, or which may cause injury or damage to property or premises.
Alley. A vehicle access used for service access to the rear or side of properties otherwise abutting on a street or a public or private thoroughfare that affords a secondary means of access to abutting properties.
Alteration, building or structural. Any change in the supporting members of a building, such as bearing walls, columns, beams, or girders except such changes as may be required for its safety; any addition to a building.
Amortization. A method of eliminating nonconforming uses and buildings by requiring termination of the nonconforming use, building or both, following a specified period. The amortization period is intended to afford the owner of a nonconforming use or building a reasonable period in which to continue the nonconforming use or building prior to termination. In this manner, the owner may recoup his or her investment in the nonconforming use or building prior to the owner of the use or building forfeiting the legal, nonconforming status which requires the owner to cease the use or bring the building into compliance or face removal of the building, as applicable.
Animal hospital. A facility for the treatment and temporary boarding of domestic animals following a medical procedure performed by or under the supervision of a licensed veterinarian. The term does not include kennels or the boarding of animals in outside runs.
Animal husbandry. A branch of agriculture for raising domestic animals commonly found on farms, other than customary household pets, for meat, fiber, eggs, milk and other products, including breeding, pasturing, ranching, and sales of farm animals. For purposes of this chapter, the term shall not include slaughtering or other processing.
Animal shelters. A facility used to house stray, homeless, abandoned, or unwanted animals that is owned, operated, or maintained by a public body, an established humane society, animal welfare society, society for the prevention of cruelty to animals, or other nonprofit organization devoted to the welfare, protection, and humane treatment of animals.
Assisted living facility. A personal care facility with a minimum of 25 beds, licensed by the state department of community health as an assisted living community, and which provides meals and assistance with daily activities, such as dressing, grooming, bathing, etc. for the elderly or adults who are ambulatory, as defined by O.C.G.A. § 31-7-12.2, but unable to manage these activities independently.
Auction house. A facility at which the buying and selling of goods such as works of art and collectibles is held. Auction house typically refers to the company hosting the auction. Sotheby's London is an example of a famous auction house.
Auto broker. An auto broker is an individual or a business that facilitates the purchase of a vehicle on behalf of a customer. This service includes finding the desired vehicle, negotiating the price, delivering the final paperwork, and securing financing. For purposes of this chapter, auto brokers must be licensed by the state to sell vehicles, but do not display vehicles or vehicle parts on the premises.
Bakery, retail. An establishment primarily engaged in preparing baked goods sold at retail and intended for off-premises consumption.
Bakery, wholesale. An establishment at which baked goods are produced for purchase by resellers of such goods intended for off-premises distribution. The term does not include on-premises sale, "over-the-counter" or other retail sale of baked goods.
Banquet hall. An establishment rented by individuals or groups to hold private functions such as anniversaries, dinners, reunions, weddings, and similar events. Banquet halls may offer kitchen facilities for preparation or catering of food and beverages only during scheduled events and are not available to the public. See also event center.
Bar. Any class C2 licensee which derives 75 percent or more of total annual gross revenue from the sale of alcoholic beverages for consumption on the premises, and which may provide for its patrons live entertainment performed onsite, including, but not limited to, music, comedy, readings, dancing or acting.
Barber shop. An establishment that offers a variety of personal services to the public involving hair, facials, scalp massages or other treatments for compensation. Training of apprentices in a barber shop shall be deemed a customary accessory use but shall not be the primary activity of the shop.
Barber shop or beauty salon workstation. An area within a beauty salon or barber shop assigned to a barber, stylist, or other employee to serve customers of the establishment.
Barbering schools and colleges. Any premises not operated as part of the public school system of the state where barbering is taught for a fee. The term does not include technical institutes whose programs have been approved by the state department of technical and adult education.
Base flood elevation. Any point on the ground, expressed as "feet above mean sea level" at which inundation by storm water or other surface waters may occur at a frequency of once every 100 years, or which is subject to a one percent or greater chance of flooding in any given year.
Base zoning district. A zoning district classification that may be combined with an overlay zoning district to assign specific development standards to a lot. The base, or "underlying" zoning district, controls the use and development of the property unless specifically superseded by the standards of the overlay district.
Basement. That portion of a building having half or more of the distance between the ceiling and floor of the basement below the average grade at the exterior walls of the building.
Beauty and barber supply establishment. A cosmetology supply establishment or a barbering supply establishment engaged in the wholesale and/or retail sale of related goods and materials.
Beauty salon. An establishment where cosmetology services are provided including hair care, nail care, and skin care on a regular basis for compensation. Training of apprentices in a salon shall be deemed a customary accessory use but, shall not be the primary activity of the salon.
Bed and breakfast inn. A private residence offering sleeping accommodations to lodgers for compensation in the owner or operator's principal residence. Breakfast is served at no cost to lodgers, only. For purposes of this chapter, a lodger means a person who rents a room in a bed-and-breakfast establishment for seven or fewer consecutive days.
Berm. An earthen mound designed to provide visual interest on a site, screen undesirable views, reduce noise, or fulfill other such purposes as depicted below.
Billiard or pool hall. A commercial establishment containing more than two pool or billiard tables for the use of patrons. Billiard or pool halls may or may not sell alcoholic beverages.
Boarding house. A building where for compensation both lodging and meals are provided for two, but not more than ten persons, provided that a single family dwelling shall not be deemed to be a boarding house by reason of a contribution to, or expense sharing arrangement with, the owner or tenant occupying the dwelling by a person related by blood or marriage. A common kitchen facility is available to lodgers; no meals are provided to the public.
Body piercing establishment. An establishment engaged in the penetration the skin with a needle or similar instrument to insert various ornamental objects. Body piercing does not include the use of a mechanized, pre-sterilized ear-piercing system that penetrates the outer edge or lobe of the ear or both.
Brewery means any establishment engaged in brewing beer, ale, lager, nonalcoholic beer or malt liquors where malt beverages are produced. For purposes of this chapter, two classes of breweries are established, brewery with on premises consumption and brewery with off premises consumption.
Brewery, consumption on the premises. Breweries shall be permitted to serve malt beverages produced at the brewer's licensed premises for consumption on the premises, subject to the following restriction:
Total sales of malt beverages for consumption on the brewer's licensed premises shall be less than 3,000 barrels in each calendar year in which the licensee is permitted. For purposes of this section, barrel shall be defined in accordance with state law.
Brewery, consumption off the premises. Breweries shall be permitted to serve malt beverages produced at the brewer's licensed premises for consumption off the premises, subject to the following restriction:
Total sales of malt beverages for consumption off the premises shall be less than 3,000 barrels in each calendar year in which the licensee is permitted. For purposes of this section, barrel shall be defined in accordance with state law.
Brew-on premises store. A facility that provides the ingredients and equipment for a customer to use to brew malt liquor in the store. Brew-on-premises stores do not include the sale of intoxicating liquors, unless the owner of the brew-on-premises store holds the appropriate liquor license.
Brewpub. Brewpub means any eating establishment in which malt beverages are manufactured, subject to the barrel production limitation prescribed in chapter 6, alcoholic beverages, subsection 6-49(b). In calculating the total annual gross food and beverage sales for any such establishment for the purpose of determining whether the establishment constitutes an eating establishment as defined herein, barrels of malt beverages sold to licensed wholesale dealers or to the public for consumption off the premises shall not be used.
Broadcasting. Establishments that create content or acquire the right to distribute content and subsequently broadcast the content. Distinctions in this industry are based on differences in the methods of communication and the nature of services provided and may include establishments that operate broadcasting studios and facilities for over-the-air or satellite delivery of radio and television programs of entertainment, news, talk, and the like and generate revenues from the sale of air time to advertisers and from donations, subsidies, and/or the sale of programs. Cable programming includes establishments operating studios and facilities for the broadcasting of programs that are typically narrowcast in nature (limited format, such as news, sports, education, and youth-oriented programming) on a subscription or fee basis.
Buffer. A portion of a lot dedicated to landscaped open space intended to visually screen one use from a more intense use by means of vegetation, screening and distance; to shield or diminish noise, light and undesirable views; or otherwise mitigate other incompatibilities and nuisances. The width of a buffer is measured from the common property line; the required buffer shall be established entirely on the lot on which the more intense use is located.
Building. Any structure attached to the ground completely enclosed within exterior walls having a roof for the shelter of persons, animals, or property.
Building articulation. Building articulation refers to the range of design elements, both horizontal and vertical, that help create a unique building facade. Various building materials, special ground-floor design treatments, facade modulation, corner treatments, building setbacks for upper stories, and facade elements such as transparency, building entries, and other architectural details contribute to visual interest.
Building facade. The entire face of a building extending from the roof or top of a parapet wall to the ground and from one corner of the building to another.
Building height. The vertical distance measured from the average finished grade along the front of the building to the highest point of the roof. Chimneys, antennas, mechanical equipment and solar panels shall not be used in determining building height provided such features do not extend more than four feet above the height limit of the zoning district in which the building is located. Domes, towers, steeples or spires that are an integral part of religious buildings shall not be subject to this limit, provided such features are not occupied.
Building mass. The three-dimensional bulk of a building formed by the building height, width, and depth.
Building official. The individual responsible for administering, interpreting and enforcing this chapter or his or her designee.
Building, principal. A building in which is conducted the principal use of the lot on which the building is located. A dwelling is the principal building on a residentially zoned or occupied lot.
Building, setback line. A line establishing the minimum allowable distance between any part of a building and the public right-of-way line measured horizontally. Covered porches, whether enclosed or not, shall be considered as part of the building and shall not project into a required yard.
Build-to line. A location on the ground generally parallel to the front lot line along which buildings shall be placed according to the zoning district in which the lot is located. Where a minimum and maximum build-to line exists, the building may be placed anywhere between the two lines. The build-to-line shall be measured from the right-of-way.
Business incubator. A facility dedicated to the start-up and growth of small businesses accomplished through management and facility support systems. For purposes of this chapter, management support systems include access to professional advice, information on small business regulations, management, marketing, sales, inventory, employees, labor relations, and financial counseling. Facility support systems include clerical, administrative and reception staff, cleaning and building maintenance and security, and access to copy machines, printers, computers, and other office equipment.
Business support services. Establishments primarily engaged in providing business support services such as secretarial and other document preparation services; telephone answering and telemarketing services; private mail services or document copying services conducted as separate activities or in conjunction with other office support services; monetary debt collection services; credit reporting services; repossession services; and court reporting and stenotype recording services).Examples include address bar coding services and mail presorting services. For purposes of this chapter; repossession services are not included in this definition as these establishments are primarily engaged in repossessing tangible assets (e.g. automobiles, boats, equipment, planes, furniture, appliances) for the creditor as a result of delinquent debts and tend to be stored on the premises.
Car wash. A structure equipped with facilities for washing vehicles. Car washes may be "in-bay" or "self-service" car washes or automated, referred to as "conveyor car washes." Conveyor car washes shall be subject to the chapter 90, utilities, article II, water and sewer service standards of this Code. Self-service and in-bay car washes shall be exempt from these requirements. See subsection 98-5.3.2.39, vehicle washing service for additional standards pertaining to car washes.
Carport. A structure used for storage of a vehicle having a roof but not enclosed by walls and accessory to a dwelling unit. Carports may be attached to the dwelling or detached as a freestanding structure.
Catering service. An establishment in which the principal use is the preparation of food and beverages on the premises, and where such food and beverages are delivered to another location for consumption.
CBD stores. A retail establishment that sells CBD products. A prescription cannabidiol (CBD) oil is considered an effective anti-seizure medication. CBD is a chemical found in marijuana. CBD doesn't contain tetrahydrocannabinol (THC), the psychoactive ingredient found in marijuana. The usual CBD formulation is oil, but CBD is also sold as an extract, a vaporized liquid and an oil-based capsule. Food, drinks and beauty products are among the many CBD-infused products available online.
Certificate of occupancy (C.O.). A document issued by the city certifying that the use of a building or lot complies with this zoning ordinance and that any building on the lot has been erected in accordance with this chapter, and that the building code and all other applicable codes and ordinances of the city have been met or that an appropriate variance has been granted as provided by this chapter.
Check cashing establishments. A business that for a fee cashes checks, issues money orders and provides other financial services. The term does not include a state or federally chartered bank, savings association, credit union, or loan company. Retailers such as convenience stores that may cash checks in the course of their primary business shall not be deemed a check-cashing establishment. Authorized agent means a person designated by a licensee pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 7-1-683.1, sale of payment instruments or money transmission, to engage in money transmission, the sale of payment instruments, or the issuance of payment instruments.
Child care home. See family child care learning home.
Child care learning center. Any non-residential place operated by an individual or any business entity recognized under Georgia law wherein are received for pay for group care, for fewer than 24 hours per day without transfer of legal custody, seven or more children under 18 years of age and which is required to be licensed. Child care learning center also includes any day care center previously licensed by the department of human resources and transferred pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 20-1A-1 et seq.
Child caring institution. A child welfare facility licensed by the state department of human resources which provides full-time care for six or more children through 18 years of age outside their own homes. Full-time care shall be defined as provided by regulations of the Georgia DHR, including, but not limited to, room, board and watchful oversight, as well as any of the services allowed under the definition of "personal care home." Medical, nursing or health services are prohibited in a child caring institution.
Cigar lounge. Also referred to as "cigar bars," such establishments are places where cigar bar or lounge is a place where cigar aficionados purchase cigars for on-premises smoking in a lounge atmosphere.
City. The words "the city" shall mean the City of Thomaston representing the governing authority within the city limits of the City of Thomaston in Upson County, Georgia.
City clerk. The individual responsible for assisting the building official in application of this chapter and preserving the records of the boards and commissions created by this chapter.
City council. The mayor and council of the City of Thomaston.
City manager. The individual having the authority to direct the actions of the building official in enforcement of this chapter.
Clear vision area. The vertical space between three and eight feet above grade and defined by the street right-of-way lines of a corner lot and a line joining points along the street right-of-way lines 20 feet from their point of intersection.
Climate-controlled storage facilities. A commercial facility providing secured spaces for storage of personal property, that are protected from temperature and humidity extremes and are accessed solely by way of interior hallways.
Clinic. An establishment where patients are examined and treated by a physician, dentist or other health care professional on an out-patient basis.
Club, private. A building or facilities owned or operated by nonprofit association of persons who are bona fide members paying annual dues, with the use of premises being restricted to members and their guests for social, cultural, intellectual, fraternal, literary, political, recreational, athletic or similar activities operated for the benefit of its members and not open to the public. Such facilities are generally not operated for profit or for rendering a service customarily conducted for gain. The term includes lodge.
Code. The Code of Ordinances of the City of Thomaston, Georgia.
College or university. An educational facility that provides training beyond high school for students who attend classes in a campus setting. These facilities may offer associates, bachelors, masters, and doctoral degree programs.
Commercial parking lot and decks. A hard-surfaced area, other than a street or public way, for the temporary storage of operable passenger vehicles and commercial vehicles having a gross vehicle weight rating (GVWR) of up to 10,000 pounds and considered light duty, available to the public for compensation, free, or as an accommodation to clients or customers. Truck parking lots intended for the temporary storage of vehicles having a GVWR greater than 10,000 pounds are not considered commercial parking lots.
Comprehensive plan. The official document adopted by the elected officials of a local government that sets forth goals, objectives, and policies to guide an array of decisions in the administration of the jurisdiction of the city. These decisions include investment in public infrastructure such as streets and water and sewer utilities and services such as police and fire. Importantly, the comprehensive plan contains a "future development map" that guides land use decisions. The plan forms the basis of the zoning ordinance that is the primary tool for implementing land use goals and objectives adopted in the Plan. In Georgia, the comprehensive plan encompasses population dynamics, housing supply, economic development, transportation, natural and historic resources, community facilities and services, intergovernmental cooperation and land use.
Computation of time. Except as otherwise provided by time period computations specifically applying to other laws, when a period of time measured in days, weeks, months, years or other measurements of time is prescribed for the exercise of any privilege or the discharge of any duty, the first day shall not be counted but the last day shall be counted; and, when the last day falls on Saturday or Sunday, the party having such privilege or duty shall have through the following Monday to exercise the privilege or to discharge the duty. When the last day prescribed for such action falls on a public and legal holiday as set forth in O.C.G.A. § 1-4-1, public and legal holidays, the party having the privilege or duty shall have through the next business day to exercise the privilege or to discharge the duty. When the period of time prescribed is less than seven days, intermediate Saturdays, Sundays and legal holidays shall be excluded in the computation.
Condominium. A form of property ownership providing for individual ownership of spaces within a building together with an undivided interest in the land or other parts of the building in common with the other owners. Typically, condominium properties are comprised of attached dwelling units; however, office condominiums are also common.
Consumer retail goods. Apparel, fashion accessories, furniture, household appliances and similar merchandise. Typical entities offering such merchandise include clothing stores, department stores, appliance stores, TV and electronics stores, bicycle shops, book stores, costume rental stores, stationery stores, hobby shops, furniture stores, pet stores and pet supply stores, shoe stores, antique shops, secondhand stores, record stores, toy stores, sporting goods stores, variety stores, musical instrument stores, medical supply stores, office supply stores, office furnishing stores and wig shops. These entities do not include small box discount stores or grocery stores.
Convalescent home. An intermediate care facility, primarily engaged in providing nursing or rehabilitative services to residents who require watchful care or medical attention or treatment on a temporary basis, although staff is on duty 24 hours per day. Convalescent home shall not include hospitals, clinics or similar institutions devoted primarily to the diagnosis and treatment of sick or injured individuals.
Convenience retail goods. Sundries, personal grooming products, health maintenance products, retail baked goods and similar merchandise. Entities that offer such merchandise may also offer incidental food and beverage services as part of the primary retail sales business. Typical outlets include convenience stores, drug stores, specialty food stores, wine or liquor stores, gift shops, newsstands, florists and tobacco stores. These entities do not include small box discount stores or grocery stores.
Convenience store. A retail establishment offering a limited range of groceries, prepackaged foods, household goods, medicines, cosmetics, and beer and wine, and may offer on-site food or drink services for immediate consumption. Convenience stores typically operate on extended hours and are designed to attract a large volume of stop-and-go traffic.
Cosmetology schools and colleges. Any establishment that receives compensation for training more than one person in the occupation of cosmetology as defined by state law. Technical colleges whose programs have been approved by the state are not cosmetology schools and colleges as defined in this section.
County. The County of Upson, State of Georgia.
Covenants. Private deed restrictions imposed on land by private landowners that bind and restrict the land and apply to all present and subsequent owners. Covenants are enforced only by the landowners involved and not by the city or other public agency.
Coworking space. A facilitated environment that may contain desks or other work stations and facilities and is used by a recognized membership who share the location to interact and collaborate with each other as part of a community. Rules for membership and participation in the coworking space are explicit, transparent and available to the public. Coworking spaces may host classes or networking events that are open to the public or to current and prospective members.
Craft distillery. A facility which produces by distillation spirits for consumption, producing 150,000 gallons or less of spirits, annually, the sales and distribution of which are subject to regulation by chapter 6, alcoholic beverages.
Cul-de-sac. A street having one end open to traffic and permanently terminated by a vehicular turn-around.
Curb cut. Any break in a street curb for connecting a driveway to a street to provide vehicular access to abutting property.
Dangerous or hazardous use. Any activity conducted on property or in a building in any manner to create any injurious, noxious, or otherwise objectionable fire, explosive, or other hazard; noise or vibration, smoke, dust, odor, or other form of air pollution; heat, cold or dampness; electrical, or other disturbance; glare; liquid or solid refuse or waste; or other substance, condition, or elements in such manner or in such amount to adversely affect the property or adjacent or nearby property.
Day. A calendar day comprised of 24 hours. Unless otherwise provided, the word day shall mean business days, not calendar days.
Day spa. An establishment that offers massages by a licensed massage therapist who provide a range of therapeutic massages, beauty treatments, and wellness therapies to spa guests based on their needs and preferences. Massage therapists seek to relax and de-stress the client rather than heal.
Dealer in precious metals or gems. An owner, manager, person or entity whose business involves receiving, buying, selling or trading precious metals such as gold or silver or platinum, including coins, and receiving, buying, selling or trading of jewelry, gems or precious or semiprecious stones, whether known as a redemption center, gold and silver dealer, pawnshop, or any other name. The term shall not include purchases from licensed wholesalers in the normal course of business, nor pawnbrokers who only accept precious metals or gems on pawn or pledge.
Delegation of authority. Whenever a provision or section of this chapter appears requiring a head of a department of the city to perform an act or conduct certain inspections, it shall be construed to authorize the head of the department to designate, delegate and authorize subordinates to perform the required act or conduct the required inspection unless the terms of the provision or section designate otherwise.
Density. The number of dwelling units per acre of land.
Design standards. A set of guidelines concerning the architectural appearance and exterior finish materials of a building that governs the construction, alteration, or relocation of a building.
Detention pond. A natural or man-made structure, including wetlands, used for the temporary storage of storm water by providing for the controlled release of such waters to minimize downstream flooding.
Development standards. Regulations controlling the size of structures and the relationships of structures and uses to each other and to the boundaries of a lot. Development standards include regulations controlling maximum building height, minimum lot area, minimum lot frontage, minimum building setbacks, maximum lot coverage and maximum floor area ratio.
Distillery. A facility which produces by distillation spirits for consumption, producing more than 150,000 gallons or less of spirits, annually, the sales and distribution of which are subject to regulation by chapter 6, alcoholic beverages.
Distilled spirits. Any alcoholic beverage obtained by distillation or containing more than 21 percent alcohol by volume including, but not limited to, all fortified wines.
Domestic pet. A tame animal customarily kept for pleasure rather than utility or profit and that is typically kept within a residence or an outside run for personal use and enjoyment including domestic dogs, domestic cats, domestic potbellied pigs, canaries, parrots, parakeets, domestic tropical birds, hamsters, guinea pigs, lizards and turtles. Domestic pet does not include livestock, poultry, or snakes, nor does it include hybrids of animals normally found in the wild.
Drive-in or drive-through window. A building feature used to offer goods or services to customers who remain in their vehicles.
Dry cleaning establishments. A building used for cleaning apparel, fabrics, carpets, textiles, or articles of any sort by immersion and agitation, or by immersion only, in volatile solvents including, but not by way of limitation, petroleum distillate solvents or chlorinated hydrocarbon solvents and related processes. All "dry cleaning plants" and "pick up and drop off" establishments that perform dry cleaning shall comply with NFPA Section 32 Standards for Dry Cleaning Facilities of the Fire Code.
Dwelling. A building or portion of a building designed, arranged and used for living quarters for one or more individuals living as a single housekeeping unit with cooking facilities, including single family, two family, multifamily dwellings, and manufactured dwellings, but not including hotels, motels or other buildings designed for transient residence or for group living arrangements such as rooming and boarding houses, fraternity and sorority houses. The term also includes dwelling unit.
Dwelling, efficiency. A dwelling consisting of not more than one habitable room together with kitchen or kitchenette and sanitary facilities.
Dwelling, live-work. A dwelling that accommodates a living area and retail, commercial, service or office space. The commercial component may be the place of employment for individuals not resident on the premises; however, the owner of the dwelling must be a resident of the dwelling. No living quarters shall be permitted at the street level, although living quarters may be above the commercial space, to the rear and below street grade.
Dwelling, multifamily. A building designed for or occupied exclusively by three or more households living independently. The term includes triplexes and quadruplexes, containing three dwelling units and four dwelling units, respectively.
Dwelling, single family. A building designed for or occupied by one household consisting of a kitchen, dining area, sleeping quarters and bathroom.
Dwelling, two-family. A building designed for or occupied by two households living independently. The term is also known as a duplex.
Entertainment venue. A facility open to the public that offers music, dance or theatrical performances. Such facilities are distinguished from event centers as concerns scale, with entertainment venues hosting larger audiences. These facilities do not typically serve food although a limited range of alcoholic and non-alcoholic beverages may be served.
Emission testing facilities. An establishment offering vehicle emissions testing as regulated by the state.
Event center. A facility that hosts a single function where food is served during scheduled events that are not open to the public. Alcoholic beverages may be offered for on-premises consumption, only, provided the appropriate license has been issued. Event centers are often established in large, historic dwellings converted to commercial use and may feature outdoor gardens or reception facilities. Event centers are primarily distinguished from entertainment venues as the latter typically cater to larger audiences and are open to the public. Examples of functions hosted by event centers are anniversaries, banquets, graduation parties, wedding receptions, business or retirement luncheons, and similar celebrations. See also banquet halls.
Family. A group of individuals related by blood, marriage, adoption, guardianship or other custodial relationship, or a group of not more than four persons not so related, living together as a single housekeeping unit. The term "family" shall not be construed to mean fraternity, sorority, club, student center, group homes, foster homes and similar living arrangements.
Family child care learning home. A private residence operated by any person who receives therein for pay for supervision and care fewer than 24 hours per day, without transfer of legal custody, a minimum of three but not more than six children under 13 years of age who are not related to such persons and whose parent(s) are not residents in the same private residence as the provider and which is required to be licensed by the state department of early care and learning; provided, however, that the total number of unrelated children cared for in such home, for pay and not for pay, shall not exceed six children under 13 years of age at one time, except that a provider may care for two additional children three years of age or older for two designated one hour-periods daily upon approval by the department. The maximum number of children shall include related children of the operator of the family child care learning home.
Fee simple. A form of land ownership that encompasses all property rights, including the right to develop the land.
Fence. An enclosure or barrier consisting of masonry or concrete walls, excluding retaining walls, or wood, vinyl, metal or concrete posts connected by boards, rails, panels, wire, or mesh manufactured specifically for fencing and used as a boundary, a means of protection, privacy screening or confinement, but not including hedges, shrubs, trees, or other natural growth.
Fenestration. The arrangement, proportion and design of windows and other openings in a building, including doors.
Financial institution. Financial institution shall have the same meaning as defined by O.C.G.A. tit. 7, ch. 1 and shall not include those establishments or otherwise unregulated entities engaged in the business of making small loans regulated by the Georgia Industrial Loan Act, as now existing and as amended in O.C.G.A. § 7-3-1 et seq.
Floodplain. That area within the intermediate regional flood contour elevations subject to periodic flooding once in 100 years as designated by the city based upon the U.S. Corps of Engineer's Flood Plain Reports, U.S. Department of Agriculture Soils Reports, and other federal, state, county or local hydraulic studies.
Floor area, gross. The total interior space in a building encompassed by all exterior walls and including all stories.
Floor area, heated. The gross finished horizontal area of all floors of a dwelling in which temperature is controlled by an HVAC system.
Food service establishment. An establishment holding a valid food service permit from its respective county health department, that offers food that is prepared, served and consumed on the premises, and may also be licensed to sell distilled spirits, malt beverages or wines by the drink which derives a minimum of 50 percent of its total food and beverage sales from the sale of meals or food prepared on site. Also known as a "sit down" restaurant.
Food truck. A motorized vehicle or trailer drawn by a motorized vehicle used to prepare and sell food to the public directly from the vehicle or trailer.
Food truck court. An area designated in a private parking lot that is accessory to a permitted use conducted in a building on the lot or a permitted use on a freestanding commercial parking lot, subject to the requirements of subsection 98-5.3.2.23, food trucks, of this chapter.
Food truck vendor. Any person or entity that prepares and sells food from a food truck in a designated food truck court.
Fresh or fresh frozen food. Food for human consumption that is unprocessed, or otherwise in its raw state; food that was quickly frozen while still fresh. The term includes unprocessed meat and seafood.
Frontage. The distance on which a parcel of land adjoins a public street or public road right-of-way dedicated to and accepted by the city for vehicular traffic or over which the city may hold a prescriptive easement for public access.
Frontage, lot. The distance for which the front boundary line of the lot and the public right-of-way line are coincident.
Funeral home. Establishments primarily engaged in preparing the dead for burial or interment and conducting funerals. Funeral homes provide chapels for conducting services, facilities for bodies to lie in state, and for use in wakes. Funeral homes perform embalming and other services; market caskets, funeral urns and related merchandise; arrange transportation for the deceased; and may offer cremation services.
Garage, private. An accessory building or portion of a principal building used primarily for vehicle storage on a residential lot.
Garage, public. A principal building, an accessory building or a portion of a principal building used primarily for vehicle storage available to the public for a fee or free of any charge and located on a non-residential lot.
Grocery store. A retail establishment engaged in the sale of a general line of groceries, packaged frozen foods, dairy products, poultry and poultry products, confectioneries, fish and seafood, meats and meat products, fresh fruits and vegetables, and related products where fresh or fresh frozen foods including fresh meat, poultry, seafood, fruits and produce comprise a minimum of 25 percent of store shelf space and display areas. Grocery stores may include a restaurant as an accessory use for on-premises consumption of food and beverages.
Growler service. Growler means a bottle capable of being sealed with a tamper-proof cap, top or other seal for the purpose of complying with open container laws, and further provided that the container may hold less than 12 ounces but not to exceed 68 ounces, and is filled with malt beverage drawn from a barrel, cask, tank, or keg by a licensee, or an employee of a licensee, holding a package malt beverage license issued by the city.
Halfway house. A facility licensed by the state that provides housing, meals, care, supervision, training and treatment or rehabilitation to individuals on supervised release from the criminal justice system and who have been assigned by a court to a residential facility in lieu of placement in a correctional institution; to individuals who have been institutionalized and released from the criminal justice system; or to individuals suffering from drug or alcohol addiction which render functioning in society difficult and who require the protection of a supervised group setting. The purpose of a halfway house is to afford a transition period for individuals released from the criminal justice system prior to re-entering the community.
Health department. The Upson County Health Department with applicable enforcement by Upson County Environmental Health Offices.
Home centers. Establishments primarily engaged in retailing a general line of new home repair and improvement materials and supplies, such as lumber, plumbing goods, electrical goods, tools, housewares, hardware, and lawn and garden supplies, with no one merchandise line predominating.
Home occupations. Business occupations, trades or professions customarily carried on by residents of a dwelling as an accessory use clearly incidental to the primary residential use of the dwelling. See subsection 98-5.4.2, home occupations.
Homeless shelter. Also known as a "transitional housing facility," a building in which is provided long-term, overnight accommodations not to exceed 16 hours each day, and related services, but no permanent living accommodations for more than four individuals who have no permanent residence and are in need of long-term housing assistance. Homeless shelters may also provide meals and social services, including counseling and substance abuse recovery assistance; however, such facilities are not among those mandated by state government.
Hookah bar. A commercial establishment whose primary offering is hookah pipes, a form of water pipe, designed for use by more than one individual for smoking flavored tobacco on the premises. Hookah bars may be located in a special section of a nightclub, for example.
Hospice. A facility which provides a regimen of care for individuals who are nearing the end of life. Services are provided by a team of health care professionals who maximize comfort for a person who is terminally ill by reducing pain and addressing physical, psychological, social and spiritual needs. Hospice care also provides counseling, respite care and practical support. Unlike other medical care, the focus of hospice care is not to cure the underlying disease. The goal is to support the highest quality of life possible for whatever time remains. Hospice care focuses on terminally ill patients who are expected to have six months or fewer to live.
Hospital. An institution licensed by the state department of community health providing primary health care services and medical or surgical care to persons, primarily inpatients, suffering from illness, disease, injury, or other abnormal physical or mental conditions, and including as an integral part of the institution, related facilities such as laboratories, outpatient facilities and training facilities.
Hotel. A facility offering lodging accommodations for compensation to the public on a nightly basis and in which access to all guest rooms is made solely through an interior lobby.
Hotel, extended stay. A hotel in which a maximum of ten percent of hotel or motel guest rooms may have fixed cooking appliances. For purposes of this section, the term "fixed cooking appliances" shall mean a stove top burner; a hotplate that does not serve as an integral part of an appliance designed solely to produce coffee; a conventional oven; a convection oven; or any oven producing heat using resistance heating elements, induction heating, or infrared heating sources.
Impound yard. Property used for temporary, outdoor storage of wrecked motor vehicles usually awaiting insurance adjustment or transport to a repair shop, but may also include vehicles towed from public or private property on which parking is illegal.
Industrialized building. A structure or component thereof that is, or in substantial part made, fabricated, formed, or assembled in manufacturing facilities for installation on a building site on a permanent foundation and has been manufactured in compliance and conformity with the Industrialized Building Act of the State of Georgia, 1982 Ga. Laws, page 1637 (O.C.G.A. tit. 8, ch. 2, art. II, pt. 1) as the same may be amended from time to time and complies with standards applicable to a site-built building.
Industrialized or modular dwelling. A single-family dwelling manufactured in one or more sections in accordance with the Georgia Industrialized Buildings Act, as amended, and the rules of the state department of community affairs. An industrialized or modular dwelling is designed for placement on a permanent foundation and not intended to be moved at a later date. Such units do not have a permanent chassis, axles or wheels.
Inoperable vehicle. Any motorized vehicle incapable of immediately being driven and not properly licensed or insured in accordance with state law.
Jewelry store. A retail establishment offering merchandise comprised of precious metals to the public. Jewelry store does not include a dealer in precious metals or gems or a pawnshop as defined herein.
Joint authority. Giving common authority to three or more persons or officers of the city shall be construed as giving such authority to a majority of such persons or officers, except when such authority is granted to mayor and council.
Junk. Scrap or waste material of any kind collected or accumulated for resale, disposal, or storage.
Junk yard. A lot or portion of a lot used for the collection, storage, and sale of wastepaper, rags, scrap metal, or discarded materials; or for the collecting, dismantling, storage, salvaging, or sale of inoperable vehicles, used vehicle parts or machinery.
Junked vehicle. Any vehicle which is in such disrepair as to be unusable, constitutes a nuisance or health or safety hazard or, is not licensed in accordance with O.C.G.A. § 40-2-20 (2010).
Keeper and proprietor. The person, firm, association, corporation, receiver, trustee, personal representative, club and partnership, whether acting by themselves or through an agent or employee.
Kennel, commercial. A commercial establishment where three or more dogs, cats over three months of age, or other domestic animals of any age are kept, raised, sold, boarded, bred, shown, treated, trained or groomed for commercial gain.
Kindergarten. A state-approved institution for the education of pre-school aged children.
Landfill, inert waste. A landfill accepting only wastes that will not or are not likely to cause production of leachate resulting in an environmental hazard. Such wastes are limited to fill dirt, concrete, cured asphalt, rock, bricks, lumber, stumps, and yard debris, including tree limbs and leaves. The term excludes industrial and demolition wastes, and hazardous wastes such as construction debris contaminated by lead or materials containing asbestos not specifically listed above.
Landscaping. An area of a site dedicated to lawns, trees, plants, wooded areas, water courses and other organic or inorganic materials used to enhance the appearance of the property or mitigate the impacts of development.
Laundering establishments. Laundromats, coin laundries and all establishments offering public self-service laundry facilities for washing clothes and other fabrics. The term does not include dry cleaners or companies that offer laundering services for compensation.
LEED (Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design). An internationally recognized green building certification system, providing third-party verification that a building was designed and built using strategies intended to improve performance in metrics such as energy savings, water efficiency, CO2 emissions reduction, improved indoor environmental quality, stewardship of resources and sensitivity to the impacts of the building.
Livestock. Cattle, horses, goats, sheep, swine, and other hoofed animals; poultry, ducks, geese and other fowl; and rabbits, mink, foxes and other fur or hide-bearing animals customarily bred or raised in captivity for the harvesting of their skins; whether owned or kept for pleasure, utility or sale.
Loading space. Off-street vehicle parking reserved for temporary use in the pickup and delivery of goods.
Lobby. A public, interior waiting area at or near the entrance of a building. A lobby may include a variety of uses, but is limited to contiguous, open area and shall not include separate spaces for public use such as restrooms or offices.
Local government. Any county or municipality, which exercises zoning power within its territorial boundaries.
Lot. A parcel of land separate from other parcels as defined by a legal description as on a subdivision plat of record, a property survey or as described by metes and bounds, which may be developed and occupied by any use allowed in the zoning district assigned to the parcel. The term does not include any portion of a dedicated right-of-way.
Lot coverage. The area of impervious surfaces, including building footprint, drives and parking spaces, walks and any other surface that prevents water from entering the ground divided by total lot area. Lot coverage is represented in this chapter by a maximum lot coverage ratio that varies with the zoning district assigned to the property.
Lot depth. The average horizontal distance between the front and rear lot lines.
Lot frontage. The distance for which the front boundary line of a lot and the street right-of-way line are coincident.
Lot line. A boundary of a lot. Lot line is synonymous with property line.
Lot line, front. The front property line coincident with a street right-of-way line. On a corner lot, the front lot line shall be the line having the least dimension.
Lot of record. A lot identified on a plat that has been recorded with the county clerk of superior court or a parcel of land, the deed of which has been recorded in the county clerk of superior court as of the effective date of this chapter.
Lot width. The distance between side lot lines measured at the minimum front yard setback.
Lot, corner. A lot abutting on two or more streets at their intersection.
Lot, double frontage. Any lot, other than a corner lot, which has frontage on two streets.
Maker space. A collaborative work space which allows members access to fabrication tools similar to those in machine shops or other light industrial facilities for making, learning, creating and sharing.
Manufactured home. A Class I manufactured home is a single family dwelling constructed in a factory on or after June 15, 1976, according to the rules of the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development, built on a permanent chassis, designed for use as a dwelling with or without a permanent foundation when connected to the required utilities, transportable in one or more sections, and in the traveling mode, a minimum of eight feet in width or a minimum of 40 feet in length or, when erected on site, a minimum floor area of 320 square feet. Manufactured homes conform to National Manufactured Home Construction and Safety Standards, approved by the state department of insurance and bearing an insignia issued by the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development, or a single family dwelling that, if constructed prior to applicability of such standards and insignia requirements, was constructed in conformity with the state standards in effect on the date of manufacture. Recreational vehicles and modular homes are not included in this definition.
Manufactured home park. A parcel of land that has been planned and improved for placement of manufactured homes. Spaces or lots are set aside and offered for rent to accommodate manufactured homes for residential occupancy. A manufactured home park does not include a manufactured home sales lot on which unoccupied manufactured homes are placed for inspection or sale.
Massage therapy center. An establishment that performs clinical massages as a medical treatment usually associated with a defined purpose such as to relieve pain or tension in a specific part of the body. The goal of massage therapy is to improve a specific ailment or condition.
Mixed use. A combination of residential and non-residential uses established on the same lot or within the same building on a lot subject to the standards contained in this chapter.
Mobile home. A building constructed in a factory designed for long-term occupancy transported on its own frame and wheels, arriving at a site a complete dwelling unit, usually including all major appliances and furniture and ready for occupancy, except for minor unpacking and assembly operations. Mobile homes are placed on jacks or other temporary or permanent foundations, and connected to utilities. Removal of the wheels and placement on a foundation does not change the classification of the unit. A mobile home is a transportable home built in a factory before June 15, 1976, prior to U.S. Congressional passage of the Manufactured Home Construction and Safety Standards Act. Travel trailers, also known as RVs, are not considered mobile homes.
Modular home. A factory-built, single family dwelling fabricated in one or more sections that complies with the definition of "industrialized building" designed to be placed on a permanent foundation as a permanent structure with the appearance of a conventional site built dwelling to be used as a residence. A modular home is not a mobile home.
Month. The calendar month.
Motel. A facility offering lodging accommodations for compensation primarily to the motoring public on a nightly, weekly or monthly basis and in which access to guest rooms may be accessed directly from parking areas.
Names of officers, departments. The name or title of any officer or department shall be read as though the words "of the City of Thomaston" were added thereto.
News agency or news syndicates. An organization that collects news stories and distributes them to newspapers or broadcasters. Also comprised of establishments primarily engaged in supplying information, such as news reports, articles, pictures, and features, to the news media.
Nonconforming use. Any use of land or a building lawfully existing on the effective date of this chapter that was rendered out of compliance with one or more standards of this chapter upon its adoption.
Notice. As relates to serving notice to concerned parties shall mean by hand delivery or certified mail return receipt requested and shall be deemed to have been given a minimum of three business days following such mailing.
Nursing home. An establishment providing inpatient nursing and rehabilitative services to patients who require continuous medical supervision, providing skilled nursing care and rehabilitative nursing care as defined by the rules and regulations of the state department of community health and is licensed as a "nursing home" by the department. Care must be ordered by and under the direction of a physician. Staff must include a licensed nurse on duty continuously with a minimum of one full-time registered nurse on duty during each day shift.
O.C.G.A. The Official Code of Georgia Annotated.
Oath. The word "oath" shall be construed to include an affirmation in all cases in which, by law, an affirmation may be substituted for an oath, and in such cases the words "swear" and "sworn" shall be equivalent to the words "affirm" and "affirmed."
Office. An occupancy of a building that features administrative activities as opposed to retail sales or fabrication such as that conducted in an industrial building.
Office park. A development on a tract of land that contains a number of separate office buildings, supporting uses and open spaces designed, planned, constructed and managed on an integrated and coordinated basis.
Official zoning map. A public record comprised of a graphic representation of every property in the city limits that defines the boundaries of the zoning district assigned to various properties. The official zoning map and the text of the zoning ordinance comprise the zoning ordinance.
Open space. An undeveloped area of land permanently reserved for passive recreational use or aesthetic purposes.
Or, and. The word "or" may be read "and," and the word "and" may be read "or," as the context requires.
Outdoor amusement enterprises. Establishments including, but not limited to, drive-in theatres, pony rides, miniature golf, carnivals and bazaars that are in operation for 60 or fewer calendar days.
Overlay district. A set of standards that are in addition to and superimposed upon the base zoning district or underlying district. Overlay districts typically address enhanced architectural design and materials standards, and streetscape and site landscaping standards, or may be used to protect historic resources.
Owner. As applied to a building or land shall include any part owner, joint owner, tenant in common, joint tenant or tenant by the entirety, of the whole or a part of such building or land.
Parking space. An area marked on pavement defining the location reserved for temporary storage of a motor vehicle having suitable access to a public street or alley and sufficient maneuvering room.
Pawnbroker. Any person engaged in whole or in part in the business of lending money on the security of pledged goods, or in the business of purchasing tangible personal property on the condition that it may be redeemed or repurchased by the seller for a fixed price within a fixed period of time, or in the business of purchasing tangible personal property from persons or sources other than manufacturers or licensed dealers as a part of or in conjunction with such business activities. For purposes of this section, possession of any motor vehicle certificate of title that has come into the possession of a pawnbroker through a pawn transaction made in accordance with law shall be conclusively deemed to be possession of the motor vehicle, and the pawnbroker shall retain physical possession of the motor vehicle certificate of title for the entire length of the pawn transaction, but shall not be required in any way to retain physical possession of the motor vehicle at any time.
Pawnshop. The premises on which a pawnbroker conducts business involving pawn transactions.
Penal ordinances. The rules of construction and definitions of terms as contained in the penal code of the state, insofar as they can be made applicable, are hereby adopted as governing the penal ordinances of the city.
Personal care home. An establishment, whether operated on a for profit or nonprofit basis, and licensed as a personal care home by the state department of community health, which undertakes through its ownership or management to provide, or arrange for the provision of housing, food service, and other necessary services for adults who are not related to the owner or administrator by blood or marriage. No use defined as a personal care home may be permitted as a home occupation. This definition shall apply without regard to whether any fee charged is paid by the individual to whom the services are provided or by another person, without regard to whether the facility is operated for profit or not for profit. Personal services include, but are not limited to, individual assistance with or supervision of self-administered medication, and essential activities of daily living such as bathing, grooming, dressing and toileting.
Personal care home, congregate. A personal care facility that offers care as described under personal care home in which 16 or more individuals reside.
Personal care home, family. A dwelling, whether operated for profit or not, which undertakes through its ownership or management to provide or arrange for the provision of housing, food service, and one or more personal services for not more than six individuals who are not related to the owner or administrator by blood or marriage.
Personal care home, group. A facility in a residence or other building, non-institutional in character, that offers care to persons and in which seven to 15 persons reside, inclusive of the caregiver(s).
Personal care home, registered. A personal care home registered with, but not licensed by, the state department of community health pursuant to the provisions of O.C.G.A. § 31-7-12 and any regulations promulgated by the department of community health pursuant thereto. A personal care home, registered offers care to one but not more than three individuals. For purposes of determining potential locations for this use, personal care homes, registered, shall be treated as a family personal care home.
Personal property. Every form of property except real property.
Place of worship. A building where persons assemble primarily for religious worship and conducting religious activities that is maintained and controlled by a religious body organized to sustain public worship, together with all accessory buildings and uses customarily associated with such primary purpose. Such uses include schools, religious education, social gathering rooms, food service facilities, indoor and outdoor recreation facilities, and child day care centers. The term includes synagogue, temple, mosque, church or other such place for worship and religious activities. The term does not include any building or property owned or operated by a religious organization or group that is not primarily used for religious worship or other religious activities.
Premises. Real property; synonymous with place or places.
Principal use. The primary activity conducted on a lot.
Property. All real and personal property.
Psychic service establishment. Commercial premises that provide services involving sensitivity to non-physical or supernatural forces and influences; or marked by extraordinary or mysterious sensitivity, perception or understanding; and include, but are not limited to palm readers, astrologers, psychics and crystal ball readers.
Public place. Any park, cemetery, schoolyard or open space adjacent thereto, or any area available and/or accessible to the public, regardless of whether privately or publicly owned.
Quasi-judicial officers, boards, or agencies. An officer, board, or agency appointed by the city council to exercise delegated, quasi-judicial zoning powers including hearing appeals of administrative decisions by such officers, boards, or agencies and hearing and rendering decisions on applications for variances, administrative permits, and other similar permits not enumerated herein as zoning decisions, pursuant to standards for the exercise of such quasi-judicial authority adopted by the city council.
Quasi-judicial decision. A final administrative decision by an appointed quasi-judicial officer, board, or agency as concerns appeals of administrative decisions by such officers, boards, or agencies and a final decision as concerns applications for variances from the standards of this chapter, approval or denial of administrative permits and other similar permits not enumerated herein as a zoning decision.
Real property. All lots, lands, tenements and items of inheritance.
Recreational vehicle. A motorized vehicle designed as off-site living accommodations for travel or recreation purposes having no foundation other than wheels or jacks; also referred to as a motor home.
Recycling center, building materials. The collection and indoor storage of used lumber, brick, windows and doors, fireplace mantels, lighting and bathroom fixtures and other architectural elements and construction components for resale. Used appliances shall not be considered building materials.
Residence. The place adopted by a person as his place of habitation, and to which when he or she is absent, he or she has the intention of returning. When a person eats at one place and sleeps at another, the place where such person sleeps shall be deemed his or her residence.
Residential accessory building, attached. A building on a lot subordinate to a principal dwelling on the same lot and sharing a common wall with the principal dwelling that is a minimum of 50 percent of the wall length of the principal dwelling or 12 feet, whichever is greater. See subsection 98-5.2.5.
Residential accessory building, detached. A freestanding building on a lot subordinate to a principal dwelling on the same lot. See subsection 98-5.2.4.
Restaurant, drive-in. Any premises used for the sale, dispensing or serving of food or beverages to customers in private vehicles, including the on-premises consumption of food or beverages.
Restaurant, fast food. An establishment at which customers are served food or beverage for on-premises consumption at a table or counter or in a vehicle in packages prepared for off-premises consumption. Such establishments do not provide wait staff service. The term includes carry-out, drive-through, drive-in and curb service restaurants.
Restaurant, limited service. A restaurant that does not offer table service, rather customers order and pay for food at a counter. Such restaurants are primarily "dine in." Cafeterias and buffets are considered limited-service restaurants.
Retail establishment. A commercial business that sells commodities or goods in small quantities to consumers and may be referred to as a "retail shop." Such businesses may be classified as a "retail establishment" only when the business is not specifically classified elsewhere.
Retention ponds. Also referred to as wet ponds, retention ponds maintain a pool of water throughout the year and hold stormwater runoff following storms. The permanent pool of water characterizing retention ponds fluctuates in response to precipitation and runoff from the surrounding areas contributing to storm water and ground water flows. Unlike retention ponds, detention ponds hold water for a short period before discharging to a downstream water body.
Rezoning. A change in the zoning classification or the conditions of zoning affecting a lot.
Right-of-way. An area of land established for providing vehicle access to adjacent properties, for placement of public infrastructure and quasi-public utilities, and for streetscape improvements such as lighting, landscaping and other street furnishings.
Rooming house. A building where for compensation, lodging only, is provided for two, but not more than ten persons, provided that a single family dwelling shall not be deemed to be a rooming house by reason of a contribution to, or an expense sharing arrangement with, the owner or tenant occupying the dwelling by a person related by blood or marriage. Kitchen facilities are not available to lodgers and no meals are served to lodgers.
Row house. One of a series of single family attached dwellings, often of similar or identical design, situated side by side and sharing common walls.
Schools. Organizations or institutions that provide pre-school and pre-kindergarten through 12th grade instruction. Private schools as defined by O.C.G.A. § 20-2-690 are encompassed within this definition. Qualifying entities must comply with all applicable state laws and regulations including, but not limited to, any applicable licensing requirements concerning such instruction. The term does not include child day care facilities.
Scrap tire processing plant. A facility that grinds, shreds, chops or otherwise processes scrap tires for secondary use.
Screening. A method of shielding or obscuring an objectionable view on an abutting or nearby property from another property by opaque fencing, walls, berms, densely planted vegetation or similar means.
Seal. The symbol affixed to a document to legitimize or validate such document.
Service station. Buildings and premises where the primary use is the retail sale of fuel to the public, and where the incidental sale of oil, batteries, motor vehicle accessories and minor vehicle repair services may be provided. Such services shall not include major mechanical or body work, engine, transmission or differential repair, straightening of body parts, painting, welding or other work involving noise, glare, fumes, smoke or other offensive characteristics perceptible beyond the property boundary.
Shipping container. Also known as cargo containers, a standardized, reusable metal box used in the transport of freight, goods and commodities and designed for mounting on a rail car or a truck trailer or loaded on a ship. Alternate uses of shipping containers include dwellings, dormitories and commercial building and storage applications.
Shopping center. A group of retail establishments planned, built, and managed by a single entity. Off-street parking and landscaped areas are provided on site; indoor pedestrian malls or plazas may also be provided.
Short-term rental. A dwelling that is offered for occupancy by the public for a limited period for which a fee is charged. A short term rental is not considered a bed and breakfast, a motel or a hotel.
Sidewalk. A paved surface located between the curb or street pavement when a curb is not present and the adjacent property line, intended for the use of pedestrians, but shall not include any unimproved areas between the curb and the adjacent property line.
Single housekeeping unit. A group of Individuals jointly occupying a dwelling unit that share a lease agreement, have consent of the owner to reside on the property, or own the property; jointly use all common areas including living, kitchen and dining areas, and share household responsibilities such as meals, cleaning, expenses and maintenance; and whose makeup is determined by the members of the dwelling rather than by the landlord, property manager, or other third party. The term does not include a boarding or rooming house.
Small box discount store. A retail establishment having a floor area below 12,000 square feet and offering a variety of convenience retail goods and consumer retail goods a majority of which sell below retail market value. Such stores are not characterized by the following activities:
•
Dedicate a minimum of 500 square feet of floor area to fresh or fresh frozen meats, fruits and vegetables;
•
Contain a prescription pharmacy; or
•
Sale of vehicle fuels.
Special event. A temporary use of city or private property that extends beyond the normal uses regulated by this chapter. Such uses may generate substantial impacts on public infrastructure and services such as increased traffic volumes and public safety concerns. Special events include, but are not limited to, athletic events, art shows, carnivals, car shows, Christmas tree sales, community fairs, festivals, grand openings, haunted houses, sidewalk sales, pumpkin sales, receptions, rodeos, tour of homes, weddings and similar outdoor concerts.
Special use. A use not automatically permitted by right, but which may be permitted subject to compliance with specific standards found in article 98-5, development standards, of this chapter and any conditions that may be assigned to an approval of a special use by city council.
State. The State of Georgia.
Story. That portion of a building comprised between the surface of any floor and the surface of the floor next above it, or if there is no floor above it, the space between the floor and the ceiling next above it, provided that a room suite, or story, with more than one-half of its height below grade shall not be considered a story for the purposes of regulations. The first floor of a two or multi-story building shall be deemed the story that has no floor immediately below it designed for living quarters or for human occupancy.
Street. Any public way, alley, avenue, boulevard, circle, drive, expressway, lane, road, highway, parkway, place, street, thoroughfare, viaduct, and bridge and the approaches thereto within the city.
Street, private. The paved area located within a private development that has not been dedicated to the city and is used to access property within such developments. Private streets may be restricted to the use of owners of property within the development and are maintained by the developer or a subsequent ownership entity.
Street, public. The paved area located with the public right-of-way designed and built to accommodate vehicular traffic and used by the public to access property and the larger street network.
Structure. Anything constructed or built having a fixed location on the ground or attached to something having a fixed location on the ground, excluding fences and walls.
Subdivider. The person, firm or corporation having a proprietary interest in land to be subdivided or the authorized agent of such person, firm or corporation that may apply for the subdivision of such land under chapter 78, subdivisions, of this Code.
Subdivision. The process of dividing land into two or more lots or the combination of lots resulting in one or more new lots; also refers to a development consisting of subdivided lots.
Swimming pool. Any permanent structure, tank or basin located in the ground or attached to the ground for wading or bathing.
Tattoo parlors. Establishments that provide services that create an indelible mark on the body by insertion of pigment under the skin or by production of scars.
Tavern. An establishment for the sale of beer and other drinks to be consumed on the premises, sometimes also serving food; also referred to as a bar or pub.
Telecommunications towers, monopoles and facilities. Any structure designed and constructed primarily for the purpose of supporting one or more antennas, including self-supporting lattice towers, guy towers and monopole towers. The term includes radio and television transmission towers, microwave towers, common-carrier towers, cellular telecommunication towers, man-made trees and other similar structures. The term also includes structures with one or more antennas intended for transmitting or receiving analog, digital, personal wireless service or similar forms of electronic communication.
Temporary shelters. Facilities primarily engaged in providing short-term, emergency shelter for victims of domestic violence, sexual assault, or child abuse and temporary residential shelter for homeless individuals or families, runaway youth, and patients and families in medical crises. These establishments shall have obtained all applicable federal and state permits or licenses required for operation of such a facility.
Tenant. As applied to a building or land shall include any person who occupies the whole or part of such building or land, whether alone or with others.
Territorial boundaries. In the case of counties, the unincorporated areas thereof and any area defined in O.C.G.A. § 36-70-2(5.1) and, in the case of municipalities, the area lying within the corporate limits thereof except any area defined in paragraph O.C.G.A. § 36-70-2(5.1).
Tool and light equipment sale or rental. A commercial establishment engaged in the rental or sale of tools such as circular saws, drills, weed eaters and light equipment such as electrically powered jack hammers, log splitters or utility trailers. Tool and light equipment sale or rental shall not include the sale or rental of vehicles, heavy equipment, trucks, boats, motorcycles, or RVs.
Town house. A group of three or more attached dwelling units under fee simple ownership or condominium or cooperative ownership, as defined by laws of the state.
Trailer, travel. A non-motorized vehicle, pulled by an automobile or truck, designed for the exclusive off premises use for travel or recreation purposes.
Trailer, utility. A vehicle designed to be towed by a motorized vehicle that may be open as in a landscape trailer or closed as in a car hauler. Utility trailers classified as up to class IV that are rated up to 10,000 pounds are considered light duty and include boat trailers, horse trailers and landscape trailers. Utility trailers having a rating above class IV are considered commercial vehicles and shall be regulated as heavy trucks.
Truck stop. An establishment engaged primarily in the fueling, servicing, repair, or parking of tractor trucks or similar heavy commercial vehicles, including the sale of accessories and equipment for such vehicles. A truck stop may also include overnight accommodations, showers, or restaurant facilities primarily for the use of truck crews.
Truck terminal. A facility that serves primarily as a transfer point for changing from one mode of transportation to another, or for transferring shipped materials from one vehicle to another, with associated storage, but without the long-term storage of such materials.
Tutoring services. Educational instruction offered to school-age children as a supplement to public or private school education.
Use. The purpose for which land or a building is designed, arranged or intended to be used, or for which land or a building is occupied, maintained or leased.
Use permitted "by right." Any use of a lot complying with all standards of the zoning district in which such lot is located and other applicable ordinances without further approvals with the exception of appropriate development and building permits.
Vape shop. For purposes of this chapter vape shops are retail establishments selling e-cigarettes and similar products for off-premises use. An electronic cigarette is an electronic device that simulates tobacco smoking. It consists of an atomizer, a power source such as a battery, and a container such as a cartridge or tank. Instead of smoke, the user inhales vapor. As such, using an e-cigarette is often called "vaping."
Variance. A deviation from the standards of this chapter granted by the board of zoning appeals based on a finding that extraordinary conditions are associated with a particular property where strict application of such standards would cause unnecessary and undue hardship.
Vehicle body shop. An establishment that performs vehicle collision repair services, including frame repair or straightening and repair or replacement of damaged body components such as fenders. Body shop services may also include customizing vehicles and trailers, replacing vehicle glass and vehicle painting, but do not include engine or power train repair.
Vehicle rental or leasing establishment. A commercial enterprise in which the primary business is the leasing of motor vehicles by the day or week and may include long-term leasing typically for more than one calendar year.
Vehicle sales establishment. A commercial enterprise in which the primary business is selling passenger cars, trucks, and vans at retail to the public. Such trucks and vans shall not exceed a class 2 GVWR rating. "Vehicle sales" may include long-term leasing of vehicles typically for more than one calendar year.
Vehicle service establishments. A building and premises where the primary use is the repair of passenger automobiles, trucks and vans limited to class 2 vehicles having a gross vehicle weight rating of 10,000 pounds or less. For purposes of this chapter such servicing and repair establishment shall be classified as follows:
Vehicle service establishments, major. Facilities that perform general repairs, including engine rebuilding or replacement, transmission repair or replacement and all services deemed minor servicing and repair. Vehicle servicing and repairs shall not include body shop services.
Vehicle service establishments, minor. Facilities that perform vehicle detailing, maintenance and servicing; upholstering; tinting, replacement of parts and motor servicing such as tune ups, battery replacement, brake jobs, exhaust system replacement, air conditioning system servicing, electrical repairs, oil changes, tire replacement, wheel alignments and other minor repairs.
Veterinary clinic. A facility for the treatment of domestic animals, operated under the supervision of a licensed veterinarian. The boarding of animals is limited to short-term care incidental to the services of the clinic and makes limited use of outdoor runs.
Warehouses, mini. A commercial facility providing secured spaces for storage of personal property and may include vehicle, boat, motorcycle, RV or trailer storage.
Waste incinerator. Any facility that reduces waste volume by burning at a high temperature for a specified period. This term excludes air curtain destructors used for the on-site burning of yard trimmings and wood wastes as regulated by the Georgia Forestry Commission.
Week. A calendar week of seven days.
Yard. A space on the same lot with a principal building open, unoccupied and unobstructed by buildings or structures from ground to sky except where encroachments are specifically allowed and accessory buildings may be placed.
Yard, front. An open, unoccupied space on the same lot with a principal building, extending the full width of the lot, and situated between the street right-of-way and the front yard setback line projected to the side boundary lines of the lot. The front yard of a corner lot shall be the frontage having the least dimension.
Yard, rear. An open, unoccupied space on the same lot with a principal building, extending the full width of the lot and situated between the rear boundary line of the lot and the rear yard setback line projected to the side boundary lines of the lot.
Yard, side. An open, unoccupied space on the same lot with the principal building, situated between the side yard setback line and the side boundary line of the lot extending from the front yard setback line of the lot to the rear yard setback line of the lot.
Year. A calendar year.
Youth entertainment center. A commercial establishment dedicated to recreation and other activities for children ages 12 and under.
Zoning. The power of local governments to provide within their respective territorial boundaries for the zoning or districting of property for various uses and the prohibition of other or different uses within such zones or districts and for the regulation of development and the improvement of real estate within such zones or districts in accordance with the uses of property for which such zones or districts were established.
Zoning commission. The City of Thomaston Zoning Commission, referred to in this chapter as the zoning commission.
Zoning decision. Final legislative action by a local government which results in:
(A)
The adoption or repeal of a zoning ordinance;
(B)
The adoption of an amendment to a zoning ordinance which changes the text of the zoning ordinance;
(C)
The adoption or denial of an amendment to a zoning ordinance to rezone property from one zoning classification to another;
(D)
The adoption or denial of an amendment to a zoning ordinance by a municipal local government to zone property to be annexed into the municipality; or
(E)
The grant or denial of a permit relating to a special use of property;
(F)
The grant or denial of a variance or conditions concurrent and in conjunction with a decision pursuant to subparagraphs (C) or (E) of this paragraph.
Zoning district. A classification used to identify the purpose, allowed uses and development standards of that classification and assigned to all properties within the city limits as reflected on the official zoning map.
Zoning ordinance. An ordinance or resolution of a local government establishing procedures and zones or districts within its respective territorial boundaries which regulate the uses and development standards of property within such zones or districts. The term also includes the zoning map adopted in conjunction with a zoning ordinance which shows the zones and districts and zoning classifications of property therein.
Zoning ordinance map amendment. Also referred to as a property rezoning, a change to the zoning classification of property or properties as reflected on the official zoning map.
Zoning ordinance text amendment. A change to the provisions of the zoning ordinance.
(Ord. No. 1166 , § 1(Exh. A), 4-5-22; Ord. No. 1187 , § I, 6-6-23)
