Chapter 7 - EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT[1]

Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Cross reference— Administration, ch. 2; fire prevention and protection, ch. 8; planning and development, ch. 14.
State Law reference— Georgia Mutual Aid Act, O.C.G.A. § 36-69-2 et seq.; Georgia Emergency Management Act of 1981, O.C.G.A. § 38-3-1 et seq.; Interstate Civil Defense and Disaster Compact, O.C.G.A. § 38-3-70; authority to adopt temporary or experimental regulations to cover emergencies or special conditions, O.C.G.A. § 40-6-371(a)(19).

Sec. 7-1. - Joint organization—Formed.
The city civil defense organization is merged with and to the county emergency management agency and such organizations shall be known as the Thomson-McDuffie County Emergency Management Agency.
(Ord. No. 446, § 1, 6-8-89)
Sec. 7-2. - Same—Execution of documents.
The mayor is authorized to execute such documents as are necessary to perfect the merger of the city and county emergency organization provided such documents are approved by the city council.
(Ord. No. 446, § 2, 6-8-89)
Sec. 7-3. - State of emergency curfew.
(a)
No curfew shall exist in the city except in a state of emergency. The circumstances necessary to declare a state of emergency shall be defined at the discretion of the mayor and council. The mayor or the council, or both, may declare such a state of emergency and impose curfew at any hour they deem necessary; provided however that if the mayor alone declares a state of emergency and imposes a curfew, his action will only be valid for a period of three days unless approved and extended by the council prior to the expiration of the three-day period.
(b)
A curfew is defined as the hour (time) after which it shall be illegal for any person to be walking, strolling, loitering or on the streets of the city in any like fashion. If such person can show good cause or reason for being upon the streets after the curfew hour, they will not be in violation of this section. It shall be the duty of each law enforcement officer to inquire of curfew violators, prior to making an arrest, his purpose in being upon the streets after the curfew hour. If good cause or reason is given, the officer shall not arrest such person. Good cause or reason is defined as that which a reasonable man would deem as necessitating being upon the streets after the curfew hour. Provided however, that there shall be no cause of action against such law enforcement officers, his supervisors, or the city, for false arrest if he does not consider the violator's cause to be good or sufficient when in fact it is and proceeds to make an arrest. This section shall not apply to persons traveling in or upon motor vehicles on the city's streets.
(c)
Any person convicted of violation of this section shall be subject to either a fine of not more than $200.00 or a sentence of not more than 60 days in jail or both or any part of either or both at the discretion of the municipal court.
(Ord. No. 368, §§ 2—4, 9-14-78)
