Chapter 62 - OFFENSES AND MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS[1]

Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Cross reference— Administration, ch. 2; alcoholic beverages, ch. 6; amusements and entertainments, ch. 10; animals, ch. 14; cemeteries, ch. 30; courts, ch. 38; secondhand goods, ch. 66; streets, sidewalks and other public places, ch. 74; traffic and vehicles, ch. 86.
State Law reference— Authority to exercise police power, Ga. Const., art. 9, sec. 2, par. 3(a)(1); Criminal Code of Georgia, O.C.G.A. § 16-1-1 et seq.; limitation on home rule powers of municipal corporations with respect to duplication of state criminal offenses, O.C.G.A. § 36-35-6(a)(2); torts of police or other officers, O.C.G.A. § 36-33-3; assault under color of office, O.C.G.A. § 45-11-3; right of action for false arrest, O.C.G.A. § 51-7-1; false imprisonment, O.C.G.A. § 51-7-20; malicious prosecution, O.C.G.A. § 51-7-40.

Sec. 62-1. - Airguns or slingshots; use upon city streets, sidewalks or lots.
No person shall use a sling or slingshot or airgun upon the streets, sidewalks or lots of the city.
(Code 1965, § 22-1)
Sec. 62-2. - Firearms; discharge.
No person shall fire any gun, pistol or any firearm within the city limits except law enforcement officers when acting in the performance of their official duties.
(Code 1965, § 22-8)
State Law reference— Discharge of firearm near public highway or street, O.C.G.A. § 16-11-103; discharge of firearm on property of another, O.C.G.A. § 16-11-104; discharge of firearm on Sunday, O.C.G.A. § 16-11-105.
Sec. 62-3. - Begging.
It shall be unlawful for any person to go about from door to door within the city for the purpose of begging for his benefit or place himself in the streets, highways, lanes, parks, cemeteries or other public grounds of the city.
(Code 1965, § 22-4)
Sec. 62-4. - Handbills, circulars or advertisements—Posting, painting or placing.
It shall be unlawful for any person to post, paint or place any notice, sign, handbill, picture, poster or advertisement whatever including, but not limited to, political posters or advertisements on any street telegraph or telephone pole, lamppost or utility pole or post of any kind or upon the walls of any public building or upon any property of the city; except, that legal elections and other legal notices may be posted by proper authority on established bulletin boards.
(Code 1965, § 22-9)
Sec. 62-5. - Same—Removal by chief of police.
Any notice, sign, handbill, picture, poster or advertisement placed upon any such pole or post in conflict with section 62-4 shall be illegal per se and the same shall be summarily removed by the chief of police.
(Code 1965, § 22-10)
Sec. 62-6. - Blocking public passages and ways.
(a)
It shall be unlawful for any person to loiter or stand on any street, sidewalk or curb in such a manner as to render the same unsafe or unsuitable for the passage of persons and the transportation of commodities or in such a manner as to limit the peaceful and tranquil use of such streets, sidewalks or curbs by the public at large. Any such person shall move on or separate when required to do so by any member of the police department of the city and shall cease to occupy such position on the street, sidewalk or curb of the city.
(b)
It shall be unlawful for any person to loiter or stand in or on any public place in the city, other than its streets, sidewalks and curbs, including its public places such as alleys, parks, playgrounds, recreational areas, public lawns and walkways and public buildings in such a manner as to render the same unsafe or unsuitable for the use of the same for their proper purposes by members of the general public or in such a manner as to limit the peaceful and tranquil use of such public places by the public at large. Any such person shall move on or separate when required to do so by any member of the police department of the city and shall cease to occupy such position in such public place of the city.
(Code 1965, § 22-13)
State Law reference— Governing body may adopt ordinances proscribing loitering or related activities, O.C.G.A. § 16-6-24.
Sec. 62-7. - On-premises sales.
(a)
For the purposes of this section the term "on-premises sale" shall be construed to mean any public sale or public offering for sale of any personal property by any person on premises located in a geographical area of the city zoned other than C-1 or C-2, or grandfathered for commercial use, at which sale such property is publicly displayed for sale to the public at large.
(b)
It shall be unlawful to hold any on-premises sale at a location other than at premises owned or occupied by the holder thereof.
(c)
It shall be unlawful for any person to hold more than two on-premises sales at any one location during any 12-month period.
(d)
Any on-premises sale shall not be operated in such a manner as to cause a nuisance to neighboring residences or in such a manner as will create a fire hazard.
(Code 1965, § 22-19.1)
Sec. 62-8. - Injury or destruction of water supply system.
No person shall destroy or injure any of the city wells, cisterns, reservoirs, pumping stations, sewers or any part thereof; any part of the city water supply system or any public property; nor shall any person throw or place any injurious substance in any such wells, cisterns, reservoirs, pumping stations, sewers or city water supply system.
(Code 1965, § 22-22)
State Law reference— Damaging, injuring or interfering with property of public utility companies, municipalities or political subdivisions, O.C.G.A. § 16-7-25.
Sec. 62-9. - Sitting, standing or walking on the base of the Confederate soldiers monument.
No person shall sit, stand or walk upon the base of the monument in the city erected to the memory of the Confederate soldiers. Neither shall any person deface the monument in any manner whatever.
(Code 1965, § 22-27)
State Law reference— Damaging, injuring or interfering with property of public utility companies, municipalities or political subdivisions, O.C.G.A. § 16-7-25.
Sec. 62-10. - Disorderly conduct.
It shall be unlawful for any person within the city to engage in any violent, tumultuous, obstreperous or similar disorderly conduct tending to infringe on the peace and repose of the citizens of the city. Such unlawful disorderly conduct shall include, but shall not be limited to, the following:
(1)
Fighting between two or more persons in which physical contact is made, except which occurs in organized boxing, martial arts or wrestling exhibitions or training programs, organized and presented as part of a recognized athletic program or lawfully presented entertainment event.
(2)
The commission of a reckless or knowing act which may reasonably be expected to prevent or disrupt a lawful meeting, gathering, or procession.
(Ord. No. 838, § 2, 3-7-95)
Sec. 62-11. - Public drunkenness.
It shall be unlawful for any person within the city to be and appear in an intoxicated condition upon any street or sidewalk of the city or in any other public place or private business premises patronized by the public, when such condition results in boisterous, disruptive or annoying behavior which interferes with the lawful pursuits of others.
(Ord. No. 838, § 3, 3-7-95)
Sec. 62-12. - Drinking in public.
It shall be unlawful for any person to consume any spirituous malt or alcoholic beverage while a pedestrian in or upon any street, alley, sidewalk or other public way or place within the city, or within any public building.
(Ord. No. 838, § 4, 3-7-95)
Sec. 62-13. - Loitering or prowling.
The offense of loitering or prowling, as defined in this section, within the city is hereby declared unlawful. A person commits the offense of loitering or prowling when he or she is in a place at a time or in a manner not usual for law-abiding individuals under circumstances that warrant a justifiable and reasonable alarm or immediate concern for the safety of persons or property in the vicinity. Among the circumstances which may be considered in determining whether alarm is warranted is the fact that the person takes flight upon the appearance of a law enforcement officer, refuses to identify himself, or manifestly endeavors to conceal himself or any object. Unless flight by the person or other circumstances make it impracticable, a law enforcement officer shall, prior to any arrest for the offense, afford the person an opportunity to dispel any alarm or immediate concern which would otherwise be warranted by requesting the person to identify himself and explain his presence and conduct. No person shall be convicted of this offense if the law enforcement officer failed to comply with the foregoing procedure or if it appears at trial that the explanation given by the person was true and would have dispelled the alarm or immediate concern.
(Ord. No. 838, § 5, 3-7-95)
Sec. 62-14. - Appearance before the municipal court of persons served with charges; failure to appear; penalty.
(a)
In any case where any person is charged with a violation of any of the provisions of this Code or any violation of the Georgia Code for which the municipal court for the City of Thomaston has jurisdiction, and a copy of charges or other citations are delivered to the person requiring an appearance before the municipal court of the city at a specified time and place, it shall be the duty of that person to appear at the time and place set out in the charges or citations. The requirement to appear shall continue at the direction of the court until such time as the charges or citations are fully resolved.
(b)
Any person failing to appear at the time and place set out in the charges or citations or by direction of the court without good cause being shown shall be issued a citation for failure to appear and be brought before the court to answer the underlying charge or charges as well as the additional charge of failure to appear. Violation of this section shall be punished as per the penalties set out in section 1-11 of this Code.
(Ord. No. 1091, § 1, 12-16-16)
Sec. 62-15. - Urban camping and improper use of public areas.
(a)
Definitions. The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this section, shall have the meanings set forth below, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Camp or camping shall mean the act of staying, sleeping or preparing to sleep (including the laying down of bedding, cardboard, blankets, etc. for the purpose of sleeping) in an outside area which is not specifically designated for camping or within a public restroom area (i.e. the restroom facilities at the public parks and playgrounds). It shall include the act of camping or sleeping on streets, benches, parks, in parking lots or other public areas which are not designated for camping, whether in the open or in automobiles, trucks, campers, recreational vehicles or other vehicles.
Public area shall mean an area to which the public has access, including but not limited to streets, highways, roadways (including shoulders and medians), bridges, the area above and below any bridge, sidewalks, benches, alleys, parking lots, parks (including the restroom areas), public greenspace areas, playgrounds, and property owned in whole or in part by the city.
Storing personal property shall mean leaving one's personal belongings or effects (i.e. clothing, sleeping bags, blankets, backpacks, plastic bags, shopping carts, wagons, and other similar items that are personal or which are being used to transport personal items) unattended in a public area for more than one hour. This term shall not include the parking of bicycles, the use of construction items and equipment by owners or contractors performing work within public areas, the display of merchandise for sale by business owners on sidewalks so long as there is no interference with ingress and egress of the public, the use of tables, or chairs and benches by business owners on the sidewalks so long as there is no interference with ingress and egress of the public.
(b)
Prohibited acts. Unless a permit has been obtained from or the acts have otherwise been authorized by the city, it shall be unlawful for any person within the corporate boundaries of the city to commit the following acts:
(1)
Camping in a public area;
(2)
Interfering with ingress and egress of any building, private property or public property; or
(3)
Storing personal property in a public area.
(c)
Non-prohibited acts. Nothing in this section shall preclude an authorized city employee/agency from carrying out activities performed as part of their official duties.
(d)
Failure to comply with section. A person violating this section shall first be issued a warning (verbal or written), and if the person fails to promptly comply with the warning issued, then the person may be issued a citation or arrested. Additionally, upon failure to promptly comply with the warning, the person's personal property used to camp or which has been left or stored in a public area may be deemed abandoned by the city or its police department and may be confiscated without further warning. The city or its police department shall retain the property in a manner consistent with the handling of other confiscated or abandoned property.
(Ord. No. 1192 , § 1, 8-1-23)
