Chapter 10 - AMUSEMENTS AND ENTERTAINMENTS[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Cross reference— Buildings and building regulations, ch. 18; businesses, ch. 22; cable communications, ch. 26; nuisances, § 46-26 et seq.; offenses and miscellaneous provisions, ch. 62; zoning, ch. 98.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Secs. 10-1—10-25. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - BILLIARD ROOMS AND BOWLING ALLEYS[2]

Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
State Law reference— Authority to license and regulate billiard rooms, O.C.G.A. § 43-8-2.

Sec. 10-26. - Purpose of article.
The purpose of this article is to regulate the operation of bowling alleys and billiard rooms and to confine their operation to ground and street level floors of buildings within the city in order that same may be continually under the supervision of the chief of police and the other police officers of the city, and in order that such businesses may be run in a decent and orderly manner, and the duty is placed upon the operators of such businesses to cooperate with the city officers and to, at all times, maintain order on the premises where such businesses are located.
(Code 1965, § 4-8)
Sec. 10-27. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Billiard room means any public place where any form of Carom billiards, pocket billiards (formerly known as pool), or English billiards is permitted to be played and for which a charge is made for use of the equipment.
Bowling alley means any public place where any form of bowling, ten pins, nine pins or other games played with balls and pins, is permitted to be played and for which a charge is made for use of the equipment.
(Code 1965, § 4-1)
Cross reference— Definitions generally, § 1-2.
Sec. 10-28. - License—Required.
It shall be lawful to operate billiard rooms and bowling alleys on the ground or street level floor of any building within the city, provided that the operators shall have first secured a license in accordance with the provisions of this article and shall thereafter at all times conduct such billiard room or bowling alley in accordance with this chapter.
(Code 1965, § 4-2)
Sec. 10-29. - Same—Application; contents of application; papers to accompany application.
Any person desiring to operate a billiard room or a bowling alley in the city shall, before opening such business to the public, make written application for a license therefor to the city clerk. If the application is for a billiard room license, it shall state the number of tables to be operated, and if for a bowling alley license it shall state the number of alleys to be operated. All applications, whether for a billiard room or bowling alley license, shall certify that such business will be operated on the ground or street level floor of some building within the city. All applications shall be accompanied by an affidavit of the applicant that proper application has been made to, and a license granted to such applicant by, the tax collector of the county, and that the state law has been fully complied with.
(Code 1965, § 4-3)
Sec. 10-30. - Same—Issuance; contents.
(a)
When the application and affidavit required by section 10-29 have been approved and filed, the city clerk shall issue a license to such applicant for the operation of a billiard room or bowling alley, as the case may be, for the current year or unexpired portion thereof, upon the payment by such applicant of the license or occupation tax, as fixed by the occupation tax ordinance of the city, depending upon whether the application is for a billiard room or bowling alley license, and the number of tables or alleys. The full amount of such license or occupation tax shall be paid for the entire current year whether such license is issued for the entire year or for the unexpired portion thereof. The term "current year" shall be construed to mean the space of 12 months beginning on January 1.
(b)
The license shall state on its face whether issued for a billiard room and the number of tables, or for a bowling alley and the number of alleys; that it is not transferable and that it is valid only for the operation of such business within the city through the following December 31.
(Code 1965, § 4-4)
Sec. 10-31. - Same—Posting; term.
After procuring the license, required by section 10-28, from the city clerk for the operation of a billiard room or bowling alley, the applicant shall post such license in full view in the billiard room or bowling alley operated by him, and shall keep such license so posted while it is in effect.
(Code 1965, § 4-5)
Sec. 10-32. - Same—Revocation.
The city council shall have the right to revoke any license issued for the operation of a billiard room or bowling alley whenever such business is operated in a disorderly manner or in violation of this article, or whenever the operator of such business shall allow such place of business to be a gathering place for disorderly persons. This right is cumulative of any other penalties for such acts.
(Code 1965, § 4-6)
Sec. 10-33. - View of interior to be unobstructed.
Operators of billiard rooms and bowling alleys shall not permit any screens, curtains, blinds, partitions, signs, frosted or painted windows or other obstructions to obstruct a clear view of the interior of the premises used for a billiard room or bowling alley. This shall not prevent the maintenance of washrooms or storage closets that are necessary and proper.
(Code 1965, § 4-7)
Secs. 10-34—10-55. - Reserved.
ARTICLE III. - AMUSEMENT DEVICES[3]

Footnotes:
--- (3) ---
State Law reference— Coin-operated amusement machines, O.C.G.A. § 48-17-1 et seq.; exchange of free replay for anything of value unlawful, O.C.G.A. § 16-12-35(c).

Sec. 10-56. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Amusement device means any machine or device, operated either mechanically, electronically, or by any combination of such means, which, upon the insertion of money, a slug, token, plate, disc or other object, may be operated by manipulating special handles, buttons or other equipment which is either a part of the amusement device, or is connected thereto, either physically, mechanically, or electronically, or by any combination thereof, whereby a score or other result, measured in numbers, time or otherwise, is sought to be established by the operation of the amusement device, or the object of which is thereby obtained, whether the same is established or obtained by skill or chance, or a combination thereof.
(Code 1965, § 4-14)
Cross reference— Definitions generally, § 1-2.
Sec. 10-57. - Penalty for violation; revocation of license.
(a)
Any person convicted for violating any provision of this article shall be punished as is provided in section 1-11.
(b)
Any person or any business entity whose employee is convicted of a violation of this article shall thereby forfeit the right to obtain a license for the operation of such amusement devices in the city, and the license then in existence shall, upon such conviction becoming final, stand revoked.
(Code 1965, § 4-23)
Sec. 10-58. - Application.
The provisions of this article shall be in addition to those set forth in O.C.G.A. §§ 48-17-1 through 48-17-14. Every business which provides any such amusement device for use by the public shall be subject to the terms and provisions of this article. Facilities operated by any government, or combination of governments shall not be subject to the terms and provisions of this article.
(Code 1965, § 4-15)
Sec. 10-59. - Hours of operation; prohibited hours.
It shall be unlawful for the owner, operator, manager, or employee of any business which provides amusement devices for operation by the public to permit such amusement devices to be operated by any member of the public prior to 9:00 a.m. or later than 10:00 p.m. on any day of the week from Monday through Thursday, inclusive, or prior to 9:00 a.m. or later than 11:00 p.m. on Friday or Saturday, and it shall further be unlawful for any such person to permit such use of an amusement device at any time on Sunday.
(Code 1965, § 4-16)
Sec. 10-60. - Area requirements.
It shall be unlawful for any person or business entity to have and keep any such amusement device for use by the public in any area of any business unless such area complies with the following requirements:
(1)
Each such amusement device must be kept and maintained on the street level of the building in which they are housed.
(2)
Each such amusement device must be physically located in the business premises in an area so that there exists an unobstructed view of the amusement device from at least one street or way over which police patrol vehicles have the right to routinely patrol, and the wall of such business premises located between one such street or way and the place in the business premises where such amusement device is located shall be transparent glass from a height of 30 inches, or less, from the floor of the business premises to a height of seven feet from the floor of the business premises, or to the ceiling thereof, whichever is lesser.
(3)
The area in which such amusement devices are kept shall be lighted with lighting devices which emit white light, that is, by the use of white or clear lights, and shall be equipped with lights which, in the opinion of the chief of police of the city, emit sufficient light to permit the identification of operators of such devices by viewing the same through the transparent glass wall required in this section.
(4)
The amusement devices must be so arranged in the area of the business premises so that the view of the operators of the amusement devices is unobstructed through the transparent glass wall.
(Code 1965, § 4-17)
Sec. 10-61. - Permit; inspection.
It shall be unlawful for any person or business entity to operate any amusement device without a permit from the chief of police reflecting the fact that the chief of police has inspected the area in which the amusement devices are to be located and approved of the lighting capacity provided therefor. It shall be the duty of the chief of police, upon application by any person or business entity, to make such inspection promptly and to make a determination relative to the lighting capacity in the area where the amusement devices are proposed to be operated, and to issue a permit when the proper lighting is in place.
(Code 1965, § 4-18)
Sec. 10-62. - Supervision required while device in operation.
It shall be unlawful for any person or business entity to permit the operation by any member of the public of an amusement device at any business location in the city unless there is, at the time of such operation, at least one employee of such business, 21 years of age or older, actually present and in charge of such business.
(Code 1965, § 4-19)
Sec. 10-63. - Alcoholic beverages prohibited; exception.
It shall be unlawful for any person or business entity to permit any alcoholic beverages to be or remain in the building in which an amusement device for public use is located or to permit any malt beverage to be or remain there unless there is then in effect a license issued by the city which permits the business located there to sell malt beverages.
(Code 1965, § 4-20)
Sec. 10-64. - Use by persons under 15; parental permission required.
It shall be unlawful for any person or business entity to permit any person 15 years of age or younger to operate an amusement device unless such operator is accompanied by a parent or guardian or then has, in his actual possession, a permit, bearing the signature of at least one parent or the legal guardian of such operator, with such signature witnessed by a notary public or other person authorized to administer oaths, expressly granting to such operator the permission of such parent or guardian to operate such device. A permit form may be obtained, free of charge, at the police department of the city.
(Code 1965, § 4-21)
Sec. 10-65. - Spatial regulations; inspection by fire chief.
(a)
It shall be unlawful for any business in which at least 50 percent of the floor area open for use by patrons of the business is devoted to amusement devices to fail to comply with the following regulations:
(1)
The areas of such business in which each amusement device is located shall contain at least 36 square feet of open and unused area for each 18 square feet, or fraction thereof, of floor area occupied by an amusement device.
(2)
Not more than four persons per amusement device shall be permitted to be or remain, at any one time, in the area of such business in which such amusement device or devices are located.
(b)
The chief of the fire department shall inspect each business subject to the provisions of this article, and if the same is found to be subject to the requirements of this section, he shall determine the maximum number of persons that are allowed in the amusement device area at any one time, and he shall post, in such area, a notice setting forth such number.
(Code 1965, § 4-22)
