Chapter 38 - COURTS[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Cross reference— Offenses and miscellaneous provisions, ch. 62; traffic and vehicles, ch. 86.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Secs. 38-1—38-25. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - MUNICIPAL COURT[2]

Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
Charter reference— Municipal court, § 21.
State Law reference— Powers of presiding officer in court of a municipal corporation to bind over or commit criminal offenders to jail, O.C.G.A. § 17-7-22; establishment and jurisdiction of municipal courts, Ga. Const., art. 6, sec. 1, par. 1; municipal courts, O.C.G.A. § 36-32-1 et seq.

Sec. 38-26. - Docket.
It shall be the duty of the court clerk to keep a docket showing the disposition of all cases brought before the municipal court.
(Code 1965, § 10-1)
Sec. 38-27. - Service of summons.
Summons directed to any offender shall be served by law enforcement officers, city employees, or code enforcement officers.
(Code 1965, § 10-2; Ord. No. 1181 , 11-15-22)
Sec. 38-28. - Holding defendant when court lacks jurisdiction.
If, after an investigation of any case, it should appear that the municipal court has no jurisdiction to determine it, the judge or the mayor shall require the defendant to enter into bond conditioned to appear before the next term of the court having jurisdiction, to answer such offense, which bond shall be turned over to the proper officer of such court. In default of such bond the judge or the mayor shall have power to commit the defendant to jail to answer the offense at the next term of court having jurisdiction thereof.
(Code 1965, § 10-3)
Sec. 38-29. - Procedure for service of process on corporations.
(a)
In addition to any other means provided by law, corporations, limited liability companies and all other legal entities may be served in accordance with the provisions of this section.
(b)
Whenever any charge shall be preferred against a corporation, limited liability company or other legal entity doing business in the city for violation of this Code or other ordinance of the city, the city clerk or code enforcement officer shall issue an original and copy notice to the defendant legal entity of the charge against such entity, specifying the time when such charge shall be heard by the municipal court of the city, which copy notice shall be served by a law enforcement office, city employee or other officer who are provided with the charge at least ten days before the time fixed for trial in the municipal court upon the registered agent of such legal entity or by any other manner as provided by law. The officer or employee serving such copy notice shall make an entry of such service on the original notice and return the notice to the municipal court of the city. Such service shall constitute service upon the legal entity, and such case shall, upon the return of such notice as provided in this section, stand for trial before the municipal court at the time stated in such notice.
(Code 1965, § 1-8; Ord. No. 1181 , 11-15-22)
Sec. 38-30. - Failure to appear at trial; failure to plead; judge's entry of plea; conviction.
At the time fixed for trial in municipal court, if the defendant corporation fails to appear, or appearing fails to plead, the municipal court judge or other official presiding over the municipal court of the city shall cause to be entered a plea of not guilty, and the trial shall proceed as though the defendant had appeared and pleaded. Upon the conviction of any corporation in any such trial there shall be rendered a judgment against it for the fine imposed, upon which an execution shall issue signed by the municipal court judge and city clerk in favor of the city against the property of the defendant corporation.
(Code 1965, § 1-9)
