Chapter 70 - SOLID WASTE[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Cross reference— Environment, ch. 46; utilities, ch. 90.
State Law reference— Georgia Comprehensive Solid Waste Management Act, O.C.G.A. § 12-8-20 et seq.; local and regional solid waste plans, O.C.G.A. § 12-8-31.1; scrap tire disposal restrictions, O.C.G.A. § 12-8-40.1; yard trimmings disposal restrictions, O.C.G.A. § 12-8-40.2; Georgia Hazardous Waste Management Act, O.C.G.A. § 12-8-60 et seq.; Litter Control Law, O.C.G.A. § 16-7-40; transporting garbage or waste across state or county boundaries without permission, O.C.G.A. § 36-1-16; authorization to provide garbage and solid waste collection and disposal, Ga. Const., art. 9, sec. 2, par. 3; littering highways, O.C.G.A. § 40-6-249; transportation of biomedical waste, O.C.G.A. § 40-6-253.1; solid waste management education program, establishment of Georgia Clean and Beautiful Advisory Committee and Interagency Council on Solid Waste Management, O.C.G.A. § 50-8-7.3.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Secs. 70-1—70-25. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - COLLECTION

Sec. 70-26. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Garbage means all waste accumulations of animal, fruit or vegetable matter that result from the preparation, use, cooking of or dealing in the storage of meat, fish, fowl, fruits, vegetables or other foods and shall include the containers and wrappings used for the storage of all such substances.
Residential unit means any premises occupied and used by a person or persons as a separate household or living quarters.
Rubbish means all disposable matter other than garbage and yard trimmings as defined herein.
Solid waste means all solid matter intended for disposal, other than sewage.
Yard trimmings means all organic material offered for disposal other than garbage.
(Code 1965, § 15-6; Ord. No. 861, § 1, 8-6-96)
Cross reference— Definitions generally, § 1-2.
Sec. 70-27. - Applicability of article.
The provisions of this article shall apply separately to each nonresidential establishment in the city, and separately to each residential unit of the city.
(Code 1965, § 15-7; Ord. No. 861, § 2, 8-6-96)
Sec. 70-28. - Penalty for violation.
(a)
Any person violating or failing to comply with any provision of this article shall, upon conviction, be punished as provided in section 1-11.
(b)
The sanitation department of the city or the city's duly approved and licensed independent contractors shall decline to render sanitation services to the residential unit of such person until the residential unit is in complete compliance with the provisions of this article.
(Code 1965, § 15-15)
Sec. 70-29. - Preparation of garbage and rubbish generally.
All solid waste shall be prepared and placed in accordance with the provisions of this chapter, and the sanitation department of the city, of the city's duly approved and licensed independent contractor(s), shall not collect any solid waste unless the provisions of this chapter are complied with.
(1)
Garbage shall be stored in a dumpster or in a proper container as described hereinafter in this article.
(2)
Rubbish, except the types governed by specific provisions of this article, shall likewise be stored in a dumpster or in a proper container as described hereinafter in this article.
(3)
Yard trimmings shall be deposited on the curb, or adjacent to the back alley in areas where back alleys exist or in the street when placed so as not to obstruct traffic or storm drains. No more than one sanitation truck load of yard trimmings per week may be deposited as aforesaid without pre-approval of city.
(4)
Boxes, crates and cartons will not be collected unless the same are broken down and securely fastened into bales or bundles weighing not more than 25 pounds and not exceeding four feet in any dimension and deposited on the curb, or adjacent to the back alley in areas where back alleys exist, or in the street when placed so as not to obstruct traffic or storm drains.
(5)
Newspapers, magazines, catalogs, and like printed matter shall not be collected unless securely fastened in bundles weighing not more than 25 pounds and deposited on the curb, or adjacent to the back alley in areas where back alleys exist, or in the street when placed so as not to obstruct traffic or storm drains.
(6)
Yard trimmings intended for disposal shall not exceed six inches in diameter nor five feet in length, and shall be placed separately from all other material intended for disposal. One truck load of yard trimmings will be collected each week for each customer without additional charges. Any amount in excess of one truck load per week will be removed by the sanitation department upon special request by the responsible person, for a fee of $150.00 for each load or partial truck load. All yard trimmings shall be placed on or near the curb, or adjacent to the back alley in areas where back alleys exist, or in the street when placed so as not to obstruct traffic or storm drains and shall not be boxed, bagged or placed in any type of container, unless the container is biodegradable and with a volume not in excess of 30 gallons.
(7)
Solid waste allowed by this article to be placed at curb or alley side shall not be placed:
a.
Within 15 feet of any utility poles or fixtures, plants, or other obstacles;
b.
Under any type of utility service lateral;
c.
Nor within the streets or alleys so as to obstruct traffic or storm drains.
(8)
All curbside solid waste shall be placed at the curb or alley no earlier than 4:00 p.m. on the day prior to the scheduled collection day and no later than 7:00 a.m. on collection day. Once the garbage and rubbish are collected, and within 24 hours thereof, all solid waste containers shall be removed from the curb or alley. If the garbage is collected from the front of the residence, the container must be moved to the residence. If the garbage is collected from the rear of the house, the container may remain in the rear of the residence, so long as it is not within the right-of-way.
(Code 1965, § 15-8; Ord. No. 861, § 3, 8-6-96; Ord. No. 1103, 7-17-18; Ord. No. 1157, § 1, 8-17-21; Ord. No. 1164 , § 1, 1-18-22)
Sec. 70-30. - Rubbish from construction, repair, demolition or improvement of buildings.
Rubbish resulting from construction, repair, demolition or improvement of buildings or other structures such as lumber, plaster, roofing, concrete, bricks or similar materials will not be removed by the city sanitation department. It shall be unlawful for the owner of such waste materials, or any other person, to place the same on the streets or sidewalks of the city.
(Code 1965, § 15-9)
Sec. 70-31. - Types of solid waste prohibited.
The types of solid waste set out in this section will not be removed by the city sanitation department nor by the city's duly approved and licensed independent garbage collection contractor, and it shall be unlawful for any person to place the same in garbage containers or dumpsters or on the streets, alleys or sidewalks of the city: Dirt, rocks, stumps, lead acid batteries, liquid waste, hazardous waste, radioactive waste, PCB (polychlorinated biphenyls), biomedical waste, scrap tires (unless the tires are completely shredded, chopped or chipped), asbestos, or yard trimmings generated by commercial tree removal contractors.
(Code 1965, § 15-10; Ord. No. 861, § 4, 8-6-96; Ord. No. 1103, 7-17-18)
Sec. 70-32. - Appliances and furniture.
Appliances and furniture, such as water heaters, stoves, sinks, televisions, chairs, couches, and the like will be collected by the city sanitation department if they are deposited on the curb, or adjacent to the back alley in areas where back alleys exist, or in the street in such a manner as not to obstruct traffic or storm drains. Any appliances containing freon, such as refrigerators, freezers, or air conditioning units will not be collected unless all freon based gases have been removed and so labeled by a qualified technician.
(Code 1965, § 15-11; Ord. No. 861, § 5, 8-6-96)
Sec. 70-33. - Yard trimmings—Prohibited sizes.
Yard trimmings exceeding six inches in diameter or exceeding five feet in length will not be collected by the city sanitation department and it shall be unlawful for any person to cause the same to be placed upon the curbs, streets, back alleys or sidewalks of the city.
(Code 1965, § 15-12; Ord. No. 861, § 6, 8-6-96)
Sec. 70-34. - Containers—Required use; securing.
The occupants of each residential unit and each business establishment not using dumpsters, shall store all garbage and rubbish in the container provided by the city's duly approved and licensed independent garbage collection contractor. Each user shall be responsible for the safekeeping of the container, and in the event of its disappearance, shall be required to replace the same at the expense of the user.
(Code 1965, § 15-13; Ord. No. 861, § 7, 8-6-96)
Sec. 70-35. - Applicability to dispossessory or similar actions.
The provisions of this article for the collection of garbage, rubbish or solid waste shall not apply to any landlord, owner or other person or entity taking possession of a residential unit or nonresidential establishment through dispossessory or similar action or through "self-help." It shall be unlawful for any landlord, owner or other person or entity taking possession of a residential unit or nonresidential establishment to place any personal property, garbage, rubbish or solid waste on the right-of-way, sidewalks or streets of the city. Each landlord, owner or other person or entity, shall dispose of all personal property, garbage, rubbish or solid waste by placing the same in a secure location, such as to prevent scavenging or other involuntary disbursal, on the premises of the residential unit or nonresidential establishment or by removing the same to a separate premises. Any abandoned personal property, garbage, rubbish or solid waste associated therewith shall only be collected by the city after the payment of a separate fee for said collection. Violations of this provision shall be deemed to be dumping or depositing of litter as defined by section 70-58 and prosecuted pursuant to article III of this chapter. Each landlord, owner or other person or entity shall be responsible for the actions of their respective agents, if any.
(Ord. No. 1099, 9-19-17)
Editor's note— Ord. No. 861, § 8, adopted August 6, 1996, amended the Code of 1965 by repealing the provisions contained in § 15-14. Therefore, the editor has deleted the provisions of § 70-35 of this Code, which pertained to materials not to be deposited, and derived from the Code of 1965, § 15-14.
Subsequently, Ord. No. 1099, adopted Sept. 19, 2017, enacted new provisions to read as herein set out.
Secs. 70-36—70-55. - Reserved.
ARTICLE III. - LITTER CONTROL[2]

Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
State Law reference— Litter Control Law, O.C.G.A. § 16-7-40.

Sec. 70-56. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in sections 70-58—70-60, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Litter means all discarded sand, gravel, slag, brickbats, rubbish, waste material, tin cans, refuse, garbage, trash, debris, dead animals, or other discarded materials of every kind and description.
Public or private property means the right-of-way of any road or highway; any body of water or watercourse or the shores thereof; any park, playground, building, refuge, or conservation or recreation area; and any vacant areas, commercial, industrial, residential or farm properties, timberlands, or forests.
(Code 1965, § 15-24; Ord. No. 831, § 1, 9-6-94)
Cross reference— Definitions generally, § 1-2.
Sec. 70-57. - Penalty for violation.
Any person convicted of a violation of a provision of this article shall be punished as provided in section 1-11.
(Code 1965, § 15-29)
Sec. 70-58. - Dumping or depositing of litter.
(a)
It shall be unlawful for any person to dump, deposit, throw, leave or to cause or permit the dumping, depositing, placing, throwing, or leaving of litter on any public or private property in this city, or any waters in this city, unless the litter is placed into a litter receptacle or container installed or placed on such property and specifically designated for the use of the general public, or the property is designated by the state or by any of its agencies or by the city for the disposal of litter and the person is authorized by the proper public authority to use such property. The provisions of this subsection shall not be read or construed to prohibit the owner or renter of any private property, nor any person acting with the consent of such owner or renter, from dumping, depositing, placing, throwing, or leaving of litter upon such property or in any private receptacle or container maintained by the owner or renter of such private property for the sole and exclusive use of the household or business of such owner or renter.
(b)
It shall be unlawful for any person to dump, deposit, throw, or leave or to cause or permit the dumping, depositing, placing, throwing or leaving of litter on any private property in this city, in any litter receptacle thereon, or any waters in this city, unless the person is the owner or tenant in lawful possession of such property or such person has first obtained the consent of the owner or tenant in such lawful possession.
(c)
It shall be unlawful, without an appropriate business license, for any person to bring or transfer litter, as defined herein with the exception of personally generated items of litter, from one site to another, within or without the city limits, for purposes of dumping, depositing, placing, throwing, or leaving the litter or any public or private property in this city, or any waters in this city.
(Code 1965, § 15-25; Ord. No. 831, § 2, 9-6-94; Ord. No. 1040, 6-1-10)
Sec. 70-59. - Prima facie evidence; rebuttable presumption.
(a)
Whenever litter is thrown, deposited, dropped, or dumped from any motor vehicle, boat, airplane, or other conveyance in violation of section 70-58, it shall be prima facie evidence that the operator of the conveyance has violated section 70-58.
(b)
Except as provided in subsection (a) of this section, whenever any litter which is dumped, deposited, thrown, or left on public or private property in violation of section 70-58 is discovered to contain any articles, including, but not limited to, letters, bills, publications, or other writings which display the name of a person thereon in such a manner as to indicate that the articles belong or belonged to such person, it shall be a rebuttable presumption that such person has violated section 70-58.
(c)
Except as provided in subsection (a) of this section, whenever any litter which is dumped, deposited, thrown, or left on private property or right-of-way contiguous thereto in violation of section 70-58 is discovered which does not contain any articles which display the name of a person thereon in such a manner as to indicate that the articles belong or belonged to a person, it shall be a rebuttable presumption that the owner or tenant in possession of the property has violated section 70-58.
(Code 1965, § 15-26; Ord. No. 831, § 3, 9-6-94; Ord. No. 1170 , 4-19-22)
Sec. 70-60. - Receptacles to be provided; notice to public.
The city shall establish and maintain receptacles for the deposit of litter at appropriate locations where the property is frequented by the public, to post signs directing persons to the receptacles and serving notice of the provisions of this article, and to otherwise publicize the availability of litter receptacles and requirements of this article.
(Code 1965, § 15-27)
Sec. 70-61. - Designation of containers for household garbage; misuse or vandalization.
(a)
As used in this section, the term "household garbage" means animal, vegetable, and fruit refuse matter and other refuse matter ordinarily generated as byproducts of a household or restaurant, such as tin cans, bottles, paper, cardboard, plastics, and wrapping or packaging materials.
(b)
The city shall be authorized to designate containers as being suitable for the dumping therein of household garbage only. If a container is clearly marked "household garbage only," it shall be unlawful for any person to dump any refuse or other material into the container other than household garbage.
(c)
It shall be unlawful for any person to set fire to the contents of, indiscriminately scatter or disperse the contents of, or otherwise vandalize any containers provided by the city for the dumping of trash or garbage.
(Code 1965, § 15-28)
