CODE OF ORDINANCES CITY OF THOMASTON, GEORGIA
____________
Published in 1996 by Order of the City Council
____________
OFFICIALS
of the
CITY OF
THOMASTON, GEORGIA
AT THE TIME OF THIS CODIFICATION
____________
Dr. Edwin L. Cliburn
Mayor
____________
Dr. Samuel A. Brewton, Jr., Mayor Pro Tem
Lila W. Bryan
Dr. Dewey W. Jones, Jr.
LaKeitha Reeves
Bobby C. Smith
City Council
____________
Wilbur K. Avera
City Manager
____________
Ronald Barfield
City Attorney
____________
Phillip Adcock
City Clerk
PREFACE
This Code constitutes a complete recodification of the general and permanent ordinances of the City of Thomaston, Georgia.
Source materials used in the preparation of the Code were the 1965 Code, as supplemented through May 1994, and ordinances subsequently adopted by the city council. The source of each section is included in the history note appearing in parentheses at the end thereof. The absence of such a note indicates that the section is new and was adopted for the first time with the adoption of the Code. By use of the comparative tables appearing in the back of this Code, the reader can locate any section of the 1965 Code, as supplemented, and any subsequent ordinance included herein.
The chapters of the Code have been conveniently arranged in alphabetical order, and the various sections within each chapter have been catchlined to facilitate usage. Notes which tie related sections of the Code together and which refer to relevant state law have been included. A table listing the state law citations and setting forth their location within the Code is included at the back of this Code.
Chapter and Section Numbering System
The chapter and section numbering system used in this Code is the same system used in many state and local government codes. Each section number consists of two parts separated by a dash. The figure before the dash refers to the chapter number, and the figure after the dash refers to the position of the section within the chapter. Thus, the second section of chapter 1 is numbered 1-2, and the first section of chapter 6 is 6-1. Under this system, each section is identified with its chapter, and at the same time new sections can be inserted in their proper place by using the decimal system for amendments. For example, if new material consisting of one section that would logically come between sections 6-1 and 6-2 is desired to be added, such new section would be numbered 6-1.5. New articles and new divisions may be included in the same way or, in the case of articles, may be placed at the end of the chapter embracing the subject, and, in the case of divisions, may be placed at the end of the article embracing the subject. The next successive number shall be assigned to the new article or division. New chapters may be included by using one of the reserved chapter numbers. Care should be taken that the alphabetical arrangement of chapters is maintained when including new chapters.
Page Numbering System
The page numbering system used in this Code is a prefix system. The letters to the left of the colon are an abbreviation which represents a certain portion of the volume. The number to the right of the colon represents the number of the page in that portion. In the case of a chapter of the Code, the number to the left of the colon indicates the number of the chapter. In the case of an appendix to the Code, the letter immediately to the left of the colon indicates the letter of the appendix. The following are typical parts of codes of ordinances, which may or may not appear in this Code at this time, and their corresponding prefixes:
EXPAND
CHARTER CHT:1
CHARTER COMPARATIVE TABLE CHTCT:1
CODE CD1:1
CODE COMPARATIVE TABLES CCT:1
STATE LAW REFERENCE TABLE SLT:1
CHARTER INDEX CHTi:1
CODE INDEX CDi:1
  Indexes
The indexes have been prepared with the greatest of care. Each particular item has been placed under several headings, some of which are couched in lay phraseology, others in legal terminology, and still others in language generally used by local government officials and employees. There are numerous cross references within the indexes themselves which stand as guideposts to direct the user to the particular item in which the user is interested.
Looseleaf Supplements
A special feature of this publication is the looseleaf system of binding and supplemental servicing of the publication. With this system, the publication will be kept up-to-date. Subsequent amendatory legislation will be properly edited, and the affected page or pages will be reprinted. These new pages will be distributed to holders of copies of the publication, with instructions for the manner of inserting the new pages and deleting the obsolete pages.
Keeping this publication up-to-date at all times will depend largely upon the holder of the publication. As revised pages are received, it will then become the responsibility of the holder to have the amendments inserted according to the attached instructions. It is strongly recommended by the publisher that all such amendments be inserted immediately upon receipt to avoid misplacing them and, in addition, that all deleted pages be saved and filed for historical reference purposes.
Acknowledgments
This publication was under the direct supervision of Palmer Carr, Supervising Editor, and Robert McNaughton, Editor, of the Municipal Code Corporation, Tallahassee, Florida. Credit is gratefully given to the other members of the publisher's staff for their sincere interest and able assistance throughout the project.
The publisher is most grateful to Mr. Ronald Barfield, City Attorney, and Mr. David Dunaway, Assistant City Attorney, for their cooperation and assistance during the progress of the work on this publication. It is hoped that their efforts and those of the publisher have resulted in a Code of Ordinances which will make the active law of the city readily accessible to all citizens and which will be a valuable tool in the day-to-day administration of the city's affairs.
Copyright
All editorial enhancements of this Code are copyrighted by Municipal Code Corporation and the City of Thomaston, Georgia. Editorial enhancements include, but are not limited to: organization; table of contents; section catchlines; prechapter section analyses; editor's notes; cross references; state law references; numbering system; code comparative table; state law reference table; and index. Such material may not be used or reproduced for commercial purposes without the express written consent of Municipal Code Corporation and the City of Thomaston, Georgia.
© Copyrighted material.
Municipal Code Corporation and the City of Thomaston, Georgia. 1996.
ADOPTING ORDINANCE
ORDINANCE NO. 863
AN ORDINANCE OF THE CITY OF THOMASTON, GEORGIA, ADOPTING AND ENACTING A NEW CODIFICATION OF THE ORDINANCES OF SAID CITY WHICH CODIFICATION IS ENTITLED, "CODE OF ORDINANCES, CITY OF THOMASTON, GEORGIA;" TO REPEAL ORDINANCES IN DIRECT CONFLICT WITH THE PROVISIONS OF SAID CODE OF ORDINANCES AS WELL AS TO REPEAL CERTAIN ORDINANCES NOT INCLUDED IN SAID CODE; AND FOR LIKE PURPOSES:
BE IT ORDAINED by the city council of the City of Thomaston, Georgia, and it is hereby ordained by virtue of the authority thereof, as follows, to wit:
Section 1. The codification of the ordinances of the City of Thomaston which is entitled "CODE OF ORDINANCES, CITY OF THOMASTON, GEORGIA," published by Municipal Code Corporation, (hereinafter referred to as the "Code"), containing certain ordinances of a general and permanent nature, the official copy of which Code has been, and is now, officially filed as part of the public records of the City of Thomaston, Georgia, in the office of the clerk of the city, which copy is officially authenticated by the following entry thereon:
"The within Code is the official copy of the Code of the City of Thomaston referred to in, and made a part of, Ordinance No. 863 of the City of Thomaston, Georgia, and shall remain in the office of the Clerk of said City of Thomaston as part of the official public records of said City of Thomaston, Georgia.",
which said official copy shall be further authenticated by the signature of the clerk of the City of Thomaston, and by the seal of said city. Said official copy of said Code of Ordinances, City of Thomaston, Georgia, is, by this reference, incorporated herein as a part of this ordinance in as full and complete a manner as though set out herein in full.
Section 2. The provisions of said Code shall be in force and effect as an official Code immediately upon the adoption of this ordinance.
Section 3. All ordinances of a general and permanent nature, excluding, however, zoning ordinances, annexation ordinances, and annual property tax ordinances, enacted on or before August 6, 1996, and not included in the Code or recognized and continued in force by reference therein, are repealed, and any ordinances in direct conflict with the provisions of the Code are likewise repealed.
Section 4. The repeal provided for in section 3 hereof shall not be construed to revive any ordinance or part thereof that has been repealed by a subsequent ordinance that is repealed by this ordinance.
Section 5. Unless another penalty is expressly provided, every person convicted of a violation of any provision of the Code or any ordinance, rule or regulation adopted or issued in pursuance thereof shall be punished by a fine of not more than one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) or imprisonment for not more than six (6) months, or both. Each act of violation and each day upon which any such violation shall occur shall constitute a separate offense. The penalty provided by this section, unless another penalty is expressly provided, shall apply to the amendment of any Code section, whether or not such penalty is reenacted in the amendatory ordinance. In addition to the penalty prescribed herein, the city may pursue other remedies such as abatement of nuisances, injunctive relief and revocation of licenses or permits.
Section 6 Additions or amendments to the Code when passed in the form as to indicate the intention of the city to make the same a part of the Code shall be deemed to be incorporated in the Code, so the reference to the Code includes the additions and amendments.
Section 7. Ordinances adopted after August 6, 1996, that amend or refer to ordinances that have been codified in the Code shall be construed as if they amend or refer to like provisions of the Code.
Section 8. It is hereby declared to be the intention of the city council that the sections, paragraphs, sentences, clauses and phrases of this ordinance and the Code hereby adopted are severable, and if any phrase, clause, sentence, paragraph or section of this ordinance or said Code hereby adopted shall be declared unconstitutional or otherwise invalid by the valid judgment or decree of a court of competent jurisdiction, such unconstitutionality or invalidity shall not affect any of the remaining phrases, clauses, sentences, paragraphs or sections of this ordinance or the Code hereby adopted.
Adopted by the city council of the City of Thomaston, Georgia, and transmitted by me to the mayor, this third day of December, 1996.
EXPAND
/s/
      Phillip B. Adcock, City Clerk, City of Thomaston, Georgia
    Approved by me and returned to said city council as "approved," in open meeting, this third day of December, 1996.
EXPAND
/s/
      Edwin L. Cliburn, Mayor, City of Thomaston, Georgia
