Chapter 22 - BUSINESSES[1]
Amended by Ordinance of 02-22-2022 (1)
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Cross reference— Alcoholic beverages, ch. 6; aviation, ch. 14; cable communications, ch. 26; soil erosion and sedimentation control, § 42-71 et seq.; floods, ch. 50; streets, sidewalks and other public places, ch. 78; taxation, ch. 86.
State Law reference— County's authority to levy, assess and collect business and occupational license taxes and license fees; exemptions, O.C.G.A. § 36-1-22.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Secs. 22-1—22-25. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - PRECIOUS METALS, GEMS, JEWELRY DEALERS[2]

Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
State Law reference— Duties of purchasers of gold bullion, gold dust, etc., O.C.G.A. § 12-4-120 et seq.; junk dealers, O.C.G.A. § 43-22-1 et seq.; dealers in precious metals and gems, O.C.G.A. § 43-37-1 et seq.; dealers in used watches, O.C.G.A. § 43-49-1 et seq.; jeweler's lien for repairs, O.C.G.A. § 44-14-430 et seq.

Sec. 22-26. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Gold or silver buyer means any person engaged in the business of purchasing or otherwise dealing in gold or silver or other precious metals of any kind or description, from members of the general public within the corporate limits of the county. Included in this definition are buyers of secondhand jewelry and gems. Isolated transactions between persons not engaged in the business are not covered by the terms of this article. Exempt from this article are all gold and silver buyers duly licensed by a municipality located in the county.
(Ord. of 2-10-81, § 1)
Cross reference— Definitions generally, § 1-2.
Sec. 22-27. - Findings.
Engaging in the business of buying gold, silver, other precious metal, precious gems or jewelry within the corporate limits of the county is hereby declared to be affected with the public interest because of the opportunity it affords for the disposal of stolen property.
(Ord. of 2-10-81, § 2)
Sec. 22-28. - Compliance mandatory.
It is hereby declared to be unlawful to engage in the business of buying precious metals, precious gems or jewelry from members of the general public within the corporate limits of the county without first complying with the registration and other provisions of this article and obtaining a license as provided in this article. Each day such offense occurs or continues shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. of 2-10-81, § 3)
Sec. 22-29. - Unlawful advertising.
No person covered by this article shall advertise, either in the news media or portable signs or in any other manner the buying, selling, trading or otherwise dealing in precious metals, precious gems or jewelry until they have complied with the provisions of this article. The violation of this section shall be unlawful and each day such violation occurs or continues shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. of 2-10-81, § 4)
Sec. 22-30. - Registration—Required.
All persons engaging in the business of buying precious metals, precious gems or jewelry shall register with the sheriff of the county on a form to be provided by the county manager.
(Ord. of 2-10-81, § 5)
Sec. 22-31. - Same—Information furnished.
All applicants for registration under the provisions of this article shall furnish, in addition to such other information as the sheriff or county manager shall require, the following information:
(1)
Name of the applicant.
(2)
Permanent address and local address of the applicant.
(3)
If the applicant is a partnership, the name and address of each member of the partnership.
(4)
If the applicant is a corporation, the name and address of each stockholder, each officer and each director of the corporation.
(5)
The name and address of each employee of the applicant who is actively engaged in the performance of such services.
(6)
If a resident, the length of time the applicant has been a resident of the state and of the county.
(Ord. of 2-10-81, § 6)
Sec. 22-32. - Disqualification of certain persons.
No person shall engage in the business or activity for which a license is required under this article, or shall be a member of a partnership, or an officer, stockholder or director in a corporation engaged in such business, who shall have been convicted of a felony or a misdemeanor involving moral turpitude.
(Ord. of 2-10-81, § 7)
Sec. 22-33. - Surety bond.
Every person engaging in the business of buying precious metals, precious gems or jewelry shall file with the county manager a surety bond executed by such applicant secured by a corporate surety company, authorized to do business in the state, in an amount not less than $5,000.00 conditioned upon compliance with the provisions of this article, and upon the prompt report of all suspicious persons dealing with the obligor, and of stolen property or property suspected of being stolen, and for the returning to the sheriff or to the true and lawful owner of any such property or making payment therefor. The bond shall be taken in the name of the county, and the county or any person injured by the breach of the bond who may bring an action on the bond in its or his own name to recover damages therefor.
(Ord. of 2-10-81, § 8)
Sec. 22-34. - Investigation of applicant; issuance of license; fee.
Within five days after receipt of an application as provided for in this article, the sheriff shall cause an investigation to be made of the applicant and his proposed operation. If upon investigation the sheriff shall find that the applicant is of good moral character and has never been convicted of a felony or misdemeanor involving moral turpitude, and has met all of the requirements of this article, he shall approve the issuance of a license to the applicant. The license shall be issued by the county manager, upon the payment of a license fee of $150.00.
(Ord. of 2-10-81, § 9)
Secs. 22-35—22-50. - Reserved.
ARTICLE III. - FORTUNETELLING[3]

Footnotes:
--- (3) ---
State Law reference— County governing authority may prohibit, regulate or tax the practice of fortunetelling, astrology and palmistry, O.C.G.A. § 36-1-15.

Sec. 22-51. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Fortunetelling means any foretelling of any event which may occur in the future by means of cards, palmistry, astrology, crystal gazing, numerology, phrenology, clairvoyance, necromancy, magic or by any supernatural, mystic or occult means; or in locating or divining any treasure, mineral, lost or missing article or person by such means; or in persuading, inducing or procuring any person to transfer, convey, donate, devise, bequeath, pledge, mortgage or deposit any money or property by such means; or to describe, expound or resolve any matter pertaining to business finance, romance, bereavement, or good or bad fortune, by such means; or pretending, assuming or undertaking to do any of the abovementioned things or to aid or assist any other person in so doing; or to make, sell or give away charms, potions, talismans or magic articles, or anything purporting to be such.
Cross reference— Definitions generally, § 1-2.
Sec. 22-52. - License—Required.
No person shall practice or engage in fortunetelling, either for or without compensation, or attempt to do so or hold themselves out or advertise that they practice or engage in fortunetelling without first obtaining a license.
Sec. 22-53. - Same—Fee.
The nonrefundable license fee payable at the office of the clerk of the board of commissioners at the time the fortunetelling license application is submitted shall be $1,000.00 annually.
Secs. 22-54—22-70. - Reserved.
ARTICLE IV. - SELF-SERVICE SERVICE STATIONS[4]

Footnotes:
--- (4) ---
State Law reference— Licensing of self-service motor fuel dispensing pumps, O.C.G.A. § 36-60-1.

Sec. 22-71. - Terms, conditions of license.
Self-service service stations shall be licensed within the following terms and conditions, and upon the following conditions only, for the purpose of preventing loss of or injury to life and property from fire, and fire related hazards:
(1)
The receipt by the board of commissioners, or its clerk, of an approved permit for a self-service operation, from the state fire marshal.
(2)
The payment of the license fee as prescribed by the board of commissioners.
(3)
Such licenses shall issue conditioned upon the continued validity of the permit from the state fire marshal.
(4)
If the permit from the state fire marshal is revoked, the license issued by the board of commissioners is automatically revoked.
(5)
The operation of the self-service service stations shall observe the rules of the Safety Fire Commission as presently promulgated and amended, and future amendments thereto, as well as in accordance with NFPA 30A(1991) standards pertinent to self-service service stations.
(Ord. of 1-11-77, § A)
