ARTICLE 98-10. - BUFFER AND LANDSCAPING STANDARDS

Sec. 98-10.1. - Buffer and landscaping standards.
A.
The buffer and landscaping standards of this article are established to enhance the attractiveness of properties throughout the city, particularly in office, commercial and light industrial settings. Buffers are designed to screen more intense uses such as retail centers from less intense uses such as single family neighborhoods. Such buffers can enhance the quality of life for occupants of the less intense use and add value to real estate holdings as unsightly views can be minimized.
B.
Similarly, landscaping of vehicle parking lots can enhance the attractiveness of properties characterized by substantial paved areas as well as affording adjacent and nearby properties protection by minimizing the impact of unsightly views. These views encompass glare generated by vehicle windshields and the paved area itself. Site landscaping can be used to screen views of more intensely developed properties that can include outdoor storage and refuse areas. Landscaping can also aid in reducing noise generated by commercial properties compared to residential uses.
(Ord. No. 1166 , § 1(Exh. A), 4-5-22)
Sec. 98-10.2. - Buffer standards.
A.
Buffer width. A natural or planted buffer having the minimum width provided in table 10.1, buffer width by land use, shall be established. Such buffer shall be located on the more intense use that is generating the need for screening. The width of buffers that contain landscaped berms having the maximum practical grade change may be reduced by 20 percent upon written approval by the building official. Buffer width may also be reduced by the same percentage upon written approval by the building official when the buffer is preserved in a natural state and no grading is performed within the buffer during site development.
B.
Perimeter landscaped areas and tree save areas along the common boundary of a more intense use and a less intense use shall be credited toward buffer dimensions, as appropriate.
(Ord. No. 1166 , § 1(Exh. A), 4-5-22)
Sec. 98-10.3. - Minimum buffer specifications.
A.
The location and character of all buffers shall be depicted on the landscape plan.
B.
Supplemental plantings of trees and shrubs may be accomplished within a natural buffer. Limited thinning of a natural buffer where the vegetation is too dense to permit normal growth, or to remove decayed, diseased, misshapen or dangerous trees may be accomplished. Any contemplated disturbance within a natural buffer shall be brought to the attention of the building official. Written approval by the building official shall be secured prior to initiating any activity within a natural buffer. No hardwood tree having a diameter of 24 inches or greater as measured four and one-half feet above the adjacent grade shall be removed unless approved in writing by the building official.
C.
Existing vegetation shall be retained in a planted buffer when such vegetation is appropriate for inclusion within the buffer. Such vegetation shall be supplemented with approved, additional plantings, including a mix of trees and shrubs, as appropriate.
D.
No buffer shall be used for temporary parking, storage or loading during construction or for permanent parking. No structure other than fences, walls and stormwater basins designed to accomplish low impact development objectives as mandated by the city shall be located within a buffer.
E.
All tree species and tree form shrubs in a planted buffer shall have a minimum height of six feet at installation; shrubs shall have a minimum height of three feet at installation. The combination of plant materials shall achieve a virtually opaque screen at maturity.
F.
Buffers shall be installed along rear and side yard lot lines without the necessity of extending into the front yard unless required by parking lot landscaping standards found in section 98-10.9, landscaping standards for parking lots. Measurement of buffer width shall be from the common property boundary to a point within the property required to install and maintain a buffer in compliance with table 10.1, buffer width by land use. The proposed use is reflected in the first column. The developer of that use must install a buffer having the minimum width indicated. For example, a proposed industrial development that will abut a residential zoning district or a residential use must feature installation of a 40-foot buffer.
G.
Buffers shall be established in compliance with the standards of table 10.1, buffer width by land use.
EXPAND
Table 10.1 Buffer Width by Land Use
Zoning district Single family Multifamily Office Commercial Industrial
Single family 0 feet 0 feet 0 feet 0 feet 0 feet
Multifamily 15 feet 0 feet 0 feet 0 feet 0 feet
Office 15 feet 10 feet 0 feet 0 feet 0 feet
Commercial 20 feet 15 feet 10 feet 0 feet 0 feet
Industrial 40 feet 30 feet 25 feet 20 feet 0 feet
NOTE: Properties developed in a use consistent with the zoning district that allows such use shall be subject to the buffer requirements associated with that zoning district whether so zoned or not.
  (Ord. No. 1166 , § 1(Exh. A), 4-5-22)
Sec. 98-10.4. - Composition of a planted buffer.
A.
Hardwood species shall comprise a minimum of 50 percent of all plant materials in a planted buffer. The remainder may be comprised of evergreen tree species and evergreen tree-form shrubs.
The following evergreen plant materials shall be approved for use in a planted buffer:
1.
Trees:
American Holly
Eastern Red Cedar
Laurel Cherry
Arizona Cypress Redbay
Virginia Pine
Southern Magnolia
2.
Shrubs:
Cleyera Japonica
Southern Waxmyrtle
Northern Bayberry
Pittosporum
Japanese Yew
Red Tip
Yaupon Holly
3.
Ground covers:
Shore Juniper
Periwinkle
Lippie
Evergreen Candytuft
B.
Other evergreen plant materials having growth characteristics similar to those listed above may be used, subject to written approval by the building official prior to installation of plant materials.
(Ord. No. 1166 , § 1(Exh. A), 4-5-22)
Sec. 98-10.5. - Buffer maintenance.
All buffers and any required site landscaping depicted on the landscape plan shall be maintained by the developer, property owner or subsequent owner of the more intense use in a manner that preserves the health of plant materials, provides an aesthetically pleasing appearance, and assures that the buffer serves the intended purpose throughout the life of the development.
(Ord. No. 1166 , § 1(Exh. A), 4-5-22)
Sec. 98-10.6. - Other screening standards.
Certain uses such as junk yards or salvage yards and other commercial and industrial operations requiring outdoor storage of equipment, vehicles and other bulk storage for prolonged periods can present unsightly views. The building official shall require owners of such properties to enclose outdoor storage areas by a fence or other means on the premises of such operations that completely masks the view of those areas from adjacent sidewalks, streets and properties to minimize these impacts. The screening shall be greater in height than the height of the tallest piece of equipment, vehicle or bulk storage; however, the minimum height of any fence or other screening shall be six feet and the maximum height shall be ten feet. Such fencing shall be masonry or wood, or a combination of these materials or other materials as may be approved in writing by the building official. The building official may approve chain link fencing containing opaque slats in the case of ten-foot fencing, depending on the nature of adjacent uses and the visibility of the outdoor storage from the right-of-way and adjacent properties.
(Ord. No. 1166 , § 1(Exh. A), 4-5-22)
Sec. 98-10.7. - Approval of buffer required prior to C.O.
Buffers shall be installed in accordance with the approved landscape plan prior to issuance of a certificate of occupancy.
(Ord. No. 1166 , § 1(Exh. A), 4-5-22)
Sec. 98-10.8. - General landscaping standards.
A.
The landscaping standards of this article shall apply to all property within the city with the exception of properties zoned or developed in single family use. Specifically, individual single family lots that are zoned ES estate subdivision district—Class one, ES estate subdivision district—Class two, R-1 low density residential district and R-2 medium density residential district shall be exempt from these standards. Residential subdivisions proposed for development shall be subject to the standards of chapter 71, trees, shrubs and other plants.
B.
These landscaping standards are the minimum standards for all developments regulated by this article. The standards shall be applied by the building official in reviewing landscape plans, and may be supplemented by other landscaping standards as established by the building official and approved by resolution of city council.
C.
Landscape design shall be integrated with the design concept of the development. The building official shall evaluate landscape plans according to their relationship to the natural landscape, landscaping on adjacent properties and public rights-of-way, and building(s) existing and proposed on the development site.
D.
Existing tree cover and natural vegetation shall be preserved whenever possible and desirable, or replaced with suitable plant materials.
E.
Landscaping shall be used whenever possible to screen objectionable views or nuisances, such as parking and service areas, refuse containers, HVAC units, transformers, etc.
F.
All lawns proposed in a front yard shall be sodded.
G.
Use of artificial plants, artificial trees and other artificial plant materials shall be prohibited.
H.
All existing, healthy hardwood trees having a diameter of eight inches or greater as measured four and one-half feet above the adjacent grade shall be retained whenever feasible. If not feasible, such trees shall be replaced with the same or similar tree species, unless otherwise approved by the building official. In the event of a conflict between the standards of this article concerning trees and chapter 71, trees, shrubs and other plants, the more stringent standard shall control.
I.
Buffer dimensions shall not be in addition to the standards of this article. For example, the width of any perimeter landscaping required for parking lots shall not be in addition to the width of a required buffer.
(Ord. No. 1166 , § 1(Exh. A), 4-5-22)
Sec. 98-10.9. - Landscaping standards for parking lots.
A.
Intent. The intent of this section is to reserve areas within parking lots for landscaping. Such areas diminish vast stretches of pavement, reduce stormwater runoff, provide the cooling effects of shade and enhance the appearance of parking lots thereby adding value to commercial and industrial properties in particular.
B.
Applicability. The following standards shall apply to all parking lots serving a commercial, industrial, institutional or multifamily use; parking structures shall be exempt from these standards.
C.
Application requirements for development of private parking lots.
1.
Permit requirements. No site grading or tree removal permit shall be issued prior to submittal and approval of a landscape plan for a proposed parking lot.
2.
Submission of a property survey and landscape plan.
a.
Applicants shall submit three copies of a property survey and landscape plan at a scale no greater than one inch equals 50 feet. The landscape plan may be depicted on a property survey or a site plan.
3.
Survey. The property survey shall include the following information:
a.
Legal description of the property.
b.
Existing buildings, parking spaces, access ways and abutting public streets.
c.
Above and below ground utilities and easements.
d.
Existing natural features and topography at a contour interval of two feet. Where slopes are 20 percent or greater, a five-foot contour interval may be used.
4.
Landscape plan. The landscape plan shall include the following information:
a.
Name, signature, address, phone number and email address of the owner, surveyor and designer.
b.
North arrow and scale.
c.
All boundary dimensions.
d.
A table identifying all plant materials by common and scientific name, quantities and sizes.
5.
All trees, natural features and man-made structures to be retained.
6.
Grading plan indicating existing and proposed elevations.
7.
Location, size, quantity and name of all proposed landscaping, including trees, and location of planting beds and other landscaping areas.
8.
A statement and appropriate graphics concerning site preparation, tree preservation and methods of installation and maintenance.
9.
All parking spaces, loading spaces, aisles, driveways, sidewalks, wheel stops, curbs and other vehicle controls.
10.
Location of all curb cuts, median openings on abutting streets, lighting, underground irrigation system, hose bibs, decorative or screening walls, and existing and proposed buildings.
D.
Landscaping standards. All parking lots subject to these landscaping standards shall provide the following perimeter and interior landscaped areas:
1.
Perimeter landscaping standards.
a.
The entire perimeter of all parking lots, with the exception of driveways and sidewalks that may cross such landscaped areas, but only at an approximate angle of 90 degrees, shall feature a landscaped area having a minimum width of ten feet. A decorative masonry wall, earthen berm, natural landscaping, planted landscaping, or a combination of such features may be used to achieve an effective screening of parking lots from adjacent properties and public rights-of-way. Such screening shall have a minimum height of three feet at installation.
b.
A minimum of one canopy tree shall be provided for every 250 square feet of perimeter landscaped area, or fraction thereof, required by this section.
c.
Parking lots proposed along a public street right-of-way shall feature a landscaped area having a minimum width of 15 feet measured from the right-of-way to the parking lot pavement. Driveways and sidewalks may cross such landscaped areas, but only at an approximate angle of 90 degrees. All landscape plans shall conform to the standards of article 98-5, development standards, subsection 98-5.6.9, visibility at intersections.
d.
Wheel stops shall be installed in such a manner that prevents vehicle encroachment into any landscaped area.
2.
Interior landscaping standards.
a.
A minimum of ten percent of the paved area of all parking lots, including driveways, shall be devoted to interior landscaping.
b.
A minimum of one canopy tree shall be provided for every 250 square feet of interior landscaped area, or fraction thereof, required by this section.
c.
A landscaped island having a minimum width of eight feet and a minimum depth of 15 feet shall be required for every ten parking spaces. Parking bays shall be separated by a landscaped island along the full length of the parking bay that shall have a minimum width of six feet, exclusive of any sidewalks as depicted in the below graphic.
d.
Wheel stops shall be installed in such a manner that prevents vehicle encroachment into any landscaped area.
Source: Prince George's County Landscape Manual December 2010
e.
No individual landscaped island shall have an area of less than 80 square feet, or any dimension less than six feet. The minimum area required for landscaped islands featuring a canopy tree shall be 250 square feet.
f.
Where landscaped areas are established adjacent to vehicle overhangs, trees shall be planted in line with the parking space striping as depicted in the above graphic to minimize injury by vehicle bumpers.
3.
Vehicle sales lots. Vehicle sales lots may be excluded from the interior landscaping standards at the sole discretion of the zoning commission, provided that landscape areas equal in area to what would otherwise have been required are established elsewhere on the vehicle sales lot property. Such discretion shall be guided by: (1) the size of the sales lot; (2) view from adjacent properties; and (3) characteristics of adjacent development, including use, landscaping and building siting. In no event shall such properties be exempt from perimeter landscaping standards when abutting any residential use or residential zoning district, including multifamily developments.
4.
Landscape plan design and installation standards. All landscape plans shall be designed in a manner consistent with professional practice and installed in accordance with accepted planting practice.
5.
New plant materials.
a.
All new living plant materials shall satisfy the requirements of No. 1 or better as defined in the latest edition of the American Standard for Nursery Stock.
b.
All individual landscaped areas shall contain a minimum variety of two living plant species other than trees; a minimum variety of three plant species other than trees shall be achieved across the site.
c.
Paving other than walkways shall not be permitted within landscaped areas, provided the dimension of the required landscaped area shall be in addition to the walkway width to compensate for the increased impervious area. All on-site walkways shall conform to 2010 ADA Standards for Accessible Design.
d.
Trees. Tree species shall be canopy trees appropriate to the planting zone. All trees shall be a species that can be pruned and maintained to a minimum height of five feet. Trees shall be a minimum caliper of three inches at installation as measured at the root collar and shall be a minimum height of eight feet at installation.
e.
Shrubs. Shrubs shall be a minimum of three-gallon container stock at installation. Shrubs, including tree form shrubs intended to screen non-residential uses from the view of any adjacent residential use or residential zoning district, shall be a minimum of three feet in height at installation and achieve a minimum height of six feet at maturity.
f.
Grasses and other ground covers. Grass may be sodded, plugged, sprigged, or seeded except that solid sod shall be used in swales or other areas subject to erosion. In areas where plant materials other than solid sod is used, a fast-growing grass seed shall be sown for immediate effect and protection until all exposed soil coverage is otherwise achieved. Grass sod shall be clean and reasonably free of weeds and noxious pests or disease. Ground covers that achieve a finished appearance and reasonably complete coverage at installation may be used in lieu of grass sod.
6.
Existing plant materials. Existing living plant materials to be preserved shall be consistent with the plant materials specifications and achieve the landscaping objectives of this article.
7.
Earthwork. Earthen berms shall be of variable height and slope. Swales and ponds shall be permitted for on-site detention of stormwater, subject to approval by the building official. Low impact development practices shall be followed when practical. Specifically, all landscaped areas shall be designed as basins rather than mounded to maximize capture of stormwater runoff.
8.
Encroachment. Landscaped areas, walls, structures and walks shall be protected from vehicle encroachment by use of wheel stops, curbs, bollards, brickwork, or other acceptable means. Placement of such devices shall be located a minimum of two and one-half feet from all curbs defining landscaped areas to minimize vehicle encroachment into landscaped areas.
9.
Maintenance. The owner or his or her agent shall be jointly and severally responsible for the permanent maintenance of all plant materials in a healthy condition and landscaped area in an orderly appearance, free of refuse and debris. All landscaped areas shall be provided with a sprinkler system or readily available water supply with a minimum of one hose bib located within 50 feet of all plant material to be maintained. The owner or his or her agent shall replace all landscape materials identified on the approved landscape plan that do not survive a period of two years from the date of installation.
10.
Planting beds. Planting beds for all landscaping materials shall be free of weeds, debris and noxious material and shall consist of a healthy plant growth medium. Planting bed soil shall provide adequate support, drainage, and nutrients to the plants and may require incorporation of sand, peat or topsoil. Such planting bed soil shall be placed throughout the planting area for each plant. Planting area for trees and shrubs shall be a minimum of twice the width and one and one-half times the depth of the plant ball.
(Ord. No. 1166 , § 1(Exh. A), 4-5-22)
Sec. 98-10.10. - City review and approval of landscape plan.
The building official shall approve or reject the landscape plan. The decision of the building official shall be deemed a final administrative action. Appeal of such decision shall be to the board of zoning appeals. Appeals shall be filed in writing with the building official a minimum of 30 calendar days prior to the board of zoning appeals hearing at which such appeal will be heard.
(Ord. No. 1166 , § 1(Exh. A), 4-5-22)
Sec. 98-10.11. - Landscape materials bond required.
A financial guarantee by the developer or owner in an amount equal to one-third the cost of all landscaping improvements effective for a period of two years shall be provided to the building official. Such guarantee shall be in a form acceptable to the city attorney.
(Ord. No. 1166 , § 1(Exh. A), 4-5-22)
Sec. 98-10.12. - Approved tree species list.
The below city approved tree species list is incorporated into this article. Canopy and understory trees may be selected from this list, as appropriate to the site, in complying with this article. Any species not found on the tree species list shall be prohibited.
City of Thomaston Approved Tree Species
Alder, Hazel, Alnus serrulata
Arborvitae, Eastern (Northern Whitecedar), Thuja occidentalis
Arborvitae, Giant (Western Redcedar), Thuja plicata
Ash, Green, Fraxinus pennsylvanica
Ash, White, Fraxinus Americana
Baldcypress, Taxodium distichum
Basswood, American (Linden), Tilia americana
Beech, American, Fagus grandifolia
Birch, River, Betula nigra
Birch, River'Heritage,' Betula nigra 'Heritage'
Blackgum (Tupelo), Nyssa sylvatica
Buckeye, Bottlebrush, Aesculus parviflora
Buckeye, Painted, Aesculus sylvatica
Buckeye, Red, Aesculus pavia
Buckthorn, Carolina, Rhamnus caroliniana
Buckthorn, Common, Rhamnus cathartica
Buttonbush, Common, Cephalanthus occidentalis
Catalpa, Southern, Catalpa bignonioides
Cedar, Deodar, Cedrus deodara
Cedar, Japanese, Cryptomeria japonica
Chastetree (Vitex), Vitex agnus-castus
Cherry, Black, Prunus serotina
Cherry Laurel, Carolina Prunus caroliniana
Cherry, Japanese Flowering, Prunus serrulata
Cherry, Yoshino, Prunes x yedoensis
Chestnut, American, Castanea dentata
Chestnut, Chinese, Castanea mollissima
Chinaberry, Melia azedarach
Chinquapin, Allegheny, Castanea pumila
Crabapple, Japanese Flowering, Malus floribunda
Crabapple, Southern Malus angustifolia
Crape myrtle, Common, Lagerstroemia indica
Cypress, Leyland, Cupressocyparis leylandii
Devil's Walking Stick, Aralia spinosa
Devilwood, Osmanthus americanus
Dogwood, Flowering, Cornus florida
Dogwood, Flowering Pink, Cornus florida var. rubra
Dogwood, Kousa, Cornus kousa
Dogwood, Swamp, Cornus stricta
Elm, American, Ulmus americana
Elm, American 'Princeton,' Ulmus americana 'Princeton'
Elm, Siberian, Ulmus pumila
Elm, Slippery, Ulmus rubra
Elm, Winged, Ulmus alata
Flametree, Chinese (Bougainvillea), Koelreuteria bipinnata
Fringetree (Grancy Gray Beard), Chionanthus virginicus
Fringetree, Chinese, Chionanthus retusus
Ginkgo (Male), Ginkgo biloba
Goldenraintree, Koelreuteria paniculata
Hackberry, Common, Celtis occidentalis
Hackberry, Georgia, Celtis tenuifolia
Hawthorne, Washington, Crataegus phaenopyrum
Hemlock, Eastern, Tsuga canadensis
Hickory, Bitternut, Carya cordiformis
Hickory, Mockernut, Carya tomentosa
Hickory, Pignut, Carya glabra
Hickory, Sand, Carya pallida
Hickory, Shagbark, Carya ovata
Hickory, Southern Shagbark, Carya ovata var. australis
Holly, American, Ilex opaca
Holly, Deciduous (Possumhaw), llex decidua
Holly, Fosters, Ilex x attenuata 'Fosteri'
Holly, Ornamental Variety, Ilex species
Holly, Savannah, Ilex x attenuata 'Savannah'
Holly, Yaupon, Ilex vomitoria
Hophornbeam, American, Ostrya virginiana
Hornbeam, Am. (Ironwood, Blue Beech), Carpinus caroliniana
Hornbeam, European, Carpinus betulus
Hornbeam, Japanese, Carpinus japonica
Katsuratree, Cercidiphyllym japonicum
Locust, Black, Robinia pseudoacacia
Magnolia, Cucumber, Magnolia acuminata
Magnolia, Japanese (Saucer), Magnolia x soulangiana
Magnolia, Southern, Magnolia grandiflora
Magnolia, Southern 'Little Gem,' Magnolia grandiflora 'Little Gem'
Magnolia, Star, Magnolia stellata
Magnolia, Sweetbay, Magnolia virginiana
Maple, Amur, Acer ginnala
Maple, Chalk, Acer leucoderme
Maple, Hedge, Acer campestre
Maple, Japanese, Acer palmatum
Maple, Norway, Acer platanoides
Maple, Red, Acer rubrum
Maple, Southern Sugar (Florida Sugar), Acer barbatum
Maple, Sugar, Acer saccharum
Maple, Sugar 'Green Mountain,' Acer saccharum 'Green Mountain'
Maple, Sugar 'Legacy,' Acer saccharum 'Legacy'
Maple, Trident, Acer buergeranum
Mulberry, Red, Morus rubra
Oak, Black, Quercus velutina
Oak, Cherrybark, Quercus falcata var. pagodifolia
Oak, Chestnut, Quercus prinus
Oak, Diamond Leaf (Laurel), Quercus laurifolia
Oak, English, Quercus robur
Oak, Georgia, Quercus georgiana
Oak, Laurel, Quercus hemisphaerica
Oak, Laurel 'Darlington,' Quercus hemisphaerica 'Darlington'
Oak, Live, Quercus virginiana
Oak, Northern Red, Quercus rubra
Oak, Nuttall, Quercus nuttalli
Oak, Oglethorpe, Quercus oglethorpensis
Oak, Overcup, Quercus lyrata
Oak, Pin, Quercus palustris
Oak, Post, Quercus stellata
Oak, Sawtooth, Quercus acutissima
Oak, Scarlet, Quercus coccinea
Oak, Shumard, Quercus shumardii
Oak, Southern Red, Quercus falcata
Oak, Swamp Chestnut, Quercus michauxii
Oak, Swamp White, Quercus bicolor
Oak, Water, Quercus nigra
Oak, White, Quercus alba
Oak, Willow, Quercus phellos
Orange, Osage, Maclura pomifera
Parrotia, Parrotia persica
Pear, Callery, Pyrus calleryana
Pear, Common, Pyrus communis
Pecan, Carya illinoensis
Persimmon, Common, Diospyros virginiana
Pine, Eastern White, Pinus strobus
Pine, Loblolly, Pinus taeda
Pine, Longleaf, Pinus palustris
Pine, Shortleaf, Pinus echinata
Pine, Slash, Pinus elliotii
Pine, Virginia, Pinus virginiana
Pistache, Chinese, Pistacia chinensis
Planetree, London, Platanus x acerifolia
Plum, Chickasaw, Prunus angustifolia
Plum, Purpleleaf, Prunus cerasifera
Poplar, White, Populus alba
Poplar, Yellow (Tuliptree), Liriodendron tulipifera
Redbud, Eastern, Cercis canadensis
Redbud, Eastern White, Cercis canadensis var. alba
Redbud, 'Forest Pansy,' Cercis canadensis 'Forest Pansy'
Redbud, 'Oklahoma,' Cercis reniformis 'Oklahoma'
Redbud, 'Texas White,' Cercis reniformis 'Texas White'
Red Cedar, Eastern, Juniperus virginiana
Redwood, Dawn, Metasequoia glyptostroboides
Royal Paulownia (Princess-Tree), Paulownia tomentosa
Sassafras, Sassafras albidum
Serviceberry, Downy, Amelanchier arborea
Silverbell, Carolina, Halesia tetraptera
Silverbell, Two-Winged, Halesia diptera
Smoketree, American, Cotinus obovatus
Smoketree, Common, Cotinus coggygria
Sourwood, Oxydendrum arboreum
Sparkleberry, Tree, Vaccinium arboreum
Spruce Varieties, Picea species
Sugarberry, Celtis laevigata
Sycamore, Platanus occidentalis
Tallowtree, Chinese, Sapium sebiferum
Tree-of-Heaven (Ailanthus), Ailanthus altissima
Walnut, Black, Juglans nigra
Waxmyrtle, Southern, Myrica cerifera
Willow, Black, Salix nigra
Willow, Weeping, Salix babylonica
Winterberry, Common Ilex verticillata
Witchhazel, Common, Hamamelis virginiana
Yellowwood, American, Cladrastis kentukea
Zelkova, Japanese, Zelkova serrata
(Ord. No. 1166 , § 1(Exh. A), 4-5-22)
