Chapter 90 - TRAFFIC AND VEHICLES[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Editor's note— Resolutions setting speed limits on certain roads in the county are on file in the office of the board of commissioners.
Cross reference— Courts, ch. 34; offenses and miscellaneous provisions, ch. 62; parks and recreation, ch. 66; streets, sidewalks and other public places, ch. 78.
State Law reference— Authority to provide devices to control the flow of traffic, Ga. Const., art. 9, sec. 2, par. 3(a)(4); Uniform Rules of the Road, O.C.G.A. § 40-6-1 et seq.; power of local authorities generally, O.C.G.A. § 40-6-371; adoption of uniform rules of the road by local authorities, O.C.G.A. § 40-6-372; prosecution of traffic offenses, O.C.G.A. § 40-13-1 et seq.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 90-1. - Uniform rules of the road adopted.
(a)
Pursuant to O.C.G.A. §§ 40-6-372—40-6-376, O.C.G.A. §§ 40-6-2—40-6-395, known as the uniform rules of the road, and the definitions contained in O.C.G.A. § 40-1-1, are hereby adopted as and for the traffic regulations of the county with like effect as if recited in this chapter.
(b)
Unless another penalty is expressly provided by state law, every person convicted of a violation of any provision of this chapter shall be punished in accordance with section 1-12.
Sec. 90-2. - Temporary traffic regulations.
In cases where traffic upon the roads of the county may become congested upon occasions of parades, at theaters and other public assemblages where large numbers of vehicles are assembled, the county law enforcement officers may make temporary rules directing and regulating the traffic in these congested districts, and any person, who, after being warned of the temporary traffic regulations, shall violate them shall be liable therefor as for other violations of this Code.
(Code 1977, § 8-1001)
Sec. 90-3. - Traffic, speed, etc., zones; signs and traffic control devices.
(a)
Upon approval by resolution of the board of commissioners, the public works director is authorized to designate and maintain by appropriate traffic control signs, markings and devices:
(1)
Crosswalks at intersections where there is particular danger to pedestrians crossing the roadway.
(2)
Other safety zones for pedestrians.
(3)
Traffic lanes.
(4)
Speed, parking, truck or other traffic control zones.
(5)
Stop, yield, one-way and other directional devices.
(6)
Any other sign, marking, device or zone necessary for orderly and safe conditions on the roads and streets of the county.
(b)
All traffic control signs, signals, devices and markings shall conform to specifications in the Manual on Uniform Traffic Control Devices adopted by the state transportation board. All signs and signals required under this chapter for a particular purpose shall so far as practicable be uniform as to type and location throughout the county. All traffic control devices so erected and not inconsistent with the provisions of state law or this Code shall be official traffic control devices of the county.
(c)
The county clerk shall keep and maintain an accurate official map or maps setting out all traffic zones, markings, signs and other traffic control devices. The map or maps and any amendments or changes thereto shall be adopted by resolution of the board of commissioners and the map or maps shall be known as the official traffic control map (or maps) of the county. An official copy thereof shall be kept in the office of the county clerk; shall be available to the public; and copies certified by the county clerk shall be admissible in court as proof of the location of any traffic zone, marking, sign or other traffic control device.
(d)
No person shall be charged with violating a traffic zone, marking, sign or other traffic control device unless appropriate signs, markings or devices are in fact operating or in existence on the streets involved.
(e)
Any violation of any traffic zone, marking, sign or other traffic control device established hereunder shall be a violation of this Code.
(Code 1977, § 8-1003)
Sec. 90-4. - Covering of loads.
No person shall operate or load any vehicle on the public streets and roads of this county unless the vehicle is constructed, loaded and securely covered so as to prevent any of its load from dropping, escaping or shifting in such a manner as to create a safety hazard or in such a manner so as to litter the streets and roads of the county.
(Code 1977, § 8-1002)
Secs. 90-5—90-30. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - PARKING, STOPPING, STANDING

Sec. 90-31. - Parking on rights-of-way prohibited; exceptions.
The rights-of-way for the county being the property of the county and necessary to insure safe travel on the roadway system of the county, parking of any vehicle is hereby prohibited except in the event that the vehicle is disabled as a result of a mechanical failure, or for temporary incidental parking such as, a funeral, yard sale, church services, etc.
Construction of any building, fence or other improvement on the rights-of-way of the county is hereby prohibited.
Violation of this section shall be treated as a misdemeanor and punishable as provided in the Code of the State of Georgia or penalties for misdemeanor convictions.
(Ord. of 2-10-87(1), § (3); Ord. of 4-9-96)
Sec. 90-32. - No parking zone.
The stopping, standing or parking of vehicles is prohibited within the limits of the following described area:
State route 3 and 300, northbound lane, beginning at decel lane, M.L. 12.85 and extend northward to Timber Ridge Dr., M.L. 13.07, a distance of 0.22 mile.
Signs shall be furnished and installed by the state department of transportation.
(Ord. of 2-10-87(2))
