Chapter 42 - ELECTIONS[1]

Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Charter reference— Election of mayor and council members, § 6.
Cross reference— Administration, ch. 2.
State Law reference— Georgia Municipal Election Code, O.C.G.A. § 21-3-1 et seq.

Sec. 42-1. - Clerk to be superintendent of elections; duties.
The city clerk is hereby appointed as the superintendent for all municipal general and special elections. The superintendent is hereby directed to inform the mayor and council at least 20 days prior to any municipal general election and at least eight days prior to any municipal special election of the number of election clerks and assistant managers that will be required, in his opinion, to conduct the ensuing election, as well as to recommend to the mayor and city council the name of a person to be selected as the chief manager of each precinct when, and if, there be more than one, and the names of persons to be selected as the assistant managers and clerks for the election, following which the number and names of each of such poll officials shall be designated by a resolution of the mayor and council of the city. The superintendent shall, as soon as practical, prior to each election, prepare and deliver an adequate supply of official absentee ballots, envelopes and other supplies as may be needed, to the absentee ballot clerk, designated in section 42-4 for use in the election.
(Code 1965, § 11-2)
Sec. 42-2. - Registrar.
The chief registrar of the board of registrars of the county shall be the municipal registrar of the city. The municipal registrar shall carry out the functions necessary for municipal registration and shall maintain all registration cards. The office of the county board of registrars shall be the registration office for electors in the city.
(Code 1965, § 11-3)
Sec. 42-3. - Time of filing for office.
Each candidate desiring to have his name placed on the ballot for an office to be filled in a municipal general election or special election shall file personally, or by his agent, notice of his candidacy in the office of the municipal superintendent of the city in accordance with, and within the times required by, state law.
(Code 1965, § 11-7)
State Law reference— Filing notice of candidacy for municipal office, O.C.G.A. § 21-3-91.
Sec. 42-4. - Absentee ballot clerk.
The municipal registrar of the city shall be the absentee ballot clerk of the city.
(Code 1965, § 11-9)
Sec. 42-5. - Candidates to be elected by plurality of votes cast.
In the city candidates for nomination for any public municipal office in any primary and candidates for any public municipal office in any election shall be nominated or elected by a plurality of the votes cast to fill such nomination or public office.
(Code 1965, § 11-10)
Sec. 42-6. - Election district established.
(a)
The presently existing municipal voting precinct, which is declared to be the area comprising the corporate limits of the city, as the same now or shall hereafter exist, shall constitute the sole election district of the city and shall be known as the Thomaston Election District.
(b)
It is hereby declared that the election districts of the 561st District General Militia, as established by the probate court judge of the county for county and state elections, are not practicable for the city.
(Code 1965, § 11-12)
Sec. 42-7. - Polling place designated.
The polling place within the Thomaston election district shall be the Thomaston-Upson County Civic Center located in the city at 101 Civic Center Drive. The polling place thus fixed is a change from the customary polling place which has heretofore been the Thomaston Municipal Building, therefore the city manager is hereby directed to post a notice at the Thomaston Municipal Building on the eighth day of May, 1996, giving notice to the public that the Thomaston-Upson County Civic Center has been fixed as the polling place within the Thomaston election district for all municipal primaries and elections and to also post such notice at three other places in the immediate vicinity thereof, and to leave such notices so posted at such places until the nineteenth day of May, 1996, on which date the Thomaston-Upson County Civic Center shall become the polling place of the Thomaston election district. (Code 1965, § 11-13; Ord. No. 858, § 1, 5-7-96)
State Law reference— Duty of municipal governing authority to fix location of polling places, O.C.G.A. § 21-3-163.
Sec. 42-8. - Primaries prohibited.
It is hereby declared and directed that, pursuant to the power and authority vested in the governing authority of the city by O.C.G.A § 21-2-139, no political party shall conduct primaries for the purpose of nominating candidates for municipal elections in the city. Municipal elections shall be non-partisan.
(Ord. No. 930, § 1, 8-7-01)
Editor's note— Ord. No. 930, § 1, adopted Aug. 7, 2001, did not specifically amend the Code. Hence, its inclusion herein as section 42-8 was at the discretion of the editor.
