ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 3-1. - Definitions.
modified
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Alcoholic beverages means and includes all alcohol, distilled spirits, beer, malt beverage, wine or fortified wine as defined in this section.
Brewery means a manufacturer or producer of malt beverages exceeding 15,000 barrels of beer in a calendar year for wholesale off-premises consumption and consumption on premises, subject to the limitations provided in O.C.G.A. 3-5-24.1. As used in this definition, the term "barrel" shall be defined as set forth in O.C.G.A. 3-5-1.
Brewpub means a restaurant in which beer or malt beverages are manufactured or brewed, subject to the barrel production limitation prescribed in O.C.G.A. § 3-5-36 for retail consumption on the premises and solely in draft form. Brewpubs shall be licensed as restaurants as set forth in this chapter.
City special event means an event, held on designated city property, including rights-of-way, located in the city's downtown business district, that is organized and sponsored by the city consistent with the provisions of section 3-36 and other applicable provisions of this chapter.
Distilled spirits means any alcoholic beverage obtained by distillation or containing more than 24 percent alcohol by volume, including, but not limited to, all fortified wines.
Distiller means a manufacturer of distilled spirits.
Fortified wine means any alcoholic beverage containing more than 24 percent alcohol by volume made from fruits, berries, or grapes either by natural fermentation or by natural fermentation with brandy added. The term "fortified wine" includes, but is not limited to, brandy.
Growler means a bottle or can with a capacity of at least 32 ounces and not to exceed a capacity of 72 ounces that is capable of being sealed with a screw cap and with a plastic collar over the screw cap and is filled at the time of customer purchase by the licensee or employee of the licensed establishment with beer from a keg for off-premises consumption. A refilled growler that has been properly sealed shall be considered an "unbroken package" for purposes of this chapter.
Liquor means distilled spirits.
Malt beverage means any alcoholic beverage obtained by the fermentation of any infusion or decoction of barley, malt, hops, or any other similar product, or any combination of such products in water, including ale, porter, brown, stout, lager beer, small beer and strong beer. The term "malt beverage" does not include sake, known as Japanese rice wine.
Microbrewery means an establishment in which not more than 15,000 barrels of beer or malt beverages are manufactured or brewed on the licensed premises in a calendar year and in which manufactured or brewed beer or malt beverages may be sold for consumption on premises and consumption off premises, subject to the limitations provided in O.C.G.A. § 3-5-24.1. As used in this definition, the term "barrel" shall be defined as set forth in O.C.G.A. § 3-5-1.
Private nonprofit special event on designated city property means a special event held by a nonprofit organization, recognized as an organization eligible to receive tax deductible charitable contributions as described in section 170(c) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, on designated city property, including rights-of-way, consistent with the provisions of section 3-36 and other applicable provisions of this chapter.
Private party means a gathering of individuals by invitation without charge for admission to which the general public is neither invited to attend nor allowed to attend.
Private residence means a house, dwelling or building wherein not less than one family customarily resides. This shall not apply to any of the above which have been unoccupied for a period of 12 consecutive months immediately prior to the filing of an application hereunder.
School means only such state, county, city or other schools as teach the subjects commonly taught in the common schools of this state and shall not include private schools where only specialized subjects such as law, stenography, business, music, art, medicine, dentistry, vocational occupations and other special subjects are taught.
Wine means any alcoholic beverage containing not more than 24 percent alcohol by volume made from fruits, berries or grapes either by natural fermentation or by natural fermentation with brandy added. The term "wine" includes, but is not limited to, all sparkling wines, champagnes, combinations of such beverages, vermouths, special natural wines, rectified wines, and like products. The term "wine" does not include cooking wine mixed with salt or other ingredients so as to render it unfit for human consumption as a beverage. A liquid shall first be deemed to be a wine at that point in the manufacturing process when it conforms to the definition of wine contained in this section.
(Code 1991, § 3-1; Ord. No. 07142003-3 , § I, 7-14-2003; Ord. No. 07282014-1 , §§ I, II, 7-28-2014; Ord. No. 7132020-2 , § I, 7-13-2020; Ord. of 09-26-2022(1) , § I)
Sec. 3-2. - Purposes of chapter.
This chapter has been enacted for the purpose of promoting the health and general welfare of the city; to establish reasonable and ascertainable standards for the regulation and control of the licensing and sale of alcoholic beverages; to protect and preserve schools, and churches; to give effect to existing land use; to preserve residential areas, with reasonable consideration being given to the character of the area and its peculiar suitability for particular uses, the congestion in roads, and streets, and with a general view of promoting desirable living conditions, sustaining the stability of neighborhoods and property values; and to protect against the evils of concentration of package liquor store licenses in one family, or corporation, or both; and to prevent an undesirable person from engaging in or having an interest in alcoholic beverages or the sale thereof in the city.
(Code 1991, § 3-2)
Sec. 3-3. - Compliance with chapter required.
It shall be unlawful for any person to sell or offer for sale at wholesale or retail any alcoholic beverages as defined in section 3-1, which shall include beer, wine and distilled spirits, within the city without having first complied with the provisions of this chapter, but the properly licensed sale of same is hereby declared lawful.
(Code 1991, § 3-3)
Sec. 3-4. - Intoxicating liquor; sale, transportation or possession of nontax-paid beverages prohibited.
(a)
It shall be unlawful for any individual to sell any nontax-paid intoxicating liquors or beverages within the city limits.
(b)
It shall be unlawful for any individual to transport any nontax-paid intoxicating liquors or beverages within the city limits.
(c)
It shall be unlawful for any individual to possess any nontax-paid intoxicating liquors or beverages within the city limits.
(Code 1991, § 3-4)
Secs. 3-5—3-26. - Reserved.
