ARTICLE 98-3. - OFFICIAL ZONING MAP AND ESTABLISHMENT OF DISTRICTS

Sec. 98-3.1. - Official zoning map.
The city is divided into zoning districts with a specific zoning district assigned to every property in the city, as shown on the official zoning map. The official zoning map, together with all explanatory information, is hereby adopted by reference and declared part of this chapter.
The official zoning map shall be authorized by the signature of the mayor, attested by the city clerk, and bear the seal of the city under the following statement: "This is to certify that this is the Official Zoning Map of the City of Thomaston, Georgia referenced in Article 98-3, Sec. 98-3.1 of the Zoning Ordinance of the City of Thomaston, Georgia, dated April 5, 2022 effective on the date of final adoption and amended as referenced."
(Ord. No. 1166 , § 1(Exh. A), 4-5-22)
Sec. 98-3.2. - Replacement of official zoning map.
In the event the official zoning map is damaged, destroyed, lost or difficult to interpret due to the nature or number of revisions, mayor and council may adopt a new official zoning map by resolution that shall replace the previous official zoning map. Drafting errors or other errors or omissions in any previous official zoning map may be corrected on the new official zoning map, but no such correction shall have the effect of amending the original official zoning map. Unless the previous official zoning map is lost or destroyed, that previous map or any significant remaining portions of that map shall be preserved, together with all available records pertaining to its adoption and amendment.
(Ord. No. 1166 , § 1(Exh. A), 4-5-22)
Sec. 98-3.3. - Establishment of districts.
For purposes of this chapter, which among others is to assign property rights to individual lots, the land area of the city shall be divided into the following zoning districts:
A.
Residential districts. The following zoning districts represent the residential districts established by the city:
ES Estate subdivision—Class one
ES Estate subdivision—Class two
R-1 Low density residential district
R-2 Medium density residential district
C-TH Condominium-townhouse district
M-R Multifamily residential district
[B.]
Commercial districts. The following zoning districts represent the commercial districts established by the city.
C-1 Neighborhood commercial district
C-2 General commercial district
DT Downtown district
Thomaston Gateway North Overlay (previously known as Gateway Area One)
[C.]
Institutional district. The following zoning district represents the institutional district established by the city.
P-I Professional-institutional district
[D.]
Mixed use district. The following zoning district represents the mixed use district established by the city.
PD Planned development
[E.]
Industrial districts. The following zoning districts represent the industrial districts established by the city.
M-1 Light industrial district
M-2 Heavy industrial district
(Ord. No. 1166 , § 1(Exh. A), 4-5-22)
Sec. 98-3.4. - Zoning district and land use compatibility.
The future land use categories adopted in the Upson County, City of Thomaston, and City of Yatesville Joint Comprehensive Plan 2018-2038 and indicated on the City of Thomaston Character Area Map are intended to guide zoning decisions affecting properties within the respective character areas. The future land use categories and the zoning districts deemed compatible with those categories are identified in table 3.1, zoning district and land use category compatibility.
EXPAND
Table 3.1 Zoning District and Land Use Category Compatibility
Zoning district Land use category
ES Estate subdivision—Class one Residential development
ES Estate subdivision—Class two Residential development
R-1 Low density residential district Residential development
R-2 Medium density residential district Residential development
C-TH Condominium-townhouse district Residential development
M-R Multifamily residential district Residential development
C-1 Neighborhood commercial district Commercial development
C-2 General commercial district Commercial development
DT Downtown district Downtown
P-I Professional-institutional district Medical park
PD Planned development Residential
M-1 Light industrial district Industrial development
M-2 Heavy industrial district Industrial development
Thomaston Gateway North Overlay Commercial gateway corridor
  (Ord. No. 1166 , § 1(Exh. A), 4-5-22)
Sec. 98-3.5. - Interpretation of district boundaries.
A.
All properties located within the city limits are assigned a zoning district as indicated on the official zoning map. No property shall be used except in accordance with the zoning district designations on the official zoning map and the provisions of this chapter. Where uncertainty exists with respect to the boundaries of any zoning district shown on the official zoning map, the following rules shall apply:
1.
The boundaries of the various zoning districts established by this chapter are as indicated on the official zoning map. Street rights-of-way adjoining property lines shall serve as district boundaries. No such rights-of-way shall be zoned.
2.
Where a zoning district boundary is shown on the official zoning map as approximately following a property boundary; corporate limits line; militia district line; land lot line; streambed; lot line; centerline of a city street, county road, state highway, public right-of-way, or railroad right-of-way; or such lines extended, such lines shall be construed to be the zoning district boundary.
3.
Where a lot having frontage on two different streets that is not a corner lot is divided by a zoning district boundary approximately paralleling the two streets, the standards and provisions of the zoning districts controlling development along each respective street on which the frontage of the lot is located shall apply to that portion of the lot so divided.
B.
Where a zoning district boundary remains in doubt in specific instances following application of the above rules, mayor and council shall determine the location of the zoning district boundary.
(Ord. No. 1166 , § 1(Exh. A), 4-5-22)
Sec. 98-3.6. - Lots divided by a zoning district boundary.
In the event a zoning district boundary line on the official zoning map divides a lot of record held in one ownership on the date of adoption of this chapter, each part of the lot so divided shall be used in conformity with the standards established by this chapter for the zoning district in which each portion of such lot is located.
(Ord. No. 1166 , § 1(Exh. A), 4-5-22)
Sec. 98-3.7. - Lots divided by corporate limits.
Any lot divided by the corporate limits of the city and county shall fully meet the ordinance standards of the county on that portion of the lot within the unincorporated county for purposes of issuing a building permit. All corporate limits dividing a lot shall be viewed in the same manner as a property line. Setbacks shall be measured from corporate city limit lines and county boundary lines, as appropriate.
(Ord. No. 1166 , § 1(Exh. A), 4-5-22)
Sec. 98-3.8. - Annexation.
All land annexed into the city shall be subject to rezoning in accordance with the provisions of this chapter found in article 14, procedures for zoning decisions, the Georgia Zoning Procedures Law, and O.C.G.A. tit. 36, ch. 36, annexation of territory, § 36-36-1 et seq.
(Ord. No. 1166 , § 1(Exh. A), 4-5-22)
