Chapter 70 - PERSONNEL[1]

Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Editor's note— The pension plan for county employees is sponsored by the Association of County Commissioners of Georgia pursuant to a restated declaration of trust approved by the board of commissioners on June 12, 1990. An official copy of the pension plan is on file in the office of the clerk of the board of commissioners.
Cross reference— Officers and employees, § 2-46 et seq.; county manager, § 2-66 et seq.; county attorney, § 2-91 et seq.
State Law reference— Civil service system for county employees authorized, O.C.G.A. § 36-1-21.

Sec. 70-1. - Employee handbook, personnel rules and regulations.[2]
(a)
Unless otherwise provided by state law, all provisions on personnel rules and regulations for employees of any agency, board, commission, department or other branch of county government shall be contained in either this Code or in the Thomas County Employee's Handbook which document is incorporated in this chapter by reference, copies of which are available to the public in the county clerk's office.
(b)
The rules and regulations in the handbook discussed above may include and establish:
(1)
A position classification plan.
(2)
Pay plan.
(3)
Procedures for applications and examinations.
(4)
Eligibility lists.
(5)
Certification and appointment rules.
(6)
Promotions, transfers and demotion rules.
(7)
Probationary periods.
(8)
Employee performance evaluation procedures.
(9)
Separation procedures.
(10)
Disciplinary procedures.
(11)
Training and welfare rules.
(12)
Necessary records and reports.
(13)
Procedures for certifying of payrolls.
(14)
Rules on attendance and leave.
(15)
Rules on gifts or gratuities.
(16)
Appeals and grievance procedures.
(17)
Rules on outside employments.
(18)
Procedures for adopting and amending the rules and procedures.
(19)
Catalog of job descriptions.
(Code 1977, § 1-4001)
Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
Editor's note— By motion dated April 13, 1993, the board of commissioners adopted the March 3, 1993, revision of the county's personnel rules and regulations, an official copy of which is on file in the office of the clerk of the board of commissioners.

Sec. 70-2. - Worker's compensation coverage.
While performing their duties the volunteer firefighters, volunteer first responders, the board of commissioners, and the elected county officers of Thomas County shall be covered under the worker's compensation laws of the State of Georgia, under the Association County Commissioners of Georgia Group Self-Insured Worker's Compensation Fund.
(Res. of 10-11-83(2); Res. of 6-10-86; Res. of 1-24-00; Res. of 9-29-05)
Sec. 70-3. - Deferred compensation plan adopted.
The board of commissioners hereby adopts the National Association of Counties Deferred Compensation Program and hereby establishes the Thomas County, Georgia Deferred Compensation Plan for the voluntary participation of all eligible county employees and elected officials. The chairman of the board of commissioners is hereby authorized to execute for the county individual participation agreements with each employee requesting same, and the county manager is hereby appointed to act as the administrator of the plan representing the county, and to execute such agreements and contracts as are necessary to implement the program. It is implicitly understood that, other than the incidental expenses of collecting and disbursing of the employees' deferrals and other minor administrative matters, there is to be no cost or contribution by the county to the program.
(Res. of 10-10-89)
Sec. 70-4. - County employees—Work on private property.
(a)
Private property work prohibited. In accordance with state law, county employees are prohibited from working on private property, except under the conditions noted in this policy.
(b)
Conditions allowing work on private property. County employees may be permitted to work on private property under one or more of the following conditions:
(1)
For law enforcement, building inspection, animal control and other such functions related to protecting the health and safety of Thomas County citizens through the enforcement of federal, state and local laws, and regulations.
(2)
In the event of a natural or technological disaster or emergency.
(3)
To fulfill a legitimate public interest associated with providing one or more the services authorized by the laws of the State of Georgia and on the case-by-case approval of the Board of Commissioners. Private property work of this type shall require a contract, easement or other written agreement with the property owner acceptable to the County Attorney.
(4)
Any other situation that, in the opinion of the County Attorney is permitted by Georgia law.
(c)
Interpretation. The Board of Commissioners reserves the right to interpret and apply this policy to the highest benefit of the public interest.
(Amd. of 6-25-01)
Editor's note— An amendment of June 25, 2001 was not specifically amendatory of the Code and has been included as § 70-4 at the editor's discretion.
