Chapter 66 - SECONDHAND GOODS[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Cross reference— Businesses, ch. 22; offenses and miscellaneous provisions, ch. 62; streets, sidewalks and other public places, ch. 74; zoning, ch. 98.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Secs. 66-1—66-25. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - JUNK DEALERS[2]
Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
State Law reference— Junk or metal dealers records, O.C.G.A. § 10-1-350 et seq.; control of junkyards, O.C.G.A. § 32-6-240 et seq.; purchase and resale of used motor vehicles and used parts, O.C.G.A. § 40-4-40 et seq.; junk dealers, O.C.G.A. § 43-22-1 et seq.; Used Motor Vehicle Dismantlers, Rebuilders and Salvage Dealers Registration Act, O.C.G.A. § 43-48-1 et seq.

DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Sec. 66-26. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Junk means old iron and other metals, glass, paper or other waste or discarded material which may be treated or prepared so as to be used again in the same or some other form; also secondhand rope, chain, wire, bottles, parts of machinery, used automobile parts and accessories, pipes, plumbing fixtures and accessories; and being used in a comprehensive sense, includes also any and all articles or things which may be bought, received or dealt in by a junk dealer, junk buyer, junk peddler or junk gatherer in connection with his business.
(Code 1965, § 16-1)
Cross reference— Definitions generally, § 1-2.
Sec. 66-27. - Dealing with minors.
It shall be unlawful for any junk dealer, junk peddler, buyer or gatherer to buy or receive any junk from any person under 18 years of age, or to buy or receive any junk from any person who is not known to him, unless such person is identified by some person of good character known to such buyer or receiver.
(Code 1965, § 16-8)
Sec. 66-28. - Duty to keep register; information to be recorded in register.
(a)
Every junk dealer, peddler, buyer or gatherer of junk in the city shall keep a daily record, together with a duplicate carbon copy thereof, of all junk bought or received by him each day, which record shall show as to each such purchase or receipt:
(1)
The date of purchase or receipt;
(2)
The name of the person from whom purchased or received, together with his complete address; and if such person is not personally known to such buyer or receiver, the name and address of the person who identified him; and
(3)
A full description of the junk purchased from each such person, together with any identifying marks, numbers, or manufacturer's identification on any of such junk.
(b)
Every junk dealer, peddler, buyer or gatherer shall deliver such duplicate carbon copy of each daily record of receipts and purchases on the next day after date thereof to the chief of police or to the city clerk.
(Code 1965, § 16-9)
Sec. 66-29. - Waiting period prior to selling, disposing, cutting, melting down or mutilating articles or pieces of junk.
It shall be unlawful for any junk dealer, buyer, peddler, or gatherer in the city to sell, dispose of, cut up, melt down or mutilate any article or piece of junk bought or received by him, until after the lapse of five days from the time of delivery of the duplicate record of purchase or receipt thereof to the chief of police or the city clerk as required by section 66-28.
(Code 1965, § 16-10)
Sec. 66-30. - Right of entry of police officers to inspect.
The police officers of the city shall have the right to inspect all junk bought or received by junk dealers, junk buyers, junk peddlers or gatherers, and also the premises where such businesses are located. It shall be the duty of every junk dealer, buyer or similar person at all times to keep all junk bought or received by him and which has not been legally disposed of under the provisions of this article subject to inspection by the police officers of the city, and upon request of any police officer, at any time before any article of junk has been legally disposed of, to identify such article of junk with reference to the entry thereof upon the daily record of purchases or receipts kept by him.
(Code 1965, § 16-11)
Secs. 66-31—66-40. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - LICENSE

Sec. 66-41. - Required.
No person shall engage in the business of a junk dealer, junk buyer, junk peddler or junk gatherer in the city without first obtaining a license therefor from the city and without complying with this article.
(Code 1965, § 16-2)
Sec. 66-42. - Application; contents of application.
Every person desiring to engage in the business of dealing in junk either as a junk buyer, or for conducting a junkyard, or as a junk peddler or junk gatherer, in the city, shall, before engaging in any such business and annually thereafter on or before January 1 of each year thereafter, make application to the mayor and city council for a license or permit to carry on such business. Such application shall be filed with the city clerk, shall be in writing and signed by the applicant, shall state the particular business which the applicant desires to conduct, the place where such business is to be located or conducted, and shall be accompanied by a certificate signed by at least three freeholders, citizens of the city of good reputation, certifying to the good reputation and moral character of such applicant.
(Code 1965, § 16-3)
Sec. 66-43. - Approval of application by mayor and city council prerequisite to issuance.
Each application for the license required by section 66-41 shall be submitted to the mayor and city council, and, upon their approval of any such application, the city clerk shall issue a license to the applicant therefor, upon such applicant paying the annual license fee as set forth in the schedule of fees and charges, fixed by the occupation or license tax ordinances of the city. Such license, unless sooner revoked, shall authorize the applicant to conduct the business for which it is issued from date of issuance until the next January 1.
(Code 1965, § 16-4)
Sec. 66-44. - Persons convicted of certain offenses not to be granted licenses.
No license authorizing the applicant to engage in the business of dealing in junk shall be granted to any applicant who has, within 12 months prior to the presentation of such application, been convicted in the municipal court for any violation of this article, or in any court of the offense of buying, receiving or concealing stolen property; nor shall any license be granted to any applicant, who, on account of his moral character, is an unfit or improper person to engage in such business.
(Code 1965, § 16-5)
Sec. 66-45. - Revocation.
The mayor and city council shall have the right, power and privilege of revoking any permit or license granted to any applicant under the terms of this article. Any license granted under this article shall have written or printed thereon the words: "Subject to revocation by the mayor and city council of the City of Thomaston."
(Code 1965, § 16-6)
Sec. 66-46. - Transferability.
No license granted under the terms of this article shall be transferable. Nor shall such license authorize the applicant named therein to conduct the business authorized thereby at any location other than that named in his application for such license, unless and until such applicant has secured the permission of the mayor and city council for such change in location.
(Code 1965, § 16-7)
Secs. 66-47—66-65. - Reserved.
ARTICLE III. - PAWNBROKERS[3]

Footnotes:
--- (3) ---
State Law reference— Pawnbrokers, O.C.G.A. § 44-12-130 et seq.

Sec. 66-66. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Pawnbroker means any person who accepts the deposit of the property of another as security for the payment of a debt. Such pawnbroker shall be deemed to be engaged in the business of pawnbrokerage, and shall annually obtain a license from such city to engage in such business, and pay the fee therefor as set forth in the schedule of fees and charges and provided in the annual license and tax ordinance of the city.
(Code 1965, § 22B-1)
Cross reference— Definitions generally, § 1-2.
Sec. 66-67. - Duty to require certain information of persons making deposit.
In order to make more difficult the disposition of stolen property, each and every pawnbroker, within the corporate limits of the city, shall, at the time of receiving the deposit of any property in pawn, require the person making such deposit to furnish to him their name together with their age, address and telephone number, if any, together with the name and address of the person from whom the person making such deposit actually obtained the property which is being deposited with the pawnbroker.
(Code 1965, § 22B-2)
Sec. 66-68. - Filing of weekly report required; contents of report.
Each and every pawnbroker engaged in the business of pawnbrokerage within the municipal corporate limits of such city shall, not later than 5:00 p.m. on Monday of each week, file a written report with the chief of police of the city, in which report there shall be set out the name and business address of the pawnbroker and the name, age, address and telephone number, if any, of every person from whom such pawnbroker accepted a pawn during the immediately preceding week, including a description of each item of property received from each such person and the name and address of the person from whom such property was obtained by the person depositing the same with the pawnbroker.
(Code 1965, § 22B-3)
Sec. 66-69. - Suspension or revocation of business license.
The business license of any pawnbroker engaged in the pawnbrokerage business within the municipal corporate limits of such city who fails to strictly comply with each and every of the terms of this article shall be subject, upon due notice and hearing, to suspension or revocation by the mayor and council of the city.
(Code 1965, § 22B-4)
