Chapter 16 - SOLID WASTE MANAGEMENT[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Charter reference— Authority to provide for the collection and disposal of garbage, rubbish and refuse, § 1.02(j).
Cross reference— Soil and sedimentation control, ch. 15; utilities, ch. 21.
State Law reference— Authorization to provide garbage and solid waste collection and disposal, Ga. Const. art. 9, sec. 2, par. 3; Solid Waste Management Act, O.C.G.A. § 12-8-20 et seq.; hazardous waste disposal, O.C.G.A. § 12-8-61 et seq.; Litter Control Law, O.C.G.A. § 16-7-40; transporting garbage or waste across state or county boundaries pursuant to contract, O.C.G.A. § 36-1-16; Resource Recovery Development Authorities Law, O.C.G.A. § 36-63-1 et seq.; littering highways, O.C.G.A. § 40-6-249; wrecker driver required to remove glass and parts of vehicle being towed, O.C.G.A. § 40-6-277.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 16-1. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Building materials shall mean any material such as lumber, brick, plaster, gutters or other substances accumulated as a result of repairs or additions to additions to existing buildings, construction of new buildings or demolition of existing structures.
Bulk containers shall mean a metal container of not less than two cubic yards capacity nor larger than eight cubic yards, made of watertight construction with doors opening on top and constructed so that it can be emptied mechanically by a specially equipped truck.
Chief executive officer shall mean the mayor or the city administrator and his duly authorized representative and agents.
Commercial establishment shall mean any retail, manufacturing, wholesale, institutional, religious, governmental or other nonresidential establishment at which garbage and/or trash may be generated.
Garbage shall mean domestic wastes composed of meat, vegetable and fruit scraps, cans, glass, paper, cardboard, rags, ashes and other such waste matter normally to be disposed of from residences, eating establishments and other businesses.
Garbage receptacle shall mean a metal or plastic container for garbage and small items of trash made of substantial construction with tight fitting lids and provided with handles and/or wheels sufficient for safe and convenient handling. Such receptacles shall have a capacity of not less than ten gallons nor more than 32 gallons and shall be kept in serviceable condition. In the event that the city should standardize containers by using a semiautomated garbage system with plastic carts of 80—90 gallons capacity, the above specifications would apply to any supplemental containers.
Hazardous refuse shall mean materials such as poison, acids, caustics, chemicals, infected materials, radioactive materials, fecal matter, offal, explosives and similar items.
Industrial waste shall mean all waste, including sludges, solids, semi-solids and liquids created by factories, processing plants or other manufacturing enterprises.
Landfill shall mean an area, location, tract of land or a facility used or intended to be used for the disposal of solid waste, putrescible waste, hazardous waste or other waste as designed and operated as such by the county or by any person subject to the approval of the chief executive officer.
Large dead animals shall mean cattle, horses and other animals of similar size.
Litter shall mean and include garbage, trash, commercial wastes and other wastes which is scattered about or accumulated in an untidy manner.
Litter container shall mean a container with a capacity of not less than 20 gallons nor more than 60 gallons of durable construction to be located along the sidewalks of the city. The location and type of containers are subject to approval of the chief executive officer.
Loading and unloading area shall mean space or area used by any moving vehicle for the purpose of receiving, shipping and transporting of goods, wares, commodities and persons.
Multiple residential unit shall mean any duplex, apartment, group of apartments, boarding- house, motel or condominium used for dwelling places of more than one family.
Refuse shall mean garbage, trash, commercial waste and other wastes.
Scavenger shall mean any person who salvages or collects for resale or use, any garbage, paper, cardboard, boxes, crates or other wastes which are being or are to be disposed of from any residence or establishment where people reside, congregate or are employed.
Single residential unit shall mean any dwelling place occupied by one family.
Small dead animals shall mean cats, dogs, small household pets and other animals of similar size.
Trash shall mean leaves, limbs, lumber or wood refuse, boxes, crates, weeds, grass and hedge trimming and similar items.
(Ord. No. 389, § 2, 1-8-81; Ord. No. 403, § 1(K), 1-13-83)
Cross reference— Definitions and rules of construction generally, § 1-2.
Sec. 16-2. - Superintendent of the sanitation department—Appointment.
The city council hereby provides for the appointment of a superintendent of the sanitation department of the city. The superintendent shall be appointed by the chief executive officer and such appointment shall be approved by the city council.
(Ord. No. 389, § 3, 1-8-81)
Sec. 16-3. - Same—Duties.
The duties of the sanitation superintendent shall be to:
(1)
Supervise the collection of garbage and trash; supervise garbage and trash collection personnel.
(2)
Establish collection schedules in accordance with the provisions of this chapter.
(3)
Monitor the operation of any private landfill sites inside the city limits to the satisfaction of the chief executive officer or his duly authorized representative.
(4)
Promulgate rules and regulations which are conducive to the health of the citizens and the cleanliness of the city as to collection days, collection routes and picking up trash and garbage to the satisfaction of the chief executive officer or his duly authorized representative.
(Ord. No. 389, § 3.1, 1-8-81)
Sec. 16-4. - Enforcement.
It shall be the duty of the chief executive officer to enforce this chapter. He may designate the following agencies or individuals to actively engage in gaining compliance with this chapter: the sanitation department, the police department, the fire department, the streets department and the building inspector, and any other agency or individual he authorizes. All notices issued to violators must be coordinated through the chief executive officer or his duly authorized representative.
(Ord. No. 389, § 4, 1-8-81)
Sec. 16-5. - Violations and penalties.
Any person convicted of not complying with the provisions of this chapter shall be punished in accordance with section 1-14.
(Ord. No. 389, § 5, 1-8-81)
Sec. 16-6. - Inspection division.
(a)
The clean community commission, the chief executive officer or inspectors designated by him shall substantiate complaints of violations of any provisions of this chapter. They shall determine if there has been a violation and initiate requests for a compliance with this chapter, by the person violating this chapter.
(b)
The chief executive officer or his designated inspectors shall be authorized to sign a complaint against said violator with the police department. The alleged violator shall be prosecuted in the municipal court of the city.
(Ord. No. 389, § 39, 1-8-81)
Sec. 16-7. - General protection of property rights.
It shall be unlawful for any person to trespass on the rights of another through the neglect of property by causing or allowing unsightly litter, foul odor or potentially dangerous devices to remain on or emanate from the property, or to discard, abandon or cause such on public property or other's private property.
(Ord. No. 389, § 1, 1-8-81)
Sec. 16-8. - Dead animals.
(a)
The city shall collect small dead animals during operating hours provided the body is in a location easily accessible to the collector.
(b)
Owners of large dead animals shall be responsible for their removal and disposal.
(Ord. No. 389, § 28, 1-8-81)
Cross reference— Animals, ch. 4.
Sec. 16-9. - Handbills and advertising matter.
(a)
On vehicles. It shall be unlawful to place in or on any vehicle in the city any handbill, circular, pamphlet, poster, postcard or other literature except with express permission of the owner or occupant of such vehicle.
(b)
On private or public property. It shall be unlawful for any person to place on private or public property any handbill, circular, pamphlet, poster, postcard or other literature, except with the express permission of the owner of the property of the intended recipient.
(c)
Exceptions. Any exception to this section must be approved by the chief executive officer.
(Ord. No. 389, §§ 29—31, 1-8-81)
Sec. 16-10. - Scavenging.
(a)
No person other than the owner thereof, or an agent or employee of the city, shall interfere with any container placed for the purpose of storing refuse pending collection, or remove or take any of the contents thereof, or remove any such container from the location where the same shall have been placed by the owner thereof.
(b)
No person shall be permitted to scavenge or reclaim any refuse which has been delivered to a disposal site for disposal without having first received permission to reclaim items from the chief executive officer.
(Ord. No. 389, §§ 36, 37, 1-8-81)
Sec. 16-11. - Air curtain destructor.
(a)
The city administrator is authorized to establish guidelines and regulations to manage and control the disposal of waste in the air curtain destructor, and to maintain its efficient use in compliance with state environmental protection regulations.
(b)
The director of the city sanitation and street department, assisted as necessary by the county road superintendent, is in charge of daily operations and maintenance of the air curtain destructor to correctly operate and preserve its use along with related site maintenance and equipment used on site.
(c)
The priority use of the air curtain destructor shall be to dispose of all environmentally sanctioned waste collected by city-county work crews in the performance of their daily assigned tasks within the city-county area, and environmentally sanctioned waste transported to the destructor site by private city-county citizens.
(d)
The secondary use of the air curtain destructor shall be to dispose of all environmentally sanctioned waste transported to the air curtain destructor site by private contractors working in support of city-county citizens and local city-county industrial and commercial companies.
(e)
The city administrator is authorized to charge and collect fees for the secondary use of the air curtain destructor. The charge or fee shall be based on the size of the vehicle bed used in disposal. The fee schedule shall be set from time to time by the city council and county commissioners and a schedule of such fees is on file in the city clerk's office.
(f)
The fees for the disposal of environmentally sanctioned waste shall be billed monthly, received, accounted for and placed in the general fund of the city by the city clerk. These funds are to be expended only for maintenance on the air curtain destructor and related equipment, and for the purchase of new equipment related to the disposal process as authorized by the city council and county commissioners.
(Ord. No. 449, 8-10-89)
Charter reference— Authority to impose charges or fees to cover the cost of solid waste collection, § 1.02(j).
Sec. 16-12. - Unauthorized use of solid waste containers.
Solid waste containers provided by the City of Thomson for residential use within the City of Thomson shall be utilized only by those persons to whom the container is issued to include members of the immediate family. However, the commercial containers provided by the City of Thomson to commercial entities shall be utilized only by the commercial entity issued the solid waste container. Disposal of solid waste or any other matter in a city-issued container by persons not authorized for disposal of solid waste in such container shall constitute a violation of this ordinance and such violation shall be punishable as provided under Section 1-14 of the Code of Ordinances of the City of Thomson.
(Ord. No. 479, § 1, 10-13-94)
Editor's note— Ord. No. 479, § 1, adopted Oct. 13, 1994, has been codified herein at the discretion of the editor as § 16-12.
Secs. 16-13—16-35. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - GARBAGE

Sec. 16-36. - Roll cart system.
(a)
Applicability. The provisions of this section apply only to the "roll cart system." Except as provided in this section, the "roll cart system" shall be the only approved system for the use by residential customers in the city.
(b)
Ownership of carts. The carts shall remain the property of the city and will be assigned to residents for the health, safety, convenience, and general welfare of the occupant.
(c)
Placement; contents. The person having authority to control the disposal of garbage in any household shall cause all garbage collected therein to be placed in a receptacle by the city and placed at the curb on scheduled collection days. Only garbage may be placed in approved containers.
(d)
Weight. The combined weight of a container and its contents shall not exceed 200 pounds and container shall not be filled to overflowing.
(e)
Identification. Where more than one family occupies a dwelling or apartment, the garbage receptacles shall be marked by the city so as to indicate the family using the particular garbage receptacle. The receptacle may be identified by putting the apartment number thereon or the name of the household. When receptacles are so identified, such receptacle may be used only by the person whose name or other identification is shown thereon.
(f)
Lost, stolen or damaged containers. Any residential container provided by the city which becomes lost, stolen, or damaged shall be replaced by the city and cost for such replacement shall be borne by the city or property owner depending upon the circumstances of damages or disappearance. The city shall be sole determiner as to responsibility. Containers which are damaged through normal usage shall be repaired or replaced by the city.
(g)
Commercial containers used. The owner of apartment houses, including public housing, condominiums, and townhouses, consisting of six or more attached living units, may be furnished commercial containers in sufficient number to adequately contain the garbage and refuse disposal at such location. The decision to use commercial containers will be at the discretion of the city. The type, size, number and location of such commercial containers required shall be subject to the approval of the public works department, but in no instance shall the size of said commercial container be less than four cubic yards.
(h)
Maintenance of container. It shall be the responsibility of the occupant to maintain all garbage containers serving his property in a clean and sanitary manner, free of obnoxious odors, maggots, insects and rodents, or any other conditions which may render them unhealthy to the occupants of the apartment or the neighborhood, in compliance with state and county health code requirements.
(i)
Location of container. Receptacles provided to residences by the city as provided in subsection (a) of this section shall be placed in the area between the sidewalk and curb or in an accessible place approved by the public works department. Containers shall not be placed at the curbside before 7:00 p.m. on the day preceding the collection day and shall be removed from the curbside when collected on collection day. Exceptions to this requirement may be granted by the public works department for persons with physical limitations which prevent placement of the garbage receptacles at the curb, provided such person submits a written request for the exception.
(j)
Time of collection. The public works department shall provide a schedule to each residence receiving garbage collection service from the city which shall indicate the days on which such collection will be made.
(Ord. No. 403, § 1, 1-13-83)
Sec. 16-37. - Collection by city.
(a)
The City of Thomson shall be and hereby is the only entity authorized to collect garbage inside the City of Thomson and no other entity, party, person, or corporation shall be permitted or authorized to collect and/or dispose of garbage from residential household and commercial sites inside the City of Thomson.
(b)
A violation of this section shall be punishable as provided for in this Code.
(Ord. No. 492, §§ 1, 2, 7-11-96)
Editor's note— Ord. No. 492, adopted July 11, 1996, has been codified herein at the discretion of the editor as § 16-37.
Secs. 16-38—16-60. - Reserved.
ARTICLE III. - TRASH AND LITTER

Sec. 16-61. - Littering forbidden.
It shall be unlawful for any person to place or cause to be placed any litter on any street, alley, public property or private property in the city.
(Ord. No. 389, § 9, 1-8-81)
Sec. 16-62. - Collection.
The city shall provide weekly collection of trash. Such trash shall be placed either at the curb or at the alley on the person's property on collection day. Under no circumstances shall any person place or cause to be placed any trash or litter upon any alley, street or drain of the city. No trash shall be placed on any sidewalk unless there is no other place at the curb for the placement of such trash, and such a placement will be allowed only on collection day.
(1)
Precollection practices. All tree and shrubbery trimmings must be no larger than four inches in diameter nor longer than four feet or they will not be collected by the city. Tree and shrubbery limbs shall have protruding branches trimmed and must be neatly stacked and placed in an orderly manner at curbside or alley. Christmas trees are exempt from these provisions.
(2)
Exception. Tree and shrubbery branches, limbs and trimmings cut by landscape or tree service contractors or other commercial workmen or resulting from land being cleared shall not be collected by the city, but shall be collected and removed by those who have cut it.
(Ord. No. 389, § 10, 1-8-81)
Sec. 16-63. - Trash control.
Any accumulation of trash or other waste items on any lot, property, premises, public street, alley or other public or private place not permitted by this article, is hereby declared to be a public nuisance and is prohibited. The owner or occupant of the premises shall remove such debris within two weeks of the date of notification. Failure of owner or occupant to remove and correct any such accumulation of trash or litter shall be deemed a violation of this article. The chief executive officer is authorized and empowered to provide for the removal of such debris with any costs being assessed against the property owner upon whose premises the work is done, and, in the event the bill for such charges remains unpaid for 30 days after it has been rendered, such unpaid bill shall become a lien upon the premises enforceable in the same manner as provided for the collection of unpaid taxes.
(1)
Areas surrounding businesses. The proprietor or person in charge of every business and commercial establishment is hereby required to keep the sidewalks abutting such business, driveways, yards, loading docks, parking lots and area clean at all times with sweepings placed in a container as specified in sections 16-36 through 16-38.
(2)
Parking lots. Every owner or operator of a private or commercial parking lot in conjunction with every owner or operator of any store fronting on that parking lot shall provide litter containers at a location as specified in section 16-1 and of a type as specified by the chief executive officer or his representative.
(3)
Trapped litter. The owner, occupant or lessee of all property is required to remove all trapped litter and place the same in a proper container for collection. Vacant lots, borders, parking lots, embankments, fences, walls and sidewalks are to be kept free of litter. Parking lots, shopping centers, convenience stores, drive-in restaurants and all commercial and industrial enterprises will insure that no litter remains on their property.
(4)
Trucks and automobiles. It shall be unlawful for any person to operate any vehicle upon any public street, lane, alley, park or reserve within the city unless the cargo is in containers or covered by a tarpaulin in such a manner as to prevent any part of its contents from falling or being scattered upon any such public street, lane, alley, park or reserve in the city.
(5)
Construction sites. The property owners and the prime contractor in charge of a construction site are required to furnish litter containers for construction and workmen litter. All litter from construction activities or any related activities shall be containerized and all litter will be picked up and placed in containers at the end of each work day. All litter must be collected and deposited prior to the completion of the construction project.
(Ord. No. 389, § 11, 1-8-81)
Sec. 16-64. - Special collections.
Upon request, the city shall collect normal household discarded furniture and appliances, including sofas, chairs, beds, refrigerators, washers, dryers, hotwater heaters and similar items. Persons requesting this service shall be notified by the sanitation superintendent as to the date collection will occur. This service shall be available for residential areas only.
(Ord. No. 389, § 12, 1-8-81)
Secs. 16-65—16-85. - Reserved.
ARTICLE IV. - OUTSIDE STORAGE

Sec. 16-86. - Junked materials.
It shall be unlawful for any person to place of leave outside any building or dwelling except as specified in section 16-64 any dilapidated furniture, appliance, machinery, equipment, building material, junked motor vehicle, or other item which is either in a wholly or partially rusted, wrecked, junked, dismantled or inoperative condition, and which is not completely enclosed within a building or dwelling. Any such item or items which remain on the property of the occupant for a period of two weeks after notice of violations of this section shall be presumed to be abandoned and subject to being removed from the property by the city without further notice. This shall not apply to authorized junk dealers or currently licensed establishments engaged in the repair, rebuilding, reconditioning or salvaging of equipment or furniture.
(Ord. No. 389, § 13, 1-8-81)
Charter reference— Authority to prescribe standards of health and sanitation, § 1.02(i).
Sec. 16-87. - Fencing required.
All authorized junk dealers or licensed establishments engaged in the repair, rebuilding, reconditioning or salvaging of equipment or furniture are hereby required to erect a fence such that the junk materials cannot be seen from the street. The erection of such fence must be of a kind, size and location agreeable to the chief executive officer.
(Ord. No. 389, § 14, 1-8-81)
Sec. 16-88. - Appliances.
It shall be unlawful for any person to leave outside any building in a place accessible to children any appliance, refrigerator or other container of any kind which has an airtight snap lock or similar device without first removing the lock or door from such appliance, refrigerator or container. This shall not apply to any appliances, refrigerators or container which has been placed on or adjacent to the rear of the building and is crated, strapped or locked to such an extent that it is impossible for a child to obtain access to any airtight compartment thereof.
(Ord. No. 389, § 15, 1-8-81)
Secs. 16-89—16-110. - Reserved.
ARTICLE V. - ABANDONED MOTOR VEHICLES[2]

Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
Cross reference— Motor vehicles and traffic, ch. 11; streets and sidewalks, ch. 18.
State Law reference— Abandoned motor vehicles, O.C.G.A. § 40-11-1 et seq.

Sec. 16-111. - Exceptions.
This article shall not apply to authorized automobile dealers or to authorized junk dealers in the operation of their businesses.
(Ord. No. 389, § 23, 1-8-81)
Sec. 16-112. - Abandonment unlawful.
It shall be unlawful to abandon any motor vehicle on any public street or public grounds or upon any private property, and it shall be unlawful for any person owning private property to abandon or to knowingly permit the abandonment thereupon of any motor vehicle.
(Ord. No. 389, § 16, 1-8-81)
Sec. 16-113. - Determination of abandonment.
For the purposes of this article, a motor vehicle shall be determined to have been abandoned in any of the following circumstances:
(1)
If it is partially dismantled or wrecked and it is left on a street, alley or sidewalk for a period of five day or longer.
(2)
If it is left on private property without the consent of the owner, occupant or lessee thereof for 48 hours or longer.
(3)
If it is left on any public street, alley or sidewalk of the city for seven days or longer.
(4)
If it is partially dismantled, wrecked or incapable of self-propulsion and is left by the owner on his own property for seven days or longer.
(Ord. No. 389, § 17, 1-8-81)
Sec. 16-114. - Removal.
Any abandoned vehicle may be removed to a storage area for safekeeping by or under the direction of the police department or other person so designated by the city. Written notice by mail of such removal shall be promptly given to the registered owner of the vehicle.
(1)
Exception. No abandoned vehicle shall be removed from private property without the written request of the owner, lessee or occupant of the premises unless such vehicle has been found by the chief executive officer to be a health or safety hazard.
(2)
Fencing required. If an abandoned vehicle remains on private property and is not judged to be a health or safety hazard, but is judged by the chief executive officer to be an eyesore then fencing is required as specified in section 16-87.
(Ord. No. 389, § 18, 1-8-81)
Sec. 16-115. - Disposition of vehicles.
(a)
The owner of any removed abandoned vehicle, before obtaining possession thereof, shall pay to the chief executive officer all reasonable costs incidental to the removal, storage and locating of the owner.
(b)
Should such owner fail or refuse to pay the costs, or should his identity or whereabouts be unknown and unascertainable after a search by the chief executive officer or his designated agent and after notice as prescribed in this section the stored vehicle may be sold after 20 days notice has been given to the department of motor vehicles before the date of the sale, and after the vehicle has been held for not less than 30 days and notice has been published once a week for two weeks in the official organ of the city.
(c)
The vehicle may be sold at public sale to the highest bidder for cash.
(d)
A vehicle of an appraised value of less than $100.00 may be disposed of by any means in the discretion of the chief executive officer.
(e)
The funds derived from the sale of such motor vehicle shall be paid into the general fund of the city, from which expenses of such sale shall be paid.
(Ord. No. 389, § 19, 1-8-81)
Sec. 16-116. - Junk motor vehicles.
(a)
Any abandoned vehicle which is inoperable, dismantled, or damaged, five years old or older, and worth less than $100.00 shall be deemed a junk vehicle. A junk vehicle shall be held at least 15 days, during which time the owner may reclaim it by exhibiting proof of ownership and paying all reasonable costs incident to removal and storage and administrative expenses.
(b)
An unclaimed junk vehicle may be destroyed or otherwise disposed of after 15 days. Notice shall be given within 15 days after final disposition to the department of motor vehicles that it was deemed a junk vehicle and disposed of as such. This notice shall fully and accurately describe such vehicle.
(c)
Any proceeds derived from the disposition of junk vehicles shall be deposited in a general fund of the city.
(Ord. No. 389, § 20, 1-8-81)
Sec. 16-117. - Disposition with owner's consent.
With the owner's consent, the city may remove and dispose of any vehicle as a junk motor vehicle regardless of value or condition of such vehicle and without waiting the 15-day period.
(Ord. No. 389, § 21, 1-8-81)
Sec. 16-118. - Immunity.
No person shall be held to answer in any civil or criminal action to any owner, lien holder or other person legally entitled to the possession of any abandoned, lost or stolen motor vehicle for disposing of it as contemplated in this article.
(Ord. No. 389, § 22, 1-8-81)
Secs. 16-119—16-140. - Reserved.
ARTICLE VI. - HAZARDOUS REFUSE AND BUILDING MATERIALS[3]

Footnotes:
--- (3) ---
Cross reference— Buildings and building regulations, ch. 5.

Sec. 16-141. - Generally.
No hazardous refuse or building materials shall be placed in any receptacle used for collection by the city, nor shall the same be collected by the city. It shall be unlawful for any person to dispose of any soiled lint, cotton or bandages, or waste or refuse of any character whatsoever from any hospital, sanitarium, infirmary, clinic or undertakers' shops, whether public or private, in any manner except by incineration. Kitchen wastes from such establishments are expressly except from this requirement.
(Ord. No. 389, § 26, 1-8-81)
Sec. 16-142. - Industrial wastes.
No industrial wastes shall be placed in any receptacle used by the city for collection, nor shall the same be collected by the city. The producer of such waste must dispose of it in a manner to be approved by the chief executive officer or his representative.
(Ord. No. 389, § 26.1, 1-8-81)
Secs. 16-143—16-165. - Reserved.
ARTICLE VII. - PRIVATE LANDFILLS

Sec. 16-166. - Private sites.
It shall be unlawful for any person to deposit or permit to be deposited on land under his ownership and control any refuse without first having obtained a disposal area permit as required by the regulations of the state department of public health and acceptance of the site for such use and purpose by the chief executive officer of the city.
(Ord. No. 389, § 35, 1-8-81)
Sec. 16-167. - General maintenance.
It shall be the duty and responsibility of the owner of any private disposal site to keep the site in an orderly condition and maintained so as not to be a public nuisance or a menace to public health.
(Ord. No. 389, § 35.1, 1-8-81)
Sec. 16-168. - Right to enter to inspect.
The chief executive officer or his representative, or an authorized representative of the department of public health, shall be permitted to enter private disposal sites at any time during normal business hours for free and unhindered inspections to determine compliance with this article and all other pertinent laws and regulations.
(Ord. No. 389, § 35.2, 1-8-81)
Secs. 16-169—16-200. - Reserved.
ARTICLE VIII. - COLLECTION FEES[4]

Footnotes:
--- (4) ---
Editor's note— Provisions enacted by §§ 1, 2 of Ord. No. 478, adopted July 8, 1994, have been included herein at the discretion of the editor as Art. VIII, §§ 16-201, 16-202.

Sec. 16-201. - Residential collection fees.
(a)
The mayor and council shall levy and assess a monthly solid waste fee as designated by mayor and council against each residential dwelling unit, for the collection and disposal of solid waste from such residential dwelling unit. This base fee shall provide for the collection of at least one authorized container not less than one time per week. Where any building, apartment house, complex or housing project is comprised of more than one residential dwelling unit or apartment, then the charge shall be levied separately against each such residential unit or apartment, within the corporate limits of the city. Exemptions from the monthly fee for residential units shall be made only in instances where the residential unit is not occupied and where city water services have been disconnected at the request of the occupant.
(b)
The administrative department or any other entity designated by council shall act as billing and collection agency for the garbage collection charge. All monies so collected shall pass directly to the city treasurer for deposit to the city. The charges for all city provided utility services; to include solid waste disposal, shall be billed collectively and failure to pay the total sum due shall cause the recipient of services to have all utility services terminated after ten (10) days written notice to the service recipient.
(Ord. No. 478, § 1, 7-8-94)
Sec. 16-202. - Commercial service.
(a)
For commercial and professional establishments, the city service will provide for the collection of at least one authorized container not less than one time per week during regular city business hours. Any persons or firms receiving such services shall at any time abide by the rules and regulations established by the city with respect to the type of containers used for the storage of waste, the locations of such containers, the sharing of containers by mutual recipients of the services, the measuring of such waste, the charges imposed therefor, or otherwise. Such facilities shall clean or provide for cleaning of their containers and areas surrounding containers to maintain them in a sanitary manner.
(b)
The mayor and council shall assess and levy a monthly solid waste fee as designated by mayor and council against each commercial and professional establishment for solid waste services.
(c)
The administrative department or any other entity designated by council shall act as billing and collection agency for the garbage collection charge. All monies so collected shall pass directly to the city treasurer for deposit to the city. The charges for all city provided utility services, to include solid waste disposal, shall be billed collectively and failure to pay the total sum due shall cause the recipient of services to have all utility services terminated after ten (10) days written notice to the service recipient.
(Ord. No. 478, § 2, 7-8-94)
