Chapter 78 - SUBDIVISIONS[1]

Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Cross reference— Boards and commissions, § 2-106 et seq.; buildings and building regulations, ch. 18; floods, ch. 54; historic preservation, ch. 58; streets, sidewalks and other public places, ch. 74; zoning, ch. 98.
State Law reference— Georgia Land Sales Act, O.C.G.A. § 44-3-1 et seq.; approval by planning commission or governing authority on plat of subdivision required for filing or recording in superior court clerk's office, O.C.G.A. § 15-6-67(d).

Sec. 78-1. - Purpose of chapter.
It is the purpose of this chapter to prevent useless streets or extensions becoming a part of the city public street system, to prevent streets being laid out and opened in a dangerous or impracticable manner or with improper courses, and to enable the city to more readily serve property owners who may build dwellings in new subdivisions. This chapter shall be construed to effect the purposes stated in this section.
(Code 1965, § 28-1)
Sec. 78-2. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Estate subdivision-class one means any subdivision in which each residential lot therein contains a minimum of one acre of land.
Estate subdivision-class two means any subdivision in which each residential lot therein contains a minimum of two acres of land.
Subdivision means any division or development of land area for residential use which will bring into existence any new street or road intended for vehicular travel by the public in general.
(Code 1965, § 28-1.1; Ord. No. 856, § 1, 4-16-96)
Cross reference— Definitions generally, § 1-2.
Sec. 78-3. - Compliance with chapter prerequisite to acceptance by city of new streets or extensions.
The city shall be under no duty or obligation to accept, nor shall it accept any new street or street extension in any subdivision in such city or through any other undeveloped property in such city, as a part of the public street system of such city unless and until the provisions of this chapter are fully complied with.
(Code 1965, § 28-2)
Sec. 78-4. - Application to develop property—Contents.
(a)
Any person desiring to open up a subdivision, including in that term also any undeveloped property, within the corporate limits of the city as now constituted or as hereafter extended, to sell lots in such subdivision or to erect dwellings therein, and to lay out and open new streets or new street extensions to serve such subdivision, shall, before opening up such subdivision and opening up any new streets or street extensions, file with the city manager a written application to have such proposed new streets or extensions accepted as part of the public street system of the city, and to have, in strict accordance with the provisions of this chapter, such new streets or extensions of streets curbed, guttered and paved; to have water mains and lines, storm drains and sewers, and sewage mains and lines laid under and along; and electric light poles and lines erected over and along, such new streets or extensions, together with any sewage pumping stations that may be necessary, for the purpose of serving the lots abutting on such proposed new streets or extensions. Such applicant shall accompany such application with three copies of a plat of the proposed subdivision, which plat shall fully show and delineate the size, shape and location of the proposed lots in the subdivision, identified by lot and block number; the locations, courses and widths of the streets, which, including sidewalks, must in no event be less than 50 feet, grade levels and drainage plans of the proposed new streets or extensions therein, together with the relation of such proposed new streets or extensions to existing streets in the city with which the proposed new streets or extensions will connect; the proposed names by which applicant desires the proposed new streets to be known, which proposed names shall not be the same as that of any existing street in the city or of such similarity as to cause confusion, should any proposed street be accepted as part of the public street system of the city.
(b)
Such application shall contain an agreement or statement signifying applicant agreement to be bound by all of the provisions of this chapter, and all further proceedings of the city pursuant to such application shall be conditioned upon agreement of the applicant.
(Code 1965, § 28-3; Ord. No. 988, § 1, 10-18-05)
Sec. 78-5. - Same—Fee.
At the time of the filing of the application required by section 78-4, the applicant shall pay to the city a fee as set forth in the schedule of fees and charges to be applied toward the cost of investigation by the city engineer as provided in section 78-6, no part of which fee is to be refunded to the applicant.
(Code 1965, § 28-4; Ord. No. 856, § 2, 4-16-96)
Sec. 78-6. - Same—Referral by mayor and city council for investigation; approval; factors to be considered in granting approval.
The application required by section 78-4, together with such plat, shall be referred by the mayor and city council to the city engineer, who shall investigate such application, plat and proposed subdivision and shall make a report to the mayor and city council, showing:
(1)
The advisability of the city's acceptance of the proposed new streets or extensions in such subdivision as a part of the public street system of the city;
(2)
Whether the proposed names of such proposed new streets conflict with, or are likely to be confused with, the name of any existing street in the city;
(3)
Whether the courses of such new streets or extensions are properly oriented with existing streets with which same connect;
(4)
The proper grade levels of the proposed new streets and extensions;
(5)
The estimated total cost to the city of establishing and erecting the electric poles and lines over and along such new streets and extensions; and
(6)
The specifications which shall control the applicant in the laying of the water mains and lines, storm drains and sewers, and sewage mains and lines in and along such new streets or extensions, together with the specifications for the curbing, guttering, draining and fine-grading and subsoiling of such proposed new streets and extensions, which specifications shall include the number, location and capacity of any sewage pumping stations to be required of such applicant by the city, all of which data shall be furnished to such applicant as provided in section 78-8.
(Code 1965, § 28-5)
Sec. 78-7. - Same—Notice of provisional acceptance.
The mayor and city council shall consider such application and, if they deem it for the best interest of the city, shall authorize the provisional acceptance of such proposed new streets and extensions as a part of the public street system of the city, conditioned upon the applicant complying with each and every one of the terms of this chapter as well as all other requirements the mayor and city council deem proper as to change of proposed name of any such proposed new street and as to change of the course of any such proposed new street or extension and as to grade and drainage thereof. Suitable notice of such provisional acceptance and as to the conditions thereof shall be given such applicant by the mayor and city council.
(Code 1965, § 28-6)
Sec. 78-8. - Compliance with requirements of provisional acceptance by applicant.
Upon receipt of the notice referred to in section 78-7 from the mayor and city council, it shall be the duty of the applicant within 30 days thereafter to:
(1)
Change the names of proposed new streets, if so required by the mayor and city council.
(2)
Change the courses of such proposed new streets or extensions to comply with the requirements of such mayor and city council if so required in such provisional acceptance.
(3)
Rough grade and provide drainage for, at the applicant's own expense, such proposed new streets and extension to the grade and specifications recommended in the city engineer's report, and furnish such satisfactory evidence as the city may require that all expenses thereof have been paid by the applicant.
(4)
Contract, in writing, with the city that the applicant will, at the time required by the city under the terms of this chapter, establish and lay such water mains and lines, storm drains and sewers, and sewage mains and lines in and along such proposed streets and extensions, including any sewage pumping stations required by the specifications prepared pursuant to section 78-6(6), and to pay the costs thereof, except that the city shall covenant to pay 15 percent of the costs of the materials for the water mains and lines, storm catch basins, and sewer mains, lines and pumping stations. Applicant, in said contract, shall further agree, at the entire expense of the applicant, to curb, gutter, fine-grade and subsoil, in preparation for paving, and, when all of such work has been approved by the city, applicant shall then pave each such new street, or street extension, in strict accordance with the specifications of the city. When such paving is completed to the satisfaction of the city, the city will then reimburse the applicant for 25 percent of the costs of the final 1½ inches of asphalt top coat. Applicant shall also covenant and agree to pay 100 percent of the costs incurred by the city to extend electric service to, and through out, the subdivision, including the costs of street lights as well as to pay to the city all expenses incurred by city in connection with the review and acceptance of streets and subdivision plans, including, but not being limited to legal fees, engineering and surveying fees, which said expenses shall be deducted from any sums due the applicant under this section.
(5)
Applicant shall further covenant in said contract to provide to the city, at applicant's expense, a plat of each section of such subdivision, showing thereon the location, as built, of all underground utilities, exclusive of those located within the subdivision streets, including water, sewer, telephone, gas and cable lines, and to update such plat whenever additional underground utilities are installed.
(6)
In order to qualify for the reimbursements provided for herein, the applicant must present proof, in a form and manner satisfactory to the city manager, that applicant has paid, in full, all costs and expenses for labor and materials incurred in connection with all aspects of the development for which partial reimbursement is sought from the city.
(Code 1965, § 28-7; Ord. No. 856, § 3, 4-16-96; Ord. No. 988, § 2, 10-18-05)
Editor's note— Ord. No. 988, § 4, provides: "The provisions of Section 78-8, enacted by this Ordinance, shall not apply to any development projects completed prior to October 18, 2005; such projects shall be governed by the provisions of Section 78-8 in effect prior to the adoption of this Ordinance."
Sec. 78-9. - Final acceptance of application by city.
If such application is provisionally approved, as provided in section 78-7, and the applicant thereafter complies with section 78-8, then the mayor and city council shall pass an ordinance accepting such proposed new streets and extensions as a part of the public street system of such city, which acceptance thereof shall be conditioned upon the applicant's satisfactory compliance with all the requirements of section 78-8, and thereupon, such city shall, as soon as reasonably possible, cause electric light poles and lines to be erected over and along such new streets and extensions in order to make connections therewith available to dwellings erected on the lots in such subdivision abutting on such new streets and extensions.
(Code 1965, § 28-8)
Sec. 78-10. - Water mains.
When the mayor and city council shall cause the utility lines enumerated in section 78-9 to be erected over and along such new streets and extensions, the mayor and city council shall thereupon notify such applicant in writing that they have completed the installation of such utilities. Thereupon, such applicant shall, within 90 days thereafter, or at such other time or times as the city may specify for all or a part or parts thereof to be done, comply with the covenants contained in contract executed pursuant to section 78-8(4) hereof; provided that the applicant completing the work provided for in section 78-8(4), or any contractor employed by such applicant to do such work, shall furnish to the mayor and the city council satisfactory evidence that he or his contractor is adequately insured with workmen's compensation, public liability, and property damage insurance with a company satisfactory to the mayor and city council, copies of which shall be furnished, upon request, to such mayor and council; and upon completion of such work, the applicant and any contractor employed by applicant shall furnish to the city an affidavit that all expenses for which applicant is liable hereunder have been paid in full.
(Code 1965, § 28-9; Ord. No. 856, § 4, 4-16-96)
Sec. 78-11. - Streets; compliance with state standards.
Streets that are to be located in subdivisions subject to the curbing and guttering requirements of this chapter shall be so designed as to meet the general criteria and standards for city streets as set forth in the "County and City Contract Policy" of the state transportation board as the same exists on the date the street is accepted by the city, and streets which are to be located in any subdivision that is exempt from the curbing and guttering requirements of this chapter shall be so designed as to meet the general criteria and standards for a "rural section designed for a city street" as set forth in the "County and City Contract Policy" as the same exists on the date the street is accepted by the city; provided, however, that any provision in such policy to the contrary notwithstanding, no street having a right-of-way of less than 50 feet shall be accepted by the city. Additional design criteria and specifications may, from time to time, be promulgated by the city manager and city engineer, and, when the same have been adopted by a resolution of the mayor and council, each new subdivision street thereafter accepted by the city shall comply with the pertinent portions thereof.
(Code 1965, § 28-9.1)
Sec. 78-12. - Reserved.
Editor's note— Ord. No. 988, § 3, adopted October 18, 2005, amended the Code by repealing former § 78-12 in its entirety. Former § 78-12 pertained to pavement, and derived from the Code of 1965, § 28-10.
Sec. 78-13. - Charges for light, water and sewer service used by applicant under this chapter.
Nothing contained in this chapter shall ever be construed as relieving the applicant or any owner or occupant of any lot in such subdivision from paying the regular charges, at the same schedule of rates fixed by the city from time to time and applicable to its patrons, for light, water and sewer service used by the applicant or by any such lot owner or occupant, or from paying the regular charges fixed by the city for connection with such water, sewer or electrical lines, or from liability for assessment for sidewalk paving hereafter laid by the city on any such new street or extension.
(Code 1965, § 28-11)
Sec. 78-14. - Refunds for cost of establishing and laying out water mains, etc.
No refunds of any kind shall be made to the applicant or to the owner of any such lots or to any subsequent owner of any of such lots in such subdivision for the cost of establishing and laying such water mains and lines, storm drains and sewers, and sewage mains and lines, and of curbing, guttering, fine-grading, and subsoiling such proposed streets and extensions, all of which shall have been done and paid for by the applicant.
(Code 1965, § 28-12; Ord. No. 856, § 5, 4-16-96)
Sec. 78-15. - Applicability of chapter to new city additions.
Should any new territory be added to the city, and any part thereof be subdivided, either before or after the part is included in the corporate limits of such city, the city shall not accept any streets or street extensions in any such subdivision as a part of the public street system of the city unless and until the owners or developers of such subdivision have complied with all the provisions of this chapter, all of which are hereby made applicable thereto.
(Code 1965, § 28-13)
Sec. 78-16. - Estate subdivisions—Class one and class two; certain exemptions granted.
(a)
Class one. The terms and provisions of this chapter which pertain to the planning for, and require that an applicant under this chapter bear the entire expense of the installation of, curbing and guttering of streets, shall not apply to estate subdivisions-class one. Each estate subdivision-class one hereby exempted from the curbing and guttering requirements of this chapter shall be so zoned as to require that each residential lot located therein contain a minimum of one acre of land, and such area shall not thereafter be rezoned to allow a reduction in the size of any residential lot therein unless and until the applicants for rezoning thereof shall have complied with all of the requirements of this chapter which pertain to subdivisions. Estate subdivisions-class one shall be subject to each and every other requirement herein contained which control the development of subdivisions other than estate subdivisions-class one, such as the requirement for applications, application fees, installing water mains and lines, storm drains and sewers, sanitary sewer mains, lines and pumping stations, street grade, location, name and layout approval, as built plat, and all other such requirements not herein expressly made inapplicable thereto.
(b)
Class two. The terms and provisions of this chapter which pertain to the planning for, and require that an applicant under this chapter bear the expense of the installation of, curbing and guttering of streets, and three-fourths of the costs of installing water mains and lines, storm drains and sewers, sanitary sewer mains, lines and pumping stations, shall not apply to any estate subdivisions-class two. Each estate subdivision-class two hereby exempted from said requirements shall be so zoned as to require that each residential lot located therein contain a minimum of two acres of land, and such area shall not thereafter be rezoned to allow a reduction in the size of any residential lot therein unless and until the applicants for rezoning thereof shall have complied with all of the requirements of this chapter which pertain to subdivisions. Estate subdivisions-class two shall be subject to each and every other requirement herein contained which control the development of subdivisions other than estate subdivisions-class two, such as the requirement for applications, application fees, street grade, location, name and layout approval, as built plat, and all other such requirements not herein expressly made inapplicable thereto.
(Code 1965, § 28-14; Ord. No. 856, § 6, 4-16-96)
