Chapter 46 - COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Cross reference— Buildings and building regulations, ch. 22; businesses, ch. 26; planning, ch. 86; subdivisions, ch. 98; utilities, ch. 110; zoning, app. A.
State Law reference— Redevelopment Powers Law, O.C.G.A. § 36-44-1 et seq.; Urban Redevelopment Law, O.C.G.A. § 36-61-1 et seq.; Development Authorities Law, O.C.G.A. § 36-62-1 et seq.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Secs. 46-1—46-35. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - PHILLIPSBURG-UNIONVILLE REDEVELOPMENT PROGRAM

Sec. 46-36. - Findings.
(a)
Phillipsburg-Unionville is an urbanized area located in the county immediately south of the city limits of Tifton. The characteristics of this area are representative of both slum and blight. Predominately, the vast majority of the housing structures in the area are in various stages of deterioration. Also, the problems that exist as a result of overcrowding, poor drainage, inadequate sewage disposal, unpaved streets, and the lack of decent, safe and sanitary housing are quite evident.
(b)
Regardless of the conditions mentioned in subsection (a) of this section, remarkable improvements have been made in the area over the past ten years. The county, with the assistance of funds from HUD, GRFA, EDA, FmHA as well as local funds, has extended sewer lines, improved drainage, paved streets and improved housing. However, much is left to be done. We find it necessary to implement a plan under the Urban Redevelopment Act as the county enters into a new phase of improvements involving the purchase and subsequent resale of property. The following plan describes the steps that will be taken to correct the deficiencies noted by the county and detailed in subsection (a) of this section.
(Res. of 2-2-87, § A)
Sec. 46-37. - Objectives of article.
The objectives of the county redevelopment plan detailed in section 46-36 are compatible with the community development program currently operated by the county. The objectives are as follows:
(1)
Provide adequate sewage disposal for all citizens in the redevelopment area;
(2)
Bring the housing stock of the redevelopment area up to minimum standards;
(3)
Improve the drainage system in the area;
(4)
Pave residential streets in the area; and
(5)
Acquire and demolish dilapidated houses in the area.
(Res. of 2-2-87, § B)
Sec. 46-38. - Resources.
(a)
The county has demonstrated a willingness to spend local money in order to solve problems in the redevelopment area with the knowledge that their funds are limited. As a result of this, federal funds will be needed in order to make a true impact that will make the objectives in section 46-37 attainable.
(b)
The first and of utmost importance are those funds that are derived from the community development block grant monies from the department of community affairs. EDA, FmHA and GRFA are other important agencies that have resources for potential use in the redevelopment area. At the present, GRFA funds are being used in conjunction with community development block grant and local funds in order to make needed improvements in Phillipsburg-Unionville.
(Res. of 2-2-87, § C)
Sec. 46-39. - Plan of action.
(a)
Using a variety of the funds mentioned in this article, the county will continue to make significant improvements in the redevelopment area. The sewer system will be expanded until all homes are connected. Drainage improvements will be made and streets will be paved. Due to the establishing of a housing rehabilitation fund, rehabilitation of owner-occupied housing will continue. Also, the acquisition of dilapidated structures will not cease as long as funds are available to acquire and demolish such structures.
(b)
In some cases, both the property and dilapidated structure will be acquired. When this should arise the property will be conveyed in such a manner as follows to ensure the county board of commissioners proper development of such property:
Will to be a part of the deed
This property is conveyed subject to the following restrictions:
(1)
Declaration of reuse; i.e. residential, commercial, industrial.
(2)
The property conveyed for redevelopment purposes under the provisions of O.C.G.A. § 36-61-10(a), and the second party shall not sell, lease, or otherwise dispose of such property without written consent of the board of commissioners until completion of the construction as stated in section (1).
(3)
Construction of the redevelopment improvements shall be commenced by the second party within 180 days from the date of this deed.
(4)
All requirements of O.C.G.A. § 36-61-10(b) have been complied with. Notices of sale were published in "The Tifton Gazette" on ________ and ________, 19___.
(c)
Any developer desiring to acquire property for redevelopment must state in his redevelopment bid package the intended use of the property. The redeveloper's reuse plan will in most cases make the deciding factor on bid awards; price alone cannot ensure a successful bid.
(d)
If it is necessary to acquire dilapidated property by legal action, the property owner will first be given the opportunity to develop the property according to this plan. If the owner of the property is not willing to redevelop his property, the county may initiate legal action to acquire the property in question.
(Res. of 2-2-87, § D)
Sec. 46-40. - Coordination.
This plan is in basic agreement with the county's community development goals and objectives, the land use plan, the areawide housing element and the areawide water/sewer plan. There are some inconsistencies with the county zoning ordinance and the intended reuse map, but these problems will be acted upon when necessary by the local planning commission.
(Res. of 2-2-87, § E)
Secs. 46-41—46-65. - Reserved.
ARTICLE III. - COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT DEPARTMENT
DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Secs. 46-66—46-80. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - BLOCK GRANT HOUSING PROGRAM POLICIES AND PROCEDURES

Sec. 46-81. - Adopted.
The policies and procedures for the implementation of the county's community development block grant housing program are adopted by the board of commissioners of the county.
(Mo. of 11-13-89; Mo. of 7-8-85; Res. of 4-11-94(2))
Editor's note— Local municipalities are required to adopt policies and procedures before implementing a housing program funded via the community development block grant program. Such policies and procedures have been prepared by the county community development department and received approval by the state department of community affairs. An official copy of such policies and procedures is on file in the office of the clerk of the board of commissioners.
Secs. 46-82—46-110. - Reserved.
DIVISION 3. - CITIZEN PARTICIPATION PLAN

Sec. 46-111. - Purpose of division.
In order to obtain citizen input into the planning and implementation of programs funded through the Department of Housing and Urban Development's community development block grant program, the county board of commissioners has developed the following citizen participation plan. In general, it provides an open process for participation, with freedom of access for all interested persons; encourages involvement by all citizens, especially those most likely to be directly affected by community development block grant projects; and establishes mechanisms by which citizens are to be afforded adequate and timely information on all phases of the overall community development block grant process, from preapplication to final application to implementation.
(Mo. of 10-14-91(1))
Sec. 46-112. - Public hearing—Notification.
During the initial stage of application development, the county will conduct at least one public hearing. This meeting shall be advertised at least five days prior to being held and will be conducted at a convenient time and in an accessible location. In addition to publishing advertisements in the nonlegal sections of the "Tifton Gazette," the county will also disseminate the information to WWGS and WTIF radio stations.
(Mo. of 10-14-91(1))
Sec. 46-113. - Same—Topics to be covered.
The topics covered at the hearing will include the citizen participation plan, report on previous community development block grant activities, the amount of funds available and explanation of the application process, competition for grants, eligible and ineligible activities, other program requirements, and citizen comments and proposals.
(Mo. of 10-14-91(1))
Sec. 46-114. - Same—Additional.
(a)
If the county is awarded community development block grant funds, another public hearing will be held within 45 days after notification of award to give concerned citizens a full review of how the community development block grant funds will be utilized.
(b)
Throughout all stages of the community development block grant process, the community development review and selection committee will hold regular public meetings at which time citizens views and proposals related to community development will be encouraged and accepted. Minutes of these meetings shall be obtained by the county.
(Mo. of 10-14-91(1))
Sec. 46-115. - Information available for citizen review.
All program information shall be available for citizens review, upon request, either written or verbal, during the normal working hours at the county administrative building. Copies of the following shall be on display in the community development office: All mailings and promotional material; record of hearings; all key documents, including prior applications; the proposed and approved application for the current year; and copies of the community development block grant regulations and explanations of important program requirements, e.g. contracting procedures, the A-95 review process, and equal opportunity provisions. Other information, including the amount of funds for which the county is eligible, the range of activities allowable under the community development block grant program, ineligible activities, the schedule to be followed in the county's development of a community development block grant application, and the citizen participation plan, shall also be disseminated to citizens and discussed at public meetings. Material will be provided on eligible, ineligible and other program requirements so that persons who attend can participate.
(Mo. of 10-14-91(1))
Sec. 46-116. - Technical assistance.
Technical assistance to facilitate citizen understanding and participation shall be provided by the county community development department to neighborhood organizations and to groups of low and moderate income citizens upon request. Requests for technical assistance will be made in writing to the county administrator at P.O. Box 826, Tifton, GA 31793.
(Mo. of 10-14-91(1))
Secs. 46-117—46-135. - Reserved.
DIVISION 4. - REPLACEMENT HOUSING POLICY[2]

Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
Editor's note— The resolution from which this division derives relates to the Housing and Community Development Act of 1974 and section 206 (Last Resort Replacement Housing) of the Uniform Relocation Assistance and Real Property Acquisitions Policies Act of 1970 as well as applicable state law whereby the county is empowered to use project funds to provide comparable housing in the form of new residential construction when it is determined by the director of planning and community development that there is a reasonable likelihood that the project will not be able to proceed because comparable replacement housing within means of the displacee will not be available on a timely basis.

Sec. 46-136. - Established.
When a homeowner is unable to identify a comparable replacement unit, he may be assisted with last resort replacement housing. This alternative includes rehabilitation of, and/or addition to, an existing replacement dwelling, construction of new units, relocation of a replacement dwelling and removal of barriers to the handicapped in a replacement dwelling.
(Res. of 11-11-85(2), § 1)
Sec. 46-137. - Replacement housing payments for homeowners.
Replacement housing payments shall remain in effect as adopted in a resolution dated May 6, 1985, a copy of which is on file in the office of the clerk of the board of commissioners.
(Res. of 11-11-85(2), § 2)
