DIVISION 2. - REGISTRATION OF CARRIERS AND PROVIDERS

Sec. 90-121. - Registration required.
All telecommunications carriers and providers that offer or provide any telecommunications service for a fee directly to the public, either in the unincorporated areas of the county, or outside the unincorporated areas of the county from telecommunications facilities in the unincorporated areas of the county, and whether said telecommunications facilities are located on public property or private property or a combination of public and private property, shall register with the county pursuant to this division on forms to be provided by the county clerk, which shall include the following:
(a)
The identity and legal status of the registrant, including any affiliates.
(b)
The name, address and telephone number of the officer, agent or employee responsible for the accuracy of the registration statement.
(c)
A description of registrant's existing or proposed telecommunications facilities in the unincorporated areas of the county.
(d)
A description of the telecommunications service that the registrant intends to offer or provide, or is currently offering or providing, to persons, firms, businesses or institutions in the unincorporated areas of the county.
(e)
Information sufficient to determine whether the registrant is subject to public way licensing or franchising under this article.
(f)
Information sufficient to determine whether the transmission, origination or receipt of the telecommunications services provided or to be provided by the registrant constitutes an occupation or privilege subject to any telecommunications tax, utility message tax or other occupation tax imposed by the county.
(g)
Information sufficient to determine that the applicant has applied for and received any certificate of authority required by the Georgia Public Service Commission or other applicable agency to provide services or facilities in the unincorporated areas of the county.
(h)
Information sufficient to determine that the applicant has applied for and received any construction permit, operating license or other approvals required by the federal communications commission to provide telecommunications services or facilities in the unincorporated areas of the county.
(i)
Information sufficient to determine that the applicant is a member of the utility protection center.
(j)
Such other information as the county may reasonably require.
(Ord. of 8-11-97)
Sec. 90-122. - Registration fee.
Each application for registration as a telecommunications carrier or provider shall be accompanied by a fee of $25.00.
(Ord. of 8-11-97)
Sec. 90-123. - Purpose of registration.
The purpose of registration under this division is to:
(a)
Provide the county with accurate and current information concerning the telecommunications carriers and providers who offer or provide telecommunications services within the county, or that own or operate telecommunication facilities in the county.
(b)
Assist the county in enforcement of this article.
(c)
Assist the county in the collection and enforcement of any taxes, franchise fees, license fees or charges that may be due the county.
(d)
Assist the county in monitoring compliance with local, state, and federal laws.
(Ord. of 8-11-97)
Secs. 90-124—90-130. - Reserved.
