Chapter 86 - PLANNING[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Cross reference— Buildings and building regulations, ch. 22; businesses, ch. 26; community development, ch. 46; environment, ch. 58; floods, ch. 62; manufactured homes and trailers, ch. 74; subdivisions, ch. 98; utilities, ch. 110; zoning, app. A.
State Law reference— The Zoning Procedures Law, O.C.G.A. § 36-66-1 et seq.; authority to adopt plans and exercise zoning powers, Ga. Const. art. IX, § II, ¶ IV.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 86-1. - Alapaha River Corridor Protection Plan Amendment adopted.
The board of commissioners of the county hereby adopts the Alapaha River Corridor Protection Plan Amendment and transmit notification to the South Georgia Regional Development Center and the state department of community affairs for certification of completion of the amendment process.
(Res. of 10-10-94)
Editor's note— The Alapaha River Corridor Protection Plan Amendment for the county was accepted by the board of commissioners of the county on August 8, 1994. The transmittal resolution was submitted to the South Georgia Regional Development Center and the state department of community affairs, and the plan amendment was reviewed by them and found to be in compliance with the minimum planning standards and procedures and consistent with adopted regional plans and policies.
Secs. 86-2—86-25. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - COMPREHENSIVE PLAN[2]

Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
State Law reference— Coordinated and comprehensive planning by counties and municipalities, O.C.G.A. § 36-70-1 et seq.

Sec. 86-26. - Adopted.
The Tift County Board of Commissioners adopts the 2028 Greater Tift County Comprehensive Plan.
(Mo. of 5-10-93(2); Res. No. 2008-51, 10-13-08)
Secs. 86-27—86-50. - Reserved.
ARTICLE III. - ZONING[3]
Footnotes:
--- (3) ---
State Law reference— Conflicts of interest in zoning actions, O.C.G.A. § 36-67A-1 et seq.; the Zoning Procedures Law, O.C.G.A. § 36-66-1 et seq.; authority to adopt plans and exercise zoning powers, Ga. Const. art. IX, § II, ¶ IV.

DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Secs. 86-51—86-65. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - PUBLIC HEARINGS

Sec. 86-66. - Hearing called.
(a)
Notice; contents; publication. Before taking action on a proposed amendment, the board of commissioners shall hold a public hearing thereon. At least 15 but not more than 45 days' notice of the time, place, and purpose of the hearing shall be published in a newspaper of general circulation within the county. Such notice shall also state the application number and date, and shall contain a summary of the proposed amendment, if a text amendment; and, in the case of a map amendment, the location of the property, its area, the name of the owner or their authorized agent, and the present and proposed zoning classification for the property affected.
(b)
Disclosure by opponents of rezoning action. Further, such advertisement shall advise the public pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 36-67A-3 that any opponent of a proposed rezoning action who has made campaign contributions aggregating $250.00 or more to a local government official of the local government which will consider the application within two years of the date of the application shall be required to file a disclosure with the governing authority of the respective local government showing:
(1)
The name and official position of the local government official to whom campaign contributions were made; and
(2)
The dollar amount and description of each campaign contribution made by the opponent to the local government official during the five years immediately preceding the filing of the application for the proposed rezoning action and the date of each contribution.
Such disclosure shall be required to be filed at least five calendar days prior to the scheduled hearing.
(Mo. of 5-10-93(1)(A))
Sec. 86-67. - Notice to interested parties.
A notice shall be given to the applicant and the planning commission of the date, time, and place of the public hearing. All application files shall be placed in the custody of the zoning administrator and be open to public inspection during regular office hours.
(Mo. of 5-10-93(1)(B))
Sec. 86-68. - Procedure.
(a)
Placement on agenda; opening. All public hearings on zoning matters shall be placed on the board of commissioners' agenda under a section entitled public hearings. The board of commissioners' chairman, or his designee, shall officially declare the public hearing open and shall note that the county's written public hearing procedures, the county's standards for exercise of zoning powers, and a copy of the state's conflict of interest law are available to the attending public as a handout and are posted for public review.
(b)
Announcement of matter for consideration; report of zoning administrator; public input procedures. The zoning administrator and/or designee shall then announce the matter for consideration. The chairman shall then call for acknowledgement of a potential conflict of interest by members of the board of commissioners. The zoning administrator will then report the staff recommendation and the recommendation of the Greater Tift County Planning and Zoning Commission. The chairman shall then allow public input. General procedures to be followed will require citizen comments to be heard in an orderly fashion. Citizens speaking in favor of the request shall be heard first, followed by those opposed to the issue. All speakers will be asked to provide his name and address for the public record. Citizens are requested to keep their comments as brief as possible so that all who wish to be heard will have adequate time. When there is a large number of citizens wishing to testify at a given hearing, the presiding officer may invoke reasonable time limitations on both the proponents and opponents of a request. In such cases, these time limits shall apply to both sides of an issue equally. Citizens shall address their comments to the board of commissioners as a whole. Individual attacks or cross examination of commission members, county employees or other citizens will be ruled out of order. The board of commissioners retains the privilege to ask any questions of staff or any citizen present for clarification.
(c)
Closing of hearing; consideration by board; rendering of decision; approval, denial, tabling. After all citizen comments have been received, all further discussion of the specific application is reserved for the board of commissioners. The chairman shall then declare the public hearing closed, and no further public comment will be entertained. The board of commissioners will then render a decision on the application. Decisions may include approval, denial or tabling of the decision to a time, place and date specific. In the case of tabling of a matter, no further public comment will be entertained upon further consideration of the matter.
(d)
Basis for decision to table issue. When, in the opinion of the board of commissioners, the official public hearing has brought forth substantial new evidence or testimony not available to the Greater Tift County Planning and Zoning Commission at the time of their review of a zoning matter, or should the board of commissioners desire to request further study by the planning and zoning commission of a particular aspect of an application, it shall be the policy of the board of commissioners to table the issue and request that the planning and zoning commission restudy the issue and affirm or amend its recommendation, which action shall be reported to the board of commissioners prior to making a final decision. Under no circumstances will public comment be entertained by the board of commissioners following the closing of the public hearing.
(Mo. of 5-10-93(1)(C))
Secs. 86-69—86-80. - Reserved.
DIVISION 3. - VIOLATION INVESTIGATION AND ENFORCEMENT[4]

Footnotes:
--- (4) ---
Editor's note— Copies of the forms referred to in this division are available in the office of the zoning administrator.

Sec. 86-81. - General procedure.
(a)
Violations brought to zoning administrator. Alleged violations of the county zoning ordinance typically are brought to the attention of the zoning administrator by routine field inspections by various county code enforcement personnel or by citizens' complaints.
(b)
Filling out of form no. 1; assignment of case number. Once a complaint about an alleged violation has been received, zoning staff will fill out an enforcement inspection report (form no. 1) and assign a case number. This report may require additional background work such as identification of property owners, specific property location and size, as well as zoning classification in order to determine specific limitations or requirements for particular properties mandated by the county zoning ordinance.
(c)
Field inspection. Staff will then, as soon as possible, make a field inspection of the alleged violation. Photographs generally should be taken if an alleged violation is noted in order to document field observations. It is generally recommended that field inspections of alleged violations be conducted by two members of the zoning/codes enforcement staff so that inspection report findings can be collaborated in case a specific case might require judicial review or action.
(d)
Time constraint. Staff will attempt to complete steps 1, 2, and 3 in a timely fashion, but generally, these steps can be accomplished in 15 working days.
(Ord. of 9-9-91(1))
Sec. 86-82. - First contact (voluntary compliance).
(a)
Form no. 2; abatement request. If a violation is noted, staff will attempt to make personal contact with the violator, noting the specific actions required to abate the violation. Staff will specify a 15-workday period to correct the violation. A letter (form no. 2) will be sent providing appropriate information and requesting abatement within 15 working days. Dates and requirements, as well as suspense deadlines, will be logged on form no. 1. This letter (form no. 2) will be sent certified mail, return receipt requested.
(b)
Request by violator for extension. If a violator requests extension of time to abate the violation, a 15-workday extension will automatically be granted.
(c)
Reinspection. Staff will utilize a suspense file, and upon contact by the alleged violator, or upon completion of the 15-day waiting period, staff will reinspect the premises for abatement of the violation. Should the inspection indicate that the violation has been abated, the case file will then be closed.
(Ord. of 9-9-91(1))
Sec. 86-83. - Second contact (matter requiring involuntary compliance); notice of violation (form no. 3); enforcement (form no. 4).
Staff will review the case file to date and prepare a certified letter, return receipt requested, notice of violation (form no. 3). This notice will, like the first notice, allow 15 working days for abatement, and a followup field inspection is required. If not utilized during first contact procedure, a 15-workday extension can be granted, upon request by alleged violator, to allow time to abate alleged violation. If the violation has been corrected, the case file will be closed. If not corrected, enforcement action punchlist (form no. 4) will be prepared, an informational copy given to the county administrator, and a full copy of the file forwarded to the county attorney for formal action.
(Ord. of 9-9-91(1))
Sec. 86-84. - Stay of enforcement.
Filing of an appeal to determination of zoning administrator to the zoning board of appeals or filing of an application for rezoning with the board of commissioners will automatically stay enforcement until the appeal or rezoning question is resolved.
(Ord. of 9-9-91(1))
