ARTICLE II. - AIRPORT AUTHORITY[2]

Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
Editor's note— Printed herein is 1968 Ga. Laws, page 2628 which established an airport authority. Amendments to the act are indicated by parenthetical history notes following amended provisions. The absence of a history note indicates that the provision remains unchanged from the original act. Obvious misspellings have been corrected without notation. For stylistic purposes, a uniform system of headings, catchlines and citations to state statutes has been used. Additions made for clarity are indicated by brackets.
Code reference—Aviation, ch. 18.
State Law reference— Aviation, O.C.G.A. § 6-1-1 et seq.; authority to acquire, construct and maintain airports, O.C.G.A. § 6-3-20 et seq.; general powers of counties and municipalities as to airports, O.C.G.A. § 6-3-25; authority to enforce police regulations in airports, O.C.G.A. § 6-3-27.

Section 1. - Created; composition.
There is hereby created and established in and for Tift County, Georgia an Airport Authority which shall be known as the "Tift County Airport Authority," which shall be a public body corporate and politic, having jurisdiction within the territorial limits of said county, and which shall consist of a Board of five members. The word "Authority" as hereinafter used shall be deemed to mean the Tift County Airport Authority.
Section 1A. - Meaning of word "authority."
The authority created by Section 1 of this Act is renamed the "Tifton-Tift County Airport Authority." The word "authority" as used in this Act shall mean the "Tifton-Tift County Airport Authority."
(1988 Ga. Laws, page 4303)
Section 2. - Membership; composition; qualifications; terms; vacancies; oath; compensation.
The said Authority shall be composed of five (5) members, who shall be selected as follows: Post 1, the Chairperson of the Board of Commissioners Tift County, and in the event such Chairperson shall elect not to serve upon said Board [of Commissioners], and such election appearing in the minutes of said Board [of Commissioners], then such other members of said Board [of Commissioners] as may be elected by resolution of a majority of the membership of said Board [of Commissioners]; Post 2, the Chairperson of the City Commission of the City of Tifton, Georgia, and in the event such chairperson shall elect not to serve upon said Commission, and such election appearing in the minutes of said Commission, then such other member of said Commission as may be elected by resolution of a majority of the membership of said Commission; Post 3, a member of the Tift County Chamber of Commerce Aviation Committee selected by the majority of the membership of such committee, said selection being recorded in the minutes of the meeting of said committee and such selection being made by resolution of said committee; Post 4, a person named and selected by the Board of Commissioners Tift County, and which selection shall appear in the minutes of said Board [of Commissioners]; and Post 5, a person named and selected by the City Commission of the City of Tifton, and which selection shall appear in the minutes of said Commission.
Each member of said Authority shall be a resident of Tift County, Georgia, and shall be at least 21 years of age. It is further provided that in addition to the qualifications as to age and residency, the members of said Authority holding Posts Nos. 4 and 5 shall further be knowledgeable and experienced in aviation and actively interested in aviation and in the operation of any and all airports located in Tift County; however, the determination of such qualifications shall rest solely with the commission appointing such member, and the determination of such commission that such member is so qualified shall be final. Further, excepting one member each of the Board of Commissioners Tift County and of the City Commission of the City of Tifton, Georgia, no member of said Authority shall hold any elected position either of Tift County or of the City of Tifton; provided, however, that the holder of any appointive office of either Tift County or the City of Tifton shall not be disqualified by reason of holding such appointive position.
The term of office of each member of said Authority shall be four (4) years, provided that upon this Act becoming effective, the Authority Posts numbered 1, 2 and 3 shall have initial terms of the remainder of the calendar year 1968 and four (4) years from January 1, 1969, and which term shall expire on December 31, 1972. Authority Posts numbered 4 and 5 shall initially be for the remainder of calendar year 1968 and two (2) years beginning January 1, 1969, and shall expire on December 31, 1970. The term of each post shall after such initial term be for a period of four (4) years, and each member shall serve until his successor is named. It is provided that in the event the holders of Authority Posts numbered 1, 2 and 3 shall cease to be qualified by reason of their not holding either the position as Chairperson of Board of Commissioners Tift County or a member thereof, or Chairperson of the City Commission of the City of Tifton, or a member thereof, or a member of the Tift County Chamber of Commerce Aviation Committee, as the case may be, then and in such event a vacancy shall occur in such Authority.
Vacancies in such Authority shall be filled in the same manner as the holder of such vacated post as is herein provided, and which appointment shall be for the remainder of the term so vacated.
Prior to assuming duties as a member of such Authority, each member thereof shall take substantially the following oath: "I do solemnly swear that I shall faithfully and impartially and well and truly discharge the duties of a member of the Tift County Airport Authority in all matters which require my official action, to the best of my knowledge and skill, and I will so act as in my judgment will be most conducive to the welfare and best interest of the operation of airports and to the entire County. So help me God." Said oath shall be administered by either the Chairperson of the City Commission of the City of Tifton or by the Chairperson of the Board of Commissioners Tift County, and in the event either of said Chairperson shall serve upon said Authority then he may take such oath from the Chairperson of such other Board or Commission as the case may be.
The members of the Tifton-Tift County Airport Authority shall serve without compensation.
(1971 Ga. Laws, page 2833; 1988 Ga. Laws, page 4303)
Section 3. - Powers.
Said Authority shall be deemed to exercise public and essential governmental functions and shall have all the powers necessary or convenient to carry out and effectuate its purpose and project, including, but not limited to, the power and authority, separately or jointly, to acquire, establish, construct, expand, own, lease, maintain, operate, regulate and police airports and landing fields for use of aircrafts within the limits of said County, including such airports and landing fields which may now be owned by either Tift County, Georgia, or the City of Tifton, Georgia, separately or jointly, and to promulgate rules and regulations for such operations; to sue and be sued; to have a seal and alter the same; to make and execute contracts and other instruments necessary to the exercise of the power of the Authority; to acquire by the exercise of the right of eminent domain any property essential in the determination of the Authority to the purposes of the Authority; to sell, lease, exchange, transfer, assign, pledge or dispose of any real or personal property or interest therein; to mortgage, pledge and assign any revenues, incomes, tolls, charges or fees received by the Authority; to issue certificates of indebtedness for the purpose of providing funds for carrying out the duties of the Authority; provided such certificates shall not extend beyond the period of 20 years beyond the date of issuance thereof and provided further that such certificates shall be payable from the revenues realized from the projects of said Authority or any part thereof and provided further that such certificates shall not be in excess of the debt limitation herein stated; to borrow money for any corporate purposes provided that such borrowing of money shall not be in excess of the debt limitation herein stated; to appoint officers, agents or employees; to make use of any and all facilities, funds and other benefits afforded by the Federal Government or by the State of Georgia or any agency or instrumentality thereof; and to exercise an y and all powers now or hereafter possessed by private corporations performing similar functions.
(1971 Ga. Laws, page 2833)
Section 4. - Debts.
Notwithstanding anything to the contrary herein stated, the said Authority shall not be empowered to incur any indebtedness or aggregate thereof in excess of $10,000.00 until such time as the incurring of such indebtedness has been approved by resolution of both the Tift County [board of] commissioners and the city commission of the City of Tifton, Georgia.
Section 5. - Levy of taxes.
Said Tifton-Tift County Airport Authority shall not have power or authority to levy any tax of any kind for the purpose of providing revenue for its operation and the performing of its functions. However, said Authority is hereby granted the right to make such charges and assessments as it may deem appropriate for the use of any and all airport and aircraft facilities located in said County and any and all revenues produced and received by the said Authority from such purposes shall be used and utilized by such Authority as it may be deemed appropriate in performance of the functions herein stated. For the purposes of this section, the term `tax' shall mean to apply only to a general assessment through said county and shall not apply to any charges made by said Authority for the use of such services and facilities upon airports as is herein referred to.
(1988 Ga. Laws, page 4303)
Section 6. - Fixing of rates and charges.
Said Authority shall not operate or construct any project for profit, and shall fix rates and charges consistent with this declaration of policy and such as will produce revenues only in amounts, in the opinion of said authority, sufficient together with other funds of the Authority to pay principal and interest upon any indebtedness or certificate of obligation; to provide for maintenance and operation of the project in a modern, safe and current manner; and to provide reasonable reserve for the expansion of the facilities and services of the Authority. Any revenue certificates issued by said Authority shall be issued in the same manner and subject to the like provisions as provided for the issuance of certificates of hospital authorities under the "Hospital Authority Law" and may be validated in the superior court as provided for in the Constitution of this State and according to the provisions of the Revenue Certificate Law of 1947, as amended, providing for the issuance of revenue certificates for the purchase, construction, and operation, in whole or in part, of any revenue producing facility. No such certificate shall be a personal or general obligation of any of said members and none of said members, nor any person executing such certificates on behalf of said Authority shall be personally liable thereon.
Section 7. - Debts and leases.
Said Authority shall not at any time have the right or authority to bind or in any manner obligate Tift County or the City of Tifton, Georgia upon any indebtedness unless and until such indebtedness is authorized by resolution of the commissioners of Tift County, Georgia or the city commission of the City of Tifton, Georgia, as the case may be. The Authority shall, however, have the right to bind Tift County and the City of Tifton insofar as any lease or rental contract for the use and occupancy of airport property owned by Tift County and the City of Tifton is concerned, provided that neither Tift County nor the City of Tifton shall be liable for any penalties or forfeitures contained in any such leases or rental agreement.
Section 8. - Certified annual auditor's report.
Said Authority shall make, or cause to be made to the board of commissioners and to the city commission of the City of Tifton, Georgia at least annually or at such other reasonable times as may be required by either said city commission or said board of commissioners, a written certified auditor's report in duplicate showing the operation of said Tifton-Tift County Airport Authority. Said report shall contain and set forth the true condition of the affairs of said Authority, both from a financial standpoint and the services rendered, including receipts and disbursements, sources of receipts and purposes of disbursements, any and all indebtedness, cash on hand and accounts receivable and accounts payable. Said reports shall be signed by the chairperson of said Authority and shall be filed and preserved in the office of the board of commissioners and in the office of the city commission of Tifton, Georgia. The said Authority shall immediately furnish to either the [board of] commissioners of Tift County, Georgia or to the city commission of the City of Tifton, Georgia any and all information requested in writing by either of said bodies as to the operation of said authority, its projects, and actions.
(1988 Ga. Laws, page 4303)
Section 9. - Use of property.
Nothing herein contained shall be construed as a fee-simple conveyance of any property now held by Tift County, Georgia or the City of Tifton, Georgia to the said Authority, but the powers, duties and functions herein granted to said Authority shall be solely for the exclusive management, occupancy, use, control and custody of said property as may now or hereafter be used as an airport facility as well as any and all revenues, benefits, rents, and each and every income of whatever source and nature which may be derived from the use, custody, control and ownership of said property, and the said Authority is hereby granted the right and authority to rent, lease and let said property and to remove from said property any and all permanent improvements located thereon, to harvest and sell any and all timber or other products growing thereon, and to use the proceeds of such sales or removal as a part of its revenue in performing and carrying out its functions as are herein stated, and the said Authority shall have the sole and exclusive discretion as to such removal or sale. The right to receive any and all revenue herein stated shall be construed and shall include the revenue from any and all lands embraced within the present boundaries of Henry Tift Myers Airport, notwithstanding the fact that a portion or portions of such area may not be directly used as an aircraft landing field.
Section 10. - Election of officers; voting; committees; contracts and agreements.
The said Authority shall elect one of its members as chairperson, one as vice-chairperson, and one as secretary and such officers of such Authority shall serve for a term of one year and until their successor is named. The said Authority shall vote upon all matters and a majority vote of such members present shall be mandatory. The said Authority shall have the power to delegate its functions to committees composed of membership thereof; however, no contracts or agreements shall be binding upon such Authority until the same has been approved by a majority of members present and such approval recorded in the minutes of said Authority.
The said Authority shall meet monthly or at such time as may be designated by the chairperson and other meetings may be held at any time on the call of any three members of the Authority when in their judgement the interest of the Authority and of the county demands it.
