ARTICLE II. - BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS[2]
Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
Related laws reference—Board of commissioners, art. I.
State Law reference— Authority to control property of the county, O.C.G.A. § 36-5-22.1(a)(1); county a body corporate, O.C.G.A. § 36-1-3; grants of state funds to counties, O.C.G.A. § 36-17-1 et seq.; organization of county government, O.C.G.A. § 36-5-20 et seq.; matters over which governing authority has jurisdiction, O.C.G.A. § 36-5-22.1; county property generally, O.C.G.A. § 36-9-1 et seq.; code of ethics for members of boards, commissions and authorities, O.C.G.A. § 45-10-3; board of commissioners authorized to adopt ordinances for the governing and policing of the unincorporated areas of the county, O.C.G.A. § 36-1-20(a); counties a body corporate and politic, Ga. Const. art. IX, § I, ¶ I; county officers; election; term; compensation, Ga. Const. art. IX, § I, ¶ III; home rule for counties, Ga. Const. art. IX, § II, ¶ I.

DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Secs. 2-26—2-40. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - MEETINGS[3]

Footnotes:
--- (3) ---
State Law reference— Meetings to be open to public, O.C.G.A. § 50-14-1; exemptions from open meeting requirements, O.C.G.A. § 50-14-3; due notice requirements for other than regular meetings, O.C.G.A. § 50-14-1(d); requirement to prescribe the time, place and dates of regular meetings of governing authority, O.C.G.A. § 50-14-1(d).

Sec. 2-41. - Officers.
(a)
Chairman. The chairman of the board of commissioners is responsible for the orderly conduct of the meeting. In order to fulfill this duty, the chairman must enforce the rules of procedure that are adopted by the board of commissioners. The chairman shall be impartial and conduct the meetings in a fair manner. The chairman may not introduce motions or second a motion except that the chairman may introduce or second a motion to go into executive session as authorized by section 2-52. The chairman shall not vote except to break a tie.
(b)
Vice chairperson. The vice chairperson selection process beginning January 1, 2015 and continuing thereafter:
(1)
Beginning January 1, 2015, the selection of the vice chairperson shall be by sequential rotation to begin with the district one commissioner as the 2015 vice chairperson.
(2)
Each successive year thereafter the vice chairperson position shall automatically be filled by the commissioner holding the seat of the next numerical district in ascending order. However, if for any reason the commission district member, who would be the board vice chairperson as determined by the sequential rotation outlined above, cannot serve then the vice chairperson position shall automatically be filled by the commissioner holding the seat of the next numerical district in ascending order and said replacement will serve the remainder of the unfulfilled term plus one upcoming full term. Furthermore, at no time will any commissioner serve more than a one year term, unless said commissioner has filled an unexpired term as described above, as vice chairperson. Once the commissioner holding the seat of the district with the highest numerical value has served, the rotation shall begin again with district one and rotate as provided herein.
(3)
Term. Beginning January 1, 2015, the term for the position of vice chairperson shall be one year.
(c)
Parliamentarian. The county attorney shall serve as the parliamentarian for board meetings.
(Ord. No. 96-01, §§ 1-05, 1-06, 1-12, 11-13-95; Res. No. 2015-01, §§ 1, 2, 2-12-15)
Sec. 2-42. - Decorum.
(a)
All commissioners shall conduct themselves in a professional and respectful manner. All remarks shall be directed to the chairman and not to individual commissioners, staff or citizens in attendance. Personal remarks are inappropriate. A commissioner is not allowed to speak at a meeting until he has been recognized by the chairman. All comments made by a commissioner shall address the motion that is being discussed.
(b)
The chairman shall enforce these rules of decorum. If a commissioner believes that a rule has been broken, he may raise a point of order. A second is not required. The chairman can rule on the question or he can allow the board to debate the issue and decide the issue by majority vote of those present and voting.
(Ord. No. 96-01, § 1-10, 11-13-95)
Sec. 2-43. - Committees.
The chairman may create committees of members of the board to study any issue before the board. Any such committees may make recommendations to the board of commissioners, but no committee shall be empowered to make any final decision on any matter before it for consideration. In addition to board members, committees may include other county officials, staff or citizens at large. Whenever a committee is created, its duties, any limitations of the scope of its duties, and the times, places and periods of time for which the committee may operate shall be determined by the chairman. The chairman shall serve as an ex officio member of all committees. All committee meetings shall be held in accordance with the provisions of O.C.G.A. § 50-14-1 et seq.
(Ord. No. 96-01, § 1-18, 11-13-95)
Sec. 2-44. - Quorum.
A quorum must be present for conducting meetings of the board. A quorum is a majority of all of the members of the board then in office. It is the duty of the chairman to enforce this rule. Any commissioner may raise a point of order directed to the chairman if he believes that a quorum is not present. If, during the course of a meeting, a commissioner leaves and a quorum no longer exists, the meeting cannot continue. If a quorum is not attained within 30 minutes, the meeting will be rescheduled by the chairman with the approval of the commissioners present.
(Ord. No. 96-01, § 1-02, 11-13-95)
Sec. 2-45. - Voting; majority; abstentions.
(a)
Passage of a motion shall require four affirmative votes of the board at a meeting at which a quorum is present. In the event of a tie vote, the chairman shall vote to break the tie. If for any reason, less than six members of the board vote on any issue, the chairman shall also vote on said issue.
(b)
In the case of a roll-call vote, the name of each person voting for or against a proposal shall be recorded in the minutes, and in all other cases it shall be presumed that the action taken was approved by each person in attendance unless the minutes reflect the name of the persons voting against the proposal or abstaining.
(c)
A commissioner shall vote on all motions unless he has a conflict of interest which would prevent him from making a decision in a fair and legal manner. If a conflict of interest does exist, the commissioner shall explain for the record his decision to abstain on any vote. Abstentions shall not be considered a vote of any nature, affirmative, negative or otherwise.
(Ord. No. 96-01, §§ 1-03, 1-04, 11-13-95; Res. No. 2008-42, 3-10-08)
Sec. 2-46. - Visual and sound recordings.
Visual, sound and visual and sound recordings shall be permitted for all public meetings.
(Ord. No. 96-01, § 1-19, 11-13-95)
Sec. 2-47. - Types of meetings.
(a)
Open meetings. All meetings of the board of commissioners shall be held in accordance with the provisions of O.C.G.A. § 50-14-1 et seq. The public shall at all times be afforded access to all meetings other than executive sessions.
(b)
Regular meetings. Meetings of the board of commissioners shall be held at 7:30 p.m. on the second Monday of each month. Regular work sessions of the board shall be held at 7:30 p.m. on the Tuesday immediately preceding the second Monday of each month. All meetings shall be held in the county administrative building unless circumstances dictate a change or a change is directed by majority vote of the board. Should the regular meeting be held at a location other than the county administrative building, notice shall be given as provided for a special meeting or rescheduled regular meeting. A notice containing the foregoing information shall be posted and maintained in a conspicuous place available to the general public at the regular meeting place of the board.
(c)
Special meetings and rescheduled regular meetings. A regular meeting may be canceled, rescheduled or moved to a new location within the county by the chairman for any reason. Other special meetings may be scheduled by the chairman or at the request of three commissioners to the chairman. Whenever a rescheduled regular meeting or any other special meeting is to be held at a time or place other than the regularly scheduled time or place, written notice of the change shall be posted for at least 24 hours at the place of the regular meetings. In addition, written or oral notice shall be given by the clerk at least 24 hours in advance of the meeting to either the legal organ of the county or a newspaper having a general circulation at least equal to that of the legal organ and to each member of the county governing authority.
(d)
Emergency meetings. When emergency circumstances occur, the board may hold a meeting with less than 24 hours' notice to the public. When such meetings are to be held, the clerk shall provide notice to the legal organ of the county or a newspaper with a general circulation at least equal to that of the legal organ and to each member of the county governing authority as soon as possible. The notice shall include the subjects expected to be considered at the meeting. In addition, the minutes shall reflect the reason for the emergency meeting and the nature of the notice given to the media.
(e)
Executive sessions. Executive sessions of the board may be held for the purpose of conducted business excepted from public access requirements as authorized by O.C.G.A. §§ 50-14-2 and 50-14-3. Where a meeting of the board is devoted in part to matters within the authorized exceptions to public access requirements, any portion of the meeting not subject to any such exceptions shall be open to the public. No executive session shall be held except pursuant to a majority affirmative vote of the board of commissioners taken in a public meeting. The minutes of the public meeting shall reflect the names of the commissioners present, those voting for the executive session and the specific reasons for the executive session. Minutes of the executive session may be maintained by the clerk of the board of commissioners at the direction of the chairman. Any such minutes shall be maintained in a confidential file and shall not be subject to disclosure, except that disclosures of such portions of minutes identifying real estate to be acquired by the board may only be delayed until such time as the acquisition of the real estate has been completed, terminated or abandoned or court proceedings have been initiated.
(Ord. No. 96-01, §§ 1-01, 1-13—1-16, 11-13-95; Ord. of 4-14-97, § 1)
Sec. 2-48. - Public participation.
(a)
Generally. Public participation in meetings of the board of commissioners shall be permitted in accordance with the provisions of this section. All remarks by the public shall be directed to the chairman and not to individual commissioners, staff or citizens in attendance.
(b)
Public comments. The final agenda item of each regular meeting shall be reserved for comments from the public, if any. All members of the public who wish to address the board must submit their name and the specific topic of their comments to the county administrator at least two business days before the board meeting. These individuals will be allotted five minutes to make their comments, and their comments must be limited to their chosen topic. These limits may be waived by a majority vote of the board.
(c)
Decorum. Members of the public shall not make inappropriate or offensive comments at a board meeting and are expected to comply with the rules of decorum that are established for commissioners. Individuals who violate any rules of the board may be ruled out of order by the chairperson or on a point of order made by a commissioner. A majority vote of the board will rule on the point of order. An individual who violates the rules of decorum may be removed from the meeting at the direction of the chairperson.
(d)
Public hearings. The board may schedule public hearings for the purpose of soliciting public comment on any subject of interest to the board. Hearings may be held immediately prior to or following a meeting of the board or at such other places and times as the board may determine. All comments at a public hearing shall address the subject of the hearing. Comments on any subject other than that of the public hearing shall be ruled out of order. No official action shall be taken at any such public hearing.
(Ord. No. 96-01, § 1-11, 11-13-95)
Sec. 2-49. - Order of business.
All regular board meetings should follow an established order of business. The order is as follows:
(1)
Call to order.
(2)
Invocation.
(3)
Minutes.
(4)
Zoning hearings and decisions.
(5)
Invited guests.
(6)
Reports from committees and departments.
(7)
Old business.
(8)
New business.
(9)
Public comments.
(10)
Adjournment.
(Ord. No. 96-01, § 1-09, 11-13-95)
Sec. 2-50. - Minutes.
(a)
The clerk of the board shall promptly record the minutes for each gathering of a quorum of the members of the board or of any committee of its members created by the board, which shall serve as the official written record thereof and shall be open for public inspection once approved as official by the board but in no case later than immediately following the next regular meeting of the board. The minutes shall specify the names of commissioners present at the meeting, a description of each motion or other proposal made at the meeting, the commissioner who proposed each motion, the commissioner who seconded each motion and a record of all votes. In the case of a roll-call vote, the name of each commissioner voting for or against a proposal shall be recorded. It shall be presumed that a commissioner has voted in the affirmative unless the minutes show otherwise. More detailed information may be included in the minutes at the request of the board.
(b)
The board must approve the minutes before they can be considered as an official record of the board. A copy of the minutes from the previous meeting shall be distributed to the commissioners at least one business day before the following meeting. The minutes of the previous meeting shall be corrected and approved by the board at the beginning of each meeting. A majority vote of the board is required for approval. Conflicts about the content of the minutes shall be decided by majority vote of the board. Upon being approved, the minutes shall be signed by the commissioners and attested by the clerk of the board of commissioners.
(Ord. No. 96-01, § 1-08, 11-13-95)
Sec. 2-51. - Agenda.
(a)
The county administrator, with the advice of the chairperson and the commissioners, shall prepare an agenda of subjects to be acted on for each meeting. An agenda work session shall be held by the board of commissioners to discuss and debate items then on the agenda. The chairperson and all commissioners shall participate in the work session. Whenever a quorum of the board is present for an agenda work session, the meeting shall be open to the public and all notice requirements applicable to an open meeting must be met.
(b)
In order to make a considered and informed decision addressing issues which come before the commission, the agenda for the commission meeting shall be finalized during work sessions. Additions to an agenda for the commission meeting following a work session require the unanimous approval of all commissioners. The commission seeks through this procedure to balance the interest of accessibility to the public with the benefit of members of the commission and the public knowing with certainty what items will come before the commission at its regularly scheduled monthly meetings. A new subject that requires urgent attention may be added to the agenda during a meeting of the commission by the unanimous consent of the board.
(c)
Members of the public may request that a particular subject be placed on the agenda for a commission meeting. To be considered, any such request must be submitted in writing to the county administrator and received no later than noon (12:00 p.m.) two business days before the regularly scheduled work session, and the request must be specific about the subject requested for placement on the agenda. By way of example, a request for placement of an item on the agenda for a work session scheduled for Tuesday night must be delivered prior to 12:00 noon on the preceding Friday.
(d)
The order of the agenda may be changed during a meeting by a majority vote of the board.
(e)
A copy of the agenda and a list of those members present shall be made available to the public for inspection within two business days of the adjournment of any meeting.
(Ord. No. 96-01, § 1-07, 11-13-95; Mo. of 5-10-99)
Sec. 2-52. - Suspending the rules of order.
Rules of order may be suspended in the case of an emergency. Rules governing quorum, voting methods and requirements, the notification to commissioners of meetings and rules necessary for compliance with state law cannot be suspended.
(Ord. No. 96-01, § 1-17, 11-13-95)
Secs. 2-53—2-75. - Reserved.
