ARTICLE XI. - BUILDING PERMITS[14]

Footnotes:
--- (14) ---
Editor's note— Printed herein is 1968 Ga. Laws, page 2674 which provides for the issuance of building permits prior to the construction of certain improvements to real property in the county. Amendments to the act are indicated by parenthetical history notes following amended provisions. The absence of a history note indicates that the provision remains unchanged from the original act. Obvious misspellings have been corrected without notation. For stylistic purposes, a uniform system of headings, catchlines and citations to state statutes has been used. Additions made for clarity are indicated by brackets.
Code reference—Buildings and building regulations, ch. 22.
State Law reference— Enforcement of minimum state construction codes, O.C.G.A. § 8-2-26.

Section 1. - Required.
Any and all persons constructing, building, erecting or assembling any structure, building or other improvements or addition to improvements permanently affixed or attached to any real property within the County of Tift shall be and is hereby required to obtain a building permit issued by the [board of] commissioners of said county or their designated agent prior to the beginning of such construction, erection or building.
Section 2. - Exemptions.
Any such improvement, building or structure herein referred to having a value of $500.00 or less when completed shall be exempt from the provisions of this act.
Section 3. - Application.
The application for such building permit shall show plainly and distinctly the location of the improvements to be constructed, the approximate cost of such improvements, the value thereof when completed, type of material of which the same is to be constructed and the legal owner of the real property upon which said improvements are to be constructed.
Section 4. - Administrator; appointment.
The [board of] commissioners of said county shall by resolution appoint such person or persons as they may choose to administer the provisions of this act and specifically to accept applications for building permits and to issue such permits as is herein provided for, and which person shall serve for such periods of time as set forth in such resolution. Such [board of] commissioners shall further provide for the method of accounting of such person and make other rules and regulations necessary for the enforcement of this act.
Section 5. - Fees.
Such person issuing such building permits on behalf of said county shall collect from the applicant for such permit a fee of $2.50 or any such lesser fee as may be determined and established by resolution of the [board of] commissioners of Tift County, Georgia and which sums shall be paid into the treasury of such county, provided that in the event such permit is not applied for prior to the beginning of such improvement such fee shall be $15.00 or such lesser amount as may be established by the [board of] commissioners of Tift County.
Section 6. - Person defined.
Whenever used herein the term "person" shall mean and include all persons, both natural and artificial, and specifically include but not limited to all corporations, partnerships, unincorporated associations, and each and every other person who shall directly or indirectly erect and construct such improvements; however, nothing herein contained shall require the issuance of more than one building permit for each of such improvements.
Section 7. - Contractor's responsibility.
In the event such construction is being performed by any contractor or person having general supervision of such construction other than the owner of such real property, then it shall be the responsibility of such contractor to obtain any permits required under this Act and such contractor or person having charge or supervision of such construction shall be liable for any and all penalties for noncompliance with the provisions of this Act, together with the owner or owners of the real property upon which such improvement is located.
Section 8. - Failure to comply with article; misdemeanor.
Any person failing to comply with the provisions of this Act and who shall construct, erect, install or cause to be constructed, erected or installed any permanent improvement upon any real property in Tift County, Georgia and having a value in excess of $500.00 without first having obtained a building permit after having received ten days' notice in writing from such permit issuing agent that such permit is necessary, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
