ARTICLE X. - SHERIFF[13]

Footnotes:
--- (13) ---
Editor's note— Printed herein is 1965 Ga. Laws, page 2545 pertaining to the county sheriff. Amendments to the act are indicated by parenthetical history notes following amended provisions. The absence of a history note indicates that the provision remains unchanged from the original act. Obvious misspellings have been corrected without notation. For stylistic purposes, a uniform system of headings, catchlines and citations to state statutes has been used. Additions made for clarity are indicated by brackets.
State Law reference— Law enforcement officer appreciation day, O.C.G.A. § 1-4-6; peace officer memorial day and police week, O.C.G.A. § 1-4-7; Georgia Peace Officer Standards and Training Act, O.C.G.A. § 35-8-1 et seq.; sheriffs, O.C.G.A. § 15-16-1 set seq.

Section 1. - Abolishment of present compensation system; collection of fees; submission of itemized statement.
The compensation of the sheriff of Tift County which is now based on a fee system is hereby abolished and said sheriff shall hereafter be paid a salary as herein provided. All fees, costs, percentages, forfeitures, allowances, commissions, and all other perquisites of whatever kind as are allowed now, or may hereafter be allowed by law to be received or collected as compensation for services by said sheriff, shall be diligently received and collected by said sheriff, or by such other means as may be directed by the governing authority of Tift County, for the exclusive use of Tift County and shall be held as public monies belonging to said county and accounted for and paid over to the governing authority of said county on the first Monday in each month, or at such other regular intervals as may be directed by the governing authority of said county, at which time a detailed itemized statement shall be made by said sheriff showing his collections and the sources from which collected.
The sheriff of Tift County shall keep such books and records as shall be prescribed by the governing authority of said county. All such records shall be open to the inspection of the governing authority of said county and their auditors at all times during the hours for which said office is open for business.
Section 2a. - [Reserved].
Editor's note— Section 2a provided for the sheriff's salary. Pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 15-16-20, the minimum annual salary for each sheriff in the state shall be fixed according to the population of the county.
Section 2b. - Deputies and other personnel; compensation.
The sheriff shall have the authority to appoint such deputies, jailers, clerks and assistants as he may deem necessary to efficiently perform the duties of his office and set the compensation; provided, however, that the sheriff shall at the first regular meeting of the Board of Commissioners of Tift County, Georgia, in January of each year, submit to said Board for its approval a salary budget for such personnel for that calendar year, and which salary budget must be approved by said board of commissioners prior to the payment of such salaries; provided, further, that such budget, when approved, shall specify the salary to be received by each such deputy, jailer, clerk and assistant. Tift County, Georgia, shall not be liable for the salary of any such personnel unless the same is included in the budget approved by such board of commissioners. Such salary budget may be amended and otherwise varied during the calendar year upon the recommendation of the sheriff and the approval of such recommendation by the board of commissioners.
(1989 Ga. Laws, page 3719)
Section 3. - Vehicles; supplies and equipment for office.
Tift County shall provide all necessary supplies and equipment needed for the office of sheriff. Said county shall also furnish at least two (2) automobiles fully equipped with two-way police radios and other necessary equipment and shall pay for all gasoline, oil, maintenance, and repair costs. Such automobiles shall be replaced as replacements are needed upon recommendation by the sheriff to the governing authority and with the consent of the governing authority. The number of said automobiles may be increased upon recommendation by the sheriff to the governing authority and with the consent of the governing authority.
(1967 Ga. Laws, page 2847)
Section 4. - Administration and supervision of county jail.
The sheriff shall have complete control and authority over the administration and supervision of the county jail including the jailer, but the manner and means of furnishing meals for the prisoners shall be determined and provided for from time to time by the governing authority of said county. Necessary upkeep, utilities, and maintenance expenses for said jail shall be borne by Tift County.
Section 5. - Uncollected fees.
All fees, costs, fines, forfeitures, commissions, allowances, penalties, funds, monies, payments into retirement system and all other emoluments which have accrued to the sheriff at the time this Act becomes effective and to which said officer is entitled and which remain uncollected at the time this Act becomes effective, shall, when collected, be paid to said officer. He shall, however, report the condition of any such fees to the governing authority of the county.
Section 6. - Rewards.
No part of this Act shall be interpreted so as to deprive said sheriff or deputies from receiving rewards for the apprehension of criminals.
Section 7. - Emergency funding.
If, at any time, in the judgment of the sheriff, an emergency should arise by reason of which he would be unable to perform his duties without the expenditure of larger amounts than are provided herein, he may apply to the county governing authority for appropriation of additional sums. The county governing authority shall then act upon the request for additional funds within fifteen days from the submission of the request, by making available to the sheriff certain sums of money, as will be needed to meet said emergency, which shall be determined by the governing authority, or by refusing to make any such funds available.
