Chapter 12 - MUNICIPAL COURT[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Charter reference— Municipal court, § 15.
Cross reference— Administration, ch. 2.
State Law reference— Establishment and jurisdiction of municipal courts, Ga. Const. art. 6, sec. 1, par. 1; municipal courts, O.C.G.A. § 36-32-1 et seq.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 12-1. - Judge.
(a)
The municipal judge shall be an active member in good standing of the state bar.
(b)
The city commission shall have the authority to appoint an assistant recorder to serve from time to time in his absence. Any assistant recorder shall possess the qualifications set forth in subsection (a) of this section.
(Code 1985, § 2-6-1)
Sec. 12-2. - Jurisdiction.
All offenders against the laws and ordinances of the city shall be tried by the municipal judge, or in his absence, by the assistant recorder. The court may impose such punishment as is provided by law.
(Code 1985, § 2-6-2)
Sec. 12-3. - Appearance bonds.
(a)
The municipal judge may take bond with security, or bond without security, at his discretion, payable to the city in a sum not exceeding $2,000.00 for the appearance of any person accused of being guilty of a violation of any provisions of this Code or other ordinance of the city, to stand to and abide his trial before the municipal court, and also of witnesses required to testify in any case pending in the municipal court, when the witnesses do not reside in the city and have no permanent habitation.
(b)
All appearance bonds taken pursuant to this section shall, upon the failure of any person to appear who is the principal in the bond, at the time and place mentioned in the bond, and a breach of such bond occurs, shall be subject to forfeiture by the municipal judge in the same manner and under the rules and regulations as appearance bonds are forfeited in the superior court.
(c)
It shall be the duty of the police chief or the city attorney to sue the principal and sureties on a forfeited appearance bond in the court having jurisdiction of the suit and subject matter, by scire facias as is practiced in the superior courts of the state in relation to the collection of forfeited bonds.
(d)
The sureties on any forfeited appearance bond shall, at any time before final judgment, be relieved by payment of the costs and surrendering the principal until discharged by order of the court, or by giving other and good security. The delivery of the principal shall discharge the surety or sureties of all further liability upon the bond if the delivery is made before any judgment of forfeiture upon the bond shall have been entered.
(Code 1985, §§ 2-6-3, 2-6-4)
State Law reference— Municipal authority to provide for forfeiture of appearance bonds, O.C.G.A. § 36-32-4.
Sec. 12-4. - Penalty for contempt of court.
Any person who during the sitting of the municipal court shall be guilty of contempt of court, or who refuses to abide by any order of the court, shall be fined in a sum not exceeding $50.00 and costs, or confinement in jail, or both, as shall be proper under the circumstances.
(Code 1985, § 2-6-5)
Sec. 12-5. - Additional penalty for jail fund.
(a)
In addition to the other fines and penalties imposed by the municipal court for violation of this Code, including violation of traffic ordinances, the municipal judge shall impose as an additional penalty a sum equal to ten percent of the original fine for any offense against a criminal or traffic ordinance of the city to be used for the Stephens County Jail Fund as authorized by the Jail Conduction and Staffing Act.
(b)
The provisions of the Georgia Jail Construction Staffing Act as the same apply to municipalities is adopted and incorporated by reference as a part of this section.
(Ord. No. 89-0165, § 1, 12-18-89)
Sec. 12-6. - Court fee levied when fine or community service work imposed.
Any person against whom a fine is imposed or community service work imposed by the Municipal Court of the City of Toccoa, Georgia for the violation of any of the laws or ordinances of the City of Toccoa, Georgia or the laws of the State of Georgia shall be subject to and have assessed a fee in the amount of $10.00 per violation. Said to be in addition to all other fines and fees imposed by the municipal court.
(Ord. of 6-14-10)
Secs. 12-7—12-9. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - PROSECUTING ATTORNEY OF THE MUNICIPAL COURT

Sec. 12-10. - Short title.
This article shall be known as the "Municipal Court Prosecutor Ordinance."
(Ord. of 8-16-12, § 1)
Sec. 12-11. - Findings and intent.
This article is adopted to address requirements made under Georgia law for the city to pass an ordinance or resolution creating the office of prosecuting attorney of the municipal court should the city choose to hire or have a prosecuting attorney of the municipal court. Under state law, in order to have a municipal court prosecutor, the city must pass this ordinance or resolution and provide to the Prosecuting Attorneys' Council of the State of Georgia a copy of the same. The city is also required to submit the name of the person appointed to be the prosecuting attorney of the municipal court within 30 days of such appointment in order to maintain the office of prosecuting attorney of the municipal court. It is therefore the intent of the city to comply with Georgia law, particularly Article 5, of Chapter 18, of Title 15 of the Official Code of Georgia, Annotated, and to enact this article.
(Ord. of 8-16-12, § 1)
Sec. 12-12. - Establishment of office.
The office of prosecuting attorney of the municipal court is hereby established for the purpose of providing representation of the City of Toccoa in matters pertaining to ordinance violations of the city and state offenses enforceable in the municipal court as allowed by Georgia law. The prosecuting attorney for the municipal court shall be a part-time position.
(Ord. of 8-16-12, § 1)
Sec. 12-13. - Qualifications.
Any person appointed as the prosecuting attorney for the Municipal Court of the City of Toccoa shall be a member in good standing of the State Bar of Georgia and admitted to practice before the trial and appellate courts of this state. The prosecuting attorney shall be nominated by the city manager and confirmed by the city commission.
(Ord. of 8-16-12, § 1)
Sec. 12-14. - Oath.
The prosecuting attorney of the municipal court for the City of Toccoa shall take and subscribe to the following oath:
"I swear (or affirm) that I will well, faithfully, and impartially and without fear, favor, or affection discharge my duties as prosecuting attorney of the Municipal Court for the City of Toccoa."
Sec. 12-15. - Term of office.
Unless otherwise provided by the charter for the City of Toccoa, the prosecuting attorney for the Municipal Court shall serve a term of office of one year.
(Ord. of 8-16-12, § 1)
Sec. 12-16. - Jurisdiction, duties, and authority.
The office of prosecuting attorney of the Municipal Court for the City of Toccoa shall have the duty and authority to represent the city as defined by the city charter and by state law, particularly as described in O.C.G.A § 15-18-96.
(Ord. of 8-16-12, § 1)
Sec. 12-17. - Assistant prosecuting attorney.
The prosecuting attorney of the municipal court may appoint one or more assistant prosecuting attorneys whose appointment shall be ratified by the city council before becoming an assistant prosecuting attorney for the municipal court. Such assistant prosecuting attorney shall be a member in good standing of the State Bar of Georgia or satisfy the provisions of the Third Year Practice Act, found in the O.C.G.A. § 15-18-22.
(Ord. of 8-16-12, § 1)
Sec. 12-18. - Ratification.
This article shall ratify all actions that have been taken by the persons acting in the positions of the office of the prosecuting attorney for the municipal court to date as authorized by the city commission of the City of Toccoa.
(Ord. of 8-16-12, § 1)
