Chapter 1 - GENERAL PROVISIONS

Sec. 1-1. - How Code designated and cited.
The provisions embraced in this and the following chapters and sections shall constitute and be designated "The Code of the City of Trenton, Georgia," and may be so cited.
Charter reference— Codification authority and requirements, § 2.26(b).
Sec. 1-2. - Rules of construction; definitions.
In the construction of this Code and of all ordinances, the following rules and definitions shall be observed unless such construction would be inconsistent with the manifest intent of the city commission:
General rule: All words and phrases shall be construed and understood according to the common and approved usage of the language, but technical words and phrases and such others as may have acquired a peculiar and appropriate meaning in the law shall be construed and understood according to such peculiar and appropriate meaning.
City: The words "the city" or "this city" shall mean the City of Trenton, Georgia.
City commission, commission, governing body, governing authority: The terms "city commission," "commission," "governing body" and "governing authority" shall mean the commission of the City of Trenton, Georgia.
Computation of time: Except as otherwise provided by time period computations, when a period of time measured in days, weeks, months, years, or other measurements of time except hours is prescribed for the exercise of any privilege or the discharge of any duty, the first day shall not be counted but the last day shall be counted; if the last day falls on Saturday or Sunday, the party having such privilege or duty shall have through the following Monday to exercise the privilege or to discharge the duty. When the last day prescribed for such action falls on a public and legal holiday as set forth in O.C.G.A. § 1-4-1, as amended, the party having the privilege or duty shall have through the next business day to exercise the privilege or to discharge the duty. When the period of time prescribed is less than seven days, intermediate Saturdays, Sundays and legal holidays shall be excluded in the computation.
State Law reference— Similar provisions, O.C.G.A. § 1-3-1(d)(3).
County: The words "the county" or "this county" shall mean Dade County, Georgia.
Delegation of authority: Whenever a position requires the head of a department or other officer of the city to do some act or perform some duty, it shall be construed to authorize subordinates to do the required act or perform the required duty unless the terms of the provision designate otherwise.
Gender: Every word importing one gender shall extend to and be applied to the other genders, unless inappropriate.
Joint authority: All words purporting to give a joint authority to three or more city officers or other persons shall be construed as giving such authority to a majority of such officers or other persons unless it shall be otherwise expressly declared in the law giving the authority.
Number: Every word importing the singular number only shall extend and be applied to several persons or things as well as to one person or thing; every word importing the plural number only shall extend and be applied to one person or thing as well as to several persons or things.
Oath: The word "oath" shall be construed to include an affirmation in all cases in which, by law, an affirmation may be substituted for an oath, and in such cases the words "affirm" and "affirmed" shall be equivalent to the words "swear" and "sworn."
Overlapping provisions: Where any provision of this Code imposes greater restrictions upon the subject matter than any general provision of this Code, the provision imposing the greater restriction shall be applicable.
Owner: The word "owner," applied to a building or land, shall include any part owner, joint owner, tenant in common, joint tenant or tenant by the entirety, of the whole or a part of such building or land.
Person: The word "person" shall include a corporation, firm, partnership, association, organization and any other group acting as a unit, as well as an individual.
Personal property: The term "personal property" shall include every species of property except real property, as hereinafter defined.
Preceding, following: The words "preceding" and "following" shall mean next before and next after, respectively.
Property: The term "property" includes real, personal and mixed estates and interests.
Real property: The words "real property" shall include lands, tenements and hereditaments.
Reasonable time or notice: Reasonable time or notice shall be deemed to mean only such time as may be necessary for the prompt performance of the act required.
Sidewalk: The word "sidewalk" shall mean any portion of a street between the curbline and the adjacent property line, intended for the use of pedestrians, but shall not include any unimproved areas between the curbline and improved walkways.
Signature, subscription: The word "signature" or "subscription" shall include a mark intended as such when the person cannot write.
State: The words "state" or "this state" shall mean the State of Georgia in the United States of America.
Street: The word "street" shall mean and include any public way, road, highway, street, avenue, boulevard, parkway, alley, viaduct, bridge, and the approaches thereto, within the city.
Tenant or occupant: The word "tenant" or "occupant," applied to a building or land, shall include any person holding a written or oral lease of, or who occupies the whole or a part of such building or land, either alone or with others.
Tense: The use of any verb in the present tense shall include the future and past when applicable.
Week: The word "week" shall mean seven days.
Writing or written: The words "writing" and "written" shall include printing and any other mode of representing words and letters.
Year: The word "year" shall mean a calendar year.
Sec. 1-3. - Section catchlines.
The headings of the several sections and subsections of this Code are intended as mere captions to indicate the contents of the section or subsection and shall not be deemed or taken to be titles of such sections, nor as any part of the section or subsection, nor, unless expressly so provided, shall they be so deemed when any of such sections or subsections including the headings, are amended or reenacted.
Sec. 1-4. - Effect of repeal or expiration of Code section or ordinance.
(a)
The repeal of a Code section or ordinance, or its expiration by virtue of any provision contained therein, shall not effect any right accrued or any offense committed, any penalty or punishment incurred, or any proceeding commenced before the repeal took effect or the ordinance expired.
(b)
When any ordinance repealing a Code section, ordinance, clause, or provision shall be itself repealed, such repeal shall not be construed to revive such former Code section, ordinance, clause, or provision.
Sec. 1-5. - Amending Code.
(a)
All ordinances passed subsequent to this Code which amend, repeal or in any way affect this Code shall be numbered in accordance with the numbering system of this Code and printed for inclusion herein. In the case of repealed chapters, sections, and subsections or any part thereof by subsequent ordinances, such repealed portions may be excluded from the Code by omission from reprinted pages affected thereby. The subsequent ordinances as numbered and printed, or omitted in the case of repeal, shall be prima facie evidence of such subsequent ordinances until such time as the Code and subsequent ordinances are readopted as a new Code by the city commission.
(b)
Amendments to any of the provisions of this Code may be made by amending such provisions by specific reference to the section number of this Code in the following language: "That section _____ of the Code of the City of Trenton, Georgia, is hereby amended to read as follows: …." The new provisions may then be set out in full as desired.
(c)
In the event a new section not heretofore existing in the Code is to be added, the following language may be used: "The Code of the City of Trenton, Georgia, is hereby amended by adding a section (or subsection or chapter) to be numbered _____, which section reads as follows: …." The new provision shall then be set out in full as desired.
(d)
All sections, chapters or provisions sought to be repealed must be specifically repealed by section, chapter, or provision number, as the case may be.
Sec. 1-6. - Supplementation of Code.
(a)
By contract or by city personnel, supplements to this Code shall be prepared and printed whenever authorized or directed by the commission. A supplement to the Code shall include all substantive, permanent and general parts of ordinances enacted during the period covered by the supplement and all changes made thereby in the Code. The pages of a supplement shall be so numbered that they will fit properly into the Code and will, where necessary, replace pages which have become obsolete or partially obsolete. The new pages shall be so prepared that, when they have been inserted, the Code will be current through the date of the adoption of the latest ordinance included in the supplement. Charter amendments may be included in like manner.
(b)
In the preparation of a supplement to this Code, all portions of the Code which have been repealed shall be excluded from the Code by the omission thereof from reprinted pages.
(c)
When preparing a supplement to this Code, the codifier (meaning the person, agency or organization authorized to prepare the supplement) may make formal, nonsubstantive changes in ordinances and parts of ordinances included in the supplement, insofar as it is necessary to do so to embody them into a unified code. For example, the codifier may:
(1)
Organize the ordinance material into appropriate subdivisions;
(2)
Provide appropriate catchlines, headings and titles for sections and other subdivisions of the Code printed in the supplement, and make changes in such catchlines, headings and titles;
(3)
Assign appropriate numbers to sections and other subdivisions to be inserted in the Code and, where necessary to accommodate new material, change existing section or other subdivision numbers;
(4)
Change the words "this ordinance" or words of the same meaning to "this chapter," "this article," "this division," etc., as the case may be, or to "sections _____ through _____" (inserting section numbers to indicate the sections of the Code which embody the substantive sections of the ordinance incorporated into the Code); and
(5)
Make other nonsubstantive changes necessary to preserve the original meaning of ordinance sections inserted into the Code, but, in no case shall the codifier make any change in the meaning or effect of ordinance material included in the supplement or already embodied in the Code.
Charter reference— Supplement form, § 2.26(c).
Sec. 1-7. - Altering Code; defacing documents.
(a)
It shall be unlawful for any person to change or amend, by additions or deletions, any part or portion of this Code, or to insert or delete pages or portions thereof, or to alter or tamper with such Code in any manner whatsoever, except by ordinance or resolution or other official act of the city commission.
(b)
It shall be unlawful for any person to deface, mutilate, or in any other manner alter any ordinance book or minute book, or any notice posted by the city for the benefit of the public, or any other document or record of the municipal government of the city.
Sec. 1-8. - General penalty.
(a)
Whenever in this Code or in any ordinance of the city any act is prohibited or is declared to be unlawful, or whenever in such Code or ordinance the doing of any act is required or the failure to do any act is declared to be unlawful, and no specific penalty is provided therefor, the violation of such provision of this Code or any ordinance shall subject the person committing the violation to a fine of not more than $1,000.00 or imprisonment not to exceed six months, or both.
(b)
In addition to the penalties provided in this section, any condition caused or permitted to exist in violation of any of the provisions of this Code or any ordinance shall be deemed a public nuisance and may be abated by the city, as provided by law, and each day that such condition continues shall be regarded as a new and separate offense.
(c)
The imposition of a penalty under the provisions of this section shall not prevent the revocation of any permit or license or the taking of other punitive or remedial action where called for or permitted under the provisions of the city's charter or Code.
Cross reference— Enforcement procedures, § 27-10.
Charter reference— Authority to provide penalties, § 1.13(34); working out sentences, § 1.13(26); jurisdiction of municipal court, § 4.13(c).
State Law reference— Authority to punish, O.C.G.A. §§ 36-30-8, 36-32-1, 36-35-6.
Sec. 1-9. - Provisions considered as continuation of existing ordinances.
The provisions appearing in this Code, so far as they are substantially the same as ordinances existing at the time of the effective date of this Code, shall be considered as continuations thereof and not as new enactments.
Sec. 1-10. - Certain ordinances not affected by Code.
Nothing in this Code or the ordinance adopting this Code shall be construed to repeal or otherwise affect the validity of any of the following:
(1)
Any rates, fees or charges consistent with this Code;
(2)
Any ordinance promising or guaranteeing the payment of money for the city, or authorizing the issuance of any bonds for the city or any evidence of the city's indebtedness, or any contract or obligation assumed by the city;
(3)
Any ordinance consistent with this Code prescribing traffic regulations for specific locations, such as prescribing through streets, parking limitations, parking prohibitions, one-way traffic or limitations on loads of vehicles or loading zones;
(4)
Any ordinance consistent with this Code fixing salaries of officials, officers or employees of the city;
(5)
Any budget ordinance, appropriation ordinance or any ordinance levying any tax;
(6)
Any right or franchise granted by any ordinance or resolution to any person;
(7)
Any ordinance dedicating, naming, establishing, locating, relocating, opening, closing, paving, widening or vacating any street or public way in the city;
(8)
Any ordinance establishing and prescribing the street grades of any street in the city;
(9)
Any ordinance providing for local improvements or assessing taxes therefor;
(10)
Any ordinance dedicating or accepting any plat or subdivision in the city or providing regulations for the same;
(11)
Any ordinance establishing or changing the boundary of the city;
(12)
Any zoning ordinance or ordinance regulating subdivisions in the city;
(13)
Any ordinance enacted after May 6, 1991.
All such ordinances are hereby recognized as continuing in full force and effect to the same extent as if set out at length in this Code.
Sec. 1-11. - Severability of parts of Code.
Except as otherwise specifically provided in this Code, if any title, chapter, article, part, subpart, section, subsection, paragraph, subparagraph, item, sentence, clause, phrase, or word of this Code is declared or adjudged to be invalid or unconstitutional, such declaration or adjudication shall not affect the remaining portions of this Code, which shall remain of full force and effect as if such portion so declared or adjudged invalid or unconstitutional were not originally a part of this Code, since the city commission declares that it would have enacted the remaining parts of this Code if it had known that such portion hereof would be declared or adjudged invalid or unconstitutional.
