Chapter 38 - STREETS, SIDEWALKS AND OTHER PUBLIC PLACES[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Charter reference— Authority as to roadways, § 1.13(11).

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 38-1. - Building numbering—System.
On the property numbering map, Main Street is hereby designated as the north-south axis and Cole Street is hereby designated as the east-west axis. All avenues, streets, and alleys running generally north and south shall be numbered from the east-west axis consecutively to the corporate limits of the extremity of such avenue, alley, or street. Avenues, streets, or alleys running generally east and west shall be numbered from the north-south axis in the same manner. Odd numbers shall be assigned to the west side of the street on all north-south streets, and even numbers to the east side. On east-west streets, odd numbers shall be assigned to the south side of the street and even numbers to the north side.
(Ord. of 6-3-85, § 2)
Sec. 38-2. - Same—Map.
(a)
The property numbering map entitled "Property Numbering Map, dated March 1985, Trenton, Georgia," is hereby adopted as the official property numbering map of the city, and all property numbers assigned shall be assigned in accordance with this numbering map, and no other property numbers shall be used or displayed in the city, except numbers assigned in accordance with the official numbering map. The property numbering map shall be kept on file in the office of the city clerk.
(b)
The property numbering map shall be revised every six months. Numbers assigned during this period shall be permanently affixed to the official property numbering map.
(Ord. of 6-3-85, §§ 1, 5)
Sec. 38-3. - Same—Posting.
(a)
All residence and business buildings shall be assigned a number in accordance with the property numbering map, which number shall be displayed as provided in this section.
(b)
At the time a building permit is hereafter issued for any principal building the owner or developer will procure at that time the official property number from the city clerk.
(c)
The owner and/or occupant or person in charge of any house or other building to which a number has been assigned will be notified in writing by the city of the number assigned to the house or building, either on the clerk's violation or on request of the owner or occupant.
(d)
After the receipt of such written notification from the city, the owner and/or occupant or person in charge of a house or other building to which a number has been assigned shall affix the number in a conspicuous manner in a conspicuous place, in a timely manner.
(e)
It shall be the duty of such owner and/or occupant or person in charge thereof upon affixing the new number to remove any different number which might be mistaken for, or confused with, the number assigned to such structure by the city.
(f)
Each principal building shall display the number assigned to the frontage on which the front entrance is located. In case a principal building is occupied by more than one business or family dwelling unit, each separate front entrance may display a separate number.
(g)
Numerals indicating the official numbers for each principal building or each front entrance to such building shall be posted in a manner as to be legible and distinguishable from the street on which the property is located.
(Ord. of 6-3-85, §§ 3, 4)
Sec. 38-4. - Same—Unlawful to deface number.
It shall be unlawful for any person to alter, deface, or take down any number placed on any property in accordance with this article, except for repair or replacement of such number.
(Ord. of 6-3-85, § 6)
Sec. 38-5. - Same—Penalties.
In the event that the owner and/or occupant or person in charge of any house or other building refuses to comply with the terms of numbering requirements by failing to affix the assigned numbers in the prescribed manner and within the prescribed period of time, such person shall be in violation and shall be fined not to exceed $100.00 as determined by the municipal court.
(Ord. of 6-3-85, § 7)
Secs. 38-6—38-19. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - EXCAVATIONS; CUTS
DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Sec. 38-20. - Permit prior to underground work—Application.
Before any construction begins which will cut, excavate, trench, bore or use in any manner whatsoever city streets for the purpose of installing, repairing, maintaining or removing any type of underground pipe, cable, conduit or tile, the person seeking to do so shall first apply for a permit to the city stating the place, purpose and time such installation, repair, maintenance or removal is to commence. Such application shall be in writing and addressed to the governing body at the city hall.
(Ord. of 11-3-80, § 1)
Sec. 38-21. - Same—Inspection prior to granting.
Before a permit for the aforesaid purposes is granted, the governing body shall have the member in charge of streets inspect the location and inform the applicant seeking such permit as to what safety precautions will be necessary prior to such construction and what action will be required by the city as to the repair of the street.
(Ord. of 11-3-80, § 2)
Sec. 38-22. - Same—Granting.
After the appropriate official in charge of streets has inspected the location and met with the applicant, if the construction requested in the application is for public purposes, then at that time, a written permit may be given therefor by the governing body.
(Ord. of 11-3-80, § 3)
Sec. 38-23. - Same—Denial in the future.
Any person not complying with all of the provisions of this division will not be given further permits for any such work until such person has either paid the city for all such damages caused by prior construction or has complied with all of the terms of this article.
(Ord. of 11-3-80, § 6)
Sec. 38-24. - Commencement of construction; required repairs, approval.
(a)
After a written permit is granted by the city through the appropriate officials, the person shall commence immediately with its proposed construction and must further repair within 15 days all paved streets which are cut, bored or damaged in any manner whatsoever.
(b)
All city streets which are so affected by construction must be restored to at least the same condition as they existed immediately prior to such construction.
(c)
Any and all such repairs must meet with the approval of the governing body.
(Ord. of 11-3-80, §§ 4, 5)
Sec. 38-25. - Performance of work by city.
If any such person fails to make the necessary repairs and/or cleanup work as required within 20 days from the date of such construction then the city may at its option make such repairs or cause such repairs to be made and charge such person with the cost thereof. If any such charges are collected through an attorney-at-law, the city shall be entitled to reasonable attorneys fees for the cost of such collection.
(Ord. of 11-3-80, § 7)
Sec. 38-26. - Payment for future work.
If at any time in the future it should become necessary for any of the underground pipes, cables, conduits or tiles to be removed or relocated due to improvements, repairs or relocation, either partial or total, of the streets the same shall be done at the sole expense of the person so using the city streets.
(Ord. of 11-3-80, § 8)
Secs. 38-27—38-29. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - INSTALLATION FOR UNDERGROUND AND OVERHEAD UTILITIES

Sec. 38-30. - Permit—Required; application.
(a)
Before any construction begins which will place any post, poles, towers or any other type of installation for the purpose of maintaining overhead wires, lines, cables and the like within, across, upon or under any city street and/or city right-of-way, the person seeking to do so shall first obtain a permit from the city. Such person shall apply for a permit to the city, stating the place, purpose and time such installation, repair, maintenance and/or removal is to commence, such application to be in writing and addressed to the governing body at the city hall.
(b)
Before any construction begins which will cut, excavate, trench, bore or use in any manner whatsoever city streets and/or city street right-of-way for the purpose of installing, repairing, maintaining or removing any type of underground pipe, cable, conduit or tile, the person seeking to do so shall first obtain a permit therefor from the city. Such person shall apply for a permit to the city, stating the place, purpose and time such installation, repair, maintenance or removal is to commence. Such application shall be in writing and addressed to the governing body at the city hall.
(Ord. of 6-2-80, §§ 1, 2)
Sec. 38-31. - Same—Determination of safety precautions.
Before permit for the aforesaid purposes is granted, the governing body shall have the member in charge of streets inspect the location and inform the applicant seeking such permission as to what safety precautions will be necessary prior to such construction and what action will be required by the city as to the repair of the street and street right-of-way.
(Ord. of 6-2-80, § 3)
Sec. 38-32. - Same—Issuance.
After the appropriate official in charge of streets has inspected the location and met with the applicant, if the construction requested in the application is for public purposes, at that time, a written permit may be given therefor by the governing body.
(Ord. of 6-2-80, § 4)
Sec. 38-33. - Commencement of work; time for repair.
After a written permit is granted by the city through the appropriate official, the person shall commence immediately with its proposed construction and shall further repair within 15 days all paved streets which are cut, crossed or damaged in any manner whatsoever. All such repairs shall meet the approval of the governing body.
(Ord. of 6-2-80, § 5)
Sec. 38-34. - Restoration of surface.
(a)
All city streets which are so affected by construction shall be restored to at least the same condition as they existed immediately prior to such construction.
(b)
All city rights-of-way not lying within the paved portions of any streets which are affected by any such construction as contemplated herein shall be restored to the same condition as previously existed immediately prior to such construction within 15 days from the time construction is commenced.
(Ord. of 6-2-80, §§ 6, 7)
Sec. 38-35. - Denial of permits in the future.
Any such person not complying with all of the provisions of this division will not be given further permits for any such work until such person has either paid the city for all such damages caused by prior construction or has complied with all of the terms of this division.
(Ord. of 6-2-80, § 8)
Sec. 38-36. - Repair and restoration by city.
If any such person fails to make the necessary repairs and cleanup work as required by this division within 20 days from the date of such construction the city may at its option make such repairs or cause such repairs to be made and charge the person with the cost thereof. If any such charges are collected through an attorney-at-law, the city shall be entitled to reasonable attorneys' fees for the cost of such collection.
(Ord. of 6-2-80, § 9)
Sec. 38-37. - Bearing of expense for future work.
(a)
If at any time in the future it becomes necessary for any of the posts, poles, towers or any other type of installation for the purpose of maintaining overhead wires, lines, cables and the like to be removed or relocated due to improvements, repairs or relocation, either partial or total, of such streets or street rights-of-way, the improvements, repairs or relocation shall be done at the sole expense of the person so using such city streets or city street rights-of-way.
(b)
If at any time in the future it should become necessary for any of the underground pipes, cables, conduits or tiles to be removed or relocated due to improvements, repairs or relocation, either partial or total, of such streets or streets rights-of-way, the removal or relocation shall be done at the sole expense of the person so using such city streets or city street rights-of-way.
(Ord. of 6-2-80, §§ 10, 11)
Secs. 38-38, 38-39. - Reserved.
ARTICLE III. - TREES

Sec. 38-40. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Park trees means trees, shrubs, bushes and all other woody vegetation in city parks having individual names and all other areas owned by the city or to which the public has free access as a park provided by the city.
Street trees means trees, shrubs, bushes and all other woody vegetation on land lying between rights-of-way lines on either side of all city streets, avenues or ways within the city.
(Ord. of 1-7-85, § 1)
Sec. 38-41. - City tree board—Created and established.
There is hereby created and established a city tree board for the city, which shall consist of five members, citizens and residents of the city, who shall be appointed by the mayor with the approval of the commission.
(Ord. of 1-7-85, § 2)
Sec. 38-42. - Same—Term of office.
The term of the five persons to be appointed to the tree board by the mayor shall be three years, except that the terms of two of the members appointed to the first board shall be for only one year and the terms of two of the members of the first board shall be for two years. In the event that a vacancy shall occur during the term of any member, such member's successor shall be appointed for the unexpired portion of the term.
(Ord. of 1-7-85, § 3)
Sec. 38-43. - Same—Compensation.
Members of the tree board shall serve without compensation.
(Ord. of 1-7-85, § 4)
Sec. 38-44. - Same—Duties and responsibilities.
It shall be the responsibility of the tree board to study, investigate, counsel and develop and update annually, and administer a written plan for the care, preservation, pruning, planting, replanting, removal or disposition of trees and shrubs in parks, along streets and in other public areas. Such plan will be presented annually to the governing body and upon its acceptance and approval shall constitute the official comprehensive city tree plan for the city. The board, when requested by the governing body shall consider, investigate, make findings, report and recommend upon any special matter of question coming within the scope of its work.
(Ord. of 1-7-85, § 5)
Sec. 38-45. - Same—Organization.
The tree board shall choose its own officers, make its own rules and regulations and keep minutes of its proceedings. A majority of the members shall be a quorum for the transaction of business.
(Ord. of 1-7-85, § 6)
Sec. 38-46. - Tree species to be planted.
The following list constitutes the official street tree species for the city. No species other than those included in this list may be planted as street trees without written permission of the city tree board.
EXPAND
Small Trees   Medium Trees  Large Trees
Apricot Ash, Green Coffeetree
Flowering Dogwood Gingko Bald Cypress
Weeping Cherry Southern Magnolia Scarlet Oak
Yellow Poplar White Pine
Red Cedar Red Maple
Weeping Willow Water Oak
Crabapple Hackberry
Flowering (sp.) Honeylocust Maple, Silver
Golden Rain Tree   (thornless) Maple, Sugar
Hawthorne (sp.) Linden or Basswood (sp.) Oak, Bur
Pear, Bradford Mulberry, Red Sycamore
Redbud   (fruitless, male) Sycamore
Soapberry Oak, English   London plantree
Kentucky
Lilac, Jap Tree Oak, Red Cottonwood
Peach, Flowering Pagodatree, Japanese   (cottonless male)
Plum, Purpleleaf Pecan Willow Oak
Serviceberry Birch, River Southern Red Oak
Osageorange
(male, thornless)
Persimmon
Poplar, White
Sassafras
  (Ord. of 1-7-85, § 7)
Sec. 38-47. - Spacing.
The spacing of street trees will be in accordance with the three species size classes listed in section 38-46, and no trees may be planted closer together than the following: small trees, 30 feet; medium trees, 40 feet; and large trees, 50 feet; except in special plantings designed or approved by a landscape architect.
(Ord. of 1-7-85, § 8)
Sec. 38-48. - Distance from curb and sidewalk.
The distance trees may be planted from curbs or curblines and sidewalks will be in accordance with the three species size classes listed in section 38-46 and no trees may be planted closer to any curb or sidewalk than the following: small trees, two feet; medium trees, three feet; and large trees, four feet.
(Ord. of 1-7-85, § 9)
Sec. 38-49. - Distance from street corners and fire hydrants.
(a)
No street tree shall be planted closer than 35 feet to any street corner, measured from the point of nearest intersecting curbs or curblines.
(b)
No street tree shall be planted closer than ten feet of any fire hydrant.
(Ord. of 1-7-85, § 10)
Sec. 38-50. - Utilities.
No street trees other than those species listed as small trees in section 38-46 may be planted under or within ten lateral feet of any overhead utility wire, or over or within five lateral feet of any underground waterline, sewer line, transmission line or other utility.
(Ord. of 1-7-85, § 11)
Sec. 38-51. - Public tree care.
The city shall have the right to plant, prune, maintain and remove trees, plants and shrubs within the lines of all streets, alleys, avenues, lanes, squares and public grounds, as may be necessary to insure public safety or to preserve or enhance the symmetry and beauty of such public grounds. The city tree board may remove or cause or order to be removed, any tree or park thereof which is in an unsafe condition or which by reason of its nature is injurious to sewers, electric power lines, gas lines, water lines, or other public improvements, or is affected with any injurious fungus, insect or other pest. This section does not prohibit the planting of street trees by adjacent property owners providing that the selection and location of such trees are in accordance with sections 38-46 through 38-50.
(Ord. of 1-7-85, § 12)
Sec. 38-52. - Tree topping.
It shall be unlawful as a normal practice for any person or city department to top any street tree, park tree, or other tree on public property. Topping is defined as the severe cutting back of limbs to stubs larger than three inches in diameter within the tree's crown to such a degree so as to remove the normal canopy and disfigure the tree. Trees severely damaged by storms or other causes, or certain trees under utility wires or other obstructions where other pruning practices are impractical may be exempted from this article at the determination of the city tree board.
(Ord. of 1-7-85, § 13)
Sec. 38-53. - Pruning, corner clearance.
Every owner of any tree overhanging any street or right-of-way within the city shall prune the branches so that such branches shall not obstruct the light of any street lamp or obstruct the view of any street intersection and so that there shall be a clear space of eight feet above the surface of the street or sidewalk. Such owners shall remove all dead, diseased or dangerous trees, or broken or decayed limbs which constitute a menace to the safety of the public. The city shall have the right to prune any tree or shrub on private property when it interferes with the proper spread of light along the street from a street light or interferes with visibility of any traffic control device or sign.
(Ord. of 1-7-85, § 14)
Sec. 38-54. - Dead or diseased tree removal on private property.
The city shall have the right to cause the removal of any dead or diseased trees on private property within the city, when such trees constitute a hazard to life, property or harbor insects or disease which constitute a potential threat to other trees within the city. The city tree board will notify in writing the owners of such trees. Removal shall be done by such owners at their own expense within 60 days after the date of service of notice. In the event of failure of the owners to comply with such provisions, the city shall have the authority to remove such trees and charge the cost of removal on the owners property tax notice.
(Ord. of 1-7-85, § 15)
Sec. 38-55. - Removal of stumps.
All stumps of street and park trees shall be removed below the surface of the ground so that the top of the stump shall not project above the surface of the ground.
(Ord. of 1-7-85, § 16)
Sec. 38-56. - Review by city commission.
The governing body shall have the right to review the conduct, acts and decisions of the city tree board. Any person may appeal from any ruling or order of the city tree board to the governing body, which may hear the matter and make final decision.
(Ord. of 1-7-85, § 18)
