ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 6-1. - Definitions.
Unless the context demands otherwise, the words and terms used in this chapter shall have the same definitions and meanings as set out in O.C.G.A. § 3-1-2 and elsewhere in O.C.G.A. title 3. Specific definitions are as follows:
Business location means the location or proposed location of a retail or wholesale malt beverage outlet or retail wine outlet, as the case may be.
Measured means the straight line distance from the closest corner of the building from which the outlet or proposed outlet is located to the closest corner of the building of an involved institution or establishment, except as otherwise stated in this chapter.
Outlet means a store in which malt beverages are sold, or a store for the retail sale of wine, as the case may be.
Outlet manager means the person who does or who will actually manage or operate on a day-to-day basis, the malt beverage store, or the retail wine store, as the case may be.
Wine means that wine which may be legally sold in a city or county which has not voted in favor of the taxation and control of distilled spirits or spirituous liquors under the provisions of the Official Code of Georgia Annotated.
(Ord. of 2-3-86, §§ 1.1, 2.1)
State Law reference— Definitions, O.C.G.A. §§ 3-1-2, 3-3-7, 3-3-20, 3-4-1, 3-5-1, 3-6-1, 3-7-1.
Sec. 6-2. - Appearance in public in intoxicated condition.
It shall be unlawful for any person to be and appear in an intoxicated condition on or upon the public streets, sidewalks or other public ways of the city or in any public park, playground or recreational area of the city, or on any other public property, within the limits of the city, which drunkenness or intoxication may be caused by the excessive use of any alcoholic beverage, as defined in O.C.G.A. § 3-1-2.
State Law reference— Public drunkenness, O.C.G.A. § 16-11-41.
Sec. 6-3. - Consumption on public property.
It shall be unlawful for any person to drink or consume any alcoholic beverage on the public streets, sidewalks or other public ways of the city or in any public park, playground or recreational area of the city, or on any other public property.
(Ord. of 2-3-86, § 3.9)
Sec. 6-4. - Employees; intoxicated or drinking on premises.
No owner, operator, manager or employee of any outlet shall work in such outlet while intoxicated, nor shall any of such persons drink any alcoholic beverage whatsoever while working and employed in any outlet.
(Ord. of 2-3-86, § 3.11)
Secs. 6-5—6-19. - Reserved.
