ARTICLE II. - MALT BEVERAGES AND WINE
DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Sec. 6-20. - Wines authorized under this article.
For the purposes of this article wine which is authorized hereunder is that wine which is authorized to be legally sold and distributed in municipalities and counties which have not authorized the legal sale of distilled spirits and spirituous liquors defined by the laws of the state.
(Ord. of 2-3-86, § 3.18)
Sec. 6-21. - Applicability of malt beverage provisions to wine.
All regulations controlling the sale of malt beverages shall also be applicable to the sale of wine as if fully set out as a separate section herein. It is the intention of the governing body that wine be sold either in conjunction with a qualified and licensed retail malt beverage outlet under the same standards and restrictions as are applicable to retail malt beverage outlets, or if the licensee so desires, wine may be sold at a qualified licensed wine outlet which does not sell malt beverages; however, under any circumstances all wine outlets shall be under the same standards, qualifications, rules and restrictions as are applicable to malt beverage outlets under this chapter.
(Ord. of 2-3-86, § 2.5)
Sec. 6-22. - Business hours-retail outlets.
Retail dealers shall not engage in the sale of malt beverages or wine except between the hours of 7:00 a.m. and 1:00 a.m. of the immediate following days on Monday through Friday, and 7:00 a.m. and 12:00 p.m. on Saturdays; provided, however, retail dealers shall not permit their outlets to be open for the sale of malt beverages and/or wine on Sunday, Christmas Day or on any other day or portion of a day on which they are required to be closed by the laws of the state.
(Ord. of 2-3-86, § 3.1)
State Law reference— Sales on Sundays, O.C.G.A. § 3-3-7; sales on Sundays, election days and Christmas days, O.C.G.A. § 3-3-20.
Sec. 6-23. - Same-wholesalers.
The business hours of wholesale dealers shall be the same hours and days as retail dealers and outlets are allowed to engage in the sale of malt beverages and/or wine by the terms of section 6-22.
(Ord. of 2-3-86, § 3.2)
Sec. 6-24. - Same-compliance.
Retail licensees and wholesale licensees are hereby prohibited from selling, giving away, offering for sale, delivering or dispensing in any manner whatsoever any malt beverages or wine within the city except on such days and at such times as sales are specifically authorized in sections 6-22 and 6-23.
(Ord. of 2-3-86, § 3.3)
Sec. 6-25. - Visibility and lighting of outlets.
No license shall be granted to a retailer under any provision or section of this chapter unless the front entrance to the outlet is clearly visible from a public street, sidewalk or other public way, and no screen, blind, curtain, partition, article or thing which shall prevent a clear view into the interior of the outlet shall be permitted in the window or on the doors of any retail outlet. Each retail outlet shall be so lighted that the interior of the store or premises is visible day or night and all parking areas adjacent to or used in connection with such business shall be fully lighted and unobstructed.
(Ord. of 2-3-86, § 3.5)
Sec. 6-26. - Consumption on premises.
The retail licenses authorized hereunder are for retail sales in package only and there shall be no consumption on the premises of any outlet of any malt beverage or wine.
(Ord. of 2-3-86, § 3.6)
Sec. 6-27. - Curb service.
No retail licensee, through its officers, agents, employees or otherwise, shall serve, sell or deliver any malt beverage or wine to occupants of automobiles or other vehicles regardless of where the automobiles or other vehicles are located. It is the intent of this section to prohibit what is commonly known as curb service sales of malt beverages or wine. This section shall not be construed to prohibit the delivery of sacks or other packages to automobiles or other vehicles when the sales have been consummated inside the retail outlet.
(Ord. of 2-3-86, § 3.7)
Sec. 6-28. - Intoxicated persons.
No malt beverage or wine shall be sold to any intoxicated person, nor shall any intoxicated person be allowed to remain upon the premises of any outlet.
(Ord. of 2-3-86, § 3.8)
State Law reference— Sale to intoxicated person, O.C.G.A. § 3-3-22.
Sec. 6-29. - Sale to minors.
No malt beverage or wine shall be sold to a minor under any condition whatsoever. A minor for the purpose of this chapter shall be considered to be any person who is considered to be a minor under the laws of the state.
(Ord. of 2-3-86, § 3.10)
State Law reference— Purchase, etc., by minors, O.C.G.A. § 3-3-23; dispensing, etc., by minors, O.C.G.A. § 3-3-24 et seq.
Sec. 6-30. - Advertising.
It shall be a violation of this chapter for any retail or wholesale licensee to advertise the sale of malt beverages or wine on the outside of the outlet in which the licensee is licensed to operate such business under this chapter.
(Ord. of 2-3-86, § 3.12).
Sec. 6-31. - Compliance with rules and regulations of health authorities.
All retail licensees under this article are hereby required to comply with all rules and regulations and requirements of any board of health, state, federal or local.
(Ord. of 2-3-86, § 3.15)
Sec. 6-32. - Unlawful possession for purpose of sale or resale.
It shall be unlawful for any person to sell or possess for the purpose of sale or resale any malt beverage or wine when such person does not have a license from the city to sell or possess for sale or resale such beverages. It shall be presumed as a matter of law, that any person having located on such premises more than 1,440 fluid ounces of malt beverage or one-half gallon of wine shall have the same in such person's possession for the purpose of resale.
(Ord. of 2-3-86, § 3.19)
Sec. 6-33. - Receipt of and delivery to retail licensees.
Malt beverages and/or wine shall be received at or delivered to the premises of the retail licensee by no other means than by conveyance owned and operated by a wholesale dealer with a permit from the city to make deliveries in the city. Transportation of malt beverages or wine by any other means shall be grounds for revocation of a wholesale permit or license. Receipt of malt beverages or wine by any other means by a retail licensee shall be grounds for revocation of a retail license.
(Ord. of 2-3-86, § 3.20)
Sec. 6-34. - Manager of outlet; requirements.
If the person to whom any license under this article is issued does not personally manage the outlet, the name of each manager on duty at the outlet must always be registered with the city clerk, and each manager of the outlet shall meet all of the requirements of a person to whom a license could be granted hereunder. If such licensed outlet is not managed directly by the holder of the license, or a manager registered as provided hereunder who meets all of the requirements hereunder, then the license shall be immediately suspended or revoked. If such a manager is changed, the holder of the license must notify the city clerk not later than ten days from the date of the change of such manager and all information required hereunder with regard to managers shall also be furnished to the city clerk at such time. This section shall apply to any person who is in charge of the business operation of the outlet at any given time.
(Ord. of 2-3-86, § 3.22)
Sec. 6-35. - Package sales only.
All malt beverages and wine shall be located within the interior of the outlet and shall be sacked in containers at the check-out counter of such outlet, and no such beverages shall be opened or consumed either inside the outlet or on the premises of the outlet.
(Ord. of 2-3-86, § 3.16)
Sec. 6-36. - Posting of this article.
At all times all retail licensees under this article must have within the place of business a copy of this article.
(Ord. of 2-3-86, § 3.14)
Secs. 6-37—6.39. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - LICENSES

Sec. 6-40. - Necessity for city license.
(a)
It shall be unlawful to manufacture, sell or offer to sell at wholesale or retail within the city any malt beverage without having the appropriate license for such manufacture or sale, or to carry on such activity in violation of the terms of such license or of this chapter.
(b)
It shall be unlawful to sell, store or offer to sell at wholesale or retail within the city, wine without having the appropriate license for such sale or to carry on such activity in violation of the terms of such license or this chapter.
(Ord. of 2-3-86, §§ 1.2, 2.2)
Sec. 6-41. - Separate license for each outlet; license not transferable; surrender of license.
(a)
A separate license shall be required for each malt beverage outlet and for each wine outlet, and separate application shall be made for each.
(b)
No license shall be transferable or assignable.
(c)
Immediately upon the sale of an outlet or immediately upon the closing of an outlet, it shall be the duty of the licensee to surrender his license to the city clerk.
(Ord. of 2-3-86, §§ 1.3, 2.3)
Sec. 6-42. - Licenses nontransferable.
No license granted under this article shall be transferable from one person to another, nor shall the same be transferable from one outlet (location) to another.
(Ord. of 2-3-86, § 3.21)
Sec. 6-43. - Classification of licenses.
Licenses under this article shall be classified as follows:
(1)
Retail; convenience store means a retail store in which the primary function is the sale of food and related merchandise, and in which the sale of malt beverages and/or wine at retail is incidental to the operation thereof and in which the sales of malt beverages and/or wine constitute less than 50 percent of the gross sales of such store.
(2)
Wholesale means wholesale malt beverage and/or wine distributors, who permit only the sale of malt beverages and/or wine at wholesale to duly licensed retailers.
(Ord. of 2-3-86, §§ 1.4, 2.4, 3.16)
Sec. 6-44. - License application-malt beverage sales; contents.
Application for retail or wholesale malt beverage license shall be as provided in this section:
(1)
Each initial applicant shall make written application to the city for the privilege of engaging in the sale of malt beverages, specifying wholesale or retail, such application using forms approved by the governing body and furnished by the mayor.
(2)
The application shall be filed with city clerk with a fee of $25.00 for investigation of the applicant and application and of the proposed location and processing of the application.
(3)
The application shall state:
a.
As to the applicant the full name, age, home address, telephone number, place of permanent residence, date of establishment of permanent residence at such location, address of last place of residence, name of spouse, complete record of all convictions, guilty pleas and pleas of nolo contendere for violation of all laws, city, state and federal, of applicant and of applicant's spouse. If the applicant is a partnership such information shall be furnished as to each partner. If the applicant is a corporation, such information must be furnished as to each director, each officer and each stockholder who owns or controls ten percent or more of the issued and outstanding stock of such corporation.
b.
As to applicant's proposed outlet manager (if not same as applicant) the full name, age, home address, business address, telephone number, place of permanent residence, date of establishment at such location, address of last place of residence, name of spouse, complete record of all convictions, guilty pleas and pleas of nolo contendere for violation of all laws, city, state and federal, of the outlet manager and the outlet manager's spouse.
c.
Exact location (street address and otherwise) of proposed business and outlet.
d.
Name and address of owner or landlord and resident manager, if any, of property proposed for location and whether or not there is a building proposed to be used already erected thereon.
e.
Name or trade name under which the proposed business shall be operated.
f.
Name and address of all persons having any financial interest in the outlet by way of ownership of building or stock, receipt of income from business or otherwise. This shall not apply to any stockholder who owns less than ten percent of the issued and outstanding stock of the corporation.
g.
If the applicant is a corporation, the address of the principal place of business, the registered office, and the name of the registered agents of the corporation.
h.
Such other information as may be required by the city through interrogatories or otherwise.
(4)
The application shall be sworn to by all applicants.
(5)
There shall be attached to the application a copy of the applicant's application or proposed application for a license from the state if one is required.
(Ord. of 2-3-86, § 1.5)
Sec. 6-45. - Same-wine sales.
Application for a retail package wine license shall be the same as and in accordance with the requirements applicable to the sale of malt beverages by the package at retail, and all provisions in this chapter pertaining to the application and qualifications of a malt beverage licensee, including sections 6-43, 6-44, 6-46, 6-50 through 6-53 shall be enforced in the sale of wine.
(Ord. of 2-3-86, § 2.5)
Sec. 6-46. - Same-action by city.
Within seven days from the time the application is filed, the mayor shall notify the police chief or such other investigative officer as approved by the city, who shall investigate the character of the applicant and the reputation of the location, and make a full report to the city. The mayor shall refer the application, together with any objections which may have been filed, to the city. The city shall, after investigation of applicant and proposed location, direct the city clerk to either refuse to issue a license, or to issue a license for which the application is made upon payment of the appropriate fee. The city shall either issue or refuse to issue the license for which application is made within 60 days from the time the application is filed.
(Ord. of 2-3-86, § 1.6)
Sec. 6-47. - Applicant's fingerprints.
As a prerequisite to the issuance of any license hereunder, the applicant shall furnish a complete set of fingerprints which shall be forwarded to the Georgia Bureau of Investigation as is required under O.C.G.A. § 3-3-2(c).
(Ord. of 2-3-86, § 3.23)
Sec. 6-48. - Annual license fees.
(a)
The annual license fee for the privilege of engaging in the business of selling malt beverages at wholesale within the city shall be $50.00.
(b)
The annual license fee for the privilege of engaging in business of selling wine at wholesale with the city shall be $50.00.
(c)
The annual license fee for the privilege of engaging in the business of selling malt beverages at retail shall be $500.00.
(d)
The annual license fee for the privilege of engaging in the business of selling wine at retail shall be $500.00.
(e)
The annual license fee for engaging of selling wine and malt beverages of retail shall be $750.00.
(f)
No license shall be issued for less than the calendar year as herein provided and in case of revocation or surrender of any such license before the expiration of such calendar year, the holder thereof shall not be entitled to receive any refund whatsoever.
(g)
The aforesaid license fee herein set shall not be prorated for any portion of a year and shall remain the full amount regardless of the time the application is made.
(h)
All license fees required under this article shall be paid prior to the issuance of any license.
(Ord. of 2-3-86, §§ 3.4, 3.17)
Sec. 6-49. - Posting of licenses.
All licenses required under this article shall be posted in a conspicuous place within the outlet. If the license is not so posted the outlet shall not be authorized to continue in business until the license is posted.
(Ord. of 2-3-86, § 3.13)
Sec. 6-50. - Considerations and guidelines for granting or denying such license.
(a)
General. The city in making its determination on an initial application shall be guided by the factors set out in this section and section 6-51.
(b)
Additional considerations. The city in reaching its final determination on an initial application shall also be guided by the following factors as to whether or not to grant such license:
(1)
The proximity of other outlets.
(2)
The nature of the neighborhood immediately adjacent to the proposed location; that is, whether the neighborhood is predominately residential, industrial or business.
(3)
The proximity of public parks and playgrounds.
(4)
Whether the proposed location has adequate off-street parking facilities or other parking available for its patrons.
(Ord. of 2-3-86, §§ 1.7, 1.8(4))
Sec. 6-51. - Grounds for denial of license.
(a)
Prohibited location. It shall be unlawful to grant a license for the sale of malt beverages within the following areas in the city:
(1)
Within a measured 200 feet of any hospital building or resthome building. The word "building" as used herein shall mean a structure used at the time of filing of the application of license for the purposes of a hospital or resthome.
(2)
Within a measured 300 feet of any church property line. For the purposes of this article the words "church property" shall mean the premises upon which the main sanctuary is located. Additionally for the purpose of this article, a church is hereby defined as an organization for the purpose of preaching the gospel and other related religious activities located within a permanent structure either owned or leased by such organization or which is used by such organization with permission of the owner on a regular basis for such purpose. Such organization must either consist of 25 adult members on its official rolls that meet on a regularly scheduled basis not less than one time per week with an average attendance of not less than 25 people or such organization must be duly recognized and affiliated with a parent religious denomination and be either charted, recognized or approved by the parent religious denomination. Such organization must qualify under the rule of the internal revenue service as an organization to which contributions may be deducted for federal income tax purposes.
(3)
Within 300 feet, measured in a straight line, from the nearest property line of any school or school house to the nearest corner of the building which the outlet or proposed outlet is to be operated.
(4)
In any existing building or establishment having a history or reputation for prostitution or other sex offenses; fighting, shooting, stabbing or other violence; gambling; illegal dealing in alcoholic beverages or drugs; or other violations of the law.
(b)
Prohibited outlet building. It shall be unlawful to grant a license for the sale of malt beverages at retail where the proposed location does not have a front entrance to the premises which is clearly visible from a public street, road or highway.
(c)
Prohibited persons. It shall be unlawful to grant a license for the sale of malt beverages to:
(1)
A person who is not a citizen of the United States.
(2)
A corporation which is not duly qualified to do business in the State of Georgia and which is not in good standing with all of the rules and regulations of the Georgia Corporation Code and the secretary of state, and which does not have a registered agent for service of process within the state; however, the provisions of this subsection shall not apply to an individual or a partnership which has no corporate partners.
(3)
A person who is not of good character and reputation in the community in which he resides.
(4)
A person who has been convicted of a felony, or of a crime opposed to decency and morality, within ten years immediately prior to the filing of the application.
(5)
A person who has been convicted or who has entered a plea of nolo contendere for any felony or any misdemeanor involving the illegal possession, transportation or sale of any alcoholic spirits, prohibited liquors, wines or malt beverages, or taxability thereof within ten years immediately prior to the filing of the application.
(6)
A person who has been convicted or who has entered a plea of nolo contendere for any felony or any misdemeanor involving the illegal possession, transportation or sale of any drug, narcotic or controlled substance within ten years immediately prior to the filing of the application.
(7)
A person, partnership or corporation whose license under this article has been revoked for cause or who has had a license of any type under this article revoked for cause within five years immediately prior to the filing of the application.
(8)
A person, partnership or corporation who at the time of application for renewal of any license issued hereunder would not be eligible for such license upon a first application.
(9)
A person who is under the age of 21 years.
(10)
A person who is not of sound mind and memory.
(11)
An elected official or police officer or other law enforcement officer of the city.
(12)
If the applicant is a corporation, subsections (c)(3), (4), (5), (6), (9) and (10) of this section shall not apply.
(13)
Any partnership or corporation where any individual having any interest, either as owner, partner, stockholder, director or officer, or his or her spouse, shall have been convicted or shall have entered a plea of nolo contendere for any felony, or a crime opposed to decency and morality, or any felony or misdemeanor involving the manufacturing, possession, transportation or sale of beer, alcoholic spirits, wine, or prohibited liquors, or the taxability thereof, or a violation of this chapter, or shall have been convicted or shall have entered a plea of nolo contendere for any felony or misdemeanor involving the illegal possession, transportation or sale of any drug, narcotic or controlled substance within ten years immediately prior to the filing of such application.
(Ord. of 2-3-86, § 1.8(1)-(3))
Sec. 6-52. - Renewal of licenses; denial of renewal.
(a)
All licenses shall be issued for a period of one calendar year, running from January 1 through December 31, and shall be renewable as a matter of course upon payment of the appropriate fee except as set out in subsection (d) of this section.
(b)
Each licensee shall make written application for renewal on or before December 1 of each year on forms approved by the mayor.
(c)
Such application shall be referred to the police chief or such other person as is designated by the city, who shall report on the licensee's activity, if any, and upon activity at the location of the licensed business, if any, during the year.
(d)
If the police chief or designated investigator reports any activity which constitutes probable cause for not renewing a license, the renewal shall not be made, and the matter shall be referred to the city for its consideration. A public hearing must be held not later than December 31.
(e)
The city shall afford the licensee a public hearing and in passing upon the application for renewal, it shall be guided by the following factors applicable to an initial application: All matters contained in sections 6-50 and 6-51 and such evidence as is obtained and presented to the city as the result of the investigation provided for in subsection (c) of this section. The city shall consider all evidence presented at the public hearing.
(f)
At the public hearing the city may grant or deny for cause the renewal of any license issued hereunder.
(Ord. of 2-3-86, § 1.9)
Sec. 6-53. - Suspension and revocation of licenses.
(a)
Summary action.
(1)
If, at any time during the holding of a license granted under this article, it should appear that the licensee has violated the provisions of this chapter, or the state or federal laws relating to the possession, transportation or sale of any alcoholic spirits, prohibited liquors, wine or malt beverages or taxability thereof or involving the illegal possession, transportation or sale of any drug, narcotic or controlled substance, or has become a person prohibited by this chapter from having a license granted to him or her, as contained in sections 6-50 and 6-51, or if it should appear that the application contained known false information, or if it appears necessary for the public safety, health and welfare, the chief of police or some other police officer directed by the city may suspend and seize any retail license to sell malt beverages within the city.
(2)
If the licensee is dissatisfied with such suspension, such licensee may appeal to the city by filing a written request with the city clerk stating the grounds and reasons.
(3)
The city shall hold a hearing on such suspension within ten days of the filing of such appeal. After such hearing, the city may affirm, reverse or modify the action of the suspending officer and may revoke or suspend the license or place the licensee on probation or refuse to renew at the time of renewal.
(b)
Action by city. The city shall have full power to revoke, refuse to renew, suspend or place on probation any license to sell malt beverages for violation of this chapter or violation of any law of the state or any federal law involving possession, transportation or sale of any alcoholic spirits, prohibited liquors, wine or malt beverages or taxability thereof or involving any illegal possession, transportation or sale of any drug, narcotic or controlled substance, or if the licensee has become a person prohibited by this chapter from having a license granted to such person or it, as contained in sections 6-50 and 6-51, or if it should appear that the application contained known false information, or when the city shall determine after five days' notice and hearing that the operation of the licensed business is detrimental to the health, safety or welfare of the public. For the purposes of this section it shall be sufficient if notice is mailed giving the time and place of the hearing by United States registered or certified mail at the address of the licensee shown in the application.
(Ord. of 2-3-86, § 1.10)
Sec. 6-54. - Other permits and licenses.
In addition to the license required by the city, each licensee must obtain any permit or license required by the state and/or the United States of America. Failure to obtain any such license or permit or the revocation of any such license or permit shall be grounds for suspension or revocation of a license granted under this article.
(Ord. of 2-3-86, § 3.23)
Secs. 6-55—6-59. - Reserved.
DIVISION 3. - EXCISE TAXES

Sec. 6-60. - Sale prohibited when tax not paid.
It shall be unlawful for any person to sell at retail or other vise within the city any malt beverage or wine on which the tax required in this division has not been paid to the wholesaler or distributor or to the city.
(Ord. of 2-3-86, § 1.16)
Sec. 6-61. - Failure to make a timely report and pay tax.
The failure to make a timely report and remit the taxes levied herein shall render a wholesale dealer liable for a penalty equal to ten percent of the total amount due in addition to the amount due; and, additionally, if the report is not filed or if the taxes are not remitted and paid within 30 days from the date the taxes are due, the city shall have the right to suspend and/or revoke any wholesale license and further to prohibit such wholesaler from making any deliveries of any type whatsoever within the corporate limits of the city.
(Ord. of 2-3-86, § 1.15)
Sec. 6-62. - Malt beverages-levy.
In addition to the annual license fee required, there is hereby levied and imposed an excise tax which shall be paid to the city, on all malt beverages which are sold within the corporate limits of the city. Such excise tax is to be that amount authorized in O.C.G.A. § 3-5-80. Such excise tax is imposed upon and shall be paid by each wholesale dealer who sells and/or delivers malt beverages within the corporate limits of the city.
(Ord. of 2-3-86, § 1.11)
Sec. 6-63. - Same—Method of payment.
Such tax shall be paid to the city by each wholesale dealer on all malt beverages sold and/or delivered within the corporate limits of the city not later than the tenth day of each month, based upon the units of beverage sold during the previous calendar month by such wholesalers to retailers in the city.
(Ord. of 2-3-86, § 1.12)
Sec. 6-64. - Same—Records and reports.
The wholesale dealer shall keep true and correct records of all sales and shipments and shall render a sworn statement of the same accompanying the monthly report to the city. Such report shall show the exact quantities of malt beverages by size and type of container and the amount of excise tax collected.
(Ord. of 2-3-86, § 1.13)
Sec. 6-65. - Same—Right of audit.
The city shall have the right to audit and to require production of records from each wholesaler supplying retailers in the city and also from each retailer so supplied within the city.
(Ord. of 2-3-86, § 1.14)
Sec. 6-66. - Wine-levy.
In addition to the annual retail wine license fee required, there is hereby levied an excise tax computed as follows: $0.20 per liter and a proportionate tax at a rate of $0.20 per liter on all fractional parts of a liter and an additional tax at the same rate on all fractions above a liter.
(Ord. of 2-3-86, § 2.6(a))
State Law reference— Authority, O.C.G.A. § 3-6-60.
Sec. 6-67. - Same—Method of payment.
The excise tax on wine shall be paid to the city by each wholesale distributor on all wine sold to retailers in the city not later than the tenth day of each month, based upon the units of wine sold during the previous calendar month by such wholesalers to retailers in the city.
(Ord. of 2-3-86, § 2.6(b))
Sec. 6-68. - Same—Reports.
(a)
Each wholesale distributor shall furnish the city a summary of all purchase invoices for wine sold to each retailer in the city on or before the tenth day of each month following such purchases. Such invoices shall show the exact quantities of wine by size and type of container, and the amount of excise tax paid and the amount of excise tax collected.
(b)
All the foregoing reports herein required shall be under oath.
(Ord. of 2-3-86, § 2.6(c), (e))
Sec. 6-69. - Same—Audit.
The city shall have the right to audit, and the right to require production of records from each wholesaler who supplies retailers in the city and from each retailer supplied.
(Ord. of 2-3-86, § 2.6(d))
Secs. 6-70—6-74. - Reserved.
