ARTICLE VI. - ZONING DISTRICTS AND BOUNDARIES

6.1 - Establishment of Districts.
In order to carry out the intent and purpose of this ordinance, unincorporated Troup County is hereby divided into the following districts:
AG Agricultural District (AG-5)
AGR Agricultural/Residential (AGR-2)
RR Rural Residential (RR)
LR Lakeside Residential District (LR-2)
LRR Lakeside Rural Residential District (LRR-3)
SF-MD Single-Family—Medium Density (R-3)
MFR Multi-Family Residential District (MFR-1)
MHP Manufactured Home Park District (R-500)
USD Unrestricted Subdivision (R-300)
CRVP Commercial Recreational Vehicle Park District (CRVP)
CA Commercial Adult—CA100
GC General Commercial (GC-100)
HC Heavy Commercial (HC-100)
LC Limited Commercial (LC-200)
NHC Neighborhood Commercial District (NHC 300)
GI General Industrial District (GI-100)
LI Light Industrial District (LI-200)
FH Flood Hazard Overlay (FH)
HA Historic Area Overlay (HA)
PUD Planned Unit Development District (PUD)
SC Scenic Corridor Overlay District (SC)
6.1-1 Agricultural District (General Farming) (AG-5). The purpose of this district is to maintain the integrity of agricultural activities predominate in the rural area of Troup County. The regulations are to discourage the subdivision of land for urban development and to encourage the maintenance of the general rural characteristics of openness, low density single-family residential use, appropriate agri-business and extensive agricultural and livestock production.
6.1-2 Agricultural/Residential (AGR-2). The purpose of this district is to allow for less intense agricultural uses and low density single-family residential use. This district is intended to assist in preserving the rural character of Troup County and the district has no availability of infrastructure for high or medium density uses.
6.1-3 Rural Residential (RR). This district is intended to be utilized by existing lots or parcels for low density single-family residential purposes. The primary purpose of this district is to allow legal lots or parcels that exist without adequate public road frontage or have been subdivided prior to these regulations without constructing adequate roads. This district may also be used to subdivide property and provide lower density developments on well and septic tanks.
6.1-4 Lakeside Residential District (LR-2). The purpose of this district is to provide a medium density single-family residential area where overall densities are allowed with decentralized sewer systems and community or public water systems. This district is in close proximity to West Point Lake.
6.1-5 Lakeside Rural Residential District (LRR-3). The purpose of this district is to provide a low density single-family residential district in close proximity to West Point Lake and where individual wells and septic systems are utilized due to lack of infrastructure that allows for higher densities.
6.1-6 Single-Family—Medium Density District (R-4). The purpose of this district is to provide for medium density single-family residential growth with densities that adhere to smart growth principles and allow for decentralized sewer or public sewer and community or public water systems for major subdivisions.
6.1-7 Multi-Family Residential District (MFR). This district is designed to provide high density multi-family residential areas with decentralized sewer or public sewer and community or public water systems. This district is in close proximity to urban areas.
6.1-8 Manufactured Home Park District (MHP). This district is designed for the development of manufactured home parks and related facilities within a well planned environment.
6.1-9 Unrestricted Subdivision (USD R-300). This district is designed to allow single-family manufactured homes as a permitted use along with single-family site built homes in platted subdivisions.
6.1-10 Commercial Adult (CA). This zoning district allows for sexually oriented businesses.
6.1-11 Commercial Recreational Vehicle Park, Campgrounds and Cabins (CRVP). This district is designed to provide for areas where recreational vehicle parks, campgrounds and cabins may be developed in a well planned environment and in accordance with adopted development standards.
6.1-12 Heavy Commercial (HC-100). This district is designed to provide for intense commercial uses and include amusement parks, racetracks and other uses that may create large numbers of attendees.
6.1-13 Neighborhood Commercial (NHC-200). This district is established to provide a location for commercial growth in neighborhoods creating commercial nodes that are the least intense commercial uses providing limited service to rural areas. These districts are usually located in and around intersections of local roads and serve established neighborhoods.
6.1-14 General Commercial (GC-100). The purpose of this district is to provide areas for more intense commercial uses. Usually located along major arterials and used primarily as a gateway into municipalities.
6.1-15 Limited Commercial (LC-300). The purpose of this district is to provide for slightly more intense commercial districts usually located at major intersections.
6.1-16 General Industrial (GI-100). This district is established to provide appropriate locations for industrial operations.
6.1-17 Limited Industrial (LI-100). This district is established to provide areas for less intense industrial uses.
6.1-18 Planned Unit Development (PUD). This district is designed to allow mixed or multiple uses and greater density for a mix of residential and commercial development. This district shall allow for conservation subdivisions, developments containing apartments or town houses in conjunction with single-family residential use, and commercial and industrial uses in a design that enhances the surrounding areas. This district allows for flexibility of design to enhance and protect natural features of the property.
6.1-19 Flood Hazard District (FH). The limits of the flood hazard district are hereby determined to be areas subject to frequent periodic flooding and areas of delineated alluvial soils. These areas are also defined by the floodplain management department of the department of natural resources and delineated by the flood insurance rate map as part of the National Flood Insurance Program.
6.1-20 Historic Area Overlay (HAO). This is an overlay district is designed to preserve, protect and promote historic areas in the county and provide guidelines for rehabilitation of these areas.
6.1-21 Scenic Corridor (SC). This district is designed to protect the viewshed of corridors in Troup County that have historical, cultural and natural resources.
6.1-22 Watershed Protection District. The purpose of the watershed protection district is to establish measures to protect the quality of the present and future water supply for Troup County; to minimize the transport of pollutants and sediment to a water supply; and to maintain the yield of the water supply watershed. This ordinance shall apply to the portions of the watersheds which occur within the jurisdiction of Troup County and are herein identified as water supply watersheds of West Point and Hogansville.
6.1-23 Chattahoochee River Corridor Protection District. The purpose of the Chattahoochee River Corridor Protection District is to establish measures to guide future growth and development in the areas adjacent to the Chattahoochee River.
6.1-24 Wetlands Protection District. The purpose of this district is to promote the wise use of wetlands and protect them from alterations that will significantly affect or reduce the primary functions for water quality, floodplain and erosion control, ground water recharge, aesthetic natural areas and wildlife habitat areas
6.1-25 Groundwater Recharge Area Protection District. The purpose of the Groundwater Recharge Area Protection District is to establish measures to protect Troup County's identified recharge areas from potential sources of contamination by spills, discharges, leaks, impoundment's, application of chemicals, injections and other development pressures.
6.2 - Zoning District Map.
The boundaries of zoning districts are shown upon the map designated as the official zoning district map of unincorporated Troup County. The zoning map and all notations, references and other information shown thereon are a part of this ordinance and have the same force and effect as if the zoning district map and all the notations references and other information shown thereon were fully set forth and described herein, which zoning district map is properly attested and is on file with the Troup County Zoning Administrator and available for public review.
6.3 - District Boundaries.
The district boundaries shown on the zoning district map are generally intended to follow streets, alleys or lot lines; where the districts designated on said map are bounded by such streets, alleys or lot lines, the centerline of the street, alley or lot line shall be the boundary of the district unless such boundary is otherwise indicated on the map. In all other cases, the district boundary line shall be determined by use of the scale appearing on the official zoning map.
6.3-1 When the boundary line of a district divides a lot or tract held in single ownership at the time of adoption of this ordinance, the boundary line may be allowed to extend a distance of not more than 100 feet to the least restrictive zoned district.
