Chapter 14 - TAXATION
ARTICLE I. - TAX COMMISSIONER

FOOTNOTE(S):
--- (1) ---
Editor's note— Printed herein is 1925 Ga. Laws (Act No. 147), page 780, creating the office of county tax commissioner of Turner County. Amendments to the act are indicated by parenthetical history notes following amended provisions. The absence of a history note indicates that the provision remains unchanged from the original act. Obvious misspellings have been corrected without notation. For stylistic purposes, a uniform system of headings, catchlines and citations to state statutes have been used. Additions made for clarity are indicated by brackets.
Sec. 1. - Tax Receiver and Tax Collector; offices abolished.
Be it enacted by the General Assembly of the State of Georgia, and it is hereby enacted by authority of the same, That the offices of Tax Receiver and Tax Collector of Turner County, Georgia, are hereby abolished, and the duties of the two offices aforesaid are hereby consolidated into one office.
Sec. 2. - Office created.
Be it further enacted by the authority aforesaid, That the office of County Tax Commissioner of Turner County, Georgia is hereby created in lieu of said abolished offices, and the rights, duties, and liabilities of the said office of County Tax Commissioner of Turner County shall be the same as the rights, duties and liabilities of the Tax Receiver and Tax Collector of said County so far as same are applicable
Sec. 3. - Taxes now due collectible.
Be it further enacted by the authority aforesaid, That all taxes that are due and payable at the time the provisions of this Act become effective, and all tax fi. fas. theretofore issued by the Tax Collector of Turner County, Georgia, shall have full force and effect, and be collectible as issued.
Sec. 4. - Fees and commissions.
Be it further enacted by the authority aforesaid, That all fees, commissions and all other compensation allowed to the Tax Receiver and Tax Collector of Turner County, Georgia, at the time this Act becomes effective, or that might legally be allowed to such officers thereafterward were it not for the provisions of this Act, shall be collected by said County Tax Commissioner and paid into the treasury of Turner County, Georgia.
Sec. 5. - Compensation.
Be it further enacted by the authority aforesaid, That the compensation of the County Tax Commissioner of Turner County, Georgia, shall be a sum equal to fifty (50) percent of the fees, commissions and, all other compensation accruing to the Tax Receiver and Tax Collector of Turner County, Georgia, at the time this Act becomes effective, or that might legally be allowed to such officers thereafterward were it not for the provisions of this Act, and same shall be paid proportionately, monthly as near as the same can be estimated, until the same is changed by law.
Sec. 6. - Amount of bond.
Be it further enacted by the authority aforesaid, that before entering upon the duties of his office the said county tax commissioner shall take the oath now prescribed by law for the tax collector, and shall give bond in the sum of twenty-five thousand ($25,000.00) dollars, which bond shall be signed as surety by a bonding company legally authorized to do business in the State of Georgia; and the fee or cost for the suretyship on said bond shall be paid out of the funds of Turner County, Georgia, as part of the expense of county government.
(1933 Ga. Laws (Act No. 250), page 698, § 2)
Sec. 7. - Election to determine when effective; ballots; vacancies.
Be it further enacted, by the authority aforesaid, That the Ordinary of Turner County, Georgia, shall call and order a special election to be held on the third Wednesday in October, 1925, to be held in the manner that elections for county officers are now held, at which election the qualified voters of Turner County vote on the question of whether the provisions of this Act shall become operative and effective on January 1st, 1927, or January 1st, 1929, at which election ballots shall be used having on such ballots these words: "For County Tax Commissioner 1927" and "Against County Tax Commissioner 1927", and if a majority of the votes cast at said election, the returns of which shall be consolidated at noon on the day after such election in the office of the Ordinary of Turner County and the result of said election then and there declared shall be "For County Tax Commissioner 1927" and then and in that event the provisions of this Act shall become operative and effective on January 1st, 1927, and at the General Election in 1926 a County Tax Commissioner shall be elected for a term of two years beginning January 1st, 1927, and at the General Election in 1928, and every four years thereafter a County Tax Commissioner shall be elected for a term of four years, which term of four years with the exception of the term of two years for the years 1927 and 1928 is fixed as the regular term of office of said County Tax Commissioner; if at the Special Election herein provided for a majority of the votes cast at the same shall be "Against County Tax Commissioner 1927," then and in that event the provisions of this Act shall become operative and effective as of January 1st, 1929, and a County Tax Commissioner shall be elected, as county officers are elected, at the General Election to be held in 1928; said county Tax Commissioner, whether elected in 1926 or 1928, shall hold office until his successor is duly elected and qualified. Vacancies in said office of County Tax Commissioner shall be filled in the same manner that vacancies in other county offices are now filled by election.
Sec. 8. - Portions held unconstitutional not to affect remainder.
Be it further enacted by the authority aforesaid, that if for any reason any portion of this Act shall be held by the Court of last resort of this State to be unconstitutional the whole of this act shall not thereby become void, but only so much of the same as may be held to be unconstitutional. The purpose of this being to put into effect the Constitution of this State as is contained in Article Eleven (11), Section three (3), Paragraph one (1).
ARTICLE II. - HOMESTEAD EXEMPTION

FOOTNOTE(S):
--- (2) ---
Editor's note— Printed herein is 1980 Ga. Laws, page 2307, which provided a homestead exemption of $8,000.00 from all Turner County and Turner County School District ad valorem taxes for each resident of Turner County who is 62 under specific conditions. Amendments to the act are indicated by parenthetical history notes following amended provisions. The absence of a history note indicates that the provision remains unchanged from the original act. Obvious misspellings have been corrected without notation. For stylistic purposes, a uniform system of headings, catchlines and citations to state statutes have been used. Additions made for clarity are indicated by brackets.
Sec. 1. - Eligibility requirements; application procedures.
Article VII, Section I, Paragraph IV of the Constitution is hereby amended by adding at the end thereof the following:
Any other provisions of this Constitution to the contrary notwithstanding, each resident of Turner County who is 62 years of age or over or who is disabled is hereby granted an exemption from all Turner County and Turner County School District ad valorem taxes, including ad valorem taxes to pay interest on and retire bonded indebtedness, in the amount of $8,000.00 on a homestead owned and occupied by him as a residence, if his adjusted gross income, together with the adjusted gross income of his spouse who also occupies and resides at such homestead, does not exceed $10,000.00 for the immediately preceding taxable year. For the purposes of this paragraph, the term `adjusted gross income' shall have the same meaning as the term defined in the Internal Revenue Code of 1954, as now or hereafter amended, except that adjusted gross income shall not include income or benefits which are received as retirement, survivor or disability benefits under the Federal Social Security Act, or under any other public or private retirement, disability or pension system, except such income or benefits which are in excess of the maximum amount authorized to be received by an individual and his spouse under the Federal Social Security Act, as now or hereafter amended. The value of the residence in excess of the above exempted amount shall remain subject to taxation. In order to qualify for the exemption provided for herein as being disabled, the person claiming such exemption shall be required to obtain a certificate from not more than two physicians licensed to practice medicine under the laws of Georgia, as now or hereafter amended, certifying that in the opinion of such physician or physicians such person is mentally or physically incapacitated to the extent that such person is unable to be gainfully employed and that such incapacity is likely to be permanent. Any such owner shall not receive the benefits of such homestead exemption unless he or his agent files an affidavit with the Tax Commissioner of Turner County, giving his age, or if disabled the certificate or certificates provided for herein, and the amount of income which he and his spouse received during the last taxable year for income tax purposes; and such additional information relative to receiving the benefits of such exemption as will enable the Tax Commissioner to make a determination as whether such owner is entitled to such exemption. The Tax Commissioner shall provide affidavit forms for this purpose. Such applications shall be processed in the same manner as other applications for homestead exemption, and the provisions of law applicable to the processing of homestead exemptions, as the same now exists or may hereafter be amended, shall apply thereto. Provided, that after any such owner has filed the proper affidavit, and certificate or certificates if disabled, as provided above, and has been allowed the exemption provided herein, it shall not be necessary that he make application and file the said affidavit and certificate thereafter for any year and the said exemption shall continue to be allowed to such owner. It shall be the duty of any such owner, however, to notify the Tax Commissioner in the event he becomes ineligible for any reason for the exemption provided in this paragraph. The General Assembly may provide by law for the proper administration of this exemption, including penalties necessary therefor. It is specifically provided that the homestead exemption provided for herein shall not apply to the one-quarter mill ad valorem tax levied by the state, but in all other respects such homestead exemption shall supersede and replace a homestead exemption from county taxes for residents of Turner County who are 65 years of age or over and a homestead exemption from school taxes for Turner County residents who are 62 years of age or over when such homestead exemptions have been provided by previously existing provisions of this Constitution. The homestead exemptions provided for herein shall apply to all taxable years beginning after December 31, 1980.
