Chapter 4 - ADVERTISING

Sec. 4-1. - Advertising material and flyers; distribution; bill posting.
(a)
Defined. Bill posting, distributing advertising material, and distributing any other flyers or printed material in the city shall be construed to include and shall include posting, tacking, painting, circulation from house to house, business to business, or distributing upon the streets any advertising matter, bills, posters, pictures, or any other things, matter, or device whatsoever advertising the business of any person and shall also include any other type of printed material.
(b)
Exceptions. This section shall not apply to:
(1)
Sign painters painting store, office, or other signs.
(2)
Public officers or attorneys posting legal notices in the manner and places prescribed by law.
(3)
Any governmental body or unit, including the city or county.
(4)
Any church or society, for religious or other benevolent purposes, provided the persons distributing the bills or advertisements receive no compensation for the same.
(c)
Public improvement or structure. It shall be unlawful to paint, print, post, or in any other way affix a picture, bill, or advertising matter of any kind or any other kind of printed material upon any post, pole, hydrant, curb, sidewalk, or other public improvement or structure without first obtaining the permission of the city clerk.
(d)
Public streets or grounds. No person, entity, or business shall paint, print, post, or in any way affix any picture, bill, advertising matter, or any other printed literature of any kind upon any pole or mast in any street or alley or on any wire or cable incidental thereto or upon any tree or any structure or erection of any kind within the limits of any public street or grounds of the city, whether permission thereof has been granted by the owner or otherwise.
(e)
Building or object. No person, entity, or business shall paint, print, post, or in any way affix any picture, bill, advertising matter, or printed material of any kind upon any post, fence, billboard or signboard upon any building, erection, or structure of any kind within the city unless the building or object upon which the same is placed is the property or under control of the person putting up said material, or unless the consent of the owner or the person in control thereof has first been obtained.
(Ord. No. 1992-2, § 2—5, 1-20-1992)
Sec. 4-2. - Littering; advertising material classified as litter; exceptions.
The following applies to advertising material:
(1)
Postings and distributions. No bill poster, advertising distributor, or distributor of printed material shall scatter or throw any old bills or waste material removed from billboards on the surface of any public street or way or the surface of any private grounds, and the same shall constitute litter.
(2)
Throwing and scattering material. No person, entity, or business shall loosely scatter or throw any bills, advertising matter, or other printed materials on the surface of the public streets or ways of the public grounds of the city or within the yards of private residences. The throwing of any paper, bills, flyers, or other advertising matter shall be classified as litter.
(3)
Unsecured, loose material unlawful. It shall be unlawful, even after obtaining a license to do so, to tack, post, or in any other way attach any advertisements, handbills, or other printed materials to any wall post or other place in such a manner that they are not secured or fastened and/or may be loosened or blown about by the wind under normal circumstances.
(4)
Advertisements must be delivered personally or by mail. It shall be unlawful for any merchant or other person, entity, or business by himself or his employees to place or deposit in the streets of the city or in any of the yards of persons owning property in this city any handbills or other advertisements. All advertisements and handbills shall be delivered personally or by mail.
(5)
Exception for property owners' subscriptions. Provided, however, that this chapter shall not apply to any advertising matter or printed materials for which a resident, business, or landowner subscribes for the distribution of said literature and if the owner or person entitled to possession of the property requests that said material be delivered to that residence, then the material shall not be classified as litter. Any person, entity, or business distributing such material upon request of the city shall provide a current list of subscribers in the city. Any such distributor must update its list at least every six months. If false information is given to the city by such distributor or should the distributor fail to maintain a current subscriber list, then it shall be considered a violation of this chapter. If the distributor receives a written notice from the city of such violation, the distributor may not distribute any other material in the city until such errors are corrected and, if the distributor after receipt of notice continues to distribute its materials, then each picture, bill, advertising matter, or printed material of any kind that is distributed even to subscribers shall be considered litter and shall be a violation of this chapter. In addition, any distributor shall be responsible for removal of unwanted material distributed, and failure to do so shall be a violation of this chapter.
(Ord. No. 1992-2, § 6—10, 1-20-1992)
Sec. 4-3. - Handbills and advertising matter.
(a)
It shall be unlawful to place in or on any automobile in the city any handbill, circular, pamphlet, poster, or other literature except with express permission of the owner or occupant of such automobile.
(b)
It shall be unlawful for any person to place on private property any handbill, circular, pamphlet, poster, or other literature except with express permission of the owner of the property or intended recipient.
(c)
It shall be unlawful for any person to tack, post, or nail any paper, metal wood, or other signs for advertising material of any character on any tree or telegraph, telephone or electric light pole, or on any street or alley within the city.
(Ord. No. 2002-2, art. I, pt. I, § 9, 8-5-2002)
