Chapter 12 - BUSINESSES
ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Secs. 12-1—12-18. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - OCCUPATIONAL LICENSE TAXES

FOOTNOTE(S):
--- (1) ---
State Law reference— Authority to impose business and occupation taxes and regulatory fees, O.C.G.A. § 48-13-5 et seq.
Sec. 12-19. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Administrative fee means a component of an occupation tax which approximates the reasonable cost of handling and processing the occupation tax.
Employee means an individual whose work is performed under the direction and supervision of the employer and whose employer withholds FICA, federal income tax, or state income tax from such individual's compensation or whose employer issues to such individual for purposes of documenting compensation a form IRS W-2 but not a form IRS 1099. An individual who performs work under the direction and supervision of one business or practitioner in accordance with the terms of a contract or agreement with another business which recruits such individual is an employee of the business or practitioner which issues to such individual for purposes of documenting compensation a form IRS W-2.
Flea market.
(1)
The term "flea market" means any event:
a.
At which two or more persons offer personal property for sale or exchange; and
b.
At which a fee is charged for the privilege of offering or displaying personal property for sale or exchange; or
c.
At which a fee is charged to prospective buyers for admission to the area where personal property is offered or displayed for sale or exchange; or
d.
Regardless of the number of persons offering or displaying personal property or the absence of fees, at which used personal property is offered or displayed for sale or exchange if the event is held more than six times in any 12-month period.
(2)
The term "flea market" is interchangeable with and applicable to "swap meet," "indoor swap meet," or other similar terms regardless of whether these events are held inside a building or outside in the open. The primary characteristic is that these activities involve a series of sales sufficient in number, scope, and character to constitute a regular course of business.
(3)
The term "flea market" shall not mean and shall not apply to:
a.
Any event which is organized for the exclusive benefit of any community chest, fund, foundation, association, or corporation organized and operated for religious, educations, or charitable purposes, provided that no part of any admission fee or parking fee charged vendors or prospective purchasers or the gross receipts or net earnings from the sale or exchange of personal property, whether in the form of a percentage of the receipts or earnings, as salary, or otherwise, inures to the benefit of any private shareholder or person participating in the organization or conduct of the event; or
b.
Any event at which all of the personal property offered for sale or displayed is new, and all persons selling, exchanging, or offering or displaying personal property for sale or exchange are manufacturers or licensed retail or wholesale merchants.
Location or office does not include a temporary work site which serves a single customer or project.
Occupation tax means a tax levied on persons, partnerships, corporations, or other entities for engaging in an occupation, profession, or business for revenue-raising purposes.
Person shall be held to include all sole proprietors, corporations, limited liability companies, partnerships, or any other form of business organization. However, for purposes of the occupation tax, any charitable nonprofit organization which utilizes at least 50 percent of its gross income for charitable or religious purposes shall not have to pay occupational taxes. The charitable nonprofit organization has the burden of proof of convincing the city that it utilizes at least 50 percent of its gross income for religious or charitable purposes.
Practitioner of profession or occupation means one who by state law requires state licensure regulating such profession or occupation and shall not include a practitioner who is an employee of a business, if the business pays an occupation tax.
(Ord. No. 1995-8, § B, 12-4-1995; Ord. of 4-1-2002, § 2)
Sec. 12-20. - Requirement.
Each person engaged in any business, trade, profession, or occupation in the city, with a location in the city, shall pay an occupation tax for said business, trade, profession, or occupation, which tax and any applicable registration shall be displayed in a conspicuous place in the place of business.
(Ord. No. 1995-8, § A, 12-4-1995)
Sec. 12-21. - Administrative fee.
A non-prorated, nonrefundable administrative fee shall be required on all business and occupation tax accounts for the initial start-up, renewal, or reopening of those accounts. The amount of the administrative fee shall be as established from time to time by the city council and set forth in the schedule of fees and charges, available for examination at city hall.
(Ord. No. 1995-8, § C, 12-4-1995)
Sec. 12-22. - Tax rate.
An occupation tax shall be levied upon those businesses and practitioners of professions and occupations within the city limits based upon the number of employees of the business or practitioner. The tax rate determined by number of employees by each business, trade, profession, or occupation may be developed and updated from time to time by the city council.
(Ord. No. 1995-8, § D, 12-4-1995; Ord. of 9-8-1998, § 2)
Sec. 12-23. - Registration.
Each person or business shall file in writing on such forms as required or requested by the city clerk a notarized statement (hereafter referred to as "registration") setting forth the number of employees working for said person or business in the preceding 12 months. The number of employees, for which a registration is required to be filed and listed with the city, shall be the largest number of employees working for said person or business during every calendar month of the preceding calendar year, and the occupation tax shall be based upon that number of employees. For example, if a business has only 50 employees from January through November but employs 101 employees during December, then the business must pay an occupation tax at the rate required for 101 employees.
(Ord. No. 1995-8, § E, 12-4-1995; Ord. of 9-8-1998, § 3)
Sec. 12-24. - Separate business locations.
Where a person conducts business in more than one fixed location, each location or place shall be considered a separate business for the purpose of the occupation tax.
(Ord. No. 1995-8, § F, 12-4-1995)
Sec. 12-25. - Interest and penalties for delinquent taxes.
(a)
Each business shall pay to the city the occupation tax provided herein unless otherwise specifically provided herein. Said occupation tax shall be payable on January 1 of each year, and if not paid by January 31 of that year, each business shall incur interest on delinquent occupation taxes and administrative fees at a rate of 1.5 percent per month. Should any occupation tax or license fee remain due and unpaid for 90 days from the due date, the person liable for the tax or fee shall be subject to and shall pay a penalty of ten percent of the tax or fee due, said penalty to be in addition to the occupation tax.
(b)
Should any person or business covered hereunder fail to file the registration as required by section 12-23 by January 31 of any calendar year, then the occupation tax for that business shall conclusively be presumed to be for the highest rate listed in the schedule of rates, regardless of the number of employees employed by said business.
(c)
On any new profession, trade, or business the administrative fee required by section 12-21 and the occupation tax shall be delinquent if not obtained and paid within 30 days following the commencement of the business. Any new business commenced on or after July 1 in any year shall pay an occupation tax for the remaining portion of the year at a rate of 50 percent of the tax imposed for the entire year. Failure of any new business to register or pay the administrative fee or pay the occupation tax within 30 days following the commencement of the business shall result in said business being in a delinquent status.
(d)
Any business that was in existence prior to January 1 of any calendar year and which fails to register or pay any fees required by this article by January 31 of that year shall result in said business being in a delinquent status.
(e)
The registration required in section 12-23 shall be accepted by the city clerk if the registration is in proper form and filed appropriately. If any person whose duty it is to file a registration or pay any fees required herein shall, after becoming delinquent, transact or offer to transact business in the city, then said person shall incur an additional penalty that has been set previously by city council per day for each day that said person is delinquent. Each calendar day of such violation shall constitute a separate violation of this article. The maximum penalty shall not exceed the last amount set by city council prior to such violation (if no amount has been set, then the maximum penalty shall not exceed $1,000.00). The penalty shall automatically be assessed for each day that the registration has not been filed and/or any portion of the fees and penalties are not paid after becoming delinquent.
(f)
The city may proceed to collect any amounts owed under this article in the same manner as provided by law for tax executions. In addition, the city may place a lien in the superior court clerk's office of the county against any and all property of the owner of said business in the county in the full amount of any administrative fee, occupation tax, penalty assessed herein, as well as a reasonable fee for obtaining said lien, including any actual attorney's fees charged by the city attorney, plus the cost for obtaining and filing said lien.
(g)
Nothing contained herein shall be construed to require an attorney to pay the occupation tax or otherwise register with the city as a precondition to the practice of law.
(Ord. No. 1995-8, § G, 12-4-1995; Ord. of 9-8-1998, § 4)
State law reference— Fine for failure to pay occupation tax or regulatory fee, O.C.G.A. § 48-13-26.
Sec. 12-26. - Exemption from tax.
Any person or business that is exempt from occupation tax as provided by state law must present evidence of said exemption along with a copy of the applicable provisions of the state law within the time specified in section 12-23 for obtaining a registration.
(Ord. No. 1995-8, § H, 12-4-1995)
Sec. 12-27. - Exemptions or tax reductions to promote economic development.
The city council may, by subsequent ordinance or resolution, provide for an exemption or reduction in the occupation tax to one or more types of businesses or practitioners of occupations or professions as part of a plan for economic development or attracting or encouraging selected types of businesses or practitioners of selected occupations or professions. Such exemptions or reductions in occupation tax shall not be arbitrary or capricious, and the reason shall be set forth in the minutes for the city council.
(Ord. No. 1995-8, § J, 12-4-1995)
Sec. 12-28. - Registration or license—Expiration.
Any registration or license issued under this article shall automatically expire on December 31 of each year, and a new occupational tax must be paid and a new registration and license issued for the next year.
(Ord. No. 1995-8, § K, 12-4-1995)
Sec. 12-29. - Same—Nontransferable.
No registration or license issued under this article shall be transferred, and a new registration or license must be obtained by any new owner or purchaser of a business.
(Ord. No. 1995-8, § L, 12-4-1995)
Secs. 12-30—12-46. - Reserved.
ARTICLE III. - INSURANCE COMPANIES

FOOTNOTE(S):
--- (2) ---
State Law reference— Authorization to impose and collect license fees upon insurance companies, O.C.G.A. § 33-8-8.
Sec. 12-47. - License fees.
There is hereby levied an annual license fee upon each insurer doing business within the city in the amount of $15.00. For each separate business location in excess of one not covered by section 12-48, which is operating on behalf of such insurers within the city, there is hereby levied a license fee in the amount of $15.00. For the purposes of this article, the term "insurer" means a company which is authorized to transact business in any of the classes of insurance designated in O.C.G.A. § 33-3-5.
(Ord. No. 1994-1, § 1, 12-5-1994)
Sec. 12-48. - Additional business locations.
For each separate business location, not otherwise subject to a license fee under section 12-47, operated and maintained by a business organization which is engaged in the business of lending money or transacting sales involving term financing, and in connection with such loans or sales offers, which solicits or takes applications for insurance through a licensed agent of an insurer for insurance, said insurer shall pay an additional license fee of $10.00 per location.
(Ord. No. 1994-1, § 2, 12-5-1994)
Sec. 12-49. - Independent insurance agencies, brokers, etc., not otherwise licensed.
There is hereby levied an annual license fee upon independent agencies and brokers for each separate business location from which an insurance business is conducted, and which is not subject to the company license fee imposed by section 12-47, in the amount of $15.00 for each such location within the city.
(Ord. No. 1994-1, § 3, 12-5-1994)
Sec. 12-50. - Gross premiums tax—Life insurers.
There is hereby levied an annual tax based solely upon gross direct premiums upon each insurer writing life, accident and sickness insurance within the state in an amount equal to one percent of the gross direct premiums received during the preceding calendar year in accordance with O.C.G.A. § 33-8-8.1. The term "gross direct premiums," as used in this section, shall mean gross direct premiums as used in O.C.G.A. § 33-8-4. The premium tax levied by this section is in addition to the license fees imposed by section 12-47.
(Ord. No. 1994-1, § 4, 12-5-1994)
Sec. 12-51. - Same—All other insurers.
There is hereby levied an annual tax based solely upon gross direct premiums upon each insurer, other than an insurer transacting business in the class of insurance designated in O.C.G.A. § 33-3-5(1), doing business within the state in an amount equal to 2½ percent of the gross direct premiums received during the preceding calendar year in accordance with O.C.G.A. § 33-8-8.2. The term "gross direct premiums," as used in this section, shall mean gross direct premiums as used in O.C.G.A. § 33-8-4. The premium tax levied by this section is in addition to the license fees imposed by section 12-47.
(Ord. No. 1994-1, § 5, 12-5-1994)
Sec. 12-52. - Due date for license fees.
License fees imposed in sections 12-47 and 12-48 shall be due and payable on the first day of each year.
(Ord. No. 1994-1, § 6, 12-5-1994)
Secs. 12-53—12-77. - Reserved.
ARTICLE IV. - FORTUNETELLING

Sec. 12-78. - Adoption.
The city council hereby adopts this Fortunetelling Ordinance, and such adoption is supported by O.C.G.A. § 36-1-15 and by the case of Williams v. Jenkins, 211 Ga. 10.
(Ord. No. 2001-5, § 1, 9-4-2001)
Sec. 12-79. - Title.
This article shall be known and may be cited as the "Fortunetelling Ordinance."
(Ord. No. 2001-5, § I, 9-4-2001)
Sec. 12-80. - Penalties.
Every person convicted of a violation of any provision of this article shall be punished by a fine of not more than $500.00 per occurrence or by an imprisonment of not more than 90 days, or both by such fine and imprisonment. Any and all ordinances in conflict with this article are hereby repealed.
(Ord. No. 2001-5, § 3, 9-4-2001)
Sec. 12-81. - Purpose and findings.
The purpose of this article is to prohibit fortunetelling, phrenology, astrology, clairvoyance, palmistry, psychic readings, or other kindred practices, businesses, or professions throughout the city in order to protect the welfare and health of its citizens and in order to exercise the police powers of the city.
(Ord. No. 2001-5, § III, 9-4-2001)
Sec. 12-82. - Jurisdiction.
This article shall govern all persons within the corporate limits or police jurisdiction of the city.
(Ord. No. 2001-5, § II, 9-4-2001)
Sec. 12-83. - Prohibited.
(a)
It shall be unlawful and an offense against the city for any person to carry on within the corporate limits or police jurisdiction of the city the telling of fortunes or carrying on the trade, business, or profession of phrenology, clairvoyance, palmistry, psychic readings, or other businesses of like kind or nature in which the future of any person is foretold or attempted to be foretold.
(b)
Any advertising, by any means, of a business described in subsection (a) of this section shall be prima facie evidence of a violation of such subsection.
(c)
All such businesses described in subsection (a) of this section are prohibited and shall not be allowed within the confines of the city.
(d)
Each attempt by a person to tell the future by any means or practice described in subsection (a) of this section shall be considered a separate criminal offense, and each offense shall be subject to the penalties described in section 12-80
(Ord. No. 2001-5, § 2, 9-4-2001)
Secs. 12-84—12-109. - Reserved.
ARTICLE V. - ADULT ENTERTAINMENT ESTABLISHMENTS

Sec. 12-110. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Adult entertainment means performances by topless and/or bottomless dancers, strippers or similar entertainers, where such performances are characterized by the display or exposure of specified anatomical areas.
Adult entertainment establishment means a nightclub, restaurant, cabaret or other establishment which features adult entertainment; any commercial establishment which has as its primary purpose or business the offer for sale of any book, publication, or film which depicts nudity or sexual conduct, or engages in services such as bathhouses, massage parlors, wrestling parlors or like activity, including a nightclub, restaurant, cabaret, lounge or other establishment which features adult entertainment.
Church means a building, in which persons regularly assemble, for religious worship intended primarily for purposes connected with such worship, or for propagating a particular form of religious belief.
Licensed day care center means a day care center licensed by the state and/or city that provides care, training, education, custody, treatment or supervision for children under 14 years of age, where such children are not related by blood, marriage or adoption to an owner or operator of the facility.
Operator means the manager or other person principally in charge of an adult entertainment establishment.
Owner means the proprietor if a sole proprietorship; all partners (general and limited) if a partnership; and all officers, directors and persons holding at least ten percent of the outstanding shares if a corporation.
Residential means, when pertaining to the use of land, premises such as homes, townhomes, patio homes, manufactured homes, duplexes, condominiums, apartment complexes, efficiency apartment units, or single room rental units which contain habitable rooms for nontransient occupancy and which are designed primarily for living, sleeping, cooking, and eating therein.
School means a facility where persons regularly assemble for the purpose of instruction or education and includes, but is not limited to, public and private schools used for primary, secondary, or post-secondary education and any playgrounds, stadiums, or other structures and grounds used in conjunction therewith.
Specified anatomical areas includes any of the following:
(1)
Less than completely and opaquely covered human genitals or pubic region; buttock; or female breast below a point immediately above the top of the areola.
(2)
Human male genitalia in a discernibly turgid state, even if completely and opaquely covered.
(Ord. No. 93-1, § 2, 3-1-1993)
Sec. 12-111. - Purpose.
The city council finds that it is in the best interest of the health, welfare, safety and morals of the community to enact regulations to reduce the possible adverse impacts of adult entertainment establishments. However, the city council also finds that the outright prohibition of such establishments could improperly infringe upon protected forms of expression. Therefore, the purpose of this article is to reasonably regulate adult entertainment establishments in a manner that serves the legitimate governmental interest of reducing criminal activity and protecting property values without unreasonably infringing upon the protected rights of adult entertainment establishments and their patrons.
(Ord. No. 93-1, § 1, 3-1-1993)
Sec. 12-112. - License required.
It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in, conduct or carry on, in or upon any premises within the city, an adult entertainment establishment without a valid adult entertainment license to do so. The issuance of such license shall not be deemed to authorize, condone, or make legal any activity or conduct that is illegal or unlawful under the laws of the state or the United States. The annual license fee for an adult entertainment establishment shall be established from time to time by resolution of the city council.
(Ord. No. 93-1, § 3, 3-1-1993)
Sec. 12-113. - On-premises operator required.
An adult entertainment establishment shall have a designated person to serve as an on-premises operator. The operator shall be principally in charge of the establishment and shall be located on the premises during operating hours.
(Ord. No. 93-1, § 4, 3-1-1993)
Sec. 12-114. - Unlawful admissions.
(a)
It shall be unlawful in all circumstances to allow a person younger than 18 years of age to enter an adult entertainment establishment.
(b)
It shall be unlawful to allow a person younger than 21 years of age to enter an adult entertainment establishment if alcoholic beverages are furnished, sold, dispensed or consumed on the premises.
(c)
It shall be the duty of the operator to ensure that an attendant is stationed at each public entrance to the establishment at all times during the establishment's operating hours. It shall be the duty of the attendants to not allow any person under the applicable minimum age as set forth above to enter the establishment. It shall be presumed that an attendant knew a person was under the minimum age unless such attendant asked for and was furnished:
(1)
A valid operator's, commercial operator's or chauffeur's driver's license; or
(2)
A valid personal identification certificate issued by the state department of public safety.
(Ord. No. 93-1, § 5, 3-1-1993)
Sec. 12-115. - Location; development standards.
(a)
No adult entertainment establishment shall be located within 1,000 feet of any of the following:
(1)
Any parcel of land which is used for residential uses or purposes.
(2)
Any parcel of land upon which a church, school, licensed day care center, governmental building city hall, library, civic center, public park or playground is located.
(3)
Any parcel of land upon which another adult entertainment establishment is located.
(b)
For the purposes of this section, measurement of distances shall be from property line to property line along the shortest possible straight line, regardless of any customary or common route or path of travel (i.e., "as the crow flies"). The term "parcel of land" shall mean any quantity of land capable of being described by location and boundary, designated and used or to be used as a unit, and duly recorded in the county.
(c)
The minimum lot area for an adult entertainment establishment shall be one acre with a minimum 150 feet of road frontage on a paved street.
(d)
Buildings and structures established in connection with an adult entertainment establishment shall be set back from the street at least 50 feet.
(e)
A minimum of one parking space shall be provided for every 100 square feet of gross building area, or for every three customer seats, whichever is greater.
(f)
Merchandise or activities of the establishment shall not be visible from any point outside the establishment.
(Ord. No. 93-1, § 6, 3-1-1993)
Sec. 12-116. - Employees.
(a)
Employees of an adult entertainment establishment shall not be less then 18 years of age.
(b)
No patron, dancer, independent contractor or employee of an adult entertainment establishment shall, while on the premises of an adult entertainment establishment, commit the offense of public indecency as defined in O.C.G.A. § 16-6-8. For the purposes of this section, the term "employee" shall include an "independent contractor."
(c)
For the purpose of this article, independent contractors shall be considered employees regardless of the business relationship with the owner or licensee of any adult entertainment establishment.
(Ord. No. 93-1, § 7, 3-1-1993)
Sec. 12-117. - Application for license.
(a)
Any person desiring to obtain a license to operate, engage in, conduct or carry on any adult entertainment establishment shall make application to the city clerk or designated representative. The application must be made in the name of the adult entertainment establishment and include the names of the operator and each owner as defined in section 12-110. The application shall be accompanied by a non-refundable fee established from time to time by resolution of the city, to defray, in part, the cost of investigation and report required by this article.
(b)
The license application does not authorize the engaging in, operation of, conduct of or carrying on of any adult entertainment establishment.
(Ord. No. 93-1, § 8, 3-1-1993)
Sec. 12-118. - Application contents.
Each application for an adult entertainment establishment license shall contain the following information and documentation:
(1)
The proposed establishment's name, street address (and mailing address if different), and telephone number.
(2)
The name and street address (and mailing address if different) of the owner; the name, street address (and mailing address if different), and state driver's license number of the intended operator.
(3)
A general description of services and entertainment to be provided.
(4)
The legal description of the parcel of land on which the establishment is to be located.
(5)
The business, occupation and employment history of each owner and operator for five years immediately preceding the date of application.
(6)
If any owner or operator has had an adult entertainment establishment license or similar type of license denied, revoked, or suspended, then the violation that led to the denial, suspension or revocation, as well as the date and disposition of such, including any fine or sentence imposed, and whether or not the terms of the disposition have been completed.
(7)
If any owner or operator has been convicted of any crime involving moral turpitude in the past five years, a complete description of such crime including date of violation, date of conviction, jurisdiction and any disposition, including fines or sentences imposed and whether the terms of disposition have been fully completed.
(8)
If the establishment does or proposes to do business under a trade name, then a copy of the trade name as properly recorded.
(9)
If the establishment is a state corporation, then a certified copy of the articles of incorporation, together with all amendments thereto; and the most recent annual report.
(10)
If the establishment is a foreign corporation, then a certified copy of the certificate of authority to transact business in the state, together with all amendments thereto; and the most recent annual report.
(11)
If the establishment is a limited partnership formed under the laws of the state, then a certified copy of the limited partnership, together with all amendments thereto, filed in the mayor's office.
(12)
If the establishment is a foreign limited partnership, a certified copy of the certificate of limited partnership and the qualification documents, together with all amendments thereto.
(13)
A plat by a registered engineer or surveyor, licensed by the state, certifying the location of the proposed premises is not inconsistent with the provisions contained in section 12-115 respecting location and development standards.
(14)
A statement under oath that:
a.
The person signing the application has personal knowledge of the information contained in the application and that the information contained therein is true and correct; and
b.
The person signing the application has read the provisions of this article.
(15)
The signatures of the operator and each owner.
(16)
A signed and notarized consent, provided by the operator and each owner, on forms prescribed by the state crime information center, authorizing the release of their criminal records to the county sheriff's department.
(17)
The written consent of a registered agent as required by section 12-126(a).
(18)
Subsections (8) through (12) of this section shall not be required for a renewal application if the applicant states the documents previously furnished with the original application, or previous renewals thereof, remain correct and current.
(Ord. No. 93-1, § 9, 3-1-1993)
Sec. 12-119. - Owner and operator to appear.
The operator and at least one owner, as defined in section 12-110, shall personally appear before the city council for consideration of the application.
(Ord. No. 93-1, § 10, 3-1-1993)
Sec. 12-120. - Investigation.
(a)
Within 15 days of receipt of the application, the mayor or designee shall review the application and send a copy to all affected departments of the city to determine compliance with state, county and city laws, ordinances and regulations. Each notified department shall submit a report within 15 days.
(b)
The city may approve the license at the public hearing upon finding that:
(1)
The required fee has been paid.
(2)
The application conforms in all respects to the provisions of this article.
(3)
No owner or operator knowingly made a material misrepresentation in the application.
(4)
Each owner and operator has fully cooperated in the investigation of his application.
(5)
No owner or operator has been convicted of any crime involving moral turpitude within the past five years.
(6)
No owner or operator has had an adult entertainment establishment license or other similar license or permit denied, suspended or revoked by this city or any other unit of government located in or out of this state prior to the date of application.
(7)
The building, structure, equipment, or location of the proposed adult entertainment establishment will comply with all applicable city zoning and development standards.
(8)
Each owner and operator is at least 21 years of age.
(9)
No owner or operator has within five years of the date of application, committed or knowingly allowed another to commit the crime of public indecency, as defined in O.C.G.A. § 16-6-8, upon the premises of an adult entertainment establishment or similar business.
(10)
The location of the proposed adult entertainment establishment is not inconsistent with the provisions of section 12-115 respecting location and development standards.
(11)
The approval of such license will not cause a violation of this article or any ordinance or regulation of the city, state, or the United States.
(12)
The registered agent's written consent has been provided.
(c)
If the license is approved, it shall be issued jointly in the name of the establishment and each owner and operator.
(d)
The issuance of an adult entertainment establishment license shall not authorize any other conduct or activity regulated by other city ordinances including, but not limited to, the Alcoholic Beverage Ordinance.
(Ord. No. 93-1, § 11, 3-1-1993)
Sec. 12-121. - License renewal.
Licenses for adult entertainment establishments may be renewed on a calendar-year basis provided that licensees continue to meet the requirements set out in this article. The renewal fee for an adult entertainment establishment license shall be established from time to time by resolution of the city council. Renewal applications shall be submitted by November 15 of each year prior to January 1 of the year for which such permit is requested. The form for renewal applications shall be furnished by the mayor.
(Ord. No. 93-1, § 12, 3-1-1993)
Sec. 12-122. - License nontransferable.
No adult entertainment establishment license may be sold, transferred or assigned by a licensee, or by operation of law, to any other person. Any such sale, transfer or assignment, or attempted sale, transfer or assignment, shall be deemed to constitute a voluntary surrender of such license and such license shall thereafter be null and void; provided and excepting however, that if the licensee is a partnership and one or more of the partners should die, one or more of the surviving partners may acquire, by purchase or otherwise, the interest of the deceased partner without effecting a surrender or termination of such license. In such case, upon notification to the city, the license shall be placed in the name of the surviving partner. An adult entertainment establishment license issued to a corporation shall be deemed terminated and void when either any outstanding stock of the corporation is sold, transferred or assigned after the issuance of a license, or any stock not issued at the time of the granting or a license is thereafter issued.
(Ord. No. 93-1, § 13, 3-1-1993)
Sec. 12-123. - Change of location or name.
(a)
No adult entertainment establishment shall move from the location specified on its license until a change of location fee, established by resolution of the city council, has been deposited with the city, and approval has been obtained from the city council. Such approval shall not be given unless all applicable requirements and regulations have been met.
(b)
No licensee shall operate, conduct, manage, engage in, or carry on an adult entertainment establishment under any name other than the name of the business, and his name as specified on the license.
(c)
Any application for an extension or expansion of a building or other place of business where an adult entertainment establishment is located shall require inspection and compliance with the provisions and regulations of this article.
(Ord. No. 93-1, § 14, 3-1-1993)
Sec. 12-124. - License suspension or revocation; appeal.
(a)
The mayor shall be authorized to suspend or revoke an adult entertainment establishment license under the conditions set forth in this section. In the event the mayor seeks to suspend or revoke a license, the mayor shall give written notification to the licensee of such action and such notice shall contain a specification of the violation.
(b)
The mayor may suspend or revoke a license in the event of any of the following:
(1)
A licensee gave false or misleading information in the application or renewal process.
(2)
A licensee knowingly allowed possession, use, or sale of controlled substances on the premises, or the licensee did not make a reasonable effort to prevent such occurrence.
(3)
A licensee violated or knowingly allowed violation of this adult entertainment establishment article, any ordinance of the city, or any criminal law of the state to occur on the premises, or the licensee did not make a reasonable effort to prevent such violation.
(4)
A licensee has been convicted of any drug-related, alcohol-related, or sex-related crime by the state or city regarding any offense which was committed on the premises, or which would otherwise violate the provisions of this article.
(5)
A licensee failed to pay any fee, license fee, fine or other amount of money due to the city under this article or any ordinance of the city.
(c)
In the event that the mayor determines that a license violation has occurred, such license shall be suspended for 30 days for the first violation. For a second violation, the license shall be suspended for 60 days. For a third and all subsequent violation, the license shall be suspended for 90 days. Any license that has been suspended three or more times in any consecutive 12-month period shall be revoked. In addition, any licensee found to be in violation of sections 12-114(a) or (b) and section 12-116(b) shall be subject to immediate license revocation. Provided however, that the licensee shall be allowed to continue business operations until the date of the hearing scheduled in accordance with subsection (e) of this section. No licensee or any other applicant may apply for a license for the same premises during any period of suspension or revocation.
(d)
In the event of license suspension or revocation by the mayor, the licensee may appeal the decision of the mayor to the city council by filing a written notice of appeal with the mayor within ten days from the effective date of written notice received by licensee in accordance with subsection (a) of this section. The notice of appeal shall be accompanied by a memorandum or other writing, setting out fully the grounds for such appeal and all arguments in support thereof. The mayor may submit a memorandum in response to the memorandum filed by the licensee upon appeal to the city council. The mayor's decision shall be final unless an appeal is timely filed. An appeal shall stay the mayor's decision until the appeal is heard or withdrawn. The mayor shall place the appeal on the agenda of the next regular city council meeting occurring not less than five, nor more than 30 days after receipt of the appeal.
(e)
When an appeal is placed on the city council agenda, the council may take either of the following actions:
(1)
Set a hearing date before the city council and instruct the mayor to give such notice of hearing as may be required by law; or
(2)
Appoint a hearing officer and fix the time and place for hearing. The hearing officer may or may not be a city employee, and may be appointed for an extended period of time. The mayor shall assume responsibility for such publication of notice of the hearing as may be required by law. If a hearing officer is appointed, the hearing shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures set out in this article.
(f)
In either event, the hearing shall be held within 30 days of the city council's action, unless a continuance of such date is agreed to by the licensee and the mayor.
(g)
At any hearing, the hearing officer (or the city council if a hearing officer is not appointed) shall receive oral and written testimony regarding the appeal. Hearings shall be conducted under rules issued by the hearing officer or city council, which shall be consistent with rules applied in administrative proceedings, and shall ensure that each party may present evidence, cross examine witnesses, and be represented by legal counsel.
(h)
If the hearing is held before the city council, the council may sustain, overrule, or modify the action of the mayor. Appeals from the decision of the city council shall be to the county superior court, and filed within 30 days of the city council's decision. The decision of the city council shall otherwise be final.
(i)
If the hearing is held before a hearing officer, the hearing officer shall, within a reasonable time not exceeding 15 days from the termination date of such hearing, submit a written report to the city council. Such report shall contain a brief summary of the evidence considered, and state the findings, conclusions and recommendation. The report shall recommend that the city council sustain, overrule, or modify the action of the mayor. The report shall be filed with the mayor, and shall be considered public record. A copy of such report shall be forwarded by certified mail to the appellant on the same day it is filed with the mayor. An additional copy shall be furnished to the county sheriff. The mayor shall place the hearing officer's report on the agenda of the next regular city council meeting occurring not less than ten days after the report is filed. The mayor shall also notify the appellant of the date of such meeting at least ten days prior to the meeting unless the appellant stipulates a shorter notice period.
(j)
The city council may adopt or reject the hearing officer's decision in its entirety or may modify the proposed recommendation. The city council shall base its determination on the hearing officer's report and other evidence in the record. No additional evidence or arguments shall be permitted at the council meeting. If the council does not adopt the hearing officer's recommendation, it may:
(1)
Refer the matter to the same or another hearing officer for a de novo hearing, or for the taking of additional evidence on specific points, and in either of such cases the hearing officer shall proceed as provided in this section; or
(2)
Decide the case upon a review of the entire record before the hearing officer, with or without taking additional evidence.
(Ord. No. 93-1, § 15, 3-1-1993)
Sec. 12-125. - Unlawful operation declared nuisance.
Any adult entertainment establishment operated, conducted or maintained contrary to the provisions of this article shall be and the same is hereby declared to be unlawful and a public nuisance. The city may, in addition to or in lieu of prosecuting a criminal action hereunder, commence an action or proceeding for abatement, removal or enjoinment thereof, in a manner provided by law. It shall take such other steps and shall apply to such court or courts as may have jurisdiction to grant such relief as will abate or remove such adult entertainment establishment and restrain and enjoin any person from operating, conducting, or maintaining an adult entertainment establishment contrary to the provisions of this article.
(Ord. No. 93-1, § 17, 3-1-1993)
Sec. 12-126. - Registered agent; notices; jurisdiction.
(a)
All licensed establishments must have and continuously maintain in the county a registered agent upon whom any process, notice or demand required or permitted by law or under this article to be served upon the licensee, may be served. This person must be a resident of the county. The operator may be appointed as the registered agent if he is a resident of the county. The licensee shall file the name of such agent, along with the written consent of such agent, with the mayor as part of the license application. By appointing such registered agent, and as a condition of the issuance of a license pursuant to the terms of this article, the licensee agrees that any legal action brought by the city against the adult entertainment establishment or the licensee (which includes the operator or any owner) to enforce the provisions of the article, may be filed in any court of competent jurisdiction in the county.
(b)
Any notice required or permitted to be given by the mayor of any office, division, department or other agency under this article to any licensee, operator or owner of an adult entertainment establishment, may be given by either personal delivery or by certified United States mail addressed to the licensee's registered agent at the most recent address specified in the agent's written consent form received by the mayor, or any notice of address change which has been received by the mayor. If personally delivered, the notice's effective date shall be the date of delivery. If mailed, the notice's effective date shall be two days after the notice is placed in the mail.
(Ord. No. 93-1, § 18, 3-1-1993)
Sec. 12-127. - Conditions of approval.
(a)
All adult entertainment establishments shall be kept in a clean, sanitary condition, and shall be in full compliance with all applicable ordinances and regulations of the city, county, and state.
(b)
The county health department shall have the authority to regularly inspect adult entertainment establishments to determine compliance with all applicable health rules and regulations, and report any violation to the mayor.
(c)
The building inspector, or such person designated by the mayor, shall have the authority to regularly inspect adult entertainment establishments to determine compliance with all applicable fire regulations, and report any violations to the mayor.
(d)
The building inspector or his designee shall have the authority to regularly inspect adult entertainment establishments to determine compliance with all applicable fire regulations, and report any violations to the mayor.
(e)
The county sheriff's department, at the request of the mayor, shall have the authority to periodically inspect adult entertainment establishments to determine compliance with all provisions of this article or other applicable laws, and report any violations to the mayor.
(Ord. No. 93-1, § 19, 3-1-1993)
Sec. 12-128. - Miscellaneous.
Nothing contained in this article shall be deemed to permit or condone any activity whatsoever, which is otherwise declared to be obscene or illegal by any applicable code, regulation, or statute, which violates any jurisdictional prohibition upon nudity or sexual activity. Further, the activities and uses which are regulated and permitted by this article shall only be allowed if they are not obscene and not in violation of any other such prohibitions on nudity or sexual activity. This section shall supersede and limit all other provisions of this article.
(Ord. No. 93-1, § 20, 3-1-1993)
Secs. 12-129—12-149. - Reserved.
ARTICLE VI. - MOBILE CAR WASH ORDINANCE

Sec. 12-150. - Title.
This article shall be known and may be cited as the Mobile Car Wash Ordinance.
(Ord. No. 2012-01, § 12-129, 3-5-2012)
Sec. 12-151. - Definitions.
The following words, terms, and phrases when used in this article shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Mobile car wash means any type of vehicle or apparatus that is used to wash motorized vehicles that is ambulatory and is not permanently affixed to real property.
One place shall mean any lot or parcel of land upon which is located a residence, business, or vacant lot.
(Ord. No. 2012-01, § 12-130, 3-5-2012)
Sec. 12-152. - Purpose.
The city council finds that it is in the best interest of the health, welfare, and safety of the community to enact regulations to prevent mobile car washes from remaining in one place and flooding the city's storm drainage and sewer systems without complying with the rules and regulations that would relate to a car wash located in a permanent location.
(Ord. No. 2012-01, § 12-131, 3-5-2012)
Sec. 12-153. - License required.
It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in a car wash using a mobile car wash upon any premises within the City of Ty Ty without obtaining a license. The annual license fee for a mobile car wash shall be established from time to time by resolution of the city council.
(Ord. No. 2012-01, § 12-132, 3-5-2012)
Sec. 12-154. - Application for license.
Any person desiring to obtain a license to operate a mobile car wash shall make application to the city clerk or designated representative. The application must be made in the name of the business operating the mobile car wash and must be signed by an individual who is one of the owners of the business. The application shall be accompanied by a non-refundable fee established from time to time by resolution of the city, to defray, in part, the cost of investigation and report required by this article. The contents of the application shall be as established from time to time by the city council.
(Ord. No. 2012-01, § 12-133, 3-5-2012)
Sec. 12-155. - Investigation.
The City of Ty Ty, after issuing any license, shall have no liability or responsibility should it be determined at that time or at a later date that the mobile car wash is not safe either in its operation or as it moves about on the city streets of the City of Ty Ty.
(Ord. No. 2012-01, § 12-134, 3-5-2012)
Sec. 12-156. - Limitation.
A mobile car wash shall not operate in any area that may cause a potential problem with any department of transportation or City of Ty Ty storm drains and ditches.
(Ord. No. 2012-01, § 12-135, 3-5-2012)
Sec. 12-157. - Prohibition.
No mobile car wash shall be allowed to remain in one place for more than 24 consecutive hours while performing its operation of washing motorized vehicles. In addition, a mobile car wash cannot operate in one place more than two times in any given month. Provided, however, that nothing contained herein shall prevent an owner from storing a mobile car wash on his place of business or other location provided that no motorized vehicles are actually washed at said location.
(Ord. No. 2012-01, § 12-136, 3-5-2011)
Sec. 12-158. - Permanent car wash.
Should the owner or operator of a mobile car wash violate the prohibition contained in section 12-157, then and in that event, the mobile car wash license may be rescinded by the City of Ty Ty at any time after giving ten days' written notice to the name and address shown on the application as being the owner. In such event, the owner can thereafter no longer be considered a mobile car wash but must obtain a license for a permanent car wash and comply with all of the rules and regulations already established by the City of Ty Ty for a permanent car wash.
(Ord. No. 2012-01, § 12-136, 3-5-2012)
Secs. 12-159—12-179. - Reserved.
ARTICLE VII. - GAMBLING ESTABLISHMENTS

Sec. 12-180. - Definitions.
The following words, terms, and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different name:
Computer simulation includes simulation by means of a computer, computer system, video display, video system, or any other form of electronic video presentation.
Device means any mechanical or electrical contrivance, computer, terminal, video, or other equipment that may or may not be capable of downloading games from a central service system, machine, computer, or other device or equipment. The term "device" also includes any associated equipment necessary to conduct the operation of the device.
Gambling establishments shall mean any place, location, or business that uses a simulated gambling device or a game that offers a payoff to participants based upon skill or chance.
Game includes slot machines, poker, bingo, craps, keno, any other type of game ordinarily played in a casino, a game involving the display or the results of a raffle, sweepstakes, drawing, contest or other promotion, lotto, sweepstakes, and any other game associated with gambling or which could be associated with gambling.
Object means a coin, bill, ticket, token, card, or similar object obtained as a bonus or supplement to another transaction involving the payment of consideration.
Payoff means cash, monetary or other credit, billets, tickets, tokens, or electronic credits to be exchanged for cash or to receive merchandise or anything of value whatsoever, whether made automatically from the machines or manually.
Play or operate or play or operation includes the use of skill, the application of the element of chance, or both.
Simulated gambling device means any device that, upon connection with an object, is available to play or operate a computer simulation of any game, and which may deliver or entitle the person or persons playing or operating the device to a payoff; or any electronic device that is used or adapted for use to conduct and/or reveal the results of a drawing by chance conducted in connection with the sale of a consumer product or service, sweepstakes, or game promotions that display results by simulating a game or games ordinarily played at a casino or other similar types of gambling establishments.
(Ord. No. 2011-01, § 12-130, 10-3-2011)
Sec. 12-181. - Purpose.
The city council finds that it is in the best interest of the health, welfare, safety, and morals of the community to prohibit gambling establishments. It is the further purpose of this article to prevent the disturbances of the peace and good order of the community that have been occurring in many of these establishments throughout the country.
(Ord. No. 2011-01, § 12-131, 10-3-2011)
Sec. 12-182. - Jurisdiction.
This article shall govern all persons and businesses within the corporate limits of the City of Ty Ty.
(Ord. No. 2011-01, § 12-132, 10-3-2011)
Sec. 12-183. - Prohibited.
(a)
It shall be unlawful and an offense against the city for any person or business to carry on or operate within the corporate city limits of the City of Ty Ty any simulated gambling device that encourages customers or the public to play or operate by computer simulation games that offer payoffs with a play or operation of any device or game.
(b)
It shall be unlawful and an offense against the city for any person or business to carry on or operate within the corporate city limits of the City of Ty Ty any gambling establishment.
(c)
Any advertising by any means of a business prohibited herein shall be prima facie evidence of a violation of this article.
(d)
Each simulated gambling device and each machine or gambling table offered by a person or business for use in its establishment that is prohibited herein shall be considered unlawful and prohibited and shall be considered a separate criminal offense, and each such offense shall be subject to the penalties described in section 1-8 of this Code.
(Ord. No. 2011-01, § 12-133, 10-3-2011)
