Chapter 10 - BUILDINGS AND BUILDING REGULATIONS
FOOTNOTE(S):
--- (1) ---
State Law reference— Authorization to provide building, housing, plumbing, and electrical codes, Ga. Const. art. IX, § II, ¶ III(a)(12).
ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 10-1. - Building permits.
(a)
It shall be unlawful to commence the excavation of filling of any lot for any construction of any building, or to commence construction or moving or alteration of any building, or to commence the development of land for use not requiring a building until the city clerk or the person designated by the county to issue such building permits has issued a building permit for such work. So long as the city has an intergovernmental contract for building inspections with the county, then said county's building inspection department or the person designated to issue permits shall issue such building permit for such work.
(b)
The mayor and council, after notice to the builder and/or owner of the structure built or being built of the violation of this section, may condemn the structure and forbid its occupancy. The council, upon discovery that a building permit has not been issued by the city clerk or the person in charge of issuing permits in the county, after notice to the builder and/or owner of the structure built or being built that there is a violation of this section, may condemn the structure and forbid its occupancy.
(Ord. of 12-18-1973)
Sec. 10-2. - Inspection fees and services.
(a)
A fee schedule for inspections and permits within the city shall be established by the county from time to time.
(b)
The inspector for the county shall also be the inspector for the city.
(Ord. of 12-16-1991(1))
Sec. 10-3. - Standard codes.
The most recent editions of the following codes are hereby adopted by reference as though they were copied herein fully:
(1)
NFPA (National Fire Protection Association) Life Safety Code 101, 1985 edition;
(2)
International Building Code (ICC);
(3)
National Electrical Code (NFPA);
(4)
International Fuel Gas Code (ICC);
(5)
International Mechanical Code (ICC);
(6)
International Plumbing Code (ICC);
(7)
International Residential Code for One- and Two-Family Dwellings (ICC);
(8)
International Energy Conservation Code (ICC);
(9)
International Fire Code (ICC);
(10)
International Existing Building Code (ICC);
(11)
International Property Maintenance Code (ICC); and
(12)
Any other codes deemed appropriate by the board for the safety and welfare of the state's citizens.
(Ord. of 12-16-1991(2), § 1)
Sec. 10-4. - Intergovernmental agreement.
The city has entered into an intergovernmental agreement or contract (building inspection) with the county to provide all services related to the construction of buildings to ensure that all such buildings comply with federal and state laws. This contract was originally effective as of January 1, 1992, and said contract and any and all amendments are hereby approved and shall continue until terminated by either the city or county.
Sec. 10-5. - Duties.
(a)
So long as the intergovernmental agreement with the county is in effect, it shall be the duty of the county to ensure that all buildings in the city are up to code and comply with federal and state law.
(b)
Within said codes when reference is made to the duties of certain officials named therein, that designated official in the city who has duties corresponding to those of the named official in said codes shall be deemed to be the responsible official insofar as enforcing the provisions of said codes are concerned.
(c)
There shall be appointed, through a cooperative agreement with the county, a building officer to act as chief enforcing officer for those standard codes outlined in section 10-3, and as such it shall be his duty to inspect all buildings and premises when, in his judgment, life and property will be protected thereby and to ensure compliance with the standard codes.
(Ord. of 12-16-1991(2), §§ 2—4)
Sec. 10-6. - Enforcement officer.
The county chief enforcement officer and his staff are hereby appointed as the chief enforcement officer and staff for the city for any buildings constructed within the city.
Sec. 10-7. - Fees.
So long as the intergovernmental agreement is in effect, all fees and costs related to permits and construction problems shall be set by the county, and the county shall be entitled to receive all such fees for handling the process for the city, all as is set out in the intergovernmental agreement.
Sec. 10-8. - Manner of establishing fees.
There will be established an equitable and consistent manner of establishing building permit fees, moving of building or structure fees, demolition permit fees, and other fees as provided by the standard codes.
(Ord. of 12-16-1991(2), § 5)
Sec. 10-9. - Courts.
Any violation of any federal or state codes related to any buildings or their construction may be enforced by the county on behalf of the city without the need or the intervention or involvement of the city unless otherwise required by law or unless the city council at a meeting determines that it wishes to get actively involved in such litigation.
Secs. 10-10—10-36. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - WATER CONSERVATION

FOOTNOTE(S):
--- (2) ---
State Law reference— Requirements for toilets, shower heads, faucets, etc., O.C.G.A. § 8-2-3.
Sec. 10-37. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Commercial means any type of building other than residential.
Construction means the erection of a new building or the alteration of an existing building in connection with its repair or renovation or in connection with making an addition to an existing building and shall include the replacement of a malfunctioning, unserviceable, or obsolete faucet, showerhead, toilet, or urinal in an existing building.
Residential means any building or unit of building intended for occupancy as a dwelling but shall not include a hotel or motel.
(Ord. No. 1991-1, § 1, 2-4-1991)
Sec. 10-38. - Residential construction.
No construction may be initiated within the city for any residential building of any type which:
(1)
Employs a gravity tank-type, flushometer-valve, or flushometer-tank toilet that uses more than an average of 1.6 gallons of water per flush;
(2)
Employs a shower head that allows a flow of more than an average of 2.5 gallons of water per minute at 60 pounds per square inch of pressure;
(3)
Employs a urinal that uses more than an average of 1.0 gallon of water per flush;
(4)
Employs a lavatory faucet or lavatory replacement aerator that allows a flow of more than 2.0 gallons of water per minute; or
(5)
Employs a kitchen faucet or kitchen replacement aerator that allows a flow of more than 2.5 gallons of water per minute.
(Ord. No. 1991-1, § 2, 2-4-1991)
Sec. 10-39. - Commercial construction.
There shall be no construction of any commercial building of any type initiated within the city which does not meet the requirements of section 10-38(1) through (5).
(Ord. No. 1991-1, § 3, 2-4-1991)
Sec. 10-40. - Repairs and renovations.
The requirements of section 10-38 shall apply to any residential construction and any commercial construction which involves the repair or renovation of or addition to any existing building when such repair or renovation of or addition to such existing building includes replacement of toilets or showers or both.
(Ord. No. 1991-1, § 4, 2-4-1991)
Sec. 10-41. - Exemptions.
New construction and the repair or renovation of an existing building shall be exempt from the requirements of sections 10-38 through 10-40 when:
(1)
The repair or renovation of the existing building does not include the replacement of the plumbing or sewage system servicing toilets, faucets or showerheads within such existing buildings.
(2)
When such plumbing or sewage system within such existing building, because of its capacity, design, or installation would not function properly if the toilets, faucets or showerheads required by this article were installed.
(3)
Such system is a well or gravity flow from a spring and is owned privately by an individual for use in such individual's personal residence.
(4)
Units to be installed are:
a.
Specifically designed for use by the handicapped.
b.
Specifically designed to withstand unusual abuse or installation in a penal institution.
c.
Toilets for juveniles.
(5)
The owner, or his agent, of a building undergoing new construction or repair or renovation who is entitled to an exemption as specified in subsection (1), (2), (3) or (4) of this section shall obtain the exemption by applying at the office of the mayor of the city. A fee shall be charged for the inspection and issuance of such exemption. Such fee shall be established from time to time by the Tifton and Tift County Development Support Services and made available for examination in the office of the city clerk.
(Ord. No. 1991-1, § 5, 2-4-1991)
Secs. 10-42—10-67. - Reserved.
ARTICLE III. - HOUSE NUMBERING

Sec. 10-68. - Title.
This article shall be known and may be cited as the "Uniform House Numbering Ordinance for the City of Ty Ty."
(Ord. No. 2004-2, § I, 5-3-2004)
Sec. 10-69. - Jurisdiction.
This article shall govern the city and its residents so long as this article is not amended or repealed.
(Ord. No. 2004-2, § III, 5-3-2004)
Sec. 10-70. - Purpose and findings.
The purpose of this article is to uniformly assign and maintain house numbers and provide for easy identification of those numbers for the various purposes and to promote the health, safety, and welfare of the citizens of the city.
(Ord. No. 2004-2, § IV, 5-3-2004)
Sec. 10-71. - Penalty for violation.
(a)
The imposition of any such fine or imprisonment, or both, for any violation shall not excuse the violation or permit it to continue; and all such violators shall be required to correct or remedy such violations or defects within the time as prescribed by the court having jurisdiction of such matter, and in the absence of any such completion time being fixed by the court, within a reasonable time after such violations occur, such reasonable time not to exceed ten days.
(b)
The application of any fine, imprisonment, or other penalty shall not be construed to prevent the enforced removal of prohibited conditions or to be postpone any action required.
(c)
The remedies set out in this section for the purpose of enforcing the provisions of this article shall not be deemed to be exclusive, but shall be cumulative of all other remedies, civil or criminal, provided by the laws of this state, or by the ordinances of the city.
(Ord. No. 2004-2, § 10, 5-3-2004)
Sec. 10-72. - Requirement.
Every house, mobile home, apartment, business, building, or other structure having a street address number assigned to it under the system of numbering in the city shall display such number in compliance with the requirements of this article. Mobile home parks and apartment complexes, including duplex dwelling structures, shall also be required to have each individual lot number or apartment number displayed in a readily visible manner and in compliance with this article. All numbers for a lot in a mobile home park, apartments, and buildings located along a street shall be in sequence unless approved otherwise in writing by the city council.
(Ord. No. 2004-2, § 3, 5-3-2004)
Sec. 10-73. - Method.
Street address numbers shall be prominently displayed as follows:
(1)
In cooperation with the county and at the request of the 911 emergency services, the city has obtained metal stakes with reflecting numbers for each building and lot wherein lot numbers have been established under the city's uniform house numbering plan as shown on the official chart and records of the city as of the end of March, 2004. The city will install said house numbers on each lot in such place, either on the road right of way or on the property of an owner, as the city deems most appropriate. In general the city will, but is not required to, place the metal stake containing the number on the right of way generally centered in front of any house located on the property. Each mobile home park shall have a number for the park located next to the road, but each lot shall have a separate number generally located next to the water meter.
(2)
After the initial placement of the metal stakes containing the numbers on each lot in the city, any additional lots that are created that shall have a structure located thereon shall require a metal stake with a number as set out for other lots on that same street or area. Any lot that has the metal stake removed or severely damaged shall be replaced within ten days. The owner and occupant of each building required to have a number shall pay for a new stake with the appropriate number located thereon, the same to be obtained through the city, and shall pay to the city an installation fee plus the cost of the materials. Such fee shall be established from time to time by the city council and made available for examination at city hall. The city personnel shall thereafter install such new number in the appropriate location as established by the city. Any new stakes may be metal or of such other material as selected by the city.
(3)
The numbers shall be posted in English using Arabic (not Roman) numerals. The numbers shall be a minimum of three inches in height and shall be metal or such other material as approved by the city. Only the official stakes supplied by the city may be used unless another is approved or authorized by either the mayor or the maintenance superintendent of the city.
(Ord. No. 2004-2, § 4, 5-3-2004)
Sec. 10-74. - Tampering with a house number.
No person, unless properly authorized by the city, shall remove or otherwise disturb any house number. All numbers, even those subsequently paid for by a property owner, shall be the property of the city. The property owner and occupant shall be held responsible for and shall reimburse the city for the loss or theft of any stake or house number.
(Ord. No. 2004-2, § 5, 5-3-2004)
Sec. 10-75. - Obstructions.
No person shall place upon or about any house number any object, material, debris, or structure of any kind, nor shall the occupant allow any vegetation to grow up around any house number that shall prevent the number from being readily visible from the public street if the lot is located on a street or the roadway if the lot is located in a mobile home park. Shrubs, bushes, and flower beds must be trimmed to allow the house number to be easily seen by any emergency vehicle attempting to locate said property.
(Ord. No. 2004-2, § 6, 5-3-2004)
Sec. 10-76. - Record of numbers.
The city shall keep a chart showing proper street numbers and shall assign to every lot the proper number by which a building is to be designated. The failure of the city to keep such a chart current, however, shall not prevent any lot owner from making sure that his house number is in place and visible at all times.
(Ord. No. 2004-2, § 7, 5-3-2004)
Sec. 10-77. - Obligation of owner.
The obligation of complying with all of the provisions of this article shall be upon the owner of the property. The owner may designate an occupier of the property to take care of the requirements, but it is the property owner that is ultimately responsible and who will be prosecuted by the city if a violation occurs. Upon such violation, notice shall be given to the owner of the property or his agent specifying the particulars of the violation and requiring that such violation be brought into compliance with this article within ten calendar days upon receipt of such notice. Any adult occupying the property shall be considered an agent of the owner. Failure to comply within the ten calendar days shall be punishable, upon conviction, as hereinafter provided.
(Ord. No. 2004-2, § 8, 5-3-2004)
Sec. 10-78. - Building permits.
No building permits shall be issued for any principal building until the owner or developer has procured from the city the official number of the premises and a metal number is installed properly thereon.
(Ord. No. 2004-2, § 9, 5-3-2004)
