Chapter 2 - ADMINISTRATION
ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Secs. 2-1—2-18. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY

FOOTNOTE(S):
--- (1) ---
State Law reference— Authorization for purchase of insurance covering injuries resulting from governmental ownership and use of motor vehicles, O.C.G.A. § 33-24-51.
Sec. 2-19. - Title.
These regulations and restrictions shall be known and may be cited as the City of Ty Ty, Georgia "Liability for Injuries and Damages Ordinance."
(Ord. No. 1997-2, § 1, 5-5-1997)
Sec. 2-20. - Jurisdiction.
These regulations and restrictions shall govern any injuries and/or damages to any person or property caused by the City of Ty Ty, its employees, agents, or property.
(Ord. No. 1997-2, § 2, 5-5-1997)
Sec. 2-21. - Purpose.
These regulations and restrictions on the liability of the City of Ty Ty are imposed and designed to limit the liability of the City of Ty Ty and to protect public funds held by the City of Ty Ty from paying for the private claims of any party who contends that they were injured or damaged by the actions or failure to act by the City of Ty Ty.
(Ord. No. 1997-2, § 3, 5-5-1997)
Sec. 2-22. - Regulations and restrictions.
Except to the extent provided by federal or state law, the city shall not be liable to any person or entity for any injuries, damages, claims, costs, or expenses caused by the city, its property, its employees, or its agents concerning any actions or failure to act by anyone connected with the city except as is otherwise set out in this article. It is the intention of this article that except where limited herein the city will claim its right to sovereign immunity so as to prevent it from being held responsible for any claims for injuries or damages alleged to be caused by the negligence or tortuous conduct of the city. The following regulations and restrictions shall apply and control:
(1)
The city council may at its discretion hear any complaint by any citizen for reimbursement of any damages or injuries for which they feel the city is responsible. To the extent that the city actually pays to such citizen a certain sum of money, then the sovereign immunity of the city shall be waived as to the amount actually paid and only to that amount. Any payment received by a citizen shall be payment in full satisfaction of any and all such claims against the city.
(2)
The city will not consider reimbursing any person for any damages or injuries unless the city council considers the matter and pays for the damages prior to any repairs being completed. This provision may be waived by the city council only in the event that emergency repairs are required to prevent any further damages to such person's property.
(3)
The city shall not be liable to any citizen for any water or sewer damage that is done to the property of any person located in the city and caused by the water or sewer system of the city.
(4)
The city shall not be required under any circumstances to go onto the private property of any person located in the city to make any type of repairs, including but not limited to the digging out of any ditches or debris caused by water drainage.
(5)
To the extent that the city has insurance to cover any loss, damages, or injuries sustained by any person, said person may proceed against the insurance company to obtain compensation for its injuries or damages. In no event, however, shall the city be required to pay any amount and sovereign immunity shall only be waived to the extent that any person may be entitled to receive benefits from said insurance company and only to the extent that said insurance company pays for such damages or injuries. Nothing contained herein shall require the city to keep or maintain any insurance.
(6)
Nothing contained herein shall prevent any citizen from making any claim against any independent contractor that damages a citizen's property who was hired by the city.
(7)
The city shall not be liable to any person who is injured while upon the property of the city regardless of the cause of such injury.
(8)
In the event that the city has insurance to cover a particular situation or in the event that a third party with whom the city contracts damages an individual citizen's property, then the city at the city council's discretion may elect to assist the citizen in trying to collect either from the insurance company or from said independent contractor. However, nothing herein shall require the city to take any such action.
(Ord. No. 1997-2, § 4, 5-5-1997)
Secs. 2-23—2-47. - Reserved.
ARTICLE III. - LEGISLATIVE BODY

Sec. 2-48. - Ordinance defined.
An ordinance is hereby defined as being any law, statute, or enactment passed by the city council of a general nature which would apply to or could affect a substantial number of citizens in the city. Provided, however, that any enactment by the city no matter how specific and no matter how limited in application which is entitled an ordinance and which is passed with the same formality of an ordinance shall also be considered an ordinance and shall be deemed a specific ordinance regardless of whether or not said ordinance is labeled a specific ordinance.
(Ord. No. 95-1, § G, 5-1-1995)
Sec. 2-49. - Resolution defined.
All other actions taken by the city council which are not ordinances shall be deemed resolutions of the city. Resolutions shall have the effect and force of laws and shall be binding on the city and its residents, invitees, and guests unless and until repealed by the city council.
(Ord. No. 95-1, § H, 5-1-1995)
Sec. 2-50. - Enactment of resolutions.
Any resolution may be enacted by the city council upon such resolution being presented either in writing or verbally at any meeting of the city council, and said resolutions shall become effective immediately upon a majority of the councilmembers being present if a quorum exists voting in favor of said resolution. Provided, however, that the mayor of the city may veto any resolution within three days of the council meeting in which said resolution was passed if the mayor was actually present at said meeting. In the event that the mayor is not present at said meeting, then he may veto said legislation within three days after he receives written notice of the enactment or passage of said resolution. Provided, further, that if any two councilmembers or the mayor standing alone wish to bring any resolution up for another vote, they may do so either at the next regular meeting or at a special called meeting called for that purpose unless the city council has already taken actions which cannot be easily undone which would materially affect the city or any inhabitant of the city relying on such resolution. If upon a new vote the resolution is voted down, then the resolution shall be stricken from the record if the resolution has been in existence for a period of less than 40 days. Any resolution may be repealed by a majority vote of the city council if said resolution has been in existence for over 40 days.
(Ord. No. 95-1, § I, 5-1-1995)
Sec. 2-51. - Expenditures.
Any expenditure by the city in the ordinary course of business shall be carried out by the city employees under other rules and regulations established by the council or the mayor. Any matters not in the ordinary course of business concerning expenditures of less than $7,500.00 shall be handled by a resolution of the city council. Any expenditure not in the ordinary course of business for a sum in excess of $7,500.00 shall be handled as an ordinance by the city.
(Ord. No. 95-1, § J, 5-1-1995)
Sec. 2-52. - Compensation for city councilmembers.
Compensation for each member of city council and for the mayor of the city shall be established from time to time by the appropriate vote of the city council.
(Ord. No. 95-7, § C, 9-11-1995)
Sec. 2-53. - Title.
The regulations in sections 2-53 through 2-56 shall be known and may be cited as the "Agenda for Council Meetings of the City of Ty Ty, Georgia."
(Ord. No. 1997-4, § 1, 5-5-1997)
Sec. 2-54. - Jurisdiction.
Sections 2-53 through 2-56 shall govern the conduct of all city council meetings for the city.
(Ord. No. 1997-4, § 2, 5-5-1997)
Sec. 2-55. - Purpose.
The regulations and restrictions in sections 2-53 through 2-56 are imposed and designed only for the smooth operation and orderly function of the meetings for the council of the city.
(Ord. No. 1997-4, § 3, 5-5-1997)
Sec. 2-56. - Agenda for council meetings.
All regular monthly meetings of the city council shall be conducted according to the following rules and regulations:
(1)
The clerk shall prepare an agenda for the regular monthly meetings of the city council. In the event that a regular monthly meeting is continued to a later date, the council shall take up the remainder of the agenda in the order prepared unless there is good cause to deviate from the order of the agenda.
(2)
Before any special called meeting of the city council may be held, the city council members shall be given at least 48 hours' notice of such meeting. Only the matters presented in the notice shall be heard at any special called meeting. Any member may waive his lack of sufficient notice, and any member attending any special called meeting shall automatically waive his lack of sufficient notice unless he objects at the beginning of the meeting to such lack of notice.
(3)
Except as is otherwise set out herein, the edition of Robert's Rules of Order currently on file with the city clerk shall govern the conduct of the meeting.
(4)
The clerk will prepare an agenda and provide a copy of the same to the mayor and each member of the council by the Saturday prior to the regular monthly meeting of the council. Any councilmember failing to receive such agenda may waive his lack of timely receipt of a notice of the agenda, and the same shall be considered waived automatically if said councilmember does not object immediately upon the opening of the regular meeting by the person conducting the meeting.
(5)
Any person or group of persons desiring to be heard on any matter by the city council shall follow the following rules and procedures:
a.
The city clerk must be notified prior to 12:00 noon on the Friday before the regular scheduled monthly meeting of each person who desires to speak to the council and the matter about which the person wishes to speak.
b.
Any person who later discovers that he will not be able to attend the meeting must notify the clerk before 12:00 noon on the day of said meeting that they wish to have their name withdrawn from speaking at said meeting.
c.
Any person who notifies the clerk that they wish to speak at the next regular monthly meeting of the city council and who fails to attend said meeting without notifying the clerk prior to 12:00 noon on the day of said meeting shall not be allowed to speak on the issue requested at any subsequent meeting of the city council for a period of one year from the date that said person was scheduled to speak. The mayor and city council can waive this restriction only if the reason for failing to notify the clerk within the required time was due to a dire emergency or if in the opinion of the mayor and city council there would be a manifest abuse of justice not to hear the person on the issue involved.
d.
Any person or group of persons desiring to be heard by the council who fails to notify the clerk by 12:00 noon on the Friday before the regular scheduled meeting shall not be heard by the council at that meeting but may be heard by the council at the next regular monthly meeting if said person or group requests to be heard at that next meeting.
e.
Any person speaking on an issue at a city council meeting shall not be allowed to speak for longer than five minutes on the issue in question. Provided, however, that any person speaking on an issue may continue to answer any questions by any city council member or the mayor.
f.
Any group of persons who wishes to be heard by the council on any particular issue shall collectively be limited to a speaking period of not more than 20 minutes regardless of the number of individuals wishing to speak on that issue. Provided, however, that if a group of people wishes to speak for and another group of people wishes to speak against a certain issue, then each side shall be allowed to speak for no more than 20 minutes. Provided, further, that no one individual shall be allowed to speak for more than five minutes on any given issue unless said individual is giving an answer to a question presented by the mayor of a member of the city council.
(6)
The mayor, or the mayor pro tem in the mayor's absence, shall be allowed to deviate from the order of the agenda established by the clerk due to the concerns of citizens who wish to speak on an issue and may further change the order of the agenda for any other reason at his discretion.
(Ord. No. 1997-4, § 4, 5-5-1997)
Sec. 2-57. - Rules for enaction of ordinances.
(a)
All ordinances shall be introduced at a first reading at an official council meeting. Each ordinance shall be in writing and in the form required for final adoption, except as otherwise provided herein.
(b)
The enacting clause on each ordinance shall be "The Council of the City of Ty Ty hereby ordains …," or such similar enacting language which shall be in every ordinance.
(c)
Any councilmember may introduce any ordinance and said ordinance shall be read at a regular or special meeting of the city council. The reading may be silent by each member of the council if so approved by the council or waived by unanimous vote if the ordinance has been received and read by all members prior to the meeting.
(d)
Each ordinance shall be adopted or rejected by the city council in accordance with these rules.
(e)
No ordinance may be adopted on the same day that it is introduced, except for emergency ordinances, which procedures must be complied with according to section 3.18 of the official Charter.
(f)
Even though the writing is required to be in the form for final adoption when presented at the meeting, the following shall apply to any changes to the written form of the ordinance presented at the meeting for the first reading:
(1)
Any clerical errors, any obvious errors in construction, and any corrections that are not material changes to the ordinance may be made by having the same retyped before the final adoption of the ordinance without further vote or approval by the council.
(2)
Material changes may be made to the ordinance at the first reading only by the council voting to change the ordinance by a specific vote setting out the changes to the ordinance. Even though the writing itself will not be officially changed until later, upon an affirmative vote by the council to approve the ordinance as amended at its first reading, the ordinance will be deemed to meet the requirement of being in writing and in the form required for the final adoption. Subsequent thereto, the city clerk and/or the city attorney may draft the exact language to conform the writing to the amendments that were duly adopted by the council even though the same may not have been reduced to writing at that time.
(3)
Regardless of the foregoing rules and procedures, any ordinance that is presented for a second and final reading and is duly adopted and approved by the city council shall thereafter be considered a valid ordinance even though the ordinance contains written modifications thereto if the ideas and concept of those modifications were discussed at the first or a subsequent meeting and duly approved by the council. It is the intention of this section that the adoption of any ordinance in its final form at a second reading shall cure any procedural or other inadequacies related to said ordinance unless there is a manifest injustice created by the enaction of said ordinance related to those changes since it is the intention of the council that any ordinance adopted on its final reading should be presumed to be valid and should not be changed except in very rare and unusual circumstances.
(Ord. No. 2000-03, 7-3-2000)
Sec. 2-58. - Title.
Sections 2-58 through 2-64 shall be known and may be cited as the "Date of City Council Meeting Ordinance."
(Ord. No. 2001-8, § I, 12-3-2001)
Sec. 2-59. - Jurisdiction.
Sections 2-58 through 2-64 shall govern the city council as well as the city citizens so long as these sections are not amended or repealed.
(Ord. No. 2001-8, § II, 12-3-2001)
Sec. 2-60. - Purpose and findings.
The purpose of sections 2-58 through 2-64 is to amend all previous ordinances and to establish the date and time for the official regular city council monthly meetings of the city. In addition, these sections are to carry out the purposes and intents of section 3.13 of the City Charter which requires the city council to hold regular scheduled meetings at such times and places as prescribed by ordinance.
(Ord. No. 2001-8, § III, 12-3-2001)
Sec. 2-61. - Regular meetings.
Unless the date for a regular meeting falls on a national holiday, and except as otherwise provided herein, all regular monthly meetings of the city council shall be held on the first Monday of each month.
(Ord. No. 2001-8, §§ 1—4, 12-3-2001)
Sec. 2-62. - Labor Day.
(a)
Since the first Monday of September each year is Labor Day and a national holiday, the regularly scheduled city council meeting for the month of September shall be held on the Tuesday following the first Monday in September.
(b)
In the event that any other national holiday, state holiday, or official observance occurs on the first Monday in a month, the mayor at his discretion shall have the authority to move the city council meeting to the Tuesday following the first Monday in that month; or if the mayor deems it inappropriate, then the meeting shall be moved to the second Monday in the month to ensure that a quorum will be present at said meeting.
(Ord. No. 2001-8, §§ 1—4, 12-3-2001)
Sec. 2-63. - Quorum.
(a)
If it appears to the mayor, or in his absence the mayor pro tem, that there will not be a quorum at any regularly scheduled monthly city council meeting, then the mayor shall have the authority in advance to schedule the regular monthly city council meeting for the day following the regularly scheduled meeting; or if it appears that the circumstances are such that the meeting cannot be held at that time, then the meeting can be rescheduled for the second Monday in the month at the discretion of the mayor, or in his absence the mayor pro tem.
(b)
In the event that a quorum does not appear for any regular monthly city council meeting, then the meeting shall automatically be rescheduled for the day following the regular monthly city council meeting unless it appears that a quorum will not be present at that time, in which event the presiding officer present at the meeting shall reschedule the meeting for the next following Monday or at such other time as the presiding officer deems is the most appropriate time for the meeting to be held if it does not appear that the next Monday is an appropriate time for said meeting.
(Ord. No. 2001-8, §§ 1—4, 12-3-2001)
Sec. 2-64. - Meeting time.
(a)
Any regularly scheduled meeting of the city council shall take place at 7:30 p.m., and the meeting shall continue thereafter until the business is completed or until a motion is adopted to continue the meeting until a later date.
(b)
Any meeting that is continued shall be held at such time as the city council shall agree by a majority vote of those present at the meeting in which said meeting was continued.
(c)
If it appears that the regular starting time for a meeting is inappropriate or would be beneficial to one or more of the councilmembers to change the meeting time on any particular meeting, then and in that event, the mayor shall have the authority to change the time of the meeting; but in no event shall any regular scheduled meeting begin after 8:30 p.m. on any given night.
(Ord. No. 2001-8, §§ 1—4, 12-3-2001)
Sec. 2-65. - Cancelled meetings; called meetings.
If it appears to the mayor, or in his absence the mayor pro tem, that there are no material issues to be presented at a regularly scheduled monthly city council meeting, then the mayor shall have the authority in advance to cancel said meeting. In such event, the city clerk shall notify the councilmembers that the meeting has been cancelled. Should the mayor or any councilmember decide that there is an issue that needs to be handled before the next regularly scheduled monthly meeting, then and in that event, the mayor shall schedule a special called meeting at a time when it appears that there would be a quorum at said meeting. Otherwise, there will be no need to make up the regularly scheduled meeting that was cancelled.
Secs. 2-66—2-83. - Reserved.
ARTICLE IV. - OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES

Sec. 2-84. - Title.
Sections 2-84 through 2-87 shall be known and may be cited as the "Nepotism Ordinance for the City of Ty Ty."
(Ord. No. 2001-7, § I, 12-3-2001)
Sec. 2-85. - Jurisdiction.
Sections 2-84 through 2-87 shall govern the city and its residents so long as these sections are not amended or repealed.
(Ord. No. 2001-7, § II, 12-3-2001)
Sec. 2-86. - Purpose and findings.
The purpose of this article is to establish a policy and procedure for the hiring of employees and to prohibit certain blood relatives from being employed by the City of Ty Ty.
(Ord. No. 2001-7, § III, 12-3-2001)
Sec. 2-87. - Nepotism prohibited.
(a)
It is hereby prohibited that the city shall not hire any employee on a fulltime basis who is related by blood or marriage within the fourth degree of civil reckoning to any existing member of the city council or any fulltime paid employee of the city.
(b)
No person may be appointed as a city councilmember to fill a vacant seat in the city council if such new member would violate the nepotism rule set out in subsection (a) of this section. Provided, however, that should someone within the fourth degree of civil reckoning to an existing city councilmember run for office and be elected to said office by the citizens of the city, then said individual shall be permitted to serve on the city council with the other city councilmember who is related within the fourth degree of civil reckoning.
(c)
This nepotism prohibition shall not apply to any volunteers or any irregular parttime help.
(d)
A fulltime employee shall be considered as any employee who works more than 20 hours per week on a regular basis.
(e)
Nothing contained herein shall prevent relatives within the prohibited degree of civil reckoning to be hired for shortterm projects engaged in by the city.
(Ord. No. 2001-7, § 3, 12-3-2001)
Secs. 2-88—2-110. - Reserved.
ARTICLE V. - ZONING

Sec. 2-111. - Zoning ordinance adopted.
The "Zoning Ordinance for the City of Ty Ty, Georgia," adopted July 6, 1999, is attached hereto as "Appendix A" for convenience and is incorporated herein verbatim by reference thereto.
