ARTICLE IV. - ABANDONED VEHICLES

Sec. 66-207. - Abandoned motor vehicles designated.
The term "abandoned motor vehicle" means a motor vehicle or trailer:
(1)
Which is left unattended on a public street, road or highway or other public property for a period of at least five days and when it reasonably appears to a law enforcement officer that the individual who left such motor vehicle unattended does not intend to return and remove such motor vehicle;
(2)
Which has been lawfully towed onto the property of another at the request of a law enforcement officer and left there for a period of not less than 30 days without anyone's having made claim thereto;
(3)
Which has been lawfully towed onto the property of another at the request of a property owner on whose property the vehicle was abandoned and left there for a period of not less than 30 days without the owner's having made claim thereto;
(4)
Which has been left unattended on private property for a period of not less than 30 days which does not have affixed thereto a valid current state motor vehicle license tag or a current municipal decal;
(5)
Any discarded, dismantled, wrecked, scrapped, ruined or junked motor vehicle or parts thereof when the parts are in such a condition to constitute a health hazard or unsightly nuisance after the same has been declared to be a nuisance by the governing body.
(Code 1983, § 10-3-1)
Sec. 66-208. - Removal by peace officer.
(a)
Cause for removal. Any peace officer who finds a motor vehicle which has been left unattended on a public street, road or highway or other public property for a period of at least five days, or any peace officer who finds a motor vehicle which has been left unattended or which is discarded, dismantled, wrecked, scrapped, ruined or junked, or parts thereof, which have been held to be a nuisance as set forth in this Code and which is unabated for a period of at least five days on private property shall be authorized to cause such motor vehicle or dismantled parts thereof to be removed to a garage or other place of safety, if such peace officer reasonably believes that the person who left such motor vehicle unattended or such parts, or junked or dismantled, scrapped, ruined or junked motor vehicle declared to be a nuisance unabated, or the owner does not intend to return and remove said motor vehicle and/or parts.
(b)
Authorization. Any peace officer shall be authorized immediately to cause such motor vehicle and/or parts to be removed to a garage or other place of safety when such motor vehicle poses a threat to public health or safety.
(c)
Gross negligence. Any peace officer who under this section causes any motor vehicle to be removed to a garage or other place of safety shall be liable for gross negligence only.
(d)
Unknown owner. Any peace officer or the law enforcement agency of this city which causes a motor vehicle and/or parts thereof to be removed to a garage, as authorized by this section, or other place of safety or which is notified of the removal of a motor vehicle from private property shall within 72 hours from the time of removal or notice and if the owner is unknown:
(1)
Notify the department of revenue and the state crime information center of the description of the vehicle and the location to which such motor vehicle has been removed; and
(2)
If available on the state crime information center network, determine the name and address of the last known registered owner of such vehicle.
(e)
Information for last known owner. If the name and address of the last known registered owner of the motor vehicle is obtained from the state crime information center, the peace officer who causes the motor vehicle and/or parts to be removed shall, within three calendar days, make available to the person removing such motor vehicle the name and address of the last known registered owner of such motor vehicle, the owner of the motor vehicle as recorded on the title of such vehicle, and all security interest holders or lienholders. If such information is not available, the peace officer shall, within three calendar days, notify the person removing or storing such vehicle of such fact.
(f)
Disposal and sale of vehicle or parts. Disposal and sale of any such vehicle or parts removed shall be in accordance with the provisions of O.C.G.A. §§ 40-11-1—40-11-24 which is hereby adopted in its entirety.
(g)
Authority of city. The city shall have the power and authority to contract with private individuals and firms for the removal of discarded, dismantled, wrecked, scrapped, ruined or junked motor vehicles or parts thereof from public and private properties.
(Code 1983, § 10-3-2)
Sec. 66-209. - Exceptions.
This article shall not apply to farm vehicles or vehicles located in an enclosed building on private property or to any motor vehicle which is located within the premises of any junkyard complying with the laws of this state relating to the licensing and regulating of motor vehicle junkyards.
(Code 1983, § 10-3-3)
Sec. 66-210. - Penalty.
Any person which shall have been construed as conducting a nuisance on its property shall be subject to any or all of the penalties and punishment as prescribed in section 1-8.
(Code 1983, § 10-3-4)
Secs. 66-211—66-228. - Reserved.
