ARTICLE VI. - CANVASSERS, SOLICITORS AND PEDDLERS
DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Sec. 22-248. - Scope of provisions.
(a)
Any person soliciting funds, contributions, donations or information or selling items or taking orders door to door, either at businesses or residences, shall be deemed to be canvassing, soliciting or peddling and shall register and obtain the permits required by this article.
(b)
Any person who does not have a permanent place of business in the town, and who displays and/or sells goods, foods, meats, wares or merchandise out of any mobile vehicle or from any temporary location shall be deemed a transient or itinerant merchant and shall be subject to obtaining the permit and registering as required by this article; provided, however, a transient or itinerant merchant shall not include:
(1)
A person who sells home-raised agricultural products;
(2)
A traveling salesperson representing a business located in the state, taking orders for future delivery;
(3)
A resident of the town holding a garage, rummage, antique or similar sale;
(4)
Any officer or employee of any town, city, county, state or federal government of the school system or any subdivision thereof, and on official business, nor any local nonprofit organization such as boy scouts, civic clubs, or school organizations, when the membership of the local nonprofit organization does the soliciting itself, but it shall apply when the soliciting is done by a paid solicitor with only a percentage or portion of any sales or collections to go to the benefit of such local nonprofit organization.
(Ord. No. 2011-08, § 1(7-7-1), 5-5-2011)
Sec. 22-249. - Applicability of provisions; exceptions.
Nothing in this article shall apply to officers or employees in the town, county, state or federal governments or the school system, or any subdivisions thereof, when an official business; nor shall it apply to any person holding a regular business license in the town; nor to any local nonprofit organization such as boy scouts, civic clubs, school organizations and the like, when the membership of such local nonprofit organization does the soliciting itself; but it shall apply when the soliciting is done by a paid solicitor with only a percentage or portion of any sales or collections to go to the benefit of such local nonprofit organization.
(Ord. No. 2011-08, § 1(7-7-5), 5-5-2011)
Sec. 22-250. - Applicability of provisions to farm products.
The legal right of the local farmer and producer to sell the products of the local farmer's and producer's own farm, orchard, poultry yard, etc., is recognized, but any other person or persons in the town offering for sale such articles as eggs, chickens, butter, milk, fruits, vegetables, or any other articles not specifically covered in this article, shall be deemed a peddler, canvasser, solicitor or transient or itinerant merchant, and every such peddler, canvasser, solicitor or transient or itinerant merchant selling directly to the consumer, even though the delivery may be on orders previously taken, shall be required to obtain a permit from the chief of police. No permit shall be required from any bona fide farmer who is selling the products of the farmer's own farm, orchard, poultry yard, etc.
(Ord. No. 2011-08, § 1(7-7-8), 5-5-2011)
Sec. 22-251. - Exemption of disabled or indigent veterans of armed forces.
(a)
Scope of exemption. It shall be lawful for any disabled or indigent veteran of the armed forces, as defined in O.C.G.A. § 43-32-1, to peddle, canvass, solicit or to set up a temporary location as a transient or itinerant merchant without obtaining a permit for the privilege of so doing, and a certificate from the probate court of the county stating the fact of the merchant being such disabled or indigent veteran shall be sufficient proof thereof; provided that this section shall not authorize peddling, canvassing, soliciting or setting up a temporary location as a transient or itinerant merchant selling ardent spirits. The privileges hereby granted shall not be transferred to or used by another person.
(b)
Effect of exemption. All such persons are authorized to peddle, canvass, solicit or set up a temporary location as a transient or itinerant merchant in the town without first obtaining a license therefor from the town and without being subject to any tax therefor.
(c)
Affidavit required. Before any such person shall avail himself of the privilege conferred by this section, the person shall go before the judge of the probate court of the county and make oath, in writing, that such person served as a soldier and that the business which the person proposes to carry on (stating what the person proposes to sell) is the person's own and that the person will not sell or offer to sell any article for another directly or indirectly.
(d)
Issuance of certificate. Upon making and filing the affidavit provided for in subsection (a) of this section, the judge of the probate court of the county shall issue a certificate stating that such person has taken the oath prescribed, which certificate shall authorize such person making such affidavit and holding such certificate to peddle, canvass, solicit or set up a temporary location as a transient or itinerant merchant in the town without procuring a license or being subject to any tax therefor.
(Ord. No. 2011-08, § 1(7-7-9), 5-5-2011)
State Law reference— Similar provisions, O.C.G.A. §§ 4-12-1—4-12-3, 4-12-8.
Sec. 22-252. - Transient or itinerant merchant operating from vehicle; tax on sales.
(a)
A transient or itinerant merchant shall not locate and conduct a business from a mobile vehicle or upon the public sidewalks, streets, alleys, walkways, parks, parking lots or other public lands of the town without first obtaining the consent of the town clerk and/or the chief of police after furnishing proof satisfactory to the town clerk and/or the chief of police that the locations, conduct and operation of such business will not obstruct such public ways and places. All transient or itinerant merchants shall be subject to the restrictions and requirements set forth in the town's zoning ordinance.
(b)
It shall be the duty of each transient or itinerant merchant, after having engaged in business in the town, to report to the town clerk the amount of gross sales made within the town during the period that such transient or itinerant merchant was licensed and permitted to do business in the town, and to pay to the town clerk such taxes as are required for similar businesses by the town. Proof shall further be furnished to the town clerk at such time that all sales taxes due to the commissioner of the department of revenue of the state upon such sales, including the local option sales tax, have been filed and remitted to the commissioner of the department of revenue as required by state law.
(Ord. No. 2011-08, § 1(7-7-7), 5-5-2011)
Sec. 22-253. - Obstruction of street, highway or sidewalk prohibited.
No canvasser, solicitor, peddler, transient or itinerant merchant authorized to engage in any business in the town shall, in carrying on such business, obstruct the whole or any part of any sidewalk, street or highway of the town.
(Ord. No. 2011-08, § 1(7-7-10), 5-5-2011)
Sec. 22-254. - Use of tent as temporary location.
Any person is allowed the use of a tent as a temporary location only under the following conditions and requirements:
(1)
No tent shall be erected unless a paved parking area is provided at the site. The site must comply with chapter 113, zoning, and all rules and regulations therefor;
(2)
The maximum size allowance for such tents shall not exceed 60 feet by 120 feet;
(3)
The maximum number of tent permits as temporary locations to be issued to a single business shall be limited to two per year for a period of time not to exceed 16 days for each issuance;
(4)
All tents as temporary locations must be approved by the county fire marshal; and
(5)
Permit fees. No permit shall be issued until the exact dimensions and area and location of the tent have been filed with the zoning administrator and fees have been paid. Said fees are listed on a schedule maintained by the zoning administrator.
(Ord. No. 2011-08, § 1(7-7-11), 5-5-2011)
Secs. 22-255—22-284. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - REGISTRATION

Sec. 22-285. - Registration, sales tax number required.
(a)
It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in business as a canvasser, solicitor, peddler, or transient or itinerant merchant without first having registered with the town clerk. Each registrant shall be required to fill out a registration form giving complete identification, signature, name of employer (if applicable), products sold, name of manufacturer of products, name of organization the person is representing, time of operation and proposed method of operation, and to provide such other identification or information as may be required.
(b)
Any canvasser, solicitor, peddler, or transient or itinerant merchant shall, before being issued a permit, file with the police chief proof that the applicant or the business proposed to be conducted pursuant to the license or permit possesses a valid state sales tax number issued by the commissioner of the department of revenue of the state and file with the town clerk an occupation tax return and pay such tax as required by this chapter.
(Ord. No. 2011-08, § 1(7-7-2), 5-5-2011)
Sec. 22-286. - Registration fee prescribed; application for identification or registration badge.
Each canvasser, solicitor and peddler shall pay to the town clerk a registration fee of $25.00 per person per month. Each transient or itinerant merchant shall pay to the town clerk a registration fee of $25.00 per person per month. Each registrant shall make application with the chief of police for an identification badge. Said registration shall be effective for 30 days from the date of the approval of the application.
(Ord. No. 2011-08, § 1(7-7-3), 5-5-2011; Ord. No. 2013-14, § 1, 6-20-2013)
Sec. 22-287. - Evidence of good character; issuance of identification badge; possession, display.
(a)
Each applicant shall show evidence of good character as required by the chief of police, who is hereby directed to require photographs and fingerprints of each applicant. If, after proper inquiry and investigation, the chief of police shall determine that the applicant is of good character and that the safety of the citizens and property of the town are protected, each applicant shall be issued an identification badge with the applicant's photograph thereon indicating that the registration fee has been paid in full, that the applicant has been duly registered, the applicant's name, the organization which the applicant represents, and showing thereon the days for which the applicant has registered.
(b)
The identification badge shall be worn on the applicant's person in a prominent place, or, if a transient or itinerant merchant, displayed in a prominent place within the temporary location so as to be visible and legible. Possession of this identification badge shall not in any way represent an endorsement or approval of any product or project by the town.
(c)
It shall be unlawful for any person to peddle, canvass or solicit or occupy a temporary location as a transient or itinerant merchant without having registered with the town clerk in accordance with section 22-285 and this section or to peddle, solicit or canvass without wearing the identification badge in accordance with this section. Any person violating this article shall be punished as provided in section 1-7.
(Ord. No. 2011-08, § 1(7-7-4), 5-5-2011)
Sec. 22-288. - Revocation of identification badge, permit.
Any identification badge or permit may be revoked by the town clerk or the town clerk's designated representative because of any violation by the registrant (or any one of a group of registrants) of this article, or of any ordinance of the town, or of any state or federal law, or whenever the registrant shall cease to possess the qualifications and good character required in this article for the original registration.
(Ord. No. 2011-08, § 1(7-7-6), 5-5-2011)
Secs. 22-289—22-309. - Reserved.
