ARTICLE II. - ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT

Sec. 109-25. - Enforcement.
The town engineer and other town staff shall enforce the provisions of this chapter.
(Code 1984, § 6-7-73; Ord. No. 406, 9-6-2001)
Sec. 109-26. - Inspection and right of entry.
Upon presentation of identification to the developer, contractor, owner, owner's agent, operator or occupants, employees of the town may enter during all reasonable hours any property under proposed or existing development and construction. These employees may make inspections of the facilities for the purpose of determining plan requirements or compliance with ordinance provisions. These designees may inspect any drainage system within or outside of an existing drainage easement. All drainage facilities located on private property, whether dedicated to the town or not, shall be accessible at all times for town inspection. Where drainage facilities are accepted by the town for maintenance, public access easements shall be provided. Reasonable access shall be provided to all drainage easements for inspection and maintenance functions. Where an easement does not exist for the drainage system, the permission of the owner shall be obtained before entrance; however, in the event of emergency maintenance requirements, permission of the owner shall not be mandatory.
(Code 1984, § 6-7-74; Ord. No. 406, 9-6-2001)
Sec. 109-27. - Emergency maintenance.
(a)
The town may conduct emergency maintenance operations on private land and on drainage systems where emergency conditions exist. Emergency maintenance shall constitute the removal of trees and other debris, which in the judgment of the town engineer create a condition potentially injurious to life, property, or the public road system.
(b)
Emergency maintenance conducted on any drainage system shall not be construed as constituting a continuing maintenance obligation on the part of the town.
(Code 1984, § 6-7-75; Ord. No. 406, 9-6-2001)
Sec. 109-28. - Notice of violation.
Whenever the town engineer/staff determines that activity on a property does not comply with the approved development and construction plan, he may issue a notice of violation. Whenever he determines that the drainage system has been unlawfully altered, causing inadequate drainage, he may issue a notice of violation. The notice of violation of the provisions of this chapter or of any rule or regulation adopted pursuant thereto, shall be to the owner of the property or his agent and shall:
(1)
Be in writing;
(2)
Include a description of the property sufficient for identification of where the violation has occurred;
(3)
List the specific provisions of this chapter which have been violated; and
(4)
State that, if these repairs, construction or alterations are not completed within a reasonable time period specified by the inspector, summons shall be issued for the owner to appear in municipal court. Each day the violation continues shall constitute a new and separate violation. However, in the judgment of the town engineer, where the violation is willful, and in wanton disregard of the provisions of this chapter or constitutes a public health and safety hazard, he may obtain a court summons in lieu of a notice of violation.
(Code 1984, § 6-7-76; Ord. No. 406, 9-6-2001)
Sec. 109-29. - Appeals.
These land development regulations shall be administered by the town council, along with the planning commission and town staff. However, should an issue concerning these regulations remain unresolved by the town staff and planning commission, or if a written request for appeal should be filed with the town clerk or by any interested party within five working days of any action, a hearing shall be held by the town council for final resolution of the dispute. Sufficient information shall be provided by the applicant, affected town staff members, and the planning commission to ensure a timely decision by the town council. For purposes of this section, an interested party shall be an applicant or a town resident who lives within 300 feet of the proposed subdivision or development at issue on appeal.
(Code 1984, § 6-7-71; Ord. No. 406, 9-6-2001)
Sec. 109-30. - Variance.
Application for a variance shall be filed with the town clerk. No variance is permitted from section 109-171. Variances from other provisions set forth in these rules and regulations may be authorized by the town council if all of the following requirements are met:
(1)
There are extraordinary, exceptional, or peculiar conditions pertaining to the particular piece of land, structure or building in question which are not applicable to other lands, structures or buildings in the same district;
(2)
The application of these regulations to a particular piece of property would create a practical difficulty or unnecessary hardship;
(3)
Relief granted would not be injurious to the neighborhood or otherwise detrimental to the public welfare or impair the purposes and intent of these regulations;
(4)
A literal interpretation of this chapter would deprive the applicant of any rights that others in the same district are afforded;
(5)
The special conditions and circumstances are not a result of any actions of the applicant; and
(6)
That granting the variance requested will not confer on the applicant any special privilege that is denied by this chapter to other lands, structures or buildings in the same district.
(Code 1984, § 6-7-72; Ord. No. 406, 9-6-2001)
Secs. 109-31—109-48. - Reserved.
