ARTICLE IV. - AUTHORITIES, BOARDS, COMMISSIONS, COMMITTEES
FOOTNOTE(S):
(6) Cross reference— Municipal planning commission, app. A, art. X.
(6) State Law reference— Code of ethics for members of boards, commissions and authorities, O.C.G.A. § 45-10-3.
DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Secs. 2-111—2-130. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - CLEAN COMMUNITY COMMISSION

FOOTNOTE(S):
(7) State Law reference— Solid waste management education program, establishment of Georgia Clean and Beautiful Advisory Committee and Interagency Council on Solid Waste Management, O.C.G.A. § 50-8-7.3.
Sec. 2-131. - Established.
There is hereby established the City of Unadilla Clean Community Commission.
(Prior Code, § 2-39)
Sec. 2-132. - Duties.
The duties of the clean community commission shall be to promote public interest in the general improvement of the environment of the city; to initiate, plan, direct, and coordinate programs for litter control in conjunction with and in cooperation with citizens, government, businesses, and industries within the city limits of the city on a sustainable basis; to implement and maintain a clean community system; and to study, investigate, and develop plans for improving health, sanitation, safety, and cleanliness of the city by beautifying the streets, highways, alleys, stream banks, lots, yards, and other similar places on both public and private property in said city; to aid in the prevention of fire, disease, and other casualties by the removal and elimination of trash and other debris from the streets, highways, alleys, lots, yards, and other similar places; to encourage the placing, planting, and/or preservation of trees, flowers, plants, shrubs, and other objects of ornamentation in said city; to protect song birds and other wild fowl; to advise and recommend plans to departments of the city for the beautification of the city; and otherwise to promote public interest in the general improvement of the environment of the city. Provided, however, that nothing herein shall be construed to abridge or change the powers and duties of other commissions, departments, boards, and like agencies of the city.
(Prior Code, § 2-40)
Sec. 2-133. - Authority.
In order to perform the foregoing duties the clean community commission shall have the following authority:
(1)
To adopt bylaws to facilitate the attainment of its purpose and functions;
(2)
To initiate, plan, direct and coordinate community wide efforts to achieve its goals;
(3)
To solicit and accept donations and appropriations of money, services, products, property, and facilities for expenditure and use by the clean community commission for the accomplishment of its objects;
(4)
To employ, to pay, and to terminate the employment of such staff as may be required for the fulfillment of clean community commission purposes; and
(5)
To make recommendations to the mayor and council as well as to the private sector regarding measures which it deems necessary to accomplish its objects.
(Prior Code, § 2-41)
Sec. 2-134. - Membership.
(a)
Generally. The clean community commission shall consist of seven regular members. The mayor and council members will each appoint one regular member of the clean community commission and there will always be one regular commission member representing the mayor and each of the six members of council. The term of service of each member of the clean community commission will be the same as the term of the council member or mayor who appointed him, with a new appointment to be made when there is a new mayor or councilperson elected, or at the beginning of a new term of a mayor or councilperson. Appointments of all members of the clean community commission shall be made within 30 days of the date the councilperson or mayor takes office, except that initial appointments shall be made within 30 days from the date this enactment of the ordinance from which this division is derived.
(b)
Ex officio member. In addition to the seven regular members, there shall be one ex officio member of the clean community commission who shall be the president of the Unadilla Chamber of Commerce or the president's written designee.
(c)
Age and residency requirements. All members of the clean community commission shall be at least 18 years of age and residents of the city or nonresident employees representing business or industries located within the city.
(Prior Code, § 2-42)
Sec. 2-135. - Quorum.
At least four regular members of the clean community commission shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of any business, including election of officers, and the majority of the votes cast shall determine all questions and elections.
(Prior Code, § 2-43)
Sec. 2-136. - Officers.
The clean community commission shall elect a chair, vice-chair, and secretary-treasurer from it membership. Officers shall be elected on a calendar year basis but may be reelected for succeeding terms. The chair shall be entitled to vote on all issues.
(Prior Code, § 2-44)
Sec. 2-137. - Meetings.
The clean community commission shall meet at such times as may be necessary to transact the business coming before it. Meetings of the clean community commission shall be opened to the public in accordance with the laws of the state. Written minutes of all meetings shall be kept; and within ten days of every meeting, a copy of said minutes shall be furnished to the clerk of the city.
(Prior Code, § 2-45)
Sec. 2-138. - Fiscal powers; reports required.
The clean community commission will have the power to receive and disburse funds within the limitations of appropriations, gifts, and grants which have been previously approved by the mayor and council, and in connection with projects or undertakings consistent with the terms of section 2-134. The clean community commission will report to the mayor and council twice annually, at the first regular council meeting in the months of March and September. The report will include the clean community commission's actions and accomplishments in connection with each project or undertaking and will include as part of its report a statement of its receipts and disbursements from whatever source and to whatever object for the preceding six months. Additionally, at the March reporting time the clean community commission will present its proposed budget to become effective July 1, indicating its anticipated revenues. The clean community commission shall keep such reports and accountings, and the same will be subject to verification and examination by the city auditors.
(Prior Code, § 2-46)
Sec. 2-139. - Contracts, etc., Not binding on city.
The clean community commission shall not have the power or authority to bind the city by any contract, agreement, financial obligation or indebtedness, or otherwise; and no contract, agreement, financial obligation or indebtedness incurred by the clean community commission shall ever be a claim or charge against the city.
(Prior Code, § 2-47)
Sec. 2-140. - Projects may be terminated by mayor and council.
Any project or undertaking begun by the clean community commission shall be terminated at any time upon the decision of the mayor and council of the city that the continuance thereof is not in the public interest.
(Prior Code, § 2-48)
Sec. 2-141. - Removal of members.
Any member of the clean community commission shall be removed by a two-thirds vote of the mayor and council, with the mayor having the right to vote on the questions removal.
(Prior Code, § 2-49)
Sec. 2-142. - Compensation.
All members of the clean community commission shall serve without compensation; provided, however, the mayor and council shall be authorized to reimburse the commission members for reasonable expenses incurred in connection with their service as commission members.
(Prior Code, § 2-50)
Secs. 2-143—2-160. - Reserved.
DIVISION 3. - STANDING COMMITTEES

Sec. 2-161. - Created.
The following shall be the standing committees for the city. Each standing committee shall examine into the condition of the matters within its jurisdiction, and make such reports and recommendations as may be necessary or determined by the mayor and council:
(1)
Finance.
(2)
Fire and police.
(3)
Public property.
(4)
Parks and recreation.
(5)
Streets and sanitation.
(6)
Utilities.
(7)
Personnel.
(8)
Walnut Cemetery.
(9)
Evergreen Cemetery.
(10)
Front street project.
(Prior Code, § 2-5)
Sec. 2-162. - Membership.
It is hereby declared to be the intent of the mayor and council, in utilizing all available resources of the city in combating the various problems that are or may beset the municipality in the future, to make appointments to any of the city's standing or special committees of those particular citizens of the city having special knowledge, skills, or expertise concerning the subject matter which any standing or special committee may have jurisdiction.
(Prior Code, § 2-6)
Secs. 2-163—2-190. - Reserved.
