ARTICLE II. - MAYOR AND COUNCIL
DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Sec. 2-31. - Procedure for adoption of ordinances, resolutions and contracts.
All ordinances, resolutions and contracts of the city shall be prepared, approved, introduced and adopted in the following manner:
(1)
Preparation. No ordinance shall be prepared for presentation to the council unless ordered by a majority vote of the council, or requested in writing by the mayor, or prepared by the city attorney on his own initiative.
(2)
Administrative staff approval. All ordinances, resolutions and contract documents shall, before presentation to the council, have been approved as to form and legality by the city attorney or his authorized representative, and shall have been examined and approved for administration by the mayor or his authorized representative where there are substantive matters of administration involved. All such instruments shall have first been referred to the head of the department under whose jurisdiction the administration of the subject matter of the ordinance, resolution or contract document would devolve and be approved by said department head; provided, however, that if approval is not given, then the same shall be returned to the mayor with a written memorandum of the reasons why such approval is withheld. In the event the questioned instrument is not redrafted to meet a department head objection, or objection is not withdrawn and approval in writing given, then the mayor shall so advise the council and give the reasons advanced by the department head for withholding approval.
(3)
Introduction and adoption.
a.
Ordinances, resolutions, and other matters or subjects requiring action by the council must be introduced and sponsored by a member of the council except that the mayor or city attorney may present ordinances, resolutions and other matters or subjects to the council, and any councilman may assume sponsorship thereof by moving that such ordinances, resolutions, matters or subjects be adopted.
b.
No ordinance shall be put on its final passage on the same day on which it is introduced.
c.
No ordinance shall relate to more than one subject, which shall be clearly expressed in its title, and no ordinance, or section thereof, shall be amended or repealed unless the new ordinance contains the title of the ordinance or section amended or repealed, and when practicable all ordinances shall be introduced as amendments to the Code.
d.
An ordinance, resolution or contract shall be deemed adopted or approved when it receives the affirmative vote of a majority of the whole council.
(Prior Code, § 2-16)
Charter reference— Voting on adoption of ordinances, § 2.25; action requiring an ordinance, § 2.26; emergency ordinances, § 2.27.
Secs. 2-32—2-50. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - MEETINGS

Sec. 2-51. - When mayor and council meetings held.
The mayor and council shall hold regular meetings on the second and fourth Tuesday of each month at 6:30 p.m., unless otherwise ordered by the mayor and council; provided, that the mayor may convene the council whenever in his opinion the public business requires it, and he shall do so upon the application by a majority of the members of the mayor and council. All meetings at which official actions are to be taken shall be open to the public.
(Ord. No. 2003-3, 7-24-2003)
Charter reference— Organization meeting, § 2.22; regular and special meetings, § 2.23.
Sec. 2-52. - Agenda.
There shall be a written agenda prepared prior to each meeting of the mayor and council. Persons who desire to address the mayor and council at a meeting shall notify the city clerk by the close of business on the Thursday preceding the next meeting. The mayor retains the discretion to allow a person not otherwise on the agenda to address the mayor and council.
Sec. 2-53. - Rules for the conduct of business.
Except as otherwise provided in this section, Roberts' Rules of Order shall generally govern the conduct of council meetings.
(1)
Call to order. The mayor, or in his absence the mayor pro tem, shall take the chair at the hour appointed for regular, adjourned, special, or called meetings; and shall immediately call the council to order.
(2)
Roll call. Before proceeding with the business of the council, the city clerk shall call the roll of the members, and the names of those present shall be entered in the minutes.
(3)
Quorum. A majority of all the members elected to the council shall constitute a quorum at any regular or special meeting of the council.
(4)
Order of business. The business of the council shall be taken up for consideration and disposition in the following order:
a.
Call to order by presiding officer.
b.
Roll call.
c.
Approval of minutes of previous meeting.
d.
Petitions and communications.
e.
Reports of standing committees.
f.
Reports of special committees.
g.
Unfinished business.
h.
New business.
i.
Adjournment.
(5)
Reading of minutes. Unless a reading of the minutes of a council meeting is requested by a council member, such minutes may be approved without a reading if the city clerk has previously furnished each member a copy thereof.
(6)
Reports by committees. Any business coming before the mayor and council, concerning the subject matter of which any standing or special committee has jurisdiction, may be referred to the proper committee for investigation and report. It shall be the duty of each standing or special committee, whenever required by the mayor and council or any member of the council, to examine any matter referred to such committee and to make a report thereof at the next regular meeting of the mayor and council or to show good cause why no report is made. Such reports shall not be in writing unless so directed by the presiding officer.
(7)
Manner of addressing council. No member, while the mayor and council is in session, shall speak on any subject unless recognized by the presiding officer. Every speaker shall address the chair, and no member shall interrupt another while speaking, except to call him to order for explanation.
(8)
Limitations on addressing mayor and council. Any person not a member of the council who desires to address the council shall first secure the permission of the presiding officer so to do, and then shall stand up before the mayor and council, give his name and address in an audible tone of voice for the record, and direct his remarks to the council as a body rather than to any particular member, limiting such remarks to five minutes unless additional time is granted by the council.
(Prior Code, § 2-4)
Sec. 2-54. - Recording vote.
Whenever any council member shall request it, the yeas and nays of the members present shall be recorded on the minutes on any question taken.
(Prior Code, § 2-17)
Sec. 2-55. - Questions of order.
The presiding officer shall decide all questions of order, but any member of council who is dissatisfied with the decision may appeal to the mayor and council in the manner provided by Roberts' Rules of Order for appealing from decisions of presiding officers.
(Prior Code, § 2-18)
Secs. 2-56—2-80. - Reserved.
