Chapter 14 - BUILDINGS AND BUILDING DEVELOPMENT
FOOTNOTE(S):
(16) Cross reference— Environment, ch. 26; fire prevention and protection, ch. 30; health and sanitation, ch. 34; signs, ch. 46; solid waste, ch. 50; streets, sidewalks and other public places, ch. 54; utilities, ch. 66; zoning, app. A.
(16) State Law reference— Access to and use of public facilities by physically handicapped persons, O.C.G.A. § 30-3-1 et seq.; repair, closing and demolition of dwellings unfit for human habitation or buildings or structures that imperil health, safety or welfare, O.C.G.A. § 36-61-11; authority to demolish structures where drug crimes are committed, O.C.G.A. § 41-2-7; authority to repair, close or demolish unfit buildings or structures, O.C.G.A. § 41-2-7; county or municipal ordinances relating to unfit buildings or structures, O.C.G.A. § 41-2-9 et seq.; fire escapes in buildings, O.C.G.A. § 8-2-50 et seq.
ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Secs. 14-1—14-30. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - CONSTRUCTION CODES

FOOTNOTE(S):
(17) Editor's note— The city has contracted with Dooly County, Georgia to issue permits, perform inspections, enforce construction codes and otherwise administer the application of various technical and building codes adopted in the article.
Sec. 14-31. - Adoption by reference.
There is hereby adopted by the mayor and council the latest edition of the following codes and the appendixes of said codes as adopted and amended by the state department of community affairs. Such codes are adopted by reference as if the same were fully set out at length in this article. Copies of such codes shall be on file in the office of the city code enforcement officer:
(1)
International Building Code.
(2)
International Fuel Gas Code.
(3)
International Mechanical Code.
(4)
International Plumbing Code.
(5)
National Electric Code.
(6)
International Fire Code.
(7)
International Energy Conservation Code.
(8)
International Residential Code.
(9)
International Property Maintenance Code.
(10)
International Existing Building Code.
(Prior Code, § 5-1; Ord. No. 2006-05, 3-28-2006)
Sec. 14-32. - Penalties.
Any person or firm who shall violate any of the provisions of the above minimum construction codes, or fail to comply therewith, or who shall violate or fail to comply with any order made by the mayor and council, shall for each such failure, violation, or noncompliance, be punished as provided for in section 1-12.
(Prior Code, § 5-2)
Secs. 14-33—14-60. - Reserved.
ARTICLE III. - WATER CONSERVING PLUMBING FIXTURES

Sec. 14-61. - Regulations.
(a)
Definitions.
(1)
Commercial means any type of building other than residential.
(2)
Construction means the erection of a new building or the alteration of an existing building in connection with its repair or renovation or in connection with making an addition to an existing building and shall include the replacement of a malfunctioning, unserviceable, or obsolete faucet, showerhead, toilet, or urinal in an existing building.
(3)
Residential means any building or unit of a building intended for occupancy as a dwelling but shall not include a hotel or motel.
(b)
Prohibited residential construction. On or after July 1, 1991, no construction may be initiated within the city for any residential building of any type which:
(1)
Employs a gravity tank-type, flushometer-valve, or flushometer-tank toilet that uses more than an average of 1.6 gallons of water per flush; provided, however, this subsection shall not be applicable to one-piece toilets until July 1, 1991;
(2)
Employs a shower head that allows a flow of more than an average of 2.5 gallons of water per minute at 60 pounds per square inch of pressure;
(3)
Employs a urinal that uses more than an average of 1.0 gallons of water per flush;
(4)
Employs a lavatory faucet or lavatory replacement aerator that allows a flow of more than 2.0 gallons of water per minute; or
(5)
Employs a kitchen faucet or kitchen replacement aerator that allows a flow of more than 2.5 gallons of water per minute.
(c)
Prohibited commercial construction. On or after July 1, 1992, there shall be no construction of any commercial building initiated within the city for any commercial building of any type which does not meet the requirements of subsections (b)(1) through (b)(5) of this section.
(d)
Repairs or renovations. The requirements of subsection (b) of this section shall apply to any residential construction initiated after July 1, 1991, and to any commercial construction initiated after July 1, 1992, which involves the repair or renovation of or addition to any existing building when such repair or renovation of or addition to such existing building includes replacement of toilets or showers or both.
(e)
(1)
Exemptions. New construction and the repair or renovation of an existing building shall be exempt from the requirements of subsections (b), (c) and (d) of this section when:
a.
The repair or renovation of the existing building does not include the replacement of the plumbing or sewage system servicing toilets, faucets or showerheads within such existing buildings;
b.
When such plumbing or sewage system within such existing building, because of its capacity, design, or installation would not function properly if the toilets, faucets or showerheads required by this article were installed;
c.
Such system is a well or gravity flow from a spring and is owned privately by an individual for use in such individual's personal residence; or
d.
Units to be installed are:
1.
Specifically designed for use by the handicapped;
2.
Specifically designed to withstand unusual abuse or installation in a penal institution; or
3.
Toilets for juveniles.
(2)
The owner, or his agent, of a building undergoing new construction or repair or renovation who is entitled to an exemption as specified in subsections (e)(1), (2) of this section shall obtain the exemption by applying at the office of the building inspector for the city.
(f)
Enforcement; penalty.
(1)
This section shall be enforced by the office of the building inspector of the city. Citations for violations of this section may be issued by the chief building inspector of the city.
(2)
Any person, corporation, partnership or other entity violating this section shall be tried before the municipal court of the city. Upon conviction, a violation of this section may be punished by a fine not to exceed $500.00 or imprisonment not to exceed 30 days.
(Prior Code, § 5-3)
