ARTICLE I. - UNIFICATION, CREATION, BOUNDARIES, STATUS, AND POWERS OF UNIFIED GOVERNMENT

Section 1-101. - Unification of county and city; creation of unified government; Georgetown-Quitman County.
(a)
The governmental and corporate powers, duties, and functions are used now vested in the governing authority of the City of Georgetown, a municipal corporation charted by an Act of the General Assembly of Georgia, approved May 6, 2005 (H.B No 757, Act 216), are hereby unified with the governmental and corporate powers, duties, and functions of Quitman County. This unification shall result in the creation and establishment of a single county-wide government with powers and jurisdiction throughout the territorial limits of Quitman County, which single government shall supersede and replace the governments of the City of Georgetown and Quitman County. Said county-wide government shall be a new political entity, a body politic and corporate, and a political subdivision of the state, to be known as the "Unified Government of Georgetown-Quitman County, Georgia," (herein at times called the "Unified Government,") having all the governmental and corporate powers, duties, and functions heretofore held by and vested in the City of Georgetown and Quitman County, and also the powers, duties, and functions provided in this charter. The unified government shall, be a public corporation; shall have perpetual existence; shall adopt a common seal; shall without the necessity of formality of a deed, bill of sale, of other instrument of transfer, own, possess, and hold all the properties of whatsoever kind or nature, assets, contracts, franchises, things, rights, privileges, immunities, and real and personal property therefore owned, possessed, enjoyed, or held by the City of Georgetown or Quitman County; and by the name of Georgetown-Quitman County, Georgia, shall be capable of using and being sued when authorized by this charter and by the Constitution and laws of the State of Georgia. From and after the effective date of this charter, the political subdivision known as Quitman County, Georgia, and the municipal corporation known as the City of Georgetown, Georgia, shall be unified into the said new political entity herein created.
(b)
The unification of the governments of the City of Georgetown and Quitman County is authorized pursuant to the provisions of Article IX, Section III, Paragraph II(a) of the Constitution of Georgia of 1983, as amended, and an Act establishing the Georgetown-Quitman County Charter and Unification Commission, approved April 7, 2005 (Ga. L. H.B. No. 757, Act 216).
Section 1-102. - Boundaries.
The unified government shall embrace the total area included within the existing territorial limits of Quitman County as such limits are fixed and established on the effective date of this charter. However, such limits may be altered and changed from time to time as provided by the Constitution and laws of the State of Georgia pertaining to counties.
Section 1-103. - Status of unified government as municipal corporation and county.
The unified government shall be deemed to be both a municipal corporation and a county throughout the total territory of said government. It is the express intention of this section to declare as a city and as a part of the unified government all of the area of Quitman County except as otherwise provided in this charter.
Section 1-104. - Powers of the unified government.
(a)
The Unified Government of Georgetown-Quitman County, Georgia, shall have all powers of self-government authorized by the Constitution and not otherwise prohibited by the laws of Georgia.
(b)
In addition to the foregoing, the unified government shall have all rights, powers, and duties, privileges, and authority that the City of Georgetown or Quitman County, or both, have under the Constitution and general and local laws of the State of Georgia at the time of adoption of this charter, except as herein expressly modified. This authority shall include but shall not be limited to the authority to adopt home rule ordinances and resolutions as provided in Article IX, Section II of the Constitution of the State of Georgia.
(c)
In addition to the foregoing, the unified government shall have all rights, powers, duties, privileges, and authority herein conferred or herein enlarged, and such other rights, powers, duties, privileges, and authority as may be necessary and proper for carrying the same into execution, and also all rights, powers, duties, privileges, and authority, whether express or implied, that my be now vested in or hereafter granted to counties or municipal corporations, or both, by the Constitution and laws of the State of Georgia, including the powers vested in the unified government by this charter.
(d)
The unified government, in addition to the rights, duties, powers, privileges, and authority expressly conferred upon it by this charter, shall have the right, duty, power, privilege, and authority to exercise and enjoy all other powers, duties, functions, rights, privileges, and immunities necessary and proper to promote or protect the safety, health, peace, security, and general welfare of said government and its constituents and to exercise all implied powers necessary to carry into execution all powers granted in this charter as fully and completely as if such powers were fully enumerated herein and to do and perform all of the acts pertaining to its property, affairs, and local government which are necessary or property in the legitimate exercise of its corporate powers and governmental duties and functions.
(e)
No enumeration of any right, power, privilege, or authority hereinafter made shall be construed as limiting or abolishing any right, power, privilege or authority hereinabove set forth.
(f)
In addition to and supplementary to all other powers which may posses, and by way of illustration and not of limitation, the unified government shall have the powers specifically enumerated in Section 7-114 of this charter.
Section 1-105. - Taxing districts.
(a)
The unified government may divide the county into two or more taxing districts. Such taxing districts may include one district conterminous with the former boundaries of the City of Georgetown, and within such district such taxes may be levied as may be necessary to retire any bonded indebtedness of the City of Georgetown, which is outstanding on the effective date of the abolishment of the City of Georgetown. Additionally, in the taxing district of the former City of Georgetown, the unified government shall levy such taxes as are necessary to retire any other indebtedness of the City of Georgetown which is outstanding on the effective date of the abolishment of the City of Georgetown. Such taxing districts may also include one or more service districts.
(b)
Taxes shall be assessed, levied, and collected in accordance with the kind, character, type, degree, and level of services provided by the government within said service districts, and the rate and manner of taxation may vary in any one district from that in another or other districts.
(c)
The unified government may also establish special services districts, which shall embrace such territory or territories for which provision is made by the Commission for addition or higher levels of services provided by the unified government.
(d)
In the establishment or modification of service districts and special services districts, the unified government shall hold one or more public hearings theron at which all interested persons affected thereby shall have an opportunity to be heard. Notice of the time, place, and date of such hearings shall be published in the official legal organ of Quitman County at least once a week during the two weeks immediately preceding the date of hearing.
Section 1-106. - Construction.
The powers of the unified government shall be construed liberally in favor of the unified government. The specific mention or failure to mention particular powers in this charter shall not be construed as limiting in any way the general powers of the unified government as provided in this article. It is the intention hereof to grant to the unified government full power and right to exercise all governmental authority authorized by the Constitution and laws of Georgia which is necessary for the effective operation and conduct of the unified government within its territory and for the conduct of all of its affairs.
