ARTICLE IV. - NUMBERING OF RESIDENCES, BUILDINGS AND STRUCTURES[7]

Footnotes:
--- (7) ---
Cross reference— Streets, sidewalks and other public places, Ch. 12.

Sec. 5-151. - Required.
(a)
Every residence, building, and business structure in the city shall be numbered in accordance with the general plan of numbering established for the city and shown on a map or maps set up for that purpose on file in the office of the city clerk in the city hall.
(b)
The number appearing on the residence, building or business structure shall be that number assigned to it by the city or its authority.
(Code 1976, § 7-101)
Sec. 5-152. - Owner's responsibility.
The responsibility for placing the numbers on residences, buildings and structures is hereby placed upon the owner, and it shall be the owner's duty to see that such residence, building or structure has affixed to it the number assigned such residence, building or structure.
(Code 1976, § 7-101)
Sec. 5-153. - Size, location and material of numbers.
The owner or occupant of any house or building shall have the right to determine the size, material and location of such numbers except that the numbers shall be inscribed or affixed in a conspicuous place, and shall be of such size, color, or character that may be readily seen and read from the street by any person of ordinary vision. The numbers shall be so placed as to be plainly visible from the street and sidewalk, and if the residence, building or structure is of such distance from the street and sidewalk for the number not to be plainly visible on the building or structure, then the number shall be placed on a permanent post or elsewhere near the street and sidewalk.
(Code 1976, § 7-101)
Sec. 5-154. - City clerk to assign numbers.
The city clerk shall hereafter assign street numbers to all new residences, buildings or structures which may be erected in the city, such numbers to be assigned at the time a building permit is obtained.
(Code 1976, § 7-101)
Sec. 5-155. - Failure of owner to affix assigned number; assessment of cost by city.
Each owner of every residence, building or structure shall be given fifteen (15) days' notice by the city clerk as to the number assigned to such residence, building or structure, and upon the failure of any owner of such residence, building or structure to affix the number as prescribed above, the city shall affix such number and the cost thereof shall be assessed against the property owner and be collectable in the same manner that city taxes are collectable.
(Code 1976, § 7-101)
Sec. 5-156. - Penalty.
Any person, who fails to affix the number assigned by the city clerk within the time provided in section 5-155, or fails to affix it in the manner prescribed in section 5-153, shall be guilty of an offense and upon conviction shall be punished in accordance with section 1-17.
(Code 1976, § 7-101)
