ARTICLE IV. - NOTLA WATER AUTHORITY

FOOTNOTE(S):
--- (4) ---
Editor's note—Printed herein is the 1972 Ga. Laws, page 3385, which created the Notla Water Authority. Amendments to the act are indicated by parenthetical history notes following amended provisions. The absence of a history note indicates that the provision remains unchanged from the original act. Obvious misspellings have been corrected without notation. For stylistic purposes, a uniform system of headings, catchlines and citations to state statutes has been used. Additions made for clarity are indicated by brackets.
Section 1. - Short title.
This [act] may be cited as the "Notla Water Authority."
Section 2. - Areas of service.
The area served by the Notla Water Authority shall be within the geographic boundaries of Union County and shall be bounded by and contiguous to the following area:
Beginning at a point where Butternut Creek joins the Nottely River; thence north [of] the east side of the Nottely River to the point where the Nottely River is joined by Kiutuestia Creek; thence westerly up the north side of Kiutuestia Creek to the first branch which joins the north side if Kiutuestia Creek; then up the north side of said branch northerly to Union County Road No. 30; thence westerly along the north side of Union County Road No. 30 to the Appalachian Highway; then westerly along the north side of the Appalachian Highway to the westernmost crossing of said highway by the north side of Union County Road No. 130 at Queen's Gap; then southwesterly along the west side of the main ridge of Coffey Mountain to the east end of Union County Road No. 322; thence westerly along the west side of Union County Road No. 322 to its junction with Union County Road No. 95; thence southerly along the west side of Union County Road No. 95 to the north side of the old Blue Ridge Highway; thence westerly along the north side of the old Blue Ridge Highway to Young Cane Creek; thence southerly along the west and north side of Young Cane Creek to Union County Road No. 191; thence northerly along the west side of Union County Road No. 191 to Union County Road No. 111; thence northerly along the west side of Union County Road No. 111 to Watts Creek; thence westerly along the northern forks and north side of Watts Creek to Wolf Pen Gap and the Union County and Fannin County lines; thence northerly with the Union County and Fannin County lines to the State of Georgia and State of North Carolina lines; thence east with the State of Georgia and State of North Carolina lines to the Union County and Towns County lines; thence southerly with the Union County and Towns County lines to a point adjacent to Hullander Knobs; then westerly across the top of Hullander Knobs, Juber Knob and Stevens Ridge to the top of Atkins Knob; thence southerly from the top of Atkins Knob a straight line to the end of Union County Road No. 212; thence southerly down Union County Road No. 212 to Union County Road No. 19; thence easterly along Union County Road No. 19 to Union County Road No. 18; thence southerly along Union County Road No. 18 to Pat Haralson Memorial Drive; thence easterly and thence southerly along the south side of Pat Haralson Memorial Drive to the City of Blairsville corporate limits; thence westerly along the City of Blairsville corporate limits to Butternut Creek; thence westerly down Butternut Creek to the point of beginning; excluding from said area those portions thereof presently receiving water and/or sewage service from the City of Blairsville, Georgia.
(1991 Ga. Laws, page 4158)
Sec. 3. - Created; membership; powers; eligibility; officers; vacancies; audit.
(a)
There is hereby created a body corporate and politic, to be known as the Notla Water Authority, which shall be deemed to be a political subdivision of the State of Georgia and a public corporation and by that name, style and title said body may contract and be contracted with, bring and defend actions and plead and be impleaded, complain and defend in all courts of law and equity. The authority shall have perpetual existence.
(b)
The authority shall consist of five members. The following persons, who currently serve as members of the authority, are designated and appointed as members of the Notla Water Authority as follows:
(1)
Post No. 1. William H. Akins, who shall hold an initial term of office expiring on the third Saturday of March of 1985;
(2)
Post No. 2. Ricky Davenport, who shall hold an initial term of office expiring on the third Saturday of March of 1986;
(3)
Post No. 3. Hazel McClure, who shall hold an initial term of office expiring on the third Saturday of March of 1987;
(4)
Post No. 4. Larry Hughes, who shall hold an initial term of office expiring on the third Saturday of March of 1988;
(5)
Post No. 5. Charles Partin, who shall hold an initial term of office expiring on the third Saturday of March of 1989.
The members of the authority shall enter upon the duties of their office on the effective date of this act and shall serve until the expiration of their respective terms of office or until their successors are duly elected and qualified. During the month of February and in the month of February of each year thereafter, a meeting of those persons, both natural and artificial entities recognized by law (such as partnerships, corporations, joint ventures and other organizations), who use the facilities of the authority, shall be called by the authority for the purpose of electing a successor to any member whose office is vacant or whose term expires in such year. Said meeting shall be called and conducted as hereinafter prescribed. Except as otherwise provided herein, each member elected by the users of the system shall enter upon the duties of this office on the third Saturday of March of each year, immediately following his election and shall serve for a term of office of five years or until his successor is duly elected and qualified. Members of the authority shall serve without compensation but shall be reimbursed for their actual expenses necessarily incurred in the performance of their duties. The authority shall have the power to establish bylaws and to promulgate and adopt rules and regulations necessary or convenient for the government of the authority, including the power to fix the number of users necessary to constitute a quorum at user meetings.
(c)
To be eligible for election as a member of the authority, a person shall be at least 21 years of age, a resident of Union County, Georgia, for at least one year prior to the date of such person's election, shall not have been convicted of a felony, and at the time of election and thereafter, shall be a user of the facilities of the authority.
(d)
The members of the authority shall elect one of their number as chairman, another as vice-chairman and may also elect a secretary and treasurer or a secretary or a treasurer, who need not be a member of the authority. Such officers shall serve for a period of one year and until their successors are elected and qualified. The chairman of the authority shall not be entitled to vote upon any issue, motion or resolution, except in the case of a tie vote of the other members voting on said motion, resolution or question.
(e)
Three members of the authority, or a majority of members if vacancies exist, shall constitute a quorum. No vacancy on the authority shall impair the right of the quorum to exercise all of the rights and perform all the duties of the authority. The chairman of the authority shall be counted in determining if a quorum of the members is present.
(f)
In the event of a vacancy by reason of death, disqualification, resignation or other reason, the remaining members of the authority shall elect, by majority vote, a qualified person to fill the vacancy until the next annual election by the users of the system, at which time the users of the system shall elect a qualified person to fill the remaining unexpired term of the member whose position has been vacated. A vacancy shall exist in the office of any member of the authority who is convicted of a felony, who moves his residence from Union County or from any adjoining county or state into which the service area of the authority has been extended, or who ceases to be a user of the facilities of the authority. If for any reason whatsoever, the users of the system shall fail to elect a member at any annual meeting to replace a member whose term expires or whose office is vacant, the remaining members of the authority shall elect, by majority vote, a duly qualified person as a member of the authority to serve until the next annual meeting of the users.
(g)
The authority shall have a complete audit of its financial condition made at least once in each calendar year by a certified public accountant. Such audit shall remain on file at the office of the authority for public inspection.
(1981 Ga. Laws, page 3618)
Section 4. - Definitions.
As used in this act, the following words and terms shall have the following meanings:
(a)
The word "authority" shall mean the authority created by section 2 of this act.
(b)
The word "project" shall be deemed to mean and include the acquisition and construction of all necessary and usual water facilities useful and necessary for the obtaining of one or more sources of water supply, the treatment of water and the distribution and sale of water to users and consumers, including counties and municipalities, for the purpose of resale, within and without the territorial boundaries of Union County and the operation, maintenance, additions, improvements and extensions of such facilities so as to assure an adequate water utility system deemed by the authority necessary or convenient for the efficient operation of such type of undertaking; the acquisition and construction of all necessary and usual facilities useful and necessary for the gathering of waste matter, individual and industrial, the treatment of such waste, including the acquisition and construction of treatment plants, lagoons, without and within the territorial boundaries of Union County, and the operation, maintenance, additions, improvements and extensions of such facilities deemed necessary by the authority to be necessary or convenient for the efficient operation of a sanitary and storm sewer system.
(c)
The term "cost of the project" shall embrace the cost of construction, the cost of all lands, properties, rights, easements and franchises acquired, the cost of all machinery and equipment, financing charges, interest prior to and during construction, and for one year after completion of construction, the cost of engineering, architectural and legal expenses, and of plans and specifications, and other expenses necessary or incident to the financing herein authorized, the construction of any project, the placing of the same in operation, and the condemnation of property necessary for such construction and operation. Any obligation or expense incurred for any of the foregoing purposes shall be regarded part of the cost of the project and may be paid or reimbursed as such out of the proceeds of revenue bonds issued under the provisions of this act for such project.
(d)
The terms "revenue bonds" and "bonds," as used in this act, shall mean revenue certificates as defined and provided for in the Revenue Certificate Law of Georgia, (1937 Ga. Laws, page 761, as amended) and such type of obligations may be issued by the authority as authorized under said Revenue Certificate Law, and in addition, shall also mean obligations of the authority, the issuance of which are hereinafter specifically provided for in this act.
(3)
Any project shall be deemed "self-liquidating" if, in the judgment of the authority, the revenues and earnings to be derived by the authority therefrom will be sufficient to pay the cost of operating, maintaining and repairing, improving and extending the project and to pay the principal and interest of the revenue bonds which may be issued for the cost of such project or projects.
Section 5. - Powers.
The authority shall have powers:
(a)
To have a seal and alter the same at its pleasure;
(b)
To acquire by purchase, lease or otherwise, and to hold, lease and dispose of, real and personal property, of every kind and character for its corporate purposes;
(c)
To acquire in its own name by purchase, on such terms and conditions and in such manner as it may deem proper, or by condemnation in accordance with the provisions of any and all existing laws applicable to the condemnation of property for public use, real property or rights of easements therein, or franchises necessary or convenient for its corporate purposes, and to use the name so long as its corporate existence shall continue and to lease or make contracts with respect to the use of or dispose of the same in any manner it deems to the best advantage of the authority, the authority being under no obligation to accept and pay for any property condemned under this act, except from the funds provided under the authority of this act, and in any proceedings to condemn, such orders may be made by the court having jurisdiction of the suit, action or proceedings as may be just to the authority and to the owners of the property to be condemned, and no property shall be acquired under the provisions of this act upon which any lien or incumbrance exists, unless at the time such property is so acquired a sufficient sum of money be deposited in trust to pay and redeem the fair value of such lien or encumbrance; and if the authority shall deem it expedient to construct any project on any other lands the title to which shall then be in the State of Georgia, the governor is hereby authorized to convey, for and in behalf of the state, title to such lands to the authority upon payment to the state treasurer for the credit of the general fund of the state, the reasonable value of such lands, such value to be determined by three appraisers to be agreed upon by the governor and the chairman of the authority;
(d)
To appoint, select and employ officers, agents and employees, including engineering, architectural and construction experts, fiscal agents and attorneys, and fix their respective compensations;
(e)
To make contracts, leases, and to execute all instruments necessary or convenient, including contracts for construction of projects and leases or projects or contracts with respect to the use of projects which it causes to be erected or acquired, and any and all persons, firms and corporations and any and all political subdivisions, departments, institutions or agencies of the state are hereby authorized to enter into contracts, leases or agreements with the authority upon such terms and for such purposes as they deem advisable; and without limiting the generality of the above, authority is specifically granted to municipal corporations and counties and to the authority to enter into contracts, lease agreements or other undertakings relative to the furnishing of water and related services and facilities by the authority to such municipal corporations and counties for a term not exceeding 50 years;
(f)
To construct, erect, acquire, own, repair, remodel, maintain, add to, extend, improve, equip, operate and manage projects, as hereinabove defined, the cost of any such project to be paid in whole or in part from the proceeds of revenue bonds of the authority or from such proceeds and any grant from the United States of America or any agency or instrumentality thereof;
(g)
To accept loans and/or grants of money, materials or property of any kind from the United States of America or any agency or instrumentality thereof, upon such terms and conditions as the United States of America or such agency or instrumentality may require;
(h)
To borrow money for any of its corporate purposes and to issue negotiable revenue bonds payable solely from funds pledged for that purpose, and to provide for the payment of the same and for the rights of the holders thereof;
(i)
To exercise any power usually possessed by private corporations performing similar functions, provided the same is not in conflict with the Constitution and laws of this state; and
(j)
To do all things necessary or convenient to carry out the powers expressly given in this act.
Section 6. - Revenue bonds.
The authority, or any authority or body which has or which may in the future succeed to the powers, duties and liabilities vested in the authority created hereby, shall have power and is hereby authorized at one time, or from time to time, to provide by resolution for the issuance of negotiable revenue bonds of the authority, in such sum as the authority may authorize, in conformity with the bonding laws of the State of Georgia, for the purpose of paying all or any part of the cost as herein defined of any one or more projects. The principal and interest of such revenue bonds shall be payable solely from the special fund hereby provided for such payment. The bonds of each issue shall be dated, and shall bear interest at such rate or rates as may be authorized by the authority in conformity with the bonding laws of the State of Georgia, payable as fixed therein, shall mature at such time or times not exceeding 40 years from their date or dates, or at such times exceeding 40 years as may hereafter be authorized by the bonding laws of the State of Georgia, shall be payable in such medium of payment as to both principal and interest as may be redeemable before maturity, at the option of the authority, at such price or prices and under such terms and conditions as may be fixed by the authority and the resolution providing for the issuance of the bonds. The interest rate or rates to be borne by any bonds and the time of payment of such interest shall be fixed, and with respect to any interest rate which floats in response to a variable, the method of calculation shall be fixed by the authority in the resolution providing for the issuance of the bond. Any bonds issued by the authority shall be exempt from all laws of the State of Georgia governing usury prescribing or limiting interest rates to be borne by bonds or other obligations.
(1984 Ga. Laws, page 3618)
Section 7. - Same—Form; denominations; registration; place of payment.
The authority shall determine the form of the bonds, including any interest coupons to be attached thereto, and shall fix the denomination or denominations of the bonds and the place or places of payment of principal and interest thereof, which may be at any bank or trust company within or without the state. The bonds may be issued in coupon or registered form, or both, as the authority may determine. Provisions may be made for the registration of any coupon bond as to principal alone and also as to both the principal and interest.
Section 8. - Same—Signature; seal.
In case any officer whose signature shall appear on any bonds, or whose facsimile signature shall appear on any coupon, shall cease to be such officer before the delivery of such bonds, such signature shall nevertheless be valid and sufficient for all purposes, the same as if he had remained in office until such delivery. All such bonds shall be signed by the chairman of the authority and the official seal of the authority shall be affixed thereto and attached by the secretary of the authority and any coupons attached thereto shall bear the signature or facsimile signature of the chairman of the authority. Any coupon may bear the facsimile signature of such persons and any bond may be signed, sealed and attested on behalf of the authority by such persons as at the actual time of the execution of such bonds shall be duly authorized or hold the proper office, although at the date of such bonds such persons may not have been so authorized or shall not have held such office.
Section 9. - Same—Negotiability; exemption from taxation.
All revenue bonds issued under the provisions of this act shall have and are hereby declared to have all the qualities and incidents of negotiable instruments under the negotiable instrument laws of this state. Such bonds and the income thereof shall be exempt from all taxation within the state.
Section 10. - Same—Sale; price.
The authority may sell such bonds in such manner and for such price as it may determine to be for the best interests of the authority, but no such sale shall be made at a price so low as to require the payment of interest on the money received therefor at more than six percent per annum, computed with relation to the absolute maturity of the bonds in accordance with standard tables of bond values, excluding, however, from such computation, the amount of any premium to be paid on redemption of any bond prior to maturity.
Section 11. - Same—Proceeds of bonds.
The proceeds of such bonds shall be used solely for the payment of the cost of the project or projects, and unless otherwise provided in the resolution authorizing the issuance of the bonds, or in the trust indenture, additional bonds may in like manner be issued to provide the amount of any deficit which, unless otherwise provided in the resolution authorizing the issuance of the bonds, or in the trust indenture, shall be deemed to be of the same, and shall be entitled to payment from the same fund, without preference or priority of the bonds first issued for the same purpose. If the proceeds of the bonds of any issue shall exceed the amount required for the purpose for which such bonds are issued, the surplus shall be paid into the fund, hereinafter provided, for the payment of principal and interest of such bonds.
Section 12. - Same—Interim receipts and certificates or temporary bonds.
Prior to the preparation of definitive bonds, the authority may, under like restrictions, issue interim receipts, interim certificates or temporary bonds, with or without coupons, exchangeable for definitive bonds upon the issuance of the latter.
Section 13. - Same—Replacement of lost or mutilated bonds.
The authority may also provide for the replacement of any bonds which shall become mutilated or be destroyed or lost.
Section 14. - Same—Conditions precedent to issuance; object of issuance.
Such revenue bonds may be issued without any other proceedings, or the happening of any conditions or things other than those proceedings, conditions and things which are specified or required by this act. In the discretion of the authority, revenue bonds of a single issue may be issued for the purpose of any particular project. Any resolution, providing for the issuance of revenue bonds under the provisions of this act shall become effective immediately upon its passage and need not be published or posted, and any such resolution may be passed at any regular or special or adjourned meeting of the authority by a majority of its members.
Section 15. - Same—Credit not pledged.
Revenue bonds issued under the provisions of this act shall not be deemed to constitute a debt of Union County or a pledge of the faith and credit of said county, but such bonds shall be payable solely from the fund hereinafter provided for, and the issuance of such revenue bonds shall not directly, indirectly or contingently obligate the said county to levy or to pledge any form of taxation whatever therefor, or to make any appropriation for the payment, and all such bonds shall contain recitals on their face covering substantially the foregoing provisions of this section.
Section 16. - Same—Trust indenture as security.
In the discretion of the authority, any issuance of such revenue bonds may be secured by a trust indenture by and between the authority and a corporate trustee, which may be any trust company or bank having the powers of a trust company within or outside of the state. Such trust indenture may pledge or assign fees, tolls, revenues and earnings to be received by the authority. Either the resolution providing for the issuance of revenue bonds or such trust indenture may contain such provisions for protecting and enforcing the rights and remedies of the bondholders as may be reasonable and proper and not in violation of law, including covenants setting forth the duties of the authority in relation to the acquisition of property, the construction of the project, the maintenance, operation, repair and insurance of the project, and the custody, safeguarding and application of all monies, and may also provide that any project shall be constructed and paid for under the supervision and approval of consulting engineers or architects employed or designated by the authority, and satisfactory to the original purchasers of the bonds issued therefor, and may also require that the security given by contractors and by any depositary of the proceeds of the bonds or revenues or other monies be satisfactory to such purchases, and may also contain provisions concerning the conditions, if any, upon which additional revenue bonds may be issued. It shall be lawful for any bank or trust company incorporated under the laws of this state to act as such depositary and to furnish such indemnifying bonds or pledge such securities as may be required by the authority. Such indenture may set forth the rights and remedies of the bondholders as is customary in trust indentures securing bonds and indentures of corporations. In addition to the foregoing, such trust indenture may contain such other provisions as the authority may deem reasonable and proper for the security of the bondholders. All expenses incurred in carrying out such trust indenture may be treated as a part of the cost of maintenance, operation and repair of the project affected by such indenture.
Section 17. - Same—To whom proceeds of bonds shall be paid.
The authority shall, in the resolution providing for the issuance of revenue bonds or in the trust indenture, provide for the payment of the proceeds of the sale of the bonds to any officer or person, who, or any agency, bank or trust company which shall act as trustee of such funds and shall hold and apply the same to the purposes hereof, subject to such regulations as this act and such resolution or trust indenture may provide.
Section 18. - Same—Sinking funds.
The revenues, fees, toll and earnings derived from any particular project or projects, regardless of whether or not such have been issued, unless otherwise pledged and allocated by the authority to the payment of the principal and interest on revenue bonds of the authority as the resolution authorizing the issuance of the bonds or in the trust instrument may provide, and such funds not pledged, from whatever source received, which said pledge may include funds received from one or more or all sources, shall be set aside at regular intervals as may be provided in the resolution or trust indenture, into a sinking fund which said sinking fund shall be pledged to and charged with the payments of (1) the interest upon such revenue bonds as such interest shall fall due, (2) the principal of the bonds as the same shall fall due, (3) the necessary charges of paying agents for paying principal and (4) any premium upon bonds retired by call or purchase as hereinabove provided. The use and disposition of such sinking funds shall be subject to such regulations as may be provided in the resolution authorizing the issuance of the revenue bonds or in the trust indenture, but, except as may otherwise be provided in such resolution or trust indenture, such sinking fund shall be a fund for the benefit of all revenue bonds without distinction or priority of one over another. Subject to the provisions of the resolution authorizing the issuance of the bonds or in the trust indenture, surplus monies in the sinking fund may be applied to the purchase or redemption of bonds and any such bonds so purchased or redeemed shall forthwith be cancelled and shall not again be issued.
Section 19. - Same—Remedies of bondholders.
Any holder of revenue bonds issued under the provisions of this act or any of the coupons appertaining thereto, and the trustee under the trust indenture, if any, except to the extent the rights herein given may be restricted by resolution passed before the issuance of the bonds or by the trust indenture, may, either at law or in equity, by suit action, mandamus or other proceedings, protect and enforce any and all rights under the laws of the State of Georgia, or granted hereunder, or under such resolution or trust indenture, and may enforce and compel performance of all duties required by this act or by such resolution or trust indenture, to be performed by the authority, or any officer thereof, including the fixing, charging, and collecting of revenues, fees, tolls and other charges for the use of the facilities and services furnished.
Section 20. - Same—Refunding bonds.
The authority is hereby authorized to provide by resolution for the issue of revenue refunding bonds of the authority for the purpose of refunding any revenue bonds issued under the provisions of this act and then outstanding, together with accrued interest thereon. The issuance of such revenue refunding bonds, the maturities and all other details thereof, the rights of the holders thereof and the duties of the authority in respect to the same, shall be governed by the foregoing provisions of this act insofar as the same may be applicable.
Section 21. - Same—Venue and jurisdiction.
Any action to protect or enforce any rights under the provisions of this act or any suit or action against such authority shall be brought in the Superior Court of Union County, Georgia, and any action pertaining to validation of any bonds issued under the provisions of this act shall likewise be brought in said court which shall have exclusive, original jurisdiction of such actions.
Section 22. - Same—Validation.
Bonds of the authority shall be confirmed and validated in accordance with the procedure of the Revenue Certificate Law of 1937, as amended. The petition for validation shall also make party defendant to such action any municipality, county, authority, subdivision or instrumentality of the State of Georgia which has contracted with the authority for services and facilities of the water system for which bonds are to be issued and sought to be validated, and such municipality, county, authority, subdivision or instrumentality shall be required to show cause, if any, why such contract or contracts and the terms and conditions thereof should not be inquired into by the Court and the validity of the terms thereof be determined and the contract or contracts adjudicated as security for the payment of any such bonds of the authority. The bonds, when validated, and the judgment of validation shall be final and conclusive with respect to such bonds, against the authority issuing the same, and any municipality, county, authority, subdivision or instrumentality contracting with the said Notla Water Authority.
Section 23. - Same—Interest of bondholders protected.
While any of the bonds issued by the authority remain outstanding, the powers, duties or existence of said authority or of its officers, employees or agents, shall not be diminished or impaired in any manner that will affect adversely the interests and rights of the holders of such bonds, and no other entity, department, agency or authority will be created which will compete with the authority to such an extent as to affect adversely the rights and interests of the holders of such bonds, nor will the state itself so compete with the authority. The provisions of this act shall be for the benefit of the authority and the holders of any such bonds, and upon the issuance of bonds under the provisions hereof, shall constitute a contract with the holders of such bonds.
Section 24. - Monies received considered trust funds.
All monies received pursuant to the authority of this act, whether as proceeds from the sale of revenue bonds, as grants or other contributions, or as revenues, fees and earnings, shall be deemed to be trust funds to be held and applied solely as provided in this act.
Section 25. - Purpose of the authority.
Without limiting the generality of any provisions of this act, the general purpose of the authority is declared to be that of acquiring an adequate source of water supply, treatment of such water, and thereafter the distribution of same to Notla water system, and the various townships and citizens in said county and environs, including adjoining counties and municipalities located therein, and further for the general purpose of gathering and treatment of waste, both individual and industrial, but such general purpose shall not restrict the authority from selling and delivering water direct to consumers in those areas where there does not now exist water distribution systems or furnishing sewer facilities to such consumers and areas where neither any county nor municipality deems it desirable or feasible to furnish water in such locality. The authority shall also have the authority, where it deems it feasible, to sell its products and services to consumers, governmental agencies or governmental instrumentalities of adjoining states, provided the laws of the adjoining state do not prohibit or tax said activity.
Section 26. - Rates, charges and revenues; use.
The authority is hereby authorized to prescribe and fix and collect rates, fees, tolls or charges, and to revise from time to time and collect such rates, fees, tolls or charges, for the services, facilities or commodities furnished, and in anticipation of the collection of the revenues of such undertaking or project, to issue revenue bonds as herein provided to finance, in whole or in part, the cost of the acquisition, construction, reconstruction, improvement, betterment or extension of the water and sewer utility system, and to pledge to the punctual payment of said bonds and interest thereon, all or any part of the revenues of such undertaking or project, including the revenues of improvements, betterments or extensions thereto thereafter made.
Section 27. - Rules and regulations for operation of projects.
It shall be the duty of the authority to prescribe rules and regulations for the operation of the project or projects constructed under the provisions of this act, including the basis on which water and sewer service and facilities shall be furnished.
Section 28. - Powers declared supplemental and additional.
The foregoing sections of this act shall be deemed to provide an additional and alternative method for the doing of the things authorized thereby and shall be regarded as supplemental and additional to powers conferred by other laws, and shall not be regarded as in derogation of any powers now existing.
Section 29. - Liberal construction of act.
This act, being for the welfare of various political subdivisions of the state and its inhabitants, shall be liberally construed to effect the purposes thereof.
Section 30. - Effect of partial invalidity of act.
The provisions of this act are severable, and if any of its provisions shall be held unconstitutional by any court of competent jurisdiction, the decision of such court shall not affect or impair any of the remaining provisions.
Section 31. - Repeal.
This act does not in any way take from Union County or any municipality located therein or any adjoining county the authority to own, operate and maintain water or sewer systems, or issue revenue certificates as is provided by the Revenue Certificate Law of Georgia. All laws and parts of laws in conflict with this act are hereby repealed.
