ARTICLE III. - NUISANCE ABATEMENT[3]

Footnotes:
--- (3) ---
State Law reference— Limits on sound volume produced by radio, tape player or other mechanical sound-making device or instrument from within motor vehicle, O.C.G.A. § 40-6-14; sale of muffler which causes excessive noise prohibited, O.C.G.A. § 40-8-71(c); nuisances, O.C.G.A. § 41-1-1 et seq.; jurisdiction of municipal court or magistrate court to abate nuisance, O.C.G.A. § 41-2-5.

Sec. 38-61. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Nuisance means anything which causes hurt, inconvenience, or damage to another, provided that the hurt, inconvenience, or damage complained of shall not be fanciful, or such as would affect only one of fastidious taste, but rather such as would an ordinary reasonable man; and the fact that the act done may otherwise be lawful shall not keep it from being a nuisance.
Nuisance per se means an act, occupation, or structure which is a nuisance at all times and under any circumstances, regardless of location or surroundings.
Private nuisance means a nuisance limited in its injurious effects to one of a few individuals.
Public nuisance means a nuisance which damages all persons who come within the sphere of its operation, though it may vary in its effects on individuals.
(Code 1982, § 18-101)
Cross reference— Definitions generally, § 1-2.
Sec. 38-62. - Proceedings to abate generally.
Any nuisance existing within the corporate limits of this city, except for a nuisance excepted in this article, shall be abated in the manner set forth in this article.
(1)
Initiation. Proceedings to abate a nuisance, whether public or private, shall be initiated by the filing of a complaint with the city clerk/treasurer, which complaint shall state the nature and location of the nuisance and the name and address of the complainant or complainants. In the case of a private nuisance, the complaint shall be filed by the person or persons injured by the nuisance; in the case of a public nuisance, the complaint shall be filed on behalf of the public by a city official or by a citizen specifically injured by the nuisance.
(2)
Notice of hearing. Upon the filing of a complaint as provided in subsection (1) of this section, the city clerk/treasurer shall issue a notice directed to the owner of the premises upon which the nuisance complained of is located and, if the person maintaining the nuisance is a different person from the owner, then also to the person maintaining the nuisance, calling on such person to show cause, either personally or by attorney, at the time and place directed by the city clerk/treasurer, why such activity alleged to be a nuisance should not be ordered abated and removed by the city council. Such notice shall be served at least five days prior to the date set for the hearing by any authorized officer of the city, and shall be made either personally or by leaving a copy at the party's most well-known place of abode. A copy of such notice shall also be mailed to the complainant or complainants.
(3)
Order of abatement. If after hearing all the evidence the city council should decide that the activity complained of is a nuisance, the city council shall issue an order directed to the chief of police or any member of the police force, commanding that the nuisance be abated. A copy of such order of abatement shall be served on the party or parties maintaining the nuisance.
(4)
Effect of noncompliance. In the event of a refusal to comply with the order of abatement issued by the city council, the person or persons maintaining the nuisance shall be subject to arrest for violation of state law.
(Code 1982, § 18-102)
Sec. 38-63. - Summary abatement.
Nothing contained in section 38-62 shall prevent the city council from summarily and without notice ordering the abatement of or abating any nuisance that is a nuisance that is a nuisance per se in the law or where the case is an urgent one and the health and safety of the public or a portion thereof is in imminent danger.
(Code 1982, § 18-103)
Secs. 38-64—38-90. - Reserved.
