Chapter 90 - UTILITIES[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Cross reference— Administration, ch. 2; buildings and building regulations, ch. 22; businesses, ch. 26; environment, ch. 38; floods, ch. 42; health and sanitation, ch. 46; historical preservation, ch. 50; manufactured homes and trailers, ch. 54; planning, ch. 66; roads and bridges, ch. 70; solid waste, ch. 74; subdivisions, ch. 78; installation of utilities, § 78-465; water supply system, § 78-466; sanitary sewage disposal, § 78-467.
State Law reference— Water resources, O.C.G.A. § 12-5-1 et seq.; waterwell standards, O.C.G.A. § 12-5-120 et seq.; dumping certain wastes in storm or sanitary sewers prohibited, O.C.G.A. § 12-8-2; authority to provide for the development storage and distribution of water, Ga. Const. art. IX, § II, ¶ III(a)(7); authority to provide sewage collection and disposal systems, Ga. Const. art. IX, § II, ¶ III(a)(6); authority to provide stormwater, sewerage collection and disposal systems, Ga. Const. art. IX, § II, ¶ III(a)(6).

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Secs. 90-1—90-25. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - FACILITY INSTALLATIONS

Sec. 90-26. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Owner means the holder of the permit required by this article.
(Ord. No. 23, § 9, 3-4-1983)
Cross reference— Definitions generally, § 1-2.
Sec. 90-27. - Scope.
(a)
This article governs the installation, repair, or maintenance of telephone lines, gas lines, water lines, sanitary sewer lines, electrical lines, fuel lines, steam lines, TV cables, open storm drainage, storm sewers, and other utilities, articles or devices upon any public right-of-way, road or property and shall also govern any grading, digging, drilling or alteration, temporary or permanent, upon any public property, road or right-of-way, referred to collectively as the "work."
(b)
This article shall be known as the county utility accommodation policy and standards.
(Ord. No. 23, § 1, 3-4-1983)
Sec. 90-28. - Incorporation of state rules, standards and specifications.
All rules, regulations, standards and specifications adopted and published by the state department of transportation applicable to this article are hereby incorporated into and made a part of this article by reference. Any conflicting provisions between this article and the department of transportation rules and regulations, standards and specifications shall be resolved in favor of the department of transportation standards.
(Ord. No. 23, § 12, 3-4-1983)
Sec. 90-29. - Supervision of work.
The work as authorized in this article shall be done under the direction and control of the superintendent of public works, who shall be notified a minimum of 24 hours before work is commenced.
(Ord. No. 23, § 2, 3-4-1983)
Sec. 90-30. - Permit.
(a)
No permit shall be required for repair or maintenance of any utility facility installation, which repair or maintenance does not involve the following:
(1)
The location of a new facility upon public property; or
(2)
Any work described in section 90-32, 90-33, 90-34 or 90-34.
(b)
Application for right-of-way permit shall be made to the board of commissioners at the office of commissioners in the county courthouse. In addition to the requirements as set forth by county regulations, it shall be the responsibility of the owner to obtain any additional franchise required by law. Nothing in this article is intended to be more restrictive with respect to utilities affected thereby than are equivalent regulations promulgated by the state department of transportation with respect to utilities on the state highway system under authority of the applicable sections of the state code of public transportation. All applications for a permit to be issued pursuant to this article will be accompanied by any permit required by the department of transportation authorizing the work to be performed or a letter from such department stating no permit is required.
(Ord. No. 23, §§ 10, 11, 3-4-1983)
Sec. 90-31. - Responsibilities of owner.
The full and entire expense and cost of the utility facility installment and maintenance shall be borne by the utility owner. The utility owner shall make necessary arrangements for traffic over such point during such work as may be directed by the superintendent of public works and agrees to place necessary barricades, warning signs, signals, lights and, if necessary, watchmen for the protection of the traveling public. The owner further agrees by the acceptance of the permit to keep and hold the county harmless from any and all damages caused by negligence on the part of the owner, its agents, servants, officers or employees or contractors engaged in doing the work or any injuries or damages suffered by anyone as a result thereof.
(Ord. No. 23, § 7, 3-4-1983)
Sec. 90-32. - Performance of work.
The work required under this article shall be performed in a workmanlike manner, and all installations shall be done in such a way as to leave free flows in drainage ditches, pipes, culverts or other surface water drainage facilities of the roadway or its connections. No part of any installation shall be attached to any portion or a bridge, culvert or other structure of the roadway without special authorization of the superintendent of public works after detailed information is furnished as he may require. The permittee or the utility owner will be required to restore or repair any portion of a bridge or highway disturbed by utility installations or use. Note: The state department of transportation bridge engineer's approval may be required. No open cuts in pavement will be permitted except by special permission of the superintendent of public works.
(Ord. No. 23, § 3, 3-4-1983)
Sec. 90-33. - Excavations in pavement.
Where breaking of pavement has been approved under this article, a minimum eight-inch class B concrete for asphalt surface will be poured over the backfilled trench and will rest on the undisturbed soil a minimum cutback of 12 inches of pavement on each side of the trench. If the pavement is asphalt, the surface of the eight-inch concrete slab will be two inches below the surface of the abutting pavement. The two-inch section will be replaced with the same type material as the existing surface. The finished surface will be smooth and flush with the abutting pavement. Only one-half of the roadway is to be opened at one time.
(Ord. No. 23, § 4, 3-4-1983)
Sec. 90-34. - Underground installations.
Underground piping lines or facilities, referred to as "underground installations," will be installed to have at least a 48-inch cover or will be under the paved surface. Longitudinal installations are to be located on uniform alignment, preferably parallel to the roadway at or adjacent to the right-of-way line and no less than three feet beyond the slope lines, ditch lines, or curblines. Underground installations are not to be located within the pavement or between the edge of the pavement and the ditch or toe of the front slope except where no other practical alternative exists and a special request for an exception is submitted.
(Ord. No. 23, § 5, 3-4-1983)
Sec. 90-35. - Trench backfilling.
The utility facility installation trench shall be backfilled carefully after the facility has been installed, in accordance with the standard practice for installing culverts and minor structures. In crossing roadways the backfill will be made in six-inch layers and each layer firmly compacted. Where roadway grass is disturbed, satisfactory replacement will be accomplished including adequate seeding of new grass.
(Ord. No. 23, § 6, 3-4-1983)
Sec. 90-36. - Effect of widening or relocating road.
If the board of commissioners decides to widen and/or relocate the existing road, the county commissioners reserve the right to require the utility owner to take up and relay such sections of the facility within the right-of-way as may be necessary to take up and relay from any engineering standpoint due to such widening and/or relocating; the taking up and relaying shall be at the expense of the utility owner. This work shall be completed within 60 working days after notification by the county commissioners or as soon as reasonably practical to do so.
(Ord. No. 23, § 8, 3-4-1983)
Secs. 90-37—90-65. - Reserved.
ARTICLE III. - COLLECTION OF UNPAID WATER AND SEWER SERVICE CHARGES

Sec. 90-66. - Enforcement generally.
The county shall have the right to enforce the collection of any unpaid charges for water or sewer service against the real estate served and the owner thereof, which shall be a lien on such real estate and enforceable in the same manner as county taxes.
(Ord. No. 62, § 1, 8-22-1991)
Sec. 90-67. - Executions for past due charges.
It shall be the duty of the water superintendent to issue executions against the real estate served and the owner thereof for any charges for water or sewer service which are past due more than 30 days. Such executions shall be enforced in the same manner as county taxes, and property owners shall have the right to file an affidavit of illegality in the same manner that this defense is available against a levy execution for county taxes.
(Ord. No. 62, § 2, 8-22-1991)
Sec. 90-68. - Service provided to buildings, places and premises.
The fact that the county may list water and sewer charges on its records as against the consumer and not against the property owner or that bills are made out in the name of the consumer shall not affect the right of the county to enforce any unpaid charges against the premises served, it being the intention of this article to provide for the furnishing of water and sewer service not to individuals but to buildings, places and premises, against which the charges are made enforceable in this article.
(Ord. No. 62, § 3, 8-22-1991)
Sec. 90-69. - Disconnection of service.
If payment is not made in full for water and sewer services supplied by the county on or before the due date as fixed and determined by the board of commissioners, the superintendent of the water department shall cause the water and sewer service to be shut off from the building, place or premises to which the service had been supplied and shall not thereafter again supply such building, place or premises with either water and/or sewer service, as the case may be, until such arrears, together with such service charge as shall be, from time to time, fixed by the board of commissioners is fully paid.
(Ord. No. 62, § 4, 8-22-1991)
Sec. 90-70. - Late fees and reconnection fees.
Water and sewer bills that are not paid within 15 days of the due date of the bill will be assessed a ten percent late fee and service will be disconnected. In order to reconnect water service, a reconnect fee as provided in the schedule of fees and charges maintained in the office of the clerk of the board of commissioners will be charged in addition to payment of the water bill and late fees.
(Ord. No. 62, § 5, 8-22-1991)
Secs. 90-71—90-80. - Reserved.
new
ARTICLE IV. - UTILITY ACCOMMODATIONS ORDINANCE

Sec. 90-81. - Short title.
new
This article may be referred to as the utility accommodations ordinance.
( Ord. No. 275 , § 1, 4-26-2021)
Sec. 90-82. - Adoption of state standards.
new
(a)
DOT Policy. The 2016 Georgia Department of Transportation Utility Accommodation Policy and Standards including all references contained therein to codes, rules, regulations, schedules, forms and appendix items, as may be amended from time to time, the "DOT Policy" is adopted by reference and incorporated in this article as if fully set forth herein, subject to all amendments and modifications contained in this article. A copy of the manual shall be maintained at the offices of the Upson County Road Department and of the clerk of the board of commissioners and shall be open for public inspection.
(b)
Definitions applicable to the DOT Policy and this article. The DOT Policy is amended in order to equate state definitions and provisions with their appropriate equivalent County counterparts such that a policy shall be implemented to reflect the intent and effect of the state right-of-way policy as it would logically apply to all Upson County roads, including but not limited to the following:
(1)
Commissioner shall mean county manager or his/her designee.
(2)
Department shall mean Upson County Road Department.
(3)
District engineer shall mean county manager or his/her designee.
(4)
Highway shall mean any road that is part of the Upson County road system and shall include all of the right-of-way associated with such road. Where used in this article, highway, county highway, county road and road shall be equivalent terms and shall include all right-of-way associated with any such road or highway.
(5)
State shall mean Upson County.
(6)
State bridge and structural design engineer shall mean the county manager or his/her designee.
(7)
State highway (chief) engineer shall mean the Director of the Upson County Road Department or his/her designee.
(8)
State utilities engineer shall mean the county manager or his/her designee.
(9)
Telephone booth shall mean and include any booth or structure to be used by the public at large which houses a communications link for local and long distance communications, including but not limited to data communication ports, terminals, kiosks, structures or jacks for connection with local or long distance communications.
(10)
Utility (as defined in the state's policy) shall read:
"Utility: All privately, publicly or cooperatively owned systems for producing, transmitting or distributing communication data, information, telecommunication, cable television, power, electricity, light, heat, gas, oil, crude products, water/sewer, steam, fire and police signals, traffic control devices and street lighting systems and housing or conduit for any of the foregoing, which directly or indirectly serve the public or any part thereof. The "utility" may also be used to refer to the owner, operator, provider, servicer, or any agent there, of any above-described utility or utility facility."
( Ord. No. 275 , § 2, 4-26-2021)
Sec. 90-83. - Administration.
new
The county manager or his/her designee shall have the authority to administer the DOT Policy as adopted in this article on county roads and in unincorporated Upson County and in accordance with any procedures and forms Upson County Road Department may establish thereunder.
( Ord. No. 275 , § 3, 4-26-2021)
Sec. 90-84. - Fees.
new
The board of commissioners shall be authorized to charge fees in accordance with the DOT Policy and any other applicable laws that exist now or may be enacted in the future. Fees shall be determined by the county manager and shall be publicly disclosed by the board of commissioners. Any fee schedule shall be posted at the road department and shall be open for public inspection.
( Ord. No. 275 , § 4, 4-26-2021)
Sec. 90-85. - Utility locations in any new right-of-way.
new
All utilities locating their facilities in new residential and commercial developments shall locate their facilities pursuant to the Upson County Unified Development Code as it exists at the time of such location. If the unified development code conflicts with the DOT Policy, the unified development code will prevail, provided it is not more restrictive than the DOT Policy.
( Ord. No. 275 , § 5, 4-26-2021)
Sec. 90-86. - Pavement cuts, utility work; permission, restoration, obstructions.
new
(a)
Approval. Any utility, contractor, firm, or individual shall obtain written approval of the board of commissioners through the road department prior to making any pavement cuts, curb cuts or any utility repairs or installations on a county road with reasonable allowances being made for emergencies. Utilities shall also comply with the policies and procedures set forth hereinabove. In the event of any emergency, the utility, contractor, firm, or individual making such repair shall notify the road department of the need for an emergency repair in person, by telephone, or by any other method authorized by the road department for such purpose.
(b)
Repairs. After work approved under this section has been completed, the affected party shall promptly repair the pavement and any portion of any such county road that has been encroached upon. Repair work shall be completed in accordance with all the work specifications on file with the road department and to the department's reasonable satisfaction. Utilities shall also comply with the policies and procedures set forth here in above. Any repair not made within seven days of the damage may, at the discretion of the road department, be performed by the county, with the costs of same plus an administrative fee of $1,000.00 to be charged to said affected party.
(c)
Obstructions. County roads shall be kept clear of any form of unnecessary obstruction. Written permission shall be obtained from the road department to place any type of structure or material on or in any county road.
( Ord. No. 275 , § 6, 4-26-2021)
