ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 78-1. - Purpose and intent.
This chapter is enacted pursuant to the authority contained in Ga. Const. art. IX, § II, ¶ I for the following purposes:
(1)
To encourage the development of economically sound and stable communities;
(2)
To ensure the provision of required streets and, where practical, utilities and other facilities and services to new land development;
(3)
To ensure the adequate protection of safe and convenient traffic access and circulation, both vehicular and pedestrian, in new land development;
(4)
To ensure the provision of needed public open spaces and building sites in new land developments through the dedication or reservation of land for recreational, educational, and other public purposes; and
(5)
To ensure, in general, the wise development of new areas, in harmony with the comprehensive plan of the community as it exists or may be established.
(Ord. No. 134, § 1-2, 5-11-2000)
Sec. 78-2. - Interpretation of certain terms and words.
For the purpose of this chapter, certain words or terms used are interpreted as follows:
(1)
The term "lot" includes the term "plot" or "parcel."
(2)
The term "used" or "occupied," as applied to any land or building, shall be construed to include the term "intended," "arranged," or "designed to be used or occupied."
(3)
The term "structure" includes the term "building."
(Ord. No. 134, § 2-1, 5-11-2000)
Sec. 78-3. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Administrative officer means the person designated by the county planning commission to be responsible for the administrative functions required in connection with the enforcement of this chapter.
Block means an area of land within a subdivision that is entirely bounded by streets, by streets and the exterior boundary of the subdivision, or a combination of such with a river or lake.
Building line means a line over which no foundation wall or part of the structure of any building projects, with the exception of roof overhangs, steps, and the subsurface projection of a footing. Such a line may coincide with the building setback line.
Building setback line means a line parallel to and a specified minimum distance from the front, side or rear property lines, as specified, beyond which no foundation wall or part of the structure of any building projects, with the exception of roof overhangs, steps, and the subsurface projection of footings.
Comprehensive plan means any part or element of the overall plan for development of the county adopted by the planning commission.
Crosswalk means a right-of-way within a block dedicated to public use, intended primarily for pedestrian use, and designed to provide access to adjacent roads and lots.
Design standards means the specifications to landowners or subdividers for the preparation of plats, both preliminary and final, indicating among other things the optimum, minimum, or maximum dimensions of such items as rights-of-way, blocks, easements, and lots.
Easement means a grant by a property owner for the use of a strip of land for the specified purpose of constructing and maintaining utilities, including but not limited to sanitary sewers, water mains, electric lines, telephone lines, storm sewer or storm drainageways and gas lines. For the purpose of this chapter, it does not include legal ingress and egress provisions.
Final plat means a finished drawing or map of a subdivision, meeting all of the requirements of this chapter, in such form as required by the local jurisdiction, and showing, completely and accurately, all legal design and engineering information and certified as necessary for recording.
Hearing means an unadvertised but official session of the county planning commission, held to afford a subdivider or his agent an opportunity to present and confer on a plat of subdivision with the planning commission.
Lot means a portion, plot, or parcel of land separated from other portions, plots, or parcels by description as on a subdivision plat or record or survey map or as described by metes and bounds, and intended for transfer of ownership or for building development. For the purpose of this chapter, the term does not include any portion of a right-of-way.
Lot, corner, means a lot abutting upon two or more streets at their intersection.
Lot, double-frontage, means a lot other than a corner lot abutting two streets.
Lot of record means a lot which is part of a subdivision, the plat of which has been recorded in the office of the clerk of the superior court of the county, or a parcel of land described by metes and bounds, the plat or description of which has been recorded in such office. If a portion of a parcel has been conveyed at the time of the adoption of the ordinance from which this chapter derives, the remaining portion of the lot or parcel shall be considered a lot of record.
Lot remnant means any portion of a lot not suitable for building upon because of size or topography and remaining after the transfer of other portions of the lot to adjoining lots.
Lot width means the width of the lot at the front building line measured parallel to the street right-of-way or, for a curvilinear street, parallel to the chord of the arc between the intersection of the side lot lines and the street right-of-way line.
Owner of record means the owner of property as specified on the deed of the lot of record.
Parks and playgrounds mean public or community land, open spaces, or recreation areas represented on a plat of subdivision as dedicated or reserved or to be reserved for recreational purposes.
Pedestrian way means a crosswalk or other area designed and marked specifically for pedestrian traffic.
Percentage of grade, on a street centerline, means the distance vertically (up and down) from the horizontal in feet and tenths of a foot for each 100 feet of horizontal distance.
Planned unit development means any coordinated large-scale or comprehensive group development which may not follow standard design practices.
Preapplication review means an initial and informal stage of subdivision review at which the developer may make known preliminary plan proposals and the planning commission may respond and/or advise the developer concerning this chapter.
Preliminary plat means a tentative drawing or map of a proposed subdivision meeting requirements of this chapter and showing the proposed layout in sufficient detail, although not completely computed, to indicate unquestionably its workability.
Private drive means a nonpublic, privately owned means of access.
Private street means any street within a planned unit development which meets appropriate public street design standards but, for purposes of controlled access or privacy, is not dedicated to the county and is not public.
Protective covenants means contracts made between private parties or conditions recorded with an approved plat and running with the title to the land, specifying the manner in which land may be used, developed, or improved with the intent of protecting and preserving the physical and economic integrity of any given area.
Public hearing means an official session of the planning commission, advertised according to law and called for purposes specified in the public notice.
Reserve strip means a strip or parcel of land along, around, or between properties, the purpose of which is to restrict access.
Review agency means any so designated agency other than the planning commission which may review appropriate parts of plat submissions because of technical capability, authority or interest.
Right-of-way means a strip of land designated, reserved, dedicated, or purchased for the purpose of pedestrian or vehicular access or utility line installation.
Road means a public or private right-of-way affording primary access by pedestrians and vehicles to and between properties, however designed as a street, highway, thoroughfare, parkway, road, avenue, boulevard, or place. The term is further defined as follows:
(1)
Alley and service drive mean a minor accessway used for service access, or property access under specified circumstances, to the back or side of properties otherwise abutting on a street.
(2)
Cul-de-sac means a local street or road with only one outlet and having an appropriate terminal for the safe and convenient reversal of traffic movement.
(3)
Half street means a street or road adjacent to a subdivision tract boundary where only half the required right-of-way and road improvements are provided within the proposed subdivision and the responsibility for the other half is undecided or is left to the adjacent property owner.
(4)
Major or minor arterial means a street so designated on the comprehensive land use plan of the county, and those streets which otherwise function to move high volumes of traffic between principal traffic generators, such as residential, commercial, and industrial sectors, at moderate speeds and with minimum conflict to movements.
(5)
Major or minor collector means a street so designated on the comprehensive land use plan of the county, and those streets which otherwise function to serve local traffic movements by collecting or distributing traffic from or to local, other collector, and/or arterial streets. Such a street may also function to provide access to abutting properties in the same manner as a local street.
(6)
Marginal access street means a residential street parallel and adjacent to a major thoroughfare or arterial street and which provides access to abutting properties with protection from through traffic.
(7)
Minor or local street means a street used primarily for access to the abutting properties and serving travel demands in the immediate area.
(8)
Road width means the shortest distance between lines of lots delineating the road right-of-way.
(9)
Tangent means a straight line that is perpendicular to the radius of a curve where a tangent meets a curve.
Subdivider means any individual, firm, association, syndicate, copartnership, corporation, trust or other legal entity having sufficient proprietary interest in the land sought to be subdivided to commence and maintain proceedings to subdivide the land under this chapter.
Subdivision means the division of a lot of record at the time of enactment of the ordinance from which this chapter derives into three or more lots, building sites, or other divisions for the purpose, whether immediate or future, of sale, legacy, or building development, and includes all division of land involving a new street or a change in existing streets and includes resubdivision and, where appropriate to the context, relates to the process of subdividing or to the land or area subdivided; provided, however, that the following are not included within this definition:
(1)
The combination or recombination of portions of previously platted lots where the total number of lots is not increased and the resultant lots are equal to the standards set forth in this chapter.
(2)
The transfer of property by the owner to a member of the immediate family (parent, spouse or child).
(3)
The transfer of unsubdivided land or the transfer of a lot or parcel of land established by deed or plat recorded in the office of the clerk of the superior court prior to the initial effective date of the ordinance from which this chapter derives.
(4)
The division of land among heirs by judicial decree.
(Ord. No. 134, § 2-2, 5-11-2000)
Cross reference— Definitions generally, § 1-2.
Sec. 78-4. - Jurisdiction.
This chapter covers all unincorporated areas of the county.
(Ord. No. 134, § 3-2, 5-11-2000)
Secs. 78-5—78-30. - Reserved.
