ARTICLE 3. - ESTABLISHMENT OF DISTRICTS

Section 301. - Districts established.
A.
Districts: For the purposes of this ordinance, Upson County is divided into districts as follows:
EXPAND
1. A-R Agricultural-residential
2. R-1 Single-family residential—low density
3. R-2 Single-family residential—medium density
4. (Reserved)
5. R-4 General residential
6. R-5 Single-family residential—small dwelling
7. (Reserved)
8. P-R Planned development—residential
9. P-M Planned development—mixed use
10. O-1 Office-residential
11. C-1 Commercial—light/neighborhood
12. C-2 Commercial—general/highway
13. C-3 Commercial—intensive/CBD
14. M-1 Manufacturing—light
15. M-2 Manufacturing—general
  B.
Overlay districts: In addition, overlay districts apply additional standards to specific areas which may lie within any of the above districts. Those districts are as follows:
EXPAND
1. S-1 Sensitive land—flood hazard
2. S-2 Sensitive land—watershed protection
3. H-1 Historic district
  Section 302. - Districts explained.
A.
Districts are areas of land within Upson County to which different development requirements and standards are applied. These differences are intended to promote the separation of incompatible uses, encourage sound land use patterns, and retain the character of the community. Although this ordinance establishes the locations of district boundaries, as indicated on the official map, the boundaries may be amended in the future in order to meet changing needs if facts are presented and accepted in support of such an amendment.
B.
This may be done, however, only if the proposed change is in conformance with the Upson County Land Use Plan (where one exists). (This does not necessarily mean a one-to-one correspondence.) If conditions have changed to the point that a genuinely needed change in a district boundary is not in conformance with the Upson County Land Use Plan (where one exists), then the Upson County Land Use Plan (where one exists) must first be amended to address the changing needs.
C.
In making the decision to amend the boundary of a district, the points contained in section 410 must be considered by the planning commission as well as the board of commissioners.
