ARTICLE VI. - TAXATION
DIVISION 1. - HOMESTEAD EXEMPTION FOR RESIDENTS 62 YEARS OF AGE OR OVER WITH LIMITED INCOMES[6]

Footnotes:
--- (6) ---
Editor's note— Printed herein is 1992 Ga. Laws, page 5823, which provides a homestead exemption for residents 62 years of age or over whose income does not exceed $15,000.00 per annum. Amendments to the Act are indicated by parenthetical history notes following amended provisions. The absence of a history note indicates that the provision remains unchanged from the original Act. Obvious misspellings have been corrected without notation. For stylistic purposes, a uniform system of headings, catchlines and citations to state statutes has been used. Additions made for clarity are indicated by brackets.

Section 1. - Exemption from ad valorem taxes for educational purposes granted.
The homestead, not to exceed $15,000.00 of the value thereof, of each resident of the Thomaston-Upson County School District who is 62 years of age or over and who does not have an income from all sources, including the income from all sources of all members of the family residing within said homestead, exceeding $15,000.00 per annum, shall be exempt from all ad valorem taxation for educational purposes levied for and in behalf of such school system including taxes to retire school bond indebtedness. No such exemption shall be granted unless an affidavit of the owner of the homestead is filed with the tax commissioner of Upson County giving his age, the amount of income which he received for the immediately preceding calendar year, the income which the members of his family residing within the homestead received for such period, and such other additional information relative to receiving the benefits of the exemption granted by this section as will enable the tax commissioner to make a determination as to whether such owner is entitled to said exemption. The tax commissioner shall provide affidavit forms for this purpose. The exemption granted to the homestead within this section shall extend to and shall apply to those properties the legal title to which is vested in one or more titleholders, if actually occupied by one or more such owners as a residence and one or more such titleholders possesses the qualifications provided for in this section. In such instances, such exemptions shall be granted to such properties if claimed in the manner provided in this section by one or more of the owners actually residing on such property. Such exemptions shall also extend to those homesteads the title to which is vested in an administrator, executor, or trustee if one or more of the heirs or cestui que uses residing on such property shall possess the qualifications provided for in this section and shall claim the exemptions granted by this section in the manner provided in this section. It shall be the duty of a person who claims an exemption under this section to notify the tax commissioner in the event such person becomes ineligible for the exemption granted in this section. The exemption provided for in this section shall apply to all taxable years beginning after December 31, 1992.
Section 2. - Exemption in lieu of other exemptions.
The exemption granted by Section 1 of this Act shall be in lieu of and not in addition to:
(1)
The homestead exemption granted by O.C.G.A. § 48-5-52, relating to exemption from ad valorem taxation for educational purposes of homesteads of qualified individuals 62 years of age or older; and
(2)
The homestead exemption granted by amendment to the Constitution found in 1979 Ga. Laws, page 1854 and ratified at the 1980 general election.
DIVISION 2. - HOMESTEAD EXEMPTION FOR DISABLED RESIDENTS[7]

Footnotes:
--- (7) ---
Editor's note— Printed herein is 1988 Ga. Laws, page 3821, which grants a homestead exemption for residents who are disabled and whose income does not exceed $10,000.00. Amendments to the Act are indicated by parenthetical history notes following amended provisions. The absence of a history note indicates that the provision remains unchanged from the original Act. Obvious misspellings have been corrected without notation. For stylistic purposes, a uniform system of headings, catchlines and citations to state statutes has been used. Additions made for clarity are indicated by brackets.

Section 1. - Exemption from ad valorem taxes granted; exceptions.
(a)
In addition to any other homestead exemption authorized by law, each resident of Upson County who is disabled is granted an exemption from all Upson County ad valorem taxes, including taxes to retire bonded indebtedness but excluding ad valorem taxes for the Upson County School District, in the amount of $10,000.00 on a homestead owned and occupied by him as a residence if his adjusted gross income, together with the adjusted gross income of his spouse who also occupies and resides at such homestead, does not exceed $10,000.00 for the immediately preceding taxable year. For the purposes of this section, the term "adjusted gross income" shall have the same meaning as that term is defined in the United States Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as now or hereafter amended. The value of the residence in excess of the above-exempted amount shall remain subject to taxation. In order to qualify for the exemption provided for in this section as being disabled, the person claiming such exemption shall be required to obtain a certificate from not more than two physicians licensed to practice medicine under the laws of Georgia, as now or hereafter amended, certifying that in the opinion of such physician or physicians such person is mentally or physically incapacitated to the extent that such person is unable to be gainfully employed and that such incapacity is likely to be permanent. Any such owner shall not receive the benefits of such homestead exemption unless he or his agent files an affidavit with the tax commissioner of Upson County, giving the certificate or certificates provided for in this section, the amount of income which he and his spouse received during the last taxable year for income tax purposes, and such additional information relative to receiving the benefits of such exemption as will enable the tax commissioner to make a determination as to whether such owner is entitled to such exemption. The tax commissioner shall provide affidavit forms for this purpose. Such applications shall be processed in the same manner as other applications for homestead exemption, and the provisions of law applicable to the processing of homestead exemptions, as the same now exists or may hereafter be amended, shall apply thereto, provided that, after any such owner has filed the proper certificate or certificates as provided above and has been allowed the exemption provided in this section, it shall not be necessary that he make application and file the said affidavit and certificate thereafter for any year and the said exemption shall continue to be allowed to such owner. It shall be the duty of any such owner, however, to notify the tax commissioner in the event he becomes ineligible for any reason for the exemption provided in this section.
(b)
The provisions of this section shall not be applicable to disabled veterans who shall be entitled to the homestead exemption granted especially to disabled veterans.
Section 2. - Applicability.
This Act shall apply to all tax years beginning on or after January 1, 1989.
DIVISION 3. - HOMESTEAD EXEMPTION FOR EDUCATIONAL PURPOSES[8]

Footnotes:
--- (8) ---
Editor's note— Printed herein is 1988 Ga. Laws, page 3685, which provides a homestead exemption for disabled residents whose income does not exceed $10,000.00. Amendments to the Act are indicated by parenthetical history notes following amended provisions. The absence of a history note indicates that the provision remains unchanged from the original Act. Obvious misspellings have been corrected without notation. For stylistic purposes, a uniform system of headings, catchlines and citations to state statutes has been used. Additions made for clarity are indicated by brackets.

Section 1. - Exemption from ad valorem taxes for educational purposes granted to disabled residents; exceptions.
(a)
In addition to any other homestead exemption authorized by law, each resident of the Upson County School District who is disabled is granted an exemption from all ad valorem taxes for educational purposes, including taxes to retire bonded indebtedness, in the amount of $10,000.00 on a homestead owned and occupied by him as a residence if his adjusted gross income, together with the adjusted gross income of his spouse who also occupies and resides at such homestead, does not exceed $10,000.00 for the immediately preceding taxable year. For the purposes of this section, the term "adjusted gross income" shall have the same meaning as that term is defined in the United States Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as now or hereafter amended. The value of the residence in excess of the above-exempted amount shall remain subject to taxation. In order to qualify for the exemption provided for in this section as being disabled, the person claiming such exemption shall be required to obtain a certificate from not more than two physicians licensed to practice medicine under the laws of Georgia, as now or hereafter amended, certifying that in the opinion of such physician or physicians such person is mentally or physically incapacitated to the extent that such person is unable to be gainfully employed and that such incapacity is likely to be permanent. Any such owner shall not receive the benefits of such homestead exemption unless he or his agent files an affidavit with the tax commissioner of Upson County, giving the certificate or certificates provided for in this section, the amount of income which he and his spouse received during the last taxable year for income tax purposes, and such additional information relative to receiving the benefits of such exemption as will enable the tax commissioner to make a determination as to whether such owner is entitled to such exemption. The tax commissioner shall provide affidavit forms for this purpose. Such applications shall be processed in the same manner as other applications for homestead exemption, and the provisions of law applicable to the processing of homestead exemptions, as the same now exists or may hereafter be amended, shall apply thereto, provided that, after any such owner has filed the proper certificate or certificates as provided above and has been allowed the exemption provided in this section, it shall not be necessary that he make application and file the said affidavit and certificate thereafter for any year and the said exemption shall continue to be allowed to such owner. It shall be the duty of any such owner, however, to notify the tax commissioner in the event he becomes ineligible for any reason for the exemption provided in this section.
(b)
The provisions of this section shall not be applicable to disabled veterans who shall be entitled to the homestead exemption granted especially to disabled veterans.
Section 2. - Applicability.
This Act shall apply to all tax years beginning on or after January 1, 1989.
DIVISION 4. - HOMESTEAD EXEMPTION CHANGING INCOME UNITS[9]

Footnotes:
--- (9) ---
Editor's note— Printed herein is 1979 Ga. Laws, page 1854, which changed the income units for certain homestead exemptions by constitutional amendment. Amendments to the Act are indicated by parenthetical history notes following amended provisions. The absence of a history note indicates that the provision remains unchanged from the original Act. Obvious misspellings have been corrected without notation. For stylistic purposes, a uniform system of headings, catchlines and citations to state statutes has been used. Additions made for clarity are indicated by brackets.

Section 1. - Constitutional amendment.
Article VII, Section I, Paragraph IV of the Constitution [Ga. Const. art. VII, § I, ¶ IV] is hereby amended by adding at the end thereof the following paragraph:
"The homestead of each resident of the Upson County School District who is sixty-two years of age or over and who does not have a gross income from all sources, including the gross income of all members of the family residing within said homestead, exceeding $8,000.00 per annum, is hereby exempt from all ad valorem taxation for educational purposes levied for and in behalf of such school system, including taxes to retire school bond indebtedness, which exemption shall be in the same amount as may now or hereafter be exempted by general law enacted pursuant to the provisions of this Paragraph IV of Section I of Article VII of the Constitution relating to the homestead of county school district residents who are sixty-two years of age or older with income below certain limits. The exemption granted by this Paragraph shall be in the same amount as the exemption granted by said general law and shall be in lieu of, and not in addition to, said exemption granted by general law. The value of the homestead in excess of the above exempted amount shall remain subject to taxation. No such exemption shall be granted unless an affidavit of the owner of the homestead is filed with the Tax Commissioner of Upson County giving his age, the amount of gross income which he received for the immediately preceding calendar year, the gross income which the members of his family residing within the homestead received for such period, and such other additional information relative to receiving the benefits of the exemption granted by this Paragraph as will enable the tax commissioner to make a determination as to whether such owner is entitled to said exemption. The tax commissioner shall provide affidavit forms for this purpose. The exemption granted to the homestead within this Paragraph shall extend to and shall apply to those properties, the legal title to which is vested in one or more titleholders, if actually occupied by one or more such owners as a residence, and one or more such titleholders possesses the qualifications provided for in this Paragraph. In such instances, such exemptions shall be granted to such properties, if claimed in the manner herein provided by one or more of the owners actually residing on such property. Such exemptions shall also extend to those homesteads, the title to which is vested in an administrator, executor, or trustee, if one or more of the heirs or cestui que uses residing on such property shall possess the qualifications provided for herein and shall claim the exemptions granted by this Paragraph in the manner herein provided. The exemption provided for herein shall apply to all taxable years beginning after December 31, 1980. The General Assembly may provide by law for the proper administration of this exemption including penalties necessary therefor."
DIVISION 5. - SALES AND USE TAX[10]

RELATED LAWS COMPARATIVE TABLE
This table shows the location of the Georgia Laws cited in the Related Laws.
EXPAND
Ga. Laws
Year Page  Section this
Related Laws
1877 267 Art. I
1882-83 492 Art. I, § 3
1920 636 Art. I, § 2—
Art. I, § 4
1929 745 Art. I, § 3
1953 3286 Art. I, § 3
1964 745 Art. I, § 4
817 Art. IV
3235 Art. II
1970 2845 Art. II, § 1,
Art. II, § 2
1975 3353 Art. I, § 3
1978 4576 Art. VI, Div. 5
1979 1854 Art. VI, Div. 4
1982 2607 Art. IV, § 1
4616 Art. II, § 3A
1984 3729 Art. I, § 1—
Art. I, § 3
Art. I, § 3A
1985 3737 Art. IV
1988 3685 Art. VI, Div. 3
3821 Art. VI, Div. 2
4225 Art. III
1992 5823 Art. VI, Div. 1
1994 3618 Art. I, § 2,
Art. I, § 3
1995 3585 Art. II, § 1,
Art. II, § 2
3726 Art. I, § 5,
Art. I, § 6
3883 Art. I, § 2,
Art. I, § 3
1998 4398 Art. V
1999 4388 Art. I, § 5—
Art. I, § 7
  Footnotes:
--- (10) ---
Editor's note— Printed herein is 1978 Ga. Laws, page 4576, which imposes a sales and use tax at the rate of one percent. Amendments to the Act are indicated by parenthetical history notes following amended provisions. The absence of a history note indicates that the provision remains unchanged from the original Act. Obvious misspellings have been corrected without notation. For stylistic purposes, a uniform system of headings, catchlines and citations to state statutes has been used. Additions made for clarity are indicated by brackets.
State Law reference— Limitation on taxing power of municipalities and counties, Ga. Const. art. IX, § II, ¶ VIII; taxation power of municipal and county governments, Ga. Const. art. IX, § IV, ¶ I.

Section 1. - Levied.
There is hereby levied and imposed, in addition to all other taxes of every kind now or hereafter imposed by law, a sales and use tax at the rate of one percent. The tax imposed shall correspond, so far as practical, except as to rate, with the Georgia Retailers' and Consumers' Sales and Use Tax Act, approved February 20, 1951 (1951 Ga. Laws, page 360), as amended, and no item or transaction which is not subject to taxation under the provisions of said Act shall be subject to the tax imposed pursuant to this Act. The tax imposed pursuant to this Act shall be a tax on all items, transactions and uses subject to the provisions of the Georgia Retailers' and Consumers' Sales and Use Tax Act, approved February 20, 1951 (1951 Ga. Laws, page 360), as amended, that occur within the boundaries of the County of Upson. The penalty for failure to comply with the requirements of this Act shall be the same as the penalty for failure to comply with the requirements of the Georgia Retailers' and Consumers' Sales and Use Tax Act, approved February 20, 1951 (1951 Ga. Laws, page 360), as amended, and enforcement of this Act shall be by the same procedures as are set forth for the enforcement of the Georgia Retailers' and Consumers' Sales and Use Tax Act, approved February 20, 1951 (1951 Ga. Laws, page 360), as amended.
Section 2. - Administration and collection.
The tax imposed pursuant to this Act shall be exclusively administered and collected by the State Revenue Commissioner for the use and benefit of the County of Upson. Such administration and collection shall be accomplished in the same manner and subject to the same applicable provisions, procedures and penalties provided for under the Georgia Retailers' and Consumers' Sales and Use Tax Act, approved February 20, 1951 (1951 Ga. Laws, page 360), as amended; provided, however, that all moneys collected from each taxpayer by the State Revenue Commissioner shall be first applied to such taxpayer's liability for taxes owed to the State of Georgia. Dealers shall be allowed a percentage of the amount of the tax due and accounted for and shall be reimbursed in the form of a deduction in submitting, reporting and paying the amount due, if said amount is not delinquent at the time of payment. The rate of the deduction shall be at the same rate authorized for deductions from State Tax under the Georgia Retailers' and Consumers' Sales and Use Tax Act, approved February 20, 1951 (1951 Ga. Laws, page 360), as amended.
Section 3. - Disbursement.
The proceeds of the tax collected by the State Revenue Commissioner under this Act shall be disbursed as soon as practicable after collection as follows:
(a)
One percent of the amount collected shall be paid into the general fund of the State Treasury in order to defray the costs of the administration.
(b)
Except for the percentage provided for in subsection (a) hereof, the remaining portion of the proceeds of such tax shall be paid to the governing authority of the County of Upson.
Section 4. - Adjustments in mill rate for 1979.
During the year 1979, which is the initial year that the tax imposed by this Act shall be effective, the governing authority of the County of Upson shall adjust the mill rate for county ad valorem taxation, which adjustment shall be equal in portions of Upson County which are inside the boundaries of any municipality and in portions of the county that are outside the boundaries of any municipality. The adjustment in the mill rate shall be made in the following manner:
(a)
The governing authority of the County of Upson shall first determine from the State Revenue Commissioner the total amount of the tax collected on all items, transactions and uses in the County of Upson under the Georgia Retailers' and Consumers' Sales and Use Tax Act, approved February 20, 1951 (1951 Ga. Laws, page 360), as amended, during the calendar year 1978. The tax collected during 1978, as aforesaid, shall then be divided by three. The resulting quotient shall equal the anticipated proceeds of the tax established by this Act, for the calendar year 1979.
(b)
The governing authority of the County of Upson shall next determine a mill rate on tangible property in the County of Upson that, if levied, would produce sufficient funds for county operations and maintenance, taking into account all other fines, forfeitures, fees, taxes and revenues of every kind collected or anticipated by the county during the year in which the tax is to be imposed, but in the absence of the anticipated proceeds of the tax imposed by this Act.
(c)
The governing authority of the County of Upson shall next determine a mill rate on tangible property in the County of Upson that would, if levied, produce funds in an amount equal to the anticipated proceeds of the tax imposed by this Act for the year 1979.
(d)
The mill rate levied by the governing authority of the County of Upson for the year 1979 shall be the mill rate that results by subtracting the mill rate that, if levied, would produce funds in an amount equal to the anticipated proceeds of the tax imposed by this Act for the year 1979, from the mill rate that, if levied, would produce sufficient funds for county operations and maintenance, taking into account additional county funds as set forth in Section 4(b) herein, but in the absence of the anticipated proceeds of the tax imposed by this Act.
Section 5. - Adjustment of mill rate after 1979.
For the years following 1979 the governing authority of Upson County shall adjust the mill rate for county ad valorem taxation, which adjustment shall be equal both inside the boundaries of any municipality and outside the boundaries of any municipality, in the following manner:
(a)
The governing authority of Upson County shall determine a mill rate on tangible property in Upson County that, if levied, would produce sufficient funds for county operations and maintenance, taking into account all other fines, forfeitures, fees, taxes and revenues of every kind collected or anticipated by the county for the year for which the mill rate is fixed, but in the absence of the proceeds of the tax imposed by this Act.
(b)
The governing authority of Upson County shall next determine a mill rate on tangible property in the County of Upson that, if levied, would produce funds in an amount equal to the portion of the proceeds of the tax imposed by this Act, that were disbursed by the State Revenue Commissioner to the governing authority of the County of Upson for the preceding year.
(c)
The mill rate levied by the governing authority of Upson County for all years following 1979, which mill rate shall be equal both as to property inside the boundaries of any municipality and outside the boundaries of any municipality, shall be that mill rate that results from subtracting the mill rate that, if levied, would produce funds in an amount equal to the county's portion of the proceeds of the tax received under this Act for the preceding year, from the mill rate that the governing authority shall have determined to be necessary to produce sufficient funds for the county's operations and maintenance, taking into account all other fines, forfeitures, fees, taxes and revenues of every kind collected or anticipated by the county for the year for which the mill rate is fixed, but in the absence of the county's portion of the proceeds of the tax imposed by this Act.
Section 6. - Effect of mill rate reduction to zero.
If as a result of Sections 4 and 5 of this Act, the mill rate levied for county operations and maintenance on tangible property shall be reduced to zero, then any funds derived from the tax imposed by this Act which remain in the county general fund may be expended by the governing authority of the County of Upson for any lawful governmental purpose, including the retirement of bonded indebtedness. In the event that the tax imposed by this Act should cause the mill rate to be reduced to zero, then said county shall continue to maintain the offices of tax assessor and tax commissioner and all other functions of tax assessment and tax collection in the same manner as if ad valorem taxes were to be paid to the county.
Section 7. - Statement of reduction of county ad valorem property taxes on tax bill.
The taxing authority of the County of Upson shall show in a prominent manner on the tax bill of each ad valorem taxpayer the dollar amount of the reduction of county ad valorem property taxes which such taxpayer has received as a result of the tax imposed by this Act.
Section 8. - Payment of tax on tangible personal property in another jurisdiction.
Where a local sales or use tax has been paid with respect to tangible personal property by the purchaser thereof, either in another local taxing jurisdiction within the State or in a taxing jurisdiction outside the State, where the purpose of the tax is similar in purpose and intent to the tax authorized to be imposed by this Act, said tax may be credited against the tax authorized to be imposed by this Act, upon the same property. If the amount of sales or use tax so paid is less than the amount of the use tax due as authorized to be imposed by this Act, the purchaser shall pay an amount equal to the difference between the amount so paid in the other taxing jurisdiction and the amount due as authorized to be imposed by this Act. The State Revenue Commissioner may require such proof of payment in another local taxing jurisdiction as is deemed to be necessary and proper.
Section 9. - Exemptions.
No tax shall be imposed upon the sale of tangible personal property which is ordered by and delivered to the purchaser at a point outside the boundaries of Upson County, regardless of the point at which title passes, if such delivery is made by the seller's vehicle, U. S. mail, common carrier or by private contract carrier licensed by the Interstate Commerce Commission or the Georgia Public Service Commission.
Section 10. - Contents of return.
Each sales tax return remitting taxes collected hereunder shall separately identify the location of each retail establishment at which establishment any of the taxes remitted were collected and shall specify the amount of sales and the amount of taxes collected at each such establishment for the period concerned by the return so as to thereby facilitate determination by the Revenue Commissioner that all taxes imposed by this Act are collected and distributed according to situs of sale.
Section 11. - Legislative authority; effective date.
The Act is enacted pursuant to the terms and provisions of a certain amendment to the Constitution of Georgia, as amended, proposed by the General Assembly of Georgia of 1978 and submitted as is provided in Article XII, Section I, Paragraph I of the Constitution of the State of Georgia of 1976 [Ga. Const. art. XII, § I, ¶ I] for vote thereon at the general election of 1978, which amendment gives to the General Assembly the power and authority to enact such legislation and this Act shall become effective only if said amendment shall be ratified and adopted at said general election of 1978 as provided by law, and if so ratified and adopted, this Act shall become effective January 1, 1979.
Section 12. - Effect of statewide increase in tax.
In the event that the State of Georgia, during the year 1978, or in any subsequent year, shall impose a statewide increase in the sales and use tax, so that the tax imposed by the State of Georgia throughout the State shall be greater than three percent, then, at such time as the statewide increase shall become effective, the sales and use tax of one percent in and for the County of Upson, imposed by this Act, shall be ineffective, and no tax imposed by this Act shall thereafter be collected.
Section 13. - Conflicting laws.
All laws and parts of laws in conflict herewith are hereby repealed; provided, however, should this Act be held to be unconstitutional then the repeal of existing laws shall not be effective and all such laws shall remain of force as though this Act had not been passed. For as long as this Act shall be in effect, Section 26A of the Georgia Retailers' and Consumers' Sales and Use Tax Act (1975 Ga. Laws, page 984) shall not be effective in the County of Upson.
