Chapter 23 - NUISANCE ABATEMENT ORDINANCE

Sec. 23-1. - Short title.
This chapter is known as and may be cited as "The Upson County Nuisance Abatement Ordinance."
(Ord. No. 187, § 3, 12-12-2006; Ord. No. 211, § 1, 11-10-2009)
Sec. 23-2. - Intent and purpose.
The board of commissioners hereby declares it to be the purpose and intent of this chapter to establish a uniform and exclusive summary procedure for use in the abatement of public nuisances in unincorporated Upson County. The provisions hereof are adopted pursuant to the authority provided by The O.C.G.A. § 41-2-7 et seq., as amended by the 2001 Session of the General Assembly. It is the further purpose and intent of this chapter that the procedures established hereunder shall comply with the minimum provisions of O.C.G.A. 41-2-7 et seq.
(Ord. No. 187, § 3, 12-12-2006; Ord. No. 211, § 2, 11-10-2009)
Sec. 23-3. - Conflicting law.
The provisions of the 1985 edition of the Standard Unsafe Building Abatement Code, previously adopted by the board of commissioners shall no longer be used for nuisance abatement. Since there are pending cases brought under the Standard Unsafe Building Abatement Code, the provisions thereof may but shall not be required to be used for cases in which a Notice of Unsafe Building was issued prior to the adoption of this the Upson County Nuisance Abatement Ordinance. In all other cases in which a nuisance is complained of, the provisions of this chapter shall govern.
(Ord. No. 187, § 3, 12-12-2006; Ord. No. 211, § 3, 11-10-2009)
Sec. 23-4. - Findings.
The board of commissioners finds that there exist in unincorporated Upson County properties which are unfit for human habitation or for commercial, industrial, or business uses due to dilapidation and which are not in compliance with applicable codes; which have defects increasing the hazards of fire accidents, or other calamities; which lack adequate ventilation, light, or sanitary facilities; which have other conditions that render such properties unsafe or unsanitary, or dangerous or detrimental to the health, safety, or welfare, or otherwise inimical to the welfare of the residents of Upson County; or which are vacant and being used in the commission of drug crimes.
(Ord. No. 187, § 3, 12-12-2006; Ord. No. 211, § 4, 11-10-2009)
Sec. 23-5. - Definitions.
As used throughout this chapter, the term:
Applicable codes means (1) any optional housing or abatement standard provided in O.C.G.A. tit. 8, ch. 2, including standard minimum codes as adopted now or hereafter by ordinance, or by operation of law, or other property maintenance standards as adopted now or hereafter by ordinance or operation of law, or general nuisance law, relative to the safe use of real property; and (2) any fire or life safety code as provided for in O.C.G.A, tit. 25, ch. 2. Any such building or minimum standard codes for real property improvements shall be deemed to mean those building or minimum standard codes in existence at the time such real property improvements were constructed unless otherwise provided by law.
Closing means causing a property to be vacated and secured against unauthorized entry.
Drug crime means an act which is a violation of O.C.G.A. tit. 16, ch. 13, art. 2, known as the "Georgia Controlled Substances Act."
Owner means both the current owner of record and any current mortgagee holding legal title by virtue of a security instrument as shown by a 50-year title examination conducted in accordance with the title standards of the State Bar of Georgia.
Parties in interest (for the purposes of service under section 23-8) are the owner and any other persons or entities included within the following categories:
(1)
Persons in possession of said property and premises;
(2)
Persons having of record in Upson County any vested right, title, or interest in or lien upon such property based upon a 50-year title examination conducted in accordance with the title standards of the State Bar of Georgia;
(3)
Persons having paid an occupation tax within the previous calendar year to Upson County for a location or office at the subject building or structure; or
(4)
Persons having filed a property tax return with the tax commissioner as to the subject property for the most recent tax year in which such returns have become due.
Property means any lot, tract, or parcel of real estate whether improved or unimproved. It shall include any dwelling, building, structure, or part thereof used and occupied for human habitation or commercial, industrial, or business uses, or intended to be so used, and includes any outhouse, improvement, and appurtenance belonging thereto or usually enjoyed therewith and also includes any building or structure of any design. The term shall expressly include, for means of amplification and not limitation, a swimming pool. Also as used in this chapter, the terms shall not mean or include any farm, any building or structure located on a farm, or any agricultural facility or other building or structure used for the production, growing, raising, harvesting, storage, or processing of crops, livestock, poultry, or other farm products.
Public authority means any member of the board of commissioners, any housing authority officer, or any officer who is in charge of any department or branch of Upson County Government relating to health, fire, or building regulations or to other activities concerning properties in the county; however, in no event shall any such public authority who files a request for investigation hereunder be the public officer exercising the powers conferred upon public officers under this chapter.
Public officer means either the head of the county building and zoning office or his or her designee, or the environmental officer of the Upson County Board of Health or his or her designee.
Repair means altering or improving a property so as to bring any dwelling, building, or structure into compliance with the applicable codes in the jurisdiction where the property is located and/or the cleaning or removal of debris, trash, and other materials present and accumulated which create unsanitary and unsafe conditions which are an endangerment to the public health or safety in or about any property.
Resident means any person residing in unincorporated Upson County on or after the date on which the alleged nuisance arose.
(Ord. No. 187, § 3, 12-12-2006; Ord. No. 211, § 5, 11-10-2009)
Sec. 23-6. - Duties of property owners.
(a)
It is the duty of the owner of every property located within the unincorporated Upson County:
(1)
To construct and maintain such property in conformance with applicable codes in force within unincorporated Upson County, or such ordinances which regulate and prohibit activities on property and which declare it to be a public nuisance to construct or maintain any property in violation of such codes or ordinances; and
(2)
To keep such property clean and free of any materials or conditions which create a health or safety hazard either on such property or to surrounding persons or properties.
(b)
No owner shall allow any property located within unincorporated Upson County to be used in the commission of drug crimes.
(Ord. No. 187, § 3, 12-12-2006; Ord. No. 211, § 6, 11-10-2009)
Sec. 23-7. - Nuisance abatement procedure.
(a)
Appointment and designation of public officer. Each of the following is hereby appointed and designated as a public officer with the authority to carry out the powers and duties of this Chapter: The Upson County Building Official and the environmental officer of the Upson County Board of Health. Such appointment and designation shall include the designees of such persons.
(b)
Complaint and investigation. Whenever a request is filed with a public officer by a public authority or by at least five residents of the unincorporated area of the county charging that any property:
(1)
Is unfit for human habitation or for commercial, industrial, or business use and not in compliance with applicable codes;
(2)
Is vacant and being used in connection with the commission of drug crimes; or
(3)
Constitutes an endangerment to the public health or safety as a result of unsanitary or unsafe conditions.
The public officer with whom the request is filed shall make an investigation or inspection of the specific property. If an inspection is necessary, the public officer shall endeavor to obtain the permission of the owner to conduct such inspection. If permission is withheld, the public officer may seek the assistance of the county attorney's office to obtain an inspection warrant from a court of competent jurisdiction.
(c)
Judicial complaint and summons. If the public officer's investigation or inspection confirms that any property meets one or more of the three enumerated standards from subsection (b), the public officer may file in a court of competent jurisdiction a complaint in rem against the lot, tract, or parcel of real property wherein the nuisance complained of exists and shall cause summons and a copy of the complaint to be served on the parties in interest of such dwelling, building, or structure pursuant to the provisions of section 23-8. The complaint shall identify the subject real property by appropriate street address and official tax map reference; identify the parties in interest; state with particularity the factual basis for the action; and contain a statement of the action sought by the public officer to abate the alleged nuisance.
(d)
Time of hearing. The summons shall notify the parties in interest that a hearing will be held before a court of competent jurisdiction at a date and time certain. Such hearing shall be held no sooner than 15 days and no later than 45 days after the filing of said complaint in the proper court. However, in the event that service upon the probate judge is necessary under the provisions of section 23-8, the hearing will be held no sooner than 30 days following service upon the probate judge though still in no event shall the hearing be held more than 45 days after the filing of said complaint.
(e)
Right to be heard. The parties in interest shall have the right to file an answer to the complaint and to appear in person or by attorney and offer testimony at the time and place fixed for hearing.
(f)
Order. If, after such notice and hearing, the court determines that the property in question meets one or more of the standards enumerated in subsection (b) so as to constitute a public nuisance, the court shall state in writing findings of fact in support of such determination and shall issue and cause to be served upon the owner and any parties in interest that have answered the complaint or appeared at the hearing an order which does one of the following:
(1)
If the repair of the said property can be made at a reasonable cost in relation to its present value, the order shall require the owner, within a specified time, to repair such property so as to bring it into full compliance with the applicable codes relevant to the cited violation and, if applicable, to effect a closing of any structure so that it cannot be used in connection with the commission of drug crimes; or
(2)
If the repair of the said property in order to bring it into full compliance with applicable codes relevant to the cited violations cannot be made at a reasonable cost in relation to the present value thereof, the order shall require the owner, within a specified time, to demolish and remove the noncompliant dwelling, building, or structure and all debris from the property.
For purposes of this section, in cases in which the nuisance complained of is a dwelling, building, or structure of any kind, the court shall make its determination of 'reasonable cost in relation to the present value' without consideration of the value of the land on which the structure is situated; provided, however, the costs of the preparation necessary to repair a structure may be considered. Income and financial status of the owner shall not be a factor in the court's determination. The present value of the structure and the costs of repair, alteration, or improvement may be established by affidavits of real estate appraisers with a Georgia appraiser classification as provided in O.C.G.A. tit. 43, ch. 39A, qualified building contractors with a current business license to do work in Upson County, or qualified building inspectors without actual testimony presented. Costs of repair, alteration, or improvement of the structure shall be the cost necessary to bring the structure into compliance with the applicable codes relevant to the cited violations
(g)
Remedies of public officer in the event of noncompliance with order.
(1)
The order entered under subsection (f) shall further provide that, if the owner fails to comply with an order to repair, demolish, or close the property within the specified time, the public officer may cause such property to be repaired, demolished, or closed, whichever the order required upon approval of the board of commissioners. The public officer is also authorized to file a motion for attachment for contempt against the owner with the court which issued the order as an alternate or additional remedy.
(2)
If the public officer chooses to have the work done as ordered, he or she shall cause to be posted on the main entrance of the building, dwelling, or structure a placard with the following words:
This building is unfit for human habitation or commercial, industrial, or business use and does not comply with the applicable codes or has been ordered secured to prevent its use in connection with drug crimes or constitutes an endangerment to public health or safety as a result of unsanitary or unsafe conditions. The use or occupation of this building is prohibited and unlawful. Removal of this notice shall constitute a crime.
(3)
It shall be unlawful for any person to remove any such posted notice, and anyone who does shall upon conviction be punished as provided by ordinance. The code enforcement officer shall have the authority to cite persons for such unlawful removal.
(h)
Salvage. If the public officer has a structure demolished, reasonable effort shall be made to salvage reusable materials for credit against the cost of demolition. The proceeds of any moneys received from the sale of salvaged materials shall be used or applied against the cost of the demolition and removal of the structure, and proper records shall be kept showing application of sales proceeds. Any such sale of salvaged materials may be made without the necessity of public advertisement and bid. Neither the public officer nor Upson County shall have any liability resulting from or occasioned by the sale of any such salvaged materials, including, without limitation, defects in such salvaged materials.
(i)
Lien for costs. The order shall provide that the amount of all costs associated with the abatement action shall be a lien against the real property upon which such costs was incurred. Such costs shall include but not be limited to the cost of demolition, reasonable attorneys' fees and all court costs, appraisal fees, administrative costs incurred by the tax commissioner, restoration to grade of the real property should it be demolished, and title examination costs. The order should recite the amount of costs incurred by the county as of the date of the order. Upon preparing a final statement of costs, the public officer shall prepare a "lien for costs of abatement" detailing any and all such costs. Such lien shall attach to the real property upon the filing of a certified copy of the order requiring repair, closure, or demolition, in the office of the clerk of superior court, and shall relate back to the date of the filing of the lis pendens notice required under section 23-8. The clerk of superior court shall record and index such certified copy of the order in the deed records of the county and enter the lien for costs of abatement on the general execution docket. Such lien should cross-reference the order and include the original caption and case number from the nuisance abatement action. The lien shall be superior to all other liens on the property, except liens for taxes to which the lien shall be inferior, and shall continue in force until paid in full. After filing a certified copy of the order with the clerk of superior court, the public officer shall forward a copy of the order and a final statement of costs to the tax commissioner.
(j)
Enforcement of lien. It shall be the duty of the tax commissioner to collect the amount of the lien in conjunction with the collection of ad valorem taxes on the property; however, the tax commissioner shall be authorized to bill the amount of the lien as it comes due separately from the annual ad valorem tax bill in order to ensure prompt notice of the amount of the lien and so as to not interfere with the regular billing cycle of the annual ad valorem taxes. The tax commissioner shall have the full authority to collect the amount of the lien as if it were a real property ad valorem tax, using all methods available for collecting real property ad valorem taxes, including specifically O.C.G.A. tit. 48, ch. 4; provided, however, that the limitation of O.C.G.A. § 48-4-78 which requires 12 months of delinquency before commencing a tax foreclosure shall not apply. The tax commissioner shall remit the amount collected to the general fund of the county. Thirty days after imposition of the lien, the unpaid lien amount shall bear interest and penalties in the same amount as applicable to interest and penalties on unpaid real property ad valorem taxes.
(k)
Waiver of lien. The board of commissioners may waive and release any such lien imposed on property of the owner for costs incurred by the county up to the time of the entry of the order and any additional costs incurred subsequent thereto in attempting to bring the property into compliance by entering into a contract with the owner in which the owner agrees to a timetable for rehabilitation of the real property or the dwelling, building, or structure on the property and demonstrates the financial means to accomplish such rehabilitation.
(l)
Appellate procedure. Where the abatement action does not commence in the superior court, review of a court order requiring the repair, alteration, improvement, or demolition of a property shall be by direct appeal to the superior court under O.C.G.A. § 5-3-29.
(m)
Alternate remedies. Nothing in this section shall be construed as to limit or impair the authority of public officers or other county employees under existing and future ordinances to issue citations for violations of state minimum standard codes, optional building, fire, life safety, and other codes adopted by ordinance, and conditions creating a public health hazard or general nuisance, and to seek to enforce such citations in a court of competent jurisdiction prior to issuing a complaint in rem as provided in this chapter. The issuance of a citation for a violation of any such codes shall not be required as a prerequisite to issuing a complaint in rem under this section.
(Ord. No. 187, § 3, 12-12-2006; Ord. No. 211, § 7, 11-10-2009)
Sec. 23-8. - Service and notice.
(a)
Copies of the complaint and summons shall be served in each of the following ways as applicable:
(1)
In all cases, by conspicuously posting a copy on the subject dwelling, building, structure, or property within three days of the filing of the complaint.
(2)
In all cases, by mailing a copy to the property address by first class mail addressed to the attention of the occupants, if any.
(3)
By personal service upon each party in interest if the identity and whereabouts of said parties are reasonably ascertainable and if such parties are residents of the county. Service shall be perfected at least ten days prior to the date of the hearing. Service may be made by the public officer designated by ordinance to abate nuisances, by any law enforcement officer of the county, by the code enforcement officer or by permanent process server; and a return of service, filed with the clerk of the appropriate court, shall be deemed sufficient proof that service was perfected.
(4)
By certified mail or statutory overnight delivery, return receipt requested to the most recent address shown in county tax records and real estate records and mailed at least 14 days prior to the date of the hearing if any party in interest is a resident of this state but resides outside of the county or if any party in interest is a nonresident of this state, if the addresses are known.
(5)
By publication for nonresidents and residents of the state who reside outside of the county whose mailing addresses are unknown. A notice stating the date, time, and place of the hearing shall be published in the newspaper in which the sheriffs advertisements appear in such county once a week for two consecutive weeks prior to the hearing.
(6)
By personal service upon a guardian or other personal representative in the event that any party in interest is a minor, an estate, an incompetent person, or person laboring under disabilities. If such guardian or personal representative resides outside the county or is a nonresident of this state, he or she shall be served as provided for in paragraphs (4) and (5) of this section. If such party in interest has no guardian or personal representative, service shall be perfected by personally serving the judge of the probate court at least 30 days prior to the date of the hearing which judge shall stand in the place of and protect the rights of such minor, estate, or incompetent person or appoint a guardian ad litem for such person.
(7)
By personal service upon the judge of the probate court in the event of unknown persons or unborn remaindermen who are likely to have any rights in the property or interest in the proceeds thereof. Service shall be perfected at least 30 days prior to the date of the hearing, and it shall be the duty of the judge of the probate court to stand in the place of and protect the rights of such unknown parties or unborn remaindermen.
(8)
By publication in all other cases where the whereabouts of any party in interest is unknown and the same cannot be ascertained by the public officer in the exercise of reasonable diligence or if any party in interest cannot, after due diligence, be served as provided in this section. In such event, the public officer shall make an affidavit to that effect and serve by publication in the manner provided in paragraph (5) of this Code section, and such publication shall be sufficient proof that service was perfected.
(b)
A notice of lis pendens shall be filed in the office of the clerk of superior court in the county in which the dwelling, building, or structure is located at the time of filing the complaint in the appropriate court. Such notice shall have the same force and effect as other lis pendens notices provided by law.
(c)
Orders and other filings made subsequent to service of the initial complaint and summons shall be served in the manner provided in this section or in O.C.G.A. tit. 41, ch. 2, § 12, including certified mail or statutory overnight delivery, return receipt requested, on any party in interest who answers the complaint or appears at the hearing. Any party who fails to answer or appear at the hearing shall be deemed to have waived all further notice in the proceedings.
(Ord. No. 187, § 3, 12-12-2006; Ord. No. 211, § 8, 11-10-2009)
State Law reference— Abatement of unsafe buildings authorized, O.C.G.A. § 41-2-7, et seq.
