ARTICLE IV. - ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE SPECIAL EVENT PERMIT

Sec. 6-161. - Title.
This article shall be known as and may be cited as the "Alcoholic Beverage Special Event Permit."
( Ord. No. 246 , § 1, 3-22-2016)
Sec. 6-162. - Authority and jurisdiction.
Whereas, consistent with Georgia Law, the Upson County Board of Commissioners has the authority to establish by ordinance or resolution such local rules and regulations, not in conflict with existing state or federal law, relating to the health, safety, and welfare of the public.
Now therefore be it resolved that the following rules and regulations are hereby adopted. These regulations shall apply to all unincorporated land located within the boundaries of Upson County, Georgia.
The purpose for the enactment of this article is to establish a special event permit authorizing the sale of wine and/or beer and malt beverages and/or distilled spirits for consumption on the premise of a permitted location not to exceed a three-day period.
( Ord. No. 246 , § 1, 3-22-2016)
Sec. 6-163. - Alcoholic beverage special event permit.
A special event shall be defined as an organized activity having as its purpose entertainment, recreation and/or education which takes place on private or public property. Such special events may include but are not limited to the following: fairs, tours, grand openings, races, parades, marches, rallies, assemblies, festivals, concerts, and holiday celebrations. A special event permit is required for all special events that involve the consumption of alcohol.
( Ord. No. 246 , § 2, 3-22-2016)
Sec. 6-164. - Special event permit requirements.
(a)
Except as provided for in section 6-166 of this article, wine and/or beer and malt beverages and/or distilled spirits shall only be sold, served, or otherwise provided at a special event only if the person providing said alcoholic beverage has applied for and received a special event permit.
(b)
In order to sell, serve, or otherwise provide wine, and/or beer and malt beverages, and/or distilled spirits at a special event, at a permitted location, the person providing, wine and/or beer and malt beverages and/or distilled spirits at a special event shall be required to comply with the following:
(1)
Complete an application form with the board of county commissioners as provided by the county.
(2)
All applications must be completed in full and submitted at least 14 days prior to the planned special event. Upon a showing of good cause, any application filed less than 14 days before the special event may be consider and approved at the discretion of the county manager, or his designee, and be subject to a $200.00 late fee.
(3)
Applicants must be at least 21 years of age, a United States citizen or an alien lawfully admitted for permanent residency, and a resident of the State of Georgia.
(4)
If the applicant is not the owner as listed on the deed of the property wherein said wine and/or beer and malt beverages and/or distilled spirits shall be served, a notarized letter from the property owner, including phone number and address, authorizing the applicant to act on their behalf must be provided at the time the application is considered.
(5)
All applications will be considered for approval by the county manager or his designee. If the county manager or designee finds the application is deficient and therefore denied, applicants may appeal in writing to the board of commissioners within five days of the date of the denial. Any appeal received outside of the five-day deadline will not be considered.
(6)
Prior to receiving a permit, each applicant must have security measures in place approved by the sheriff concerning noise control, crowd control, traffic and compliance with all local, state, and federal laws.
(7)
For all approved applications, applicants will receive a permit from the office of the board of commissioners. All permits must be made available on site when requested by any county, state, or federal official.
(8)
Each application shall specify the date, time and location of the event and may not be changed except by approval of the county manager or his designee.
(9)
Incomplete applications shall not be considered for approval.
(10)
Applicants must pay a $100.00 application fee for each special event permit to the office of the board of commissioners. This application fee shall be non-refundable. Each applicant shall be liable for any additional costs incurred by the county as a result of the event.
(11)
Permits approved by the county shall authorize the applicant to sell wine and/or beer and malt beverages and/or distilled spirits for consumption on the premise of the permitted location for a period not to exceed three days, subject to all laws and ordinances regulating the selling of such beverages; no more than six such permits may be issued to the applicant in any one calendar year.
(12)
All event locations and all applicants must otherwise be in compliance with all federal, state, and local law.
(13)
All event locations must comply with current zoning ordinances of Upson County subject to the specific limitations of the respective districts. For alcoholic beverage special event permitting purposes only, a special event license may be granted for locations zoned A-R (agricultural residential).
( Ord. No. 246 , § 2, 3-22-2016)
Sec. 6-165. - Payment of taxes and other county debt.
The county manager or his designee shall be authorized to cause an inquiry into the tax records of any applicant or other interested party to an application to determine if any outstanding taxes, special assessments, unpaid utilities or any other monies are owed to the county. No permit shall be considered for issuance whereby it is determined there are outstanding monies owed to the county.
( Ord. No. 246 , § 3, 3-22-2016)
Sec. 6-166. - Exceptions.
The requirements of this chapter shall not apply to a private function held at a private residence at which alcoholic beverages are purchased and served by a person not otherwise required to be licensed pursuant to this or any other ordinance to invited guests of such person, provided that the person holding the event purchases the alcoholic beverage and receives no payment of any kind from the invited guests, and the event is not open or accessible to the general public and is otherwise permitted under the county's ordinances.
( Ord. No. 246 , § 4, 3-22-2016)
Sec. 6-167. - Violations; penalties; revocations.
(a)
No person shall violate any of the provisions of this article or assist another in evading the requirements imposed by this article. Any person who shall violate this article shall, upon conviction, be subject to the punishment as provided in section 1-11.
(b)
The county manager or county clerk shall have the authority to revoke a special events permit issued under this article upon a finding that the application as filed contained false, misleading, or incomplete information and therefore does not comply with the standards for issuance as set forth under this article.
( Ord. No. 246 , § 5, 3-22-2016)
