ARTICLE IV. - ORGANIZATION AND ADMINISTRATION
CHAPTER 1. - GENERAL PROVISIONS

Section 4.1. - City departments and agencies.
Except as provided by this Charter, the departments and agencies of the city shall be created and established by ordinance, and the departments shall be responsible for the performance of the functions and services enumerated therein and as prescribed by administrative regulations of the city manager consistent therewith. The operations and responsibilities of such departments and agencies shall be distributed among divisions or bureaus and shall consist of such officers and employees as may be provided by ordinance or administrative regulations consistent therewith.
Section 4.2. - Administrative reorganization.
The mayor and council may by ordinance organize, combine, consolidate, or discontinue such departments, agencies, divisions, or bureaus of the city government as they may from time to time deem desirable; except, however, that the city shall continue to provide and maintain professional firefighting and prevention services through the city's municipal fire department which shall be composed of full-time, paid personnel who are and shall be employees of the city.
CHAPTER 2. - CITY MANAGER

Section 4.11. - Appointment, qualifications, term, compensation.
The mayor and council shall appoint a city manager, who shall be the administrative head of the city government and shall be responsible for the administration of all departments. The city manager shall be appointed with regard to merit only and need not be a resident of the city when appointed. The city manager shall hold office at the pleasure of the mayor and council and shall receive such compensation as the mayor and council shall fix by ordinance.
Section 4.12. - Duties and responsibilities.
The city manager shall:
(1)
See that the laws of the state and the ordinances, resolutions, rules, and regulations of the city are faithfully executed and enforced;
(2)
Prepare the agenda and attend meetings of the mayor and council and recommend for adoption any measure deemed expedient;
(3)
Make reports to the mayor and council from time to time upon the affairs of the city and keep the mayor and council fully advised of the city's financial condition and its future financial needs;
(4)
Appoint and suspend or remove all city employees, except the municipal judge, city attorney, and city auditor, in accordance with such general personnel rules, regulations, policies, and ordinances as the mayor and council may adopt;
(5)
Prepare and submit the annual budget and capital program to the mayor and council;
(6)
Direct and supervise the administration of all departments, properties, and operations of the city, subject to the general direction and control of the mayor and council;
(7)
Investigate the affairs, records, accounts, and expenditures of the various commissions and boards created by the City of Valdosta and report thereon at least once a year to the mayor and council;
(8)
Have the right to request the counsel, advice, and opinion of the city attorney concerning any matter affecting the interest of the city; and it shall be the duty of the city attorney to respond to such requests to the best of his or her ability;
(9)
Act in a liaison capacity on behalf of the mayor and council with boards, offices, agencies, and commissions of the city;
(10)
Sign contracts, deeds, licenses, and other public documents on behalf of the city, after approval of the mayor and council; and
(11)
Exercise any other powers and perform any other duties required or authorized by the mayor and council and not inconsistent with this Charter.
Section 4.13. - Mayor and council not to interfere with appointments, discipline or removals.
Neither the mayor and council nor any of its members shall direct or request the appointment of any person to, or removal from, office by the city manager or by any of the city manager's subordinates or in any manner take part in the appointment, discipline or removal of officers and employees in the administrative service of the city. Except for the purpose of inquiry, the mayor and council and its members shall deal with the administrative services solely through the city manager, and neither the council nor any member thereof shall give orders to any subordinate of the city manager, either publicly or privately, directly or indirectly.
Section 4.14. - Claims against city.
No claim against or in favor of the city shall be paid or collected without prior approval of the city manager.
Section 4.15. - Removal and vacancy.
(a)
The mayor and council may remove the city manager at any time by a majority vote adopting a resolution to that effect. The city manager may, within ten days after notice of adoption of such resolution, reply in writing and may request a public hearing, which shall be held not earlier than 20 days nor later than 30 days after the filing of such request. The action of the mayor and council in removing the city manager, however, shall be final. Upon his or her removal as herein provided, the city manager shall be paid severance pay as may be negotiated between mayor and council and the city manager, but under no circumstances shall it exceed a total of six months of his or her annual salary.
(b)
When there shall be a vacancy in the office of city manager, the duties and functions of city manager shall be discharged by the mayor and council.
CHAPTER 3. - FINANCE AND FISCAL
Subchapter A. - Taxation

Section 4.21. - Property tax.
For the purpose of raising revenue for the support and maintenance of the government, the mayor and council shall have full power and authority, and they shall provide by ordinance for the assessment, levy, and collection of an ad valorem tax on all real and personal property within the corporate limits of the city, not exceeding $1.00 on $100.00, exclusive of taxation for public schools.
Section 4.22. - Time for paying taxes.
The city, through the mayor and council, is authorized to declare by ordinance ad valorem taxes due the city, payable either annually, semiannually, or quarterly, as the mayor and council of the city in their discretion may deem best.
Section 4.23. - Collection of delinquent taxes.
The mayor and council may provide by ordinance for the collection of delinquent taxes by fi. fa. issued by the city clerk and executed by any police officer or other duly sworn peace officer of the city under the same procedure provided by the laws governing execution of such processes and remedies. A lien shall exist against all property upon which the city property taxes are levied, as of the assessment date of each year.
Section 4.24. - Licenses; occupation taxes; excise taxes.
To the extent permitted by the constitution of Georgia and general law, the mayor and council by ordinance shall have full power to levy such licenses and specific or occupation taxes upon the residents of the city, both individual and corporate, and upon all those who transact or offer to transact business therein or who practice or offer to practice any profession or calling therein, as the mayor and council may deem expedient for the public health, safety, benefit, convenience or advantage of the city; to classify businesses, occupations, professions, or callings for the purpose of such taxation in any way which may be lawful; to require such persons to procure licenses; to compel the payment of such licenses by execution or any other lawful manner; to enact ordinances and regulations necessary or proper to carry out the powers herein conferred; and to prescribe penalties for the violation thereof. The mayor and council shall have full power and authority to levy an excise tax not prohibited by general law.
Section 4.25. - Sewer service charges.
The mayor and council by ordinance shall have the right, power, and authority to assess and collect fees, charges, and tolls for sewer services rendered both within and without the corporate limits of the city and to provide for the cost and expense of providing for the collection and disposal of sewage through the sewerage facilities of the city. If unpaid, the sewer service charge shall constitute a lien against any property owned by the person who incurred the charges.
Section 4.26. - Sanitary and health services charge.
The mayor and council shall have authority by ordinance to provide for, enforce, levy, and collect the costs of sanitary and health services, including the power to fix, assess, and collect garbage, refuse, trash collection and disposal, and other sanitary charges, taxes or fees, for such services as may be necessary in the operation of the city from all individuals, firms, and corporations residing in or doing business in the city benefiting from such services. Such authority shall include the power to assess, levy, and collect annual or monthly sanitary taxes or fees in such amount or amounts and based upon and in accordance with such classification of property and sanitary service or services provided as may be fixed by ordinance. The sanitary taxes and the assessments thereon shall be a charge and lien against the real estate in respect to which the taxes are so assessed and the owner or owners thereof.
Section 4.27. - Transfer of executions.
The city clerk shall be authorized to assign or transfer any fi. fa. or execution issued for any tax or for any street, sewer, or other assessment in the same manner and to the same extent as provided by Georgia law regarding sales and transfers of tax fi. fas. Such transfer or assignment, when made, shall vest the purchaser or transferee with all right, title, and interest as provided by Georgia law governing sales and transfers of fi. fas. Provided that, upon levy of execution and sale of property pursuant to such tax fi. fa., whether assigned, transferred, or executed by the city, the owner of such property, in fee simple or lesser interest, shall not lose his or her right to redeem the property in accord with the requirements or redemption of property sold under state or county ad valorem tax fi. fas. as said requirements now exist or as may be hereinafter provided by law.
Subchapter B. - Borrowing

Section 4.31. - General obligation bonds.
The mayor and council shall have the power to issue bonds for the purpose of raising revenue to carry out any project, program, or venture authorized under this Charter or the general laws of the state. Such bonding authority shall be exercised in accordance with the laws governing bond issuances by municipalities in effect at the time the issue is undertaken.
Section 4.32. - Revenue bonds.
Revenue bonds may be issued by the mayor and council as provided by O.C.G.A. title 36, art. 3, ch. 82, the "Revenue Bond Law," as now or hereafter amended, or by any other Georgia law as now in effect or hereafter enacted.
Section 4.33. - Shortterm notes.
Pursuant to applicable state law, the city may obtain temporary loans between January 1 and December 31 of each year.
Subchapter C. - Budgeting

Section 4.41. - Fiscal year.
The fiscal year of the city shall be as fixed by ordinance of the mayor and council. The fiscal year shall constitute the budget year and the year for financial accounting, planning, and reporting of each department, office, agency, or activity of the city.
Section 4.42. - Budget preparation and adoption.
The mayor and council shall provide by ordinance for the adoption of an annual operating budget, a capital improvement program, and a capital budget, which ordinance shall apply to all departments and agencies of the city. The ordinance shall prescribe the procedures and requirements for the preparation, adoption, and execution of the annual operating and capital budgets; provided, however, such budgets shall be prepared and submitted by the city manager to the mayor and council for their consideration prior to the commencement of the ensuing fiscal year.
Subchapter D. - External Audit

Section 4.51. - [Audit.]
(a)
The mayor and council shall provide annually for an independent audit of the accounts and other evidences of financial transactions of the government of the city and of its every office, department, board, authority, commission, or other agency. The audit shall be made by an accountant or an accounting firm, the members of which have no personal interest, direct or indirect, in the fiscal affairs of the city or of any of its offices, departments, boards, authorities, commissions, or agencies. The designated accountant shall be a certified public accountant or, if an accounting firm is employed, the members thereof shall be so certified and thoroughly qualified by training and experience in governmental accounting to perform the audit.
(b)
The audit may be conducted on a quarterly or continuing basis, and the final report of the annual audit shall be completed as soon as practicable after the close of the fiscal year and in no event later than six months after the close of the fiscal year. The audit report shall be available to the public.
(c)
The mayor and council may at any time order an examination or special audit of any office, department, board, authority, commission, or other agency of the city.
CHAPTER 4. - PERSONNEL

Section 4.61. - Personnel system.
The mayor and council shall establish by ordinance a system of personnel administration. The system shall cover all employees of the city except: (1) elected officials; (2) persons temporarily employed in a professional or scientific capacity; and (3) temporary and part-time employees. The system of personnel administration shall set forth policies, rules, and regulations to administer the personnel affairs of the city.
