ARTICLE VI. - MUNICIPAL COURT

Section 6.1. - Municipal judge and municipal judge pro tempore—Appointments; terms; municipal court established; maximum penalty.
The mayor and council shall appoint a municipal judge who shall hold office at the pleasure of the mayor and council. The mayor and council shall also appoint a municipal judge pro tempore who shall serve in the absence of the municipal judge or at his or her request. The municipal judge shall have full power and authority to hold, at such times and places and under such rules and regulations as may be prescribed by ordinances, a municipal court for the city for the trial of offenders against ordinances, rules, regulations, and bylaws of the city and impose such penalties therefor, not exceeding a fine of $1,000.00 or confinement not to exceed 90 days in the jail designated by the city for the housing of prisoners, said fine to be collected by execution issued by the city clerk against the estate, both real and personal of the offender.
Section 6.2. - Same—Salary; vacancy in office.
The salary of the municipal judge shall be fixed by the mayor and council. In the absence of the municipal judge, the municipal judge pro tempore may exercise the powers and duties of the municipal judge. In the event of the death, resignation, or removal of the municipal judge, the municipal judge pro tempore shall have the powers and authority of the municipal judge until a new municipal judge is approved by the mayor and council.
Section 6.3. - Same—Jurisdiction; oath.
The municipal judge shall have full power and authority to try all offenders of the ordinances of the city and impose such penalties for violations thereof as may be prescribed by the ordinances of the city. Before entering upon the duties of his or her office, he or she shall take and subscribe an oath, before an officer authorized to administer oaths, faithfully to discharge the duties of the office. Any duties of the municipal judge not herein enumerated may be prescribed by ordinance.
Section 6.4. - Appearance bonds; contempt proceedings authorized.
The municipal judge shall have full power and authority to compel the attendance of parties as witnesses at the municipal court and, for this purpose, may fine for contempt any such amount or penalty as may be prescribed by ordinance. The power is also granted to the municipal judge to take and receive of parties and witnesses such bond or bonds as he or she may deem necessary to secure the attendance of parties as witnesses and to forfeit said bond or bonds in the same manner as such bonds are now forfeited in the superior courts of this state.
Section 6.5. - Municipal judge, municipal judge pro tempore, ex officio magistrate judge.
The municipal judge and the municipal judge pro tempore shall be to all intents and purposes magistrates, so far as to enable them to issue warrants for offenses committed within the corporate limits of the city, which warrants shall be executed by the marshal or other police officer, and to commit to the jail of the County of Lowndes, or to admit to bail, offenders for their appearances at the next term of the court sitting in Lowndes County that has jurisdiction of such offenses, and it shall be the duty of the jailer of the County of Lowndes to receive all such persons so committed and safely keep them until discharged by due course of law.
Section 6.6. - Appearance bond.
The municipal judge, when any person is arraigned before the municipal court charged with a violation of any of the ordinances, regulations, or rules of the city, may, for good cause shown by either side, continue the hearing, and the accused shall be required to give bond and security for his or her appearance at the time appointed for trial or be imprisoned to await trial. If such bond is given and the accused shall fail to appear at the time fixed for the trial, the bond may be forfeited by the municipal judge and an execution issued thereon by serving the defendant, if any to be found, and his or her securities with a rule nisi at least five days before the time of hearing of such rule nisi.
Section 6.7. - Writs, etc.
All writs, processes, subpoenas, rules nisi, etc., for the forfeiture of bonds and all executions issued on behalf of the city for the collection of taxes, forfeitures, or for other purposes shall be directed to the marshal or chief of police of the city and, all and singular, the sheriffs and deputy sheriffs of said state, signed by the city clerk, bearing test in the name of the mayor; and such sheriffs and their deputies are empowered and required to execute all such writs, processes, subpoenas, rules nisi, executions, etc., issuing as aforesaid, when the property or parties to be proceeded against are without the corporate limits of the city, and the marshal or chief of police of the city shall serve all writs, processes, subpoenas, rules nisi, executions, etc., when the person or property to be proceeded against are within the corporate limits of the city.
Section 6.8. - Arrests.
The marshal or any other police officer of the city may arrest without a warrant any person guilty of violating any ordinance, rule, or regulation of the city, and the marshal or any other police officer may summon any citizen or citizens of said city to assist in such arrest.
