DIVISION 12. - PENALTIES

Sec. 98-481. - Civil remedies.
Any person who has violated, or continues to violate, any provision of this article, a wastewater discharge permit, or order issued under this article or any other pretreatment standard or requirement shall be liable to the city for a civil penalty of not less than $1,000.00. Each act of violation and each day of continued violation shall constitute a separate offense. Any person who violates any provision of this article shall become liable to the city for any expense, loss, or damages occasioned by the city by reason of such violation. The city may recover reasonable attorney's fees, court costs, and other expenses associated with enforcement activities, including sampling and monitoring expenses, and the cost of actual damages incurred. In determining the amount of civil liability, the court shall take into account all relevant circumstances, including, but not limited to, the extent of harm caused by the violation, any economic benefit gained through the user's violation, corrective actions by the user, violation history of the user, and any penalties shall not be a bar against, or a prerequisite for, taking any other action.
Sec. 98-482. - Criminal prosecution.
(a)
A user who willfully or negligently violates any provision of this article, a wastewater discharge permit, or order issued under this article, or any other pretreatment standard or requirement shall, upon conviction, be guilty of a misdemeanor, punishable by a fine of not more than $1,000.00 per violation, per day, or imprisonment for not more than six months, or both.
(b)
A user who willfully or negligently introduces any substance into the POTW which causes personal injury or property damage shall, upon conviction, be guilty of a misdemeanor and be subject to a penalty of not more than $1,000.00 or subject to imprisonment for not more than six months or both. This penalty shall be in addition to any other cause of action for personal injury or property damage available under state law.
(c)
A user who knowingly makes any false statements, representations, or certifications in any application, record, report, plan, or other documentation filed or required to be maintained pursuant to this article, wastewater discharge, or order issued under this article; for who falsifies, tampers with, or knowingly renders inaccurate any monitoring device or method required under this article shall, upon conviction, be punished by a fine of not more than $1,000.00 per violation, per day, or imprisonment for not more than six months, or both.
Sec. 98-483. - Injunctive relief.
When the director of utilities or authorized representative finds that a user has violated, or continues to violate, any provision of this article, a wastewater discharge permit, or order issued under this article, or any other pretreatment standard or requirement, the director or representative may petition the county court through the city attorney for the issuance of a temporary or permanent injunction, as appropriate, which restrains or compels the specific performance of the wastewater discharge permit, order, or other requirement imposed by this article on activities of the user. The city may also seek such other action as is appropriate for legal and/or equitable relief, including a requirement for the user to conduct environmental remediation. A petition for injunctive relief shall not be a bar against, or a prerequisite for, taking other action against a user.
Sec. 98-484. - Other legal sanctions.
In addition to sanctions provided for by this article, the city is entitled to exercise sanctions provided for by other ordinances of the city for failure to pay the bill for water and sanitary sewer service when due.
Sec. 98-485. - Liability for expenses.
Any person violating any of the provisions of this article shall become liable to the city for any expense, loss or damage occasioned by the city of such violation.
Secs. 98-486—98-510. - Reserved.
