ARTICLE V. - AIRPORT AUTHORITY[5]

Footnotes:
--- (5) ---
Editor's note— Printed in this article is 1987 Ga. Laws, page 4495, as adopted by the Georgia General Assembly. Amendments to this act are indicated by parenthetical history notes following amended provisions. The absence of a history note indicates that the provision remains unchanged from the original act.

Section 1. - Creation; general powers.
There is created in the City of Valdosta and the County of Lowndes a joint airport authority. The official name of such authority shall be the Valdosta-Lowndes County Airport Authority. The authority created by this act shall be an instrumentality and political subdivision of the State of Georgia and a public corporation. The authority may contract and be contracted with, sue and be sued, plea and be impleaded, and complain and defend in all courts. The authority may exercise a power set out hereinafter at any place within Lowndes County and any contiguous land outside the county which is used for airport purposes as defined in this act.
Section 2. - Purpose of the authority.
The purpose of said authority is the establishment, maintenance, and operation of a unified and coordinated airport system; to ensure the orderly and proper use and growth of a public airport; to ensure that the maximum public benefit is obtained from a public airport; to ensure proper planning and establishment of airport needs in the future; to enhance business, industry, and trade; to promote public transportation and commerce and all of this to the end of providing more effective and economical use of a public airport for the public welfare, safety, and convenience.
Section 3. - Definitions.
As used in this act, the term "airport" means any area of land or water or any structure which is or has been used, or which the authority may plan to use, for the landing or taking off of commercial, private, and military aircraft, including helicopters, and all buildings, equipment, facilities, or other property and improvements of every kind or nature located within the bounds of any such land or water area or structure which are or have been used or which the authority may plan to use for terminal facilities, facilities of any type for the accommodation of passengers, maintenance, servicing, and operation of aircraft, business offices and facilities of private businesses and government agencies, parking of automobiles, and all other activities which are or have been carried on or which may be necessary or convenient in conjunction with the landing and taking off of commercial, private, and military aircraft, and all buildings, equipment, facilities, and other property and improvements of any kind or nature located outside the bounds of any such land or water area or structure which is or has been used or which the authority plans to use for the landing or taking off of commercial, private, and military aircraft which are necessary for the safe operation of aircraft.
Section 4. - Members of the authority.
(a)
The authority shall be composed of six members to serve for terms of four years and until their respective successors are appointed, unless otherwise provided by subsection (b) of this section. The members serving on the effective date of this section shall complete the terms for which they were appointed or, if any such member vacates his or her office, a member shall be appointed as provided in section 7 of this act to serve the remainder of the term of office.
(b)
The members of the authority shall be appointed as follows:
(1)
Two members shall be appointed by the mayor and council of the City of Valdosta;
(2)
The mayor and council shall appoint a third member as successor to the member serving on the effective date of this section who was appointed jointly by the mayor and council of the City of Valdosta and the board of commissioners of Lowndes County;
(3)
Two members shall be appointed by the board of commissioners of Lowndes County; and
(4)
The board of commissioners of Lowndes County shall appoint a third member as soon as possible after the effective date of this section to serve until May 31, 2009, and until such member's successor is appointed.
(2005 Ga. Laws page 3772, § 1)
Section 5. - Election of officers, quorum, bylaws, procedure in meetings.
After the appointment of all members as set out in section 4, the full membership of the authority shall meet as soon as practicable and shall elect one of its members as chairman and one as vice-chairman, each of whom shall continue as voting members, to serve in such position for the succeeding year and until their successors are elected. Thereafter, a chairman and vice-chairman shall be elected in the same manner each year to serve for the succeeding year and until their successors are elected. The chairman shall preside over meetings of the authority, the vice-chairman shall preside in his absence, and they shall have such other powers, duties, and responsibilities as are set out elsewhere in this act. The authority shall also designate a secretary to keep the minutes and records of the authority and such secretary may or may not be a member of the authority. A majority of the members of the authority shall constitute a quorum. A majority of the quorum may exercise any and all powers of the authority. The authority shall, as soon as practicable, adopt its own bylaws, rules of procedure, and rules of conduct of its business. The authority shall meet at least once a month and at such other times as it may deem necessary.
Section 6. - Compensation of members.
The members shall receive no compensation but shall be reimbursed from the funds of the authority for reasonable and necessary expenses incurred in pursuing the business of the authority.
Section 7. - Vacancies in authority.
Should an appointed member vacate his office as a member, either by resignation, death, change of residence, or for any other reason, the governing authority by which the appointment was made shall, as soon as practicable, appoint another member to the authority to serve the remainder of the term.
Section 8. - Executive director, treasurer, and other administrative officers and employees.
The authority shall have the authority and power to appoint and fix the compensation of an executive director under such terms and conditions as it deems appropriate. The executive director shall be the chief executive and operating officer of the authority. He shall have experience as a business executive, preferably in connection with the field of aviation. Under the supervision of the authority, he shall be responsible for the operation, management, and promotion of all activities with which the authority is charged under this act, together with such other duties as may be prescribed by the authority, and he shall have such powers as are necessarily incident to the performance of his duties and such others as may be granted by the authority. Additionally, the authority shall in a like manner appoint and fix the compensation of a treasurer who shall have the custody of all moneys, funds, notes, bonds, and all other securities of the authority and who shall have such other duties and responsibilities as the authority may prescribe. The authority may also authorize and employ such other administrative officers and employees under such terms and conditions as it shall consider necessary and appropriate to effectuate its purposes.
Section 9. - Powers of the authority.
The authority shall possess all the powers necessary or convenient for it to accomplish its purposes, including the following specific powers, which shall not be construed as the limitation upon the general and other specific powers of the authority:
(1)
To adopt a seal to be used for authentication of legal documents, obligations, contracts, and other instruments and to alter the same in its pleasure;
(2)
To acquire by purchase, lease, gift, or otherwise and to hold, lease, sell, use, and dispose of real and personal property of every kind and character or any interest therein;
(3)
To appoint, select, and contract for the services of engineers, architects, building contractors, accountants and other fiscal agents, attorneys, and such other persons, firms, or corporations as are necessary to accomplish the purposes of the authority for such fees or compensation and under such terms and conditions as it deems appropriate;
(4)
To plan, acquire, establish, develop, construct, enlarge, improve, maintain, equip, operate, lease, regulate, protect, and secure all airport and related facilities which shall come under its control or which it may acquire or plan to acquire, and to enter into any contracts, leases, or other agreements, promulgate any order, set any tolls, fees, or other charges for the use of its property or services, and collect and use same as necessary to operate an airport under its control and to accomplish any purposes of this act;
(5)
To contract with any person, firm, or public or private corporation to supply goods, commodities, facilities, and services to the public, employees of the authority, and employees of air carriers and other commercial interests located in any airport under its control under such terms and conditions as it may prescribe, including the power to grant exclusive rights, franchises, or concessions;
(6)
To adopt and enforce reasonable rules and regulations for the orderly, safe, efficient, and sanitary operation of airports and related facilities under its control and to provide its own security force;
(7)
To provide its own fire protection, crash, and rescue services or to arrange for such services in connection with any federal, state, municipal, or county agency or any private firm in the business of providing such services;
(8)
To make application directly or indirectly to any federal, state, county, or municipal government or agency or to any other source, public or private, for loans, grants, guarantees, or other financial assistance in aid of airports under its control and to accept and use same upon such terms and conditions as are prescribed by the federal, state, county, or municipal government or agency or other source;
(9)
To enter into agreements with the state, any subdivision thereof, any county or municipality, or the federal government or any agency thereof to use, in the performance of its functions, the facilities or the services of the state, such subdivision, such county or municipality, or the federal government or any agent thereof in order to accomplish its purposes;
(10)
To sell, lease, or otherwise dispose of surplus personal property or real property and to sell, lease, or otherwise dispose of any improvements thereon acquired by the authority pursuant to law which the authority may determine is no longer required to accomplish the purposes of this act, including property which is suitable for business or industrial development. Any such property may be sold, leased, or otherwise disposed of under such terms and conditions as may be provided by resolution of the authority. The proceeds of such sale may be used by the authority to accomplish any of its purposes;
(11)
To establish a plan for retirement, disability, hospitalization, and death benefits for employees of the authority or to provide by resolution that such employees shall be covered under any such state, county, or municipal plan available to them under the laws of the state or any county or municipality; and
(12)
To enter into such agreements with any municipality or county presently operating an airport of which the authority may subsequently assume control with respect to the matter of transfer of airport employees from any municipality in the county to the authority as the authority deems necessary and appropriate.
Section 10. - Transfer of airport and related facilities from municipalities and county to authority.
The authority shall by resolution, at such times as it shall deem appropriate, determine what, if any, public airports in the county are necessary to accomplish the purposes of the authority and shall inform the county or municipality owning such airport of such determination and the proper officials of the municipality or county may convey by deed all of their interest in real property and all other property making up such airport to the authority. It is declared that the conveyance of such property is necessary and essential in order to accomplish the purposes of this act so as to secure the public welfare, safety, and convenience.
Section 11. - Powers of authority limited to airports.
All of the powers, general and specific, granted to the authority pursuant to this act shall be exercised only in regard to airports. The authority shall not have the power to plan, construct, finance, operate, or maintain any facility other than airports or their related facilities; provided, however, that nothing in this section shall be construed to prohibit the authority from cooperating with other federal, state, county, or municipal governmental agencies or public corporations in order to coordinate other types of facilities with the airports under its control.
Section 12. - Funds of authority to be used only for airports.
The funds of the authority, from whatever source derived, shall be used only in support of airports as defined in this act.
Section 13. - Operating budget.
The operating budget of the authority shall be funded equally by the city and county. The authority shall submit its proposed budget annually to the mayor and council of the City of Valdosta and the board of commissioners of Lowndes County for their joint approval. Upon joint approval of the annual budget of the authority, such budget shall be funded by the city and county from the general revenues of the local governments.
