SECTION 6. - SPECIAL PROVISIONS FOR CERTAIN USES

6-1. - Home Occupation.
A home occupation as defined by this ordinance shall be governed by the following requirements:
6-1.1. Home occupations shall be conducted entirely within the principal dwelling, unless the occupation requires off-site work, in which case only administrative functions may be conducted at the premises.
6-1.2. Only residents of the dwelling may be engaged in the home occupation.
6-1.3. The home occupation shall be clearly incidental to the residential use of the dwelling and shall not change the essential residential character of the dwelling.
6-1.4. Except as otherwise stated by this Section, there shall be no exterior evidence of the home occupation, including but not limited to, outside storage of materials or equipment, nor shall such items be displayed in a manner to be viewed from the outside of the dwelling.
6-1.5. No internal or external alterations inconsistent with the residential use of the building shall be permitted.
6-1.6. No machinery or equipment causing noise, smoke, odor, vibration, electrical interference, or other objectionable condition may be used, nor may the occupation otherwise constitute a nuisance in the neighborhood.
6-1.7. Instruction in music and similar subjects shall be limited to two students at a time.
6-1.8. No more than two vehicles used in conjunction with the home occupation shall be allowed; provided that any vehicles of 7,500 pounds or greater gross vehicle weight capacity (gvwc) shall be parked in the rear yard.
6-1.9. Unless otherwise specified, there shall be no more than one client or customer on the premises at any one time.
6-1.10. Signs for Home Occupations shall be limited to one.
6-1.11. No variances shall be considered to the above criteria and any occupation that does not meet the above criteria shall be considered a Home Business, if it meets the Home Business restrictions. (Adopted by Mayor/Council June 10, 2004, P.C. File # VA-2004-24.)
6-2. - Home Business.
A home business as defined by this ordinance shall be allowed by Special Exception only, and be governed by the following restrictions:
6-2.1. Home businesses shall conform to the restrictions of the Home Occupation regulations Sections 6-1.3, 6-1.5, and 6-1.8 as it pertains to the property.
6-2.2. Accessory buildings used for home businesses shall be subject to all applicable accessory structure standards.
6-2.3. A sign for a Home Business shall be allowed as a matter of right provided that the sign is no more than two square feet in size and is mounted to the wall of the primary building. Other types of signage may be allowed by Special Exception; provided that the total number of signs does not equal more than one per Home Business. No sign shall be approved that is larger than two square feet, except where located on an arterial street where a sign up to 12 square feet may be approved. No variances shall be considered to this subsection. (Adopted by Mayor/Council June 10, 2004, P.C. File # VA-2004-24.)
6.3[6-3]. - Planned Development.
A.
Master Plan. The developer of the proposed planned development shall file a master plan along with the planned development rezoning request with the Planning Commission. Being a rezoning, the process shall follow the same process for rezonings as prescribed by this ordinance except that Planned Development requests shall require an additional month for review prior to being heard by the Planning Commission. Prior to submission, however, PD requests must have been reviewed by all departments including Fire, Engineering, Health, Utilities, Building Inspections, Landscaping, Planning, etc. Any application will be deemed incomplete if the applicant does not show where each of these agencies has reviewed the proposal. Said master plan shall include, but not be limited to, the following:
1)
An attached statement describing why standard zoning districts are insufficient and how the proposed development conforms to those parameters and ideals set forth in Section 4-1 of this ordinance.
2)
Name or Names of the Proposed Development. Name or names and addresses of the owners and designers of the site of the master plan and his/her seal.
3)
Date, appropriate north arrow and scale.
4)
The boundary line of the tract to be developed drawn accurately to scale and with accurate lineal and angular dimensions.
5)
A map to an appropriate scale showing the location of the development.
6)
Contours with a minimum vertical interval of one foot referred to sea level datum shall be provided for both existing and proposed topography.
7)
The location and extent of existing and proposed public rights-of-way, easements and water and drainage courses within the tract.
8)
The location and type of existing buildings and structures proposed to be retained or removed and an indication of the use for each retained building.
9)
The general location of proposed buildings and an indication of the use for each building.
10)
Proposed lot layout in sketch form.
11)
Dwelling unit density (not necessary for PCD).
12)
Minimum standards for interior lot development including setbacks, distances between buildings, etc.
13)
General architectural elevation and proposed materials to be used.
14)
The percentage of development maintained as public space (as defined by this ordinance) and impervious surface.
15)
Public transportation facilities or provisions (if any).
16)
Landscape and buffer plan.
17)
Sidewalks as required by the City of Valdosta Subdivision Regulations.
Nothing in this subsection shall be misconstrued as preventing the City Council from requiring more stringent design standards. No variances to this section shall be allowed. (Adopted by Valdosta Mayor and Council 5-6-04 - P.C. File # VA-2004-20)
B.
Plan Amendments. Any increase in density or intensity of development or other major change shall constitute a plan amendment and shall require resubmittal of the Master Plan. Minor changes to the design of an approved planned development and net decreases in overall density or intensity may be submitted for administrative approval. Said changes will require review and approval by all necessary agencies. (Adopted by Valdosta Mayor and Council 5-6-04, P.C. File # VA-2004-20.)
6-3.1. Planned Residential Development (PRD).
A.
Purpose and Intent. The PRD district is intended to allow flexible site planning and building arrangements for both single and multi-family residential developments under a unified plan so that innovative land planning methods may be utilized which fosters natural resource conservation and neighborhood cohesiveness as well as neo-traditional developments. This may permit buildings to be clustered or arranged in an unconventional manner to maximize public space, create a pedestrian scale and incorporate other public benefits. In this district, smaller lots than would otherwise be permitted under traditional zoning districts may be allowed; however, the purpose is not merely to allow smaller lots or reduce development requirements but to achieve other goals including the protection of sensitive environmental, historic, or aesthetic resources as well as the provision of site amenities such as parks, public space, walking trails, etc. The PRD district is not intended to encourage greater density of development, but rather to encourage ingenuity and resourcefulness in land planning techniques which result in quality residential patterns that conserve and create public space, reduce vehicle trips and provide stable developments that enhance the surrounding area. (Adopted by Valdosta Mayor and Council 5-6-04, P.C. File # VA-2004-20.)
B.
Allowed Uses. All dwelling types shall be allowed in the PRD district including manufactured homes. Any use requiring a Special Exception within the R-6 zoning district shall be processed as a Special Exception. No recreation centers, schools, churches or other institutional type uses shall be permitted. (Adopted by Valdosta Mayor and Council 5-6-04, P.C. File # VA-2004-20.)
C.
Development Standards. A planned residential development shall conform to the following restrictions and development standards. (Adopted by Valdosta Mayor and Council 5-6-04, P.C. File # VA-2004-20.)
EXPAND
Maximum Impervious Surface 70%
Minimum Public Space 30%
Minimum Exterior Setbacks* 30' from all property lines, including the right-of-way.
Minimum Screening Along Exterior Tract Boundaries See Section 3-18 of this ordinance and the Valdosta Tree and Landscape Ordinance [Chapter 62 of the Valdosta Code].
  * There is no minimum setback for interior lot lines, except as otherwise indicated within the approved master plan. (Adopted by Valdosta Mayor/Council 5-6-04, P.C. File # VA-2004-20.)
6-3.2. Planned Commercial Development (PCD).
A.
Purpose and Intent. The PCD district is intended to allow flexible site planning and building arrangements for business and commercial developments under a unified plan so that innovative land planning methods may be utilized which foster natural resource conservation and reduce traffic congestion. This may permit buildings to be clustered or arranged in an unconventional manner to maximize public space, create a pedestrian scale and incorporate other public benefits. In this district, small[er] lots than would otherwise be permitted under traditional zoning districts may be allowed; however, the purpose is not merely to allow smaller lots or reduce development requirements but to achieve other goals including the protection of sensitive environmental, historic or aesthetic resources as well as the provision of site amenities such as parks, public space, walking trails, etc. The PCD district is not intended to encourage greater density of development, but rather to encourage ingenuity and resourcefulness in land planning techniques which result in commercial development patterns that conserve and create public space, reduce vehicle trips and provide quality developments that enhance the surrounding area. (Adopted by Valdosta Mayor/Council 5-6-04, P.C. File # VA-2004-20.)
B.
Allowed Uses. All types of commercial and office uses shall be allowed within a PCD. Any specific use that would normally require Special Exception approval in all of the office and commercial zoning districts shall require such review within a PCD if not included within the original master plan.(Adopted by Valdosta Mayor/Council 5-6-04, P.C. File # VA-2004-20.)
C.
Development Standards.
EXPAND
Minimum Exterior Setbacks* 30' from all property lines, including the right-of-way
Maximum Impervious Surface 70%
Minimum Public Space 30%
Minimum Screening along Exterior Tract Boundaries See Section 3-18 of this ordinance and the Valdosta Tree and Landscape Ordinance [Chapter 62 of the Valdosta Code].
  [*] There is no minimum setback for interior lot lines, except as otherwise indicated within the approved master plan. (Adopted by Valdosta Mayor/Council 5-6-04, P.C. File # VA-2004-20.)
6-3.3. Planned Mixed Use Development (PMD).
A.
PMD Purpose and Intent. The PMD district is intended to allow flexible site planning and building arrangements for commercial, office and residential uses under a unified plan which fosters natural resource conservation and reduces congestion. This may permit buildings and uses to be clustered or arranged in an unconventional manner to maximize public space, create a pedestrian scale and incorporate other public benefits. In this district, smaller lots than would otherwise be allowed under traditional zoning districts may be allowed; however, the purpose is not merely to allow smaller lots or reduce development requirements but to achieve other goals including the protection of sensitive environmental, historic, or aesthetic resources as well as the provision of site amenities such as parks, public space, walking trails, etc. The PMD district is not intended to encouraged greater density of development, but rather to facilitate compatible commercial and residential uses and provide quality developments that enhance the surrounding area. This district may also be utilized to foster the adaptive reuse of existing buildings. (Adopted by Valdosta Mayor/Council 5-6-04, P.C. File # VA-2004-20.)
B.
Allowed Uses. The PMD district shall allow all types of uses except those allowed only within the C-A, M-1, and M-2 districts. General use classifications, such as residential and commercial, shall be indicated within the master plan. (Adopted by Valdosta Mayor/Council 5-6-04, P.C. File # VA-2004-20.)
C.
Development Standards.
EXPAND
Maximum Impervious Surface 65%
Minimum Public Space 35%
Minimum Exterior Setbacks* 30' from all property lines, including the right-of-way
Minimum Screening along Exterior Tract Boundaries See Section 3-18 of this ordinance and the Valdosta Tree and Landscape Ordinance [Chapter 62 of the Valdosta Code].*
  * There is no minimum setback for interior lot lines, except as otherwise indicated within the approved master plan. (Adopted by Valdosta Mayor/Council 5-6-04, P.C. File # VA-2004-20.)
6-4. - Historic Residential (R-H) Neighborhoods.
This district will be permitted provided it is in accord with the following:
6-4.1. Requirements for Eligibility.
a)
The neighborhood must be located within the Historic District.
b)
The majority of buildings or structures within the neighborhood must be rated as a historical building.
6-4.2. Designation as a Historic Residential Neighborhood. In order for a neighborhood to receive the R-H designation, a majority of the owners shall petition the Planning Commission to have their neighborhood rezoned. Such petition shall include a map indicating the proposed boundaries of the R-H District and indicate which buildings or structures have been designated historic by the Board of Review. Also, to be included shall be the names and addresses of all property owners supporting the petition. The residents shall submit the petition for rezoning two weeks prior to the scheduled meeting to allow for complete review prior to said meeting. Upon approval by the Planning Commission, the Planning Director shall apply for rezoning on behalf of the Planning Commission.
6-4.3. Historic Residential Neighborhood Land Use Determination. Prior to approval by the Planning Commission of a petition requesting the designation of a Historic Neighborhood, the Planning Commission, in conjunction with the neighborhood association, shall determine the allowable future land use for the proposed area. Such land use plan shall be graphically depicted in the form of a map which shall be drawn at a scale of one" = 400' or greater. Each parcel shall be indicated and described by street number and lot number. Said land use map shall be required as part of the zoning application filed with the Zoning Administrator.
6-4.4. Development Standards for R-H District.
a)
Protective Maintenance of Historic Buildings. Historic buildings shall be maintained to meet the requirements of the Minimum Housing Code and the Building Code. Where buildings are irreparable, or a health hazard to the neighborhood, or detract from the visual context of a neighborhood, the Director of Inspections shall serve notice to owners of said structure requiring the demolition of such. In addition, owners of said structure shall make such repairs as will secure the building and upon failure to do so, the Director of Inspections shall cause such building or portion thereof to be secured in which even the cost thereof shall be charged to the owner of the premises and collected in a manner provided by law.
b)
Not Historic Buildings. The construction of a new building or structure, and the moving, reconstruction, alteration, major maintenance, or repair involving a change materially affecting the external appearance of any existing non-rated building, structure, or appurtenance thereof within a Historic Residential Neighborhood, shall be generally of such form, proportion, mass, configuration, building material, texture, and location on a lot as will be compatible with other buildings in the Historic Residential Neighborhood, and particularly with buildings designated as Historic and with places to which it is visually related.
c)
Visual Compatibility Factors. Within a Historic Residential Neighborhood, new construction and existing buildings and structures and appurtenances thereto which are moved, reconstructed, materially altered, repaired, or changed in color shall be visually compatible with buildings, squares, and places to which they are visually related generally in terms of the following factors:
1)
Height. The height of proposed buildings shall be visually compatible with adjacent buildings.
2)
Proportion of Building's Front Facade. The relationship of the width of building to the height of the front elevation shall be visually compatible to buildings, squares, and places to which it is visually related.
3)
Proportion of Openings Within the Facility. The relationship of the width of windows to height of windows in a building shall be visually compatible with buildings and places to which the building is visually related.
4)
Rhythm of Solids to Voids in Front Facades. The relationship of solids to voids in the front facade of a building shall be visually compatible with buildings, and places to which it is visually related.
5)
Rhythm of Buildings on Streets. The relationship of buildings to open space between it and adjoining buildings shall be visually compatible to the buildings, and places to which it is visually related.
6)
Rhythm of Entrance and/or Porch Projection. The relationship of entrances and porch projections to sidewalks of buildings, and places shall be visually related.
7)
Relationship of Materials and Texture. The relationship of materials and texture of the facade of a building shall be visually compatible with the predominant materials used in the buildings to which it is visually related.
8)
Roof Shapes. The roof shape of a building shall be visually compatible with the buildings to which it is visually related.
9)
Walls of Continuity. Appurtenances of a building such as walls, wrought iron, fences, evergreen landscape masses, building facades shall, if necessary, form cohesive walls of enclosure along a street, to insure visual compatibility of the buildings and places to which it is visually related.
10)
Scale of a Building. The size of a building, the building mass of a building in relation to open spaces, the windows, door openings, porches, and balconies shall be visually compatible with the buildings, and places to which it is visually related.
d)
Parking.
1)
Within any historic residential neighborhood, curbside vehicular parking will not be allowed. This is to say, all residents of a building shall park all vehicles within the property boundaries appurtenant to said building.
2)
The number of parking spaces for property located within a historic residential neighborhood shall conform to the requirements stated in Section 7-8 of this ordinance.
[6-4.5.] Family Day Care Homes and Group Day Care Homes. [Family day care homes and group day care homes] shall conform to the following regulations:
EXPAND
Number of Children 1-6 7-12 13-18
Site Plan No additional requirements Conceptual Site Plan required at time of application. Conceptual site plan required at time of application.
Parking
Requirements No additional requirements One space for each employee plus one space for every four children kept. One space for each employee plus one space for every four children kept.
Parking and
Driveway Adequate ingress and egress from the street required. A circular drive is required unless extenuating circumstances exist, in which case an alternative proposal will be considered provided it meets the intent of the requirement and ensures equal or greater safety for pick-up and drop-off as well as ingress and egress and is approved by the City Engineer prior to submittal of applications. A circular drive is required unless extenuating circumstances exist, in which case an alternative proposal will be considered provided it meets the intent of the requirement and ensures equal or greater safety for pick-up and drop-off as well as ingress and egress and is approved by the City Engineer prior to submittal of applications.
Roadway Frontage No additional requirements No additional requirements Property must be located on or adjacent to an urban minor or principal arterial or urban collector as designated by the City of Valdosta's Major Thoroughfare Plan.
Pick-up and Drop-off Pick-up and drop-off shall be conducted on the property and not in the public right-of-way. Pick-up and drop-off shall be conducted on the property and not in the public right-of-way. Pick-up and drop-off shall be conducted on the property and not in the public right-of-way.
  (Note: Section 6-5 was adopted by Valdosta Mayor and Council on 9-11-03, P.C. File # VA-2003-44.)
6-6. - Manufactured and Mobile Homes.
6-6.1. No mobile homes shall be permitted within the city limits of Valdosta.
6-6.2. Singlewide manufactured homes shall be restricted to Manufactured Home Parks.
6-6.3. All new manufactured homes shall be installed as required by O.C.G.A., §§ 8-2-160 and 8-2-164. For the purposes of administration of this section, installation shall mean the construction of a foundation system and the placement or erection of a manufactured home on the foundation system. This also includes, without limitation, supporting, blocking, leveling, securing or anchoring such home and connecting multiple or expandable sections of such home. Said installation shall be performed by a person who is able to obtain a license pursuant to the provisions of O.C.G.A. § 8-2-164.
6-6.4. Manufactured homes may only be used as a dwelling unit.
6-6.5. A curtain wall, also known as skirting or underpinning, shall be constructed of masonry material and shall be un-pierced, except for required minimum ventilation and access so that the area under the home is enclosed to the ground level. Said access shall remain closed when not being used for that purpose.
6-6.6. After placement on the lot and before occupancy, all tongues, axles, transporting lights and other towing apparatus are to be removed from the site.
6-6.7. Utility meters shall be mounted directly to the manufactured home, to a pedestal, or to a pole as required by the building and electrical codes as adopted by the City of Valdosta.
6-6.8. At all exterior doors there shall be a landing as required by the building codes as adopted by the City of Valdosta. Said landing shall be constructed in a manner as to be permanently affixed to the ground.
6-6.9. All new manufactured homes shall be situated on the lot so that the conventional front of the home faces the front yard as defined by this ordinance.
6-6.10. All new manufactured homes must meet the minimum size requirements for the district in which they are to be located. (Adopted by Valdosta Mayor/Council 12-18-03, P.C. File # VA-2003-77.)
