ARTICLE VIII. - VALDOSTA-LOWNDES COUNTY CONFERENCE CENTER AND TOURISM AUTHORITY[8]

Footnotes:
--- (8) ---
Editor's note— Printed in this article is 1999 Ga. Laws, page 4072, as adopted by the Georgia General Assembly. Amendments to this act are indicated by parenthetical history notes following amended provisions. The absence of a history note indicates that the provision remains unchanged from the original act.

Section 1. - Short title.
This act shall be known and may be cited as the "Valdosta-Lowndes County Conference Center and Tourism Authority Act."
(1999 Ga. Laws, page 4072, § 1)
Section 2. - Purpose.
The purpose of this act is to create the Valdosta-Lowndes County Conference Center and Tourism Authority. The purpose of the authority is to oversee the construction, completion and operation of a conference center which shall be used for civic, cultural and educational purposes; for fairs, conferences, expositions, conventions, seminars and other similar activities; for the promotion of the local economy; and for the purpose of directing and promoting tourism, conventions and trade shows in the Valdosta-Lowndes County area.
(1999 Ga. Laws, page 4072, § 2)
Section 3. - Definitions.
(a)
The term "authority" shall mean the Valdosta-Lowndes County Conference Center and Tourism Authority created by this act.
(2)
The term "conference center" shall mean any structure or building which is or has been used, or which the authority may plan to use for civil, cultural and educational purposes; for the conduct of fairs, conferences, expositions, conventions, seminars, and other activities; for the promotion of the local economy; and to direct, encourage and promote tourism, conventions and trade shows in the Valdosta-Lowndes County area.
(1999 Ga. Laws, page 4072, § 3)
Section 4. - Members of authority, terms, etc.
(a)
The authority shall consist of eight voting members and two ex officio members. Except as otherwise provided by subsection (b) of this section, the voting members shall be appointed for three-year terms, beginning on January 1 of the year following the expiration of the previous term of office on December 31, and until their respective successors are appointed. All voting members serving on the effective date of this section shall complete the terms for which they were appointed or shall be replaced as provided in section 7 of this act if they vacate their offices.
(b)
The voting members of the authority shall be appointed as follows:
(1)
Three members shall be appointed by the board of commissioners of Lowndes County from the residents of Lowndes County; one shall be a member of the board of commissioners of Lowndes County; one shall be associated with or employed in the lodging and tourism industry; and one shall be a member at large;
(2)
The successor to the member serving on the effective date of this section who was appointed jointly by the board of commissioners of Lowndes County and the mayor and council of the City of Valdosta shall be a second member at large appointed by the board of commissioners of Lowndes County to take office on January 1 of the year following the expiration of the term of appointment of the member serving on the effective date of this section;
(3)
Three members shall be appointed by the mayor and council of the City of Valdosta from the residents of Valdosta; one shall be the mayor or a member of council; one shall be associated with or employed in the lodging and tourism industry; and one shall be a member at large; and
(4)
The mayor and council of the City of Valdosta shall appoint a second member at large from the residents of Valdosta to take office as soon as possible after this section becomes effective for a term expiring on December 31, 2008, and when the member's successor is appointed.
(c)
In addition to the appointed members of the authority, the city manager of the City of Valdosta, or such official's designee, and the county manager of Lowndes County, or such official's designee, shall serve as ex officio members of the authority.
(1999 Ga. Laws, page 4073, § 4; 2005 Ga. Laws, page 3768, § 1)
Section 5. - Election of officers, quorum, bylaws, procedures and meetings.
Each year, the membership of the authority shall meet as soon as practicable after the effective date of this act and shall elect from among themselves a chairperson and vice-chairperson, each of whom shall continue as voting members. The chairperson shall preside over the meetings of the authority, and the vice-chairperson shall preside in his or her absence, and such officers shall have such other powers, duties, and responsibilities as are set out elsewhere herein. The authority shall also choose a secretary, who may or may not be a member of the authority, to keep the minutes and records of the authority. Five members of the authority shall constitute a quorum. A majority of the quorum may exercise any and all powers of the authority. The authority shall, as soon as practicable, adopt its own bylaws, rules and procedures to govern its internal workings and the conduct of its business. The authority shall meet at least once a month and at such other times as it may deem necessary.
(1999 Ga. Laws, page 4074, § 5)
Section 6. - Compensation of members.
The members shall receive no compensation but shall be reimbursed from the funds of the authority for reasonable and necessary expenses incurred in pursuing the business of the authority.
(1999 Ga. Laws, page 4074, § 6)
Section 7. - Variances on authority.
Should any appointed member vacate his or her office as a member, either by resignation, death, change of residence, unexcused failure to attend three scheduled meetings in a row, or other reason, the governing authority by whom the appointment was made shall, as soon as practicable, appoint another member to the authority to serve for the remainder of the term.
(1999 Ga. Laws, page 4074, § 7)
Section 8. - Executive director appointment.
The authority shall be authorized to appoint and fix the compensation of an executive director under such terms and conditions as it deems appropriate. The executive director shall be the chief executive and chief operating officer of the authority and shall be responsible for staffing. A part of his or her staff shall be dedicated to the promotion of tourism. The executive director shall have experience as a business executive, preferably in connection with the operation of a conference and convention center, and in the promotion of tourism. Under the supervision of the authority, the executive director shall be responsible for the operation, management, and promotion of all activities with which the authority is charged hereunder, together with such other duties as may be prescribed by the authority, and shall have such powers as are necessarily incident to the performance of his or her duties and such others as may be granted by the authority. The authority shall also authorize and employ such other administrative, professional, or clerical employees under such terms and conditions as it shall consider necessary and appropriate to effectuate its purposes.
(1999 Ga. Laws, page 4074, § 8)
Section 9. - Powers of the authority.
The authority shall possess all the powers necessary or convenient to accomplish its purposes, including the following specific powers which shall not be construed as a limitation upon the general and other specific powers of the authority:
(1)
To adopt a seal to be used for authentication of legal documents, obligations, contracts, and other instruments and to alter the same at its pleasure;
(2)
To appoint, select, and contract for the services of engineers, architects, building contractors, accountants and other fiscal agents, attorneys, and such other persons, firms, or corporations as are necessary to accomplish the purposes of the authority, for such fees or compensation and under such terms and conditions as it deems appropriate;
(3)
To adopt and to enforce reasonable rules and regulations for the orderly, safe, and efficient operation of its projects;
(4)
To contract with any person, firm, or public or private corporation to supply goods, commodities, facilities, and services to the public, employees of the authority, and other commercial interests located in any conference center under its control under such terms and conditions as it may prescribe, including the power to grant exclusive rights, franchises, or concessions;
(5)
To enter into agreements with the state, any subdivision thereof, any county or municipality, or the federal government or any agency thereof to use in the performance of its functions the facilities or the service of the state or such subdivision of such county or municipality or the federal government or agent thereof in order to accomplish its purposes;
(6)
To make application, directly or indirectly, of any federal, state, county, or municipal government or agency, or of any other source, public or private, for loans, grants, guarantees, or other financial assistance in aid of conference centers or buildings under its control and to accept or use same upon such terms and conditions as are prescribed by the federal, state, county, or municipal government or agency or other source.
(1999 Ga. Laws, page 4075, § 9)
Section 10. - use of funds of authority.
The funds of the authority, from whatever source derived, shall be used only in support of conference centers as defined herein, and in promotion of the conference center, the tourist and recreational industry, and tourism in the City of Valdosta and Lowndes County. The authority shall keep suitable books and records of all its obligations, contracts, transactions and undertakings, all income, and all expenditures of every kind. The financial books and records of the authority shall be audited annually. Such audit shall be paid for by the authority and shall be audited annually. Such audit shall be paid for by the authority and shall be furnished to the board of commissioners of Lowndes County and the mayor and council of the City of Valdosta. Such audit shall be a public record.
(1999 Ga. Laws, page 4076, § 10)
Section 11. - Funding; operating budget.
The authority shall submit its proposed budget annually to the mayor and council of the City of Valdosta and the board of commissioners of Lowndes County for their joint approval. Upon joint approval of the annual budget of the authority, it shall be funded in accordance with the joint agreement between the board of commissioners of Lowndes County, Georgia, and the mayor and council of the City of Valdosta, Georgia, creating the existing Valdosta-Lowndes County Conference Center and Tourism Board during the duration of such contract. Thereafter, the authority shall be funded by the city and the county in a manner to be agreed upon in a joint intergovernmental agreement pursuant to the authority granted under Ga. Const. art. IX, § III, ¶ I.
(1999 Ga. Laws, page 4076, § 11)
