ARTICLE I. - CENTRAL VALDOSTA DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY[1]

Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Editor's note— Except for the first section of this article, printed in this article is 1982 Ga. Laws, page 4310, as adopted by the Georgia General Assembly. Amendments to this act are indicated by parenthetical history notes following amended provisions. The absence of a history note indicates that the provision remains unchanged from the original act.

Section 0.5. - Constitutional amendment.
1.
There is hereby created in the City of Valdosta, Lowndes County, Georgia, the Central Valdosta Development Authority, to be composed of seven (7) members, four (4) of whom shall be owners of an interest of at least a life estate or greater interest in real estate located in the Central Valdosta Area, as hereinafter defined, or officers at the time of appointment of a corporation or other association owning such real estate or in fee or for life of an undivided interest in such real estate, and they shall be eligible to serve for the term for which they are appointed; one member shall be the mayor of the City of Valdosta by virtue of his office and two (2) members shall be, at the time of their appointment, merchants or professional people operating businesses or practicing professions within the Central Valdosta Area, as hereinafter defined. The mayor of the City of Valdosta shall serve during his term of office as mayor. Three (3) of the other six (6) members shall be appointed by the mayor and council of the City of Valdosta for a period of one (1) year, and three (3) shall be appointed for a period of two (2) years, and thereafter the terms of the six (6) appointed members shall be two (2) years.
2.
The Central Valdosta Area shall consist of that area bounded on the north by Magnolia Street, on the east by Lee Street, on the south by Branch Street and on the west by Toombs Street. Said area shall include all properties abutting on the north side of Magnolia Street, the east side of Lee Street, the south side of Branch Street and the west side of Toombs Street within the area described.
3.
The Central Valdosta Development Authority shall be a body corporate and politic, having the power to sue and be sued in its own name, to contract, to acquire, own, hold, lease, sell and convey real and personal property, tangible or intangible at public or private sale with or without advertisement, and to do all things necessary to the accomplishment of its purposes.
4.
The purpose of said authority shall be the redevelopment and improvement of the Central Valdosta Area, and said authority shall have the power to employ engineers, architects, surveyors, landscape architects, planners and others in the furtherance of its purpose, to assist public bodies and private owners in the improvement of public and private properties by assisting in the planning therefor, to contract for the construction, remodeling, altering and demolition of buildings, and to contract with the City of Valdosta and other public bodies for the construction, reconstruction, altering and changing streets, alleys and malls.
5.
The authority shall have the power to create special tax districts within the Central Valdosta Area to levy and collect taxes within each of said districts not exceeding five (5) mills based on values fixed by the tax digest of the City of Valdosta, Georgia, or the tax digest of the County of Lowndes as provided by law, to defray the costs of the foregoing, and to issue executions and enforce payment of same in the same manner as tax executions for the City of Valdosta are issued and enforced by the city marshal. Such executions shall be issued in the name of the authority and shall be signed by an authority member as chairman or clerk. Said tax executions shall bear interest and fi. fa. costs at the same rate and amount as tax executions of the City of Valdosta.
6.
The authority shall have the power to issue notes or other evidences of indebtedness including revenue bonds or revenue certificates, and to pledge revenues and to levy and collect taxes as hereinabove provided for the retirement of said indebtedness and to issue executions for enforcement thereof as provided in paragraph 5, provided, however, that the aggregate levy of taxes as provided for in paragraph 5 and this paragraph shall not exceed five (5) mills. Obligations of the authority may be secured by the pledge or conveyance of all or any part of its assets, real or personal, tangible or intangible, but the obligations of the authority shall not be obligations of the City of Valdosta or the State of Georgia. The authority shall have the right to accept gifts and grants from whatever source and use them for its general purpose. The property, obligations and the interest on the obligations of the authority shall have the same exemptions from taxation as the property, obligations and interest on the obligations of the City of Valdosta.
7.
No taxes shall be levied by said authority for any purpose against property other than real property or against any real property occupied by the owner exclusively as a residence or against any real property not subject to taxation by the City of Valdosta.
8.
The authority shall have the right and power of eminent domain for the purpose of acquiring property in the carrying out of its aims and objectives.
9.
No funds of the authority, except for planning, engineering and design, shall be spent on the improvement of private property.
Editor's note— This section sets forth an amendment to the state constitution, 1974 Ga. Laws, page 1711. This constitutional amendment was continued in force and effect by 1985 Ga. Laws, page 2871, as a part of the state constitution.
Section 1. - [Further powers and duties.]
Pursuant to the authority contained in an amendment to Ga. Const. (1945) art. VII, § VII, ¶ I (Ga. Const. (1976) art. IX, § VII, ¶ I) ratified November 5, 1974, and set forth as proposed in 1974 Ga. Laws, p. 1711 (the "amendment"), this act further defines and prescribes the powers and duties of the authority, enlarges the same and further regulates the management and conduct of the authority. The purpose of the authority is the redevelopment and improvement of the Central Valdosta Area (as defined in the amendment). The purpose of the authority is hereby declared to be an essential and public purpose, promoting the public good and welfare and benefiting the citizens of the Central Valdosta Area and the City of Valdosta. This act shall be liberally construed to effect this purpose.
Section 2. - [Definitions.]
The following terms shall have the meanings specified:
(a)
Amendment shall mean the amendment to Ga. Const. (1945) art. VII, § VII, ¶ I (now Ga. Const. (1976) art. IX, § VII, ¶ I), ratified November 5, 1974 (1974 Ga. Laws, p. 1711), creating the Central Valdosta Development Authority.
(b)
Authority shall mean the Central Valdosta Development Authority created by the amendment.
(c)
Central Valdosta Area shall mean the area designated as such by the amendment and any amendments thereto.
(d)
Cost of the project or cost of any project shall mean and shall include: all costs of acquisition (by purchase or otherwise), construction, assembly, installation, modification, renovation or rehabilitation incurred in connection with any project or any part of any project; all costs of real property, fixtures or personal property used in or in connection with or necessary for any project or for any facilities related thereto, including, but not limited to, the cost of all land, estates for years, easements, rights, improvements, water rights, connections for utility services, fees, franchises, permits, approvals, licenses and certificates, the cost of securing any such franchises, permits, approvals, licenses or certificates and the cost of preparation of any application therefor and the cost of all fixtures, machinery, equipment, furniture and other property used in or in connection with or necessary for any project; all financing charges and loan fees and all interest on revenue bonds, notes or other obligations of the authority which accrues or is paid prior to and during the period of construction of a project and during such additional period as the authority may reasonably determine to be necessary to place such project in operation; all costs of engineering, surveying, architectural and legal services, all costs for services of landscape architects and all expenses incurred by engineers, surveyors, architects, landscape architects and attorneys in connection with any project; all expenses for inspection of any project; all fees of fiscal agents, paying agents, trustees for bondholders under any trust agreement, indenture of trust or similar instrument or agreement, all expenses incurred by any such fiscal agents, paying agents and trustees and all other costs and expenses incurred relative to the issuance of any revenue bonds, notes or other obligations for any project; all fees of any type charged by the authority in connection with any project; all expenses of or incident to determining the feasibility or practicability of any project; all costs of plans and specifications for any project; all costs of title insurance and examinations of title with respect to any project; repayment of any loans made for the advance payment of any part of any of the foregoing costs, including interest thereon and any other expenses of such loans; administrative expenses of the authority and such other expenses as may be necessary or incident to any project or the financing thereof or the placing of any project in operation; and a fund or funds for the creation of a debt service reserve, a renewal and replacement reserve, or such other funds or reserves as the authority may approve with respect to the financing and operation of any project and as may be authorized by any bond resolution, trust agreement, indenture of trust or similar instrument or agreement pursuant to the provisions of which the issuance of any revenue bonds, notes or other obligations of the authority may be authorized. Any cost, obligation or expense incurred for any of the foregoing purposes shall be a part of the cost of the project and may be paid or reimbursed as such out of proceeds of revenue bonds, notes or other obligations issued by the authority and from other funds of the authority.
(e)
Funds of the authority as used herein and in the amendment shall include all funds received by the authority, including specifically tax revenues collected pursuant to section 5 of the amendment, but shall not include: (1) proceeds, or any income derived from investment of such proceeds, of revenue bonds, notes or other obligations issued by the authority for a project which constitutes an improvement of private property; or (2) funds received by the authority pursuant to any lease, note, trust indenture, trust agreement, agreement for the sale of revenue bonds, notes or other obligations, loan agreement, mortgage, deed to secure debt, trust deed, security agreement, assignment or other agreement or instrument executed in connection with revenue bonds, notes or other obligations issued by the authority for a project which constitutes an improvement of private property.
(f)
Note shall mean an obligation of the authority: (1) designated as a note by the authority; (2) having a maturity not in excess of ten (10) years from the date of issuance; (3) issuable only in registered form, without coupons; and (4) not issued under the provisions of any trust agreement or indenture of trust.
(g)
Project shall mean the acquisition, construction, installation, modification, renovation or rehabilitation of land, interests in land, buildings, structures, facilities and other improvements located or to be located within the Central Valdosta Area, and the acquisition, installation, modification, renovation, rehabilitation, or furnishing of fixtures, machinery, equipment, furniture and other property of any nature whatsoever used on, in or in connection with any such land, interest in land, building, structure, facility or other improvement, all for the essential public purpose of the redevelopment and improvement of the Central Valdosta Area. A project may be for any industrial, commercial, business, office, retail, public or other use, provided that a majority of the members of the authority determine, by a resolution duly adopted, that the project and such use thereof would further the redevelopment and improvement of the Central Valdosta Area and would promote the public good and welfare and benefit the citizens of the Central Valdosta Area and the City of Valdosta.
(h)
Revenue bonds and bonds shall mean any bonds or other obligations of the authority which are authorized to be issued under the amendment, this act or the other provisions of the constitution and laws of the State of Georgia, including refunding bonds but not including notes of the authority.
Section 3. - [Quorum.]
Any four members of the authority shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of the ordinary business of the authority; however, any resolution of the authority authorizing the issuance of revenue bonds, notes or other obligations for any project must be approved by a majority vote of the members of the authority.
Section 4. - [Powers.]
The authority shall have the power to do all things necessary to the accomplishment of its purposes, including but not limited to the powers enumerated by the amendment and the following powers:
(a)
To make and execute contracts, agreements and other instruments necessary or convenient to exercise the powers of the authority or to further the public purpose for which the authority is created, including but not limited to contracts for construction of projects, leases of projects, contracts for sale of projects, agreements for loans to finance projects, and contracts with respect to the use of projects;
(b)
To finance (by loan, grant, lease or otherwise), construct, erect, assemble, purchase, acquire, own, repair, remodel, renovate, rehabilitate, modify, maintain, extend, improve, install, sell, equip, expand, add to, operate or manage projects and to pay the cost of any project from the proceeds of revenue bonds, notes or other obligations of the authority or any other funds of the authority, or from any contributions or loans by persons, corporations, partnerships (limited or general) or other entities, all of which the authority is hereby authorized to receive and accept and use;
(c)
To borrow money to further or carry out its public purpose and to execute revenue bonds, notes, other obligations, leases, trust indentures, trust agreements, agreements for the sale of its revenue bonds, notes or other obligations, loan agreements, mortgages, deeds to secure debt, trust deeds, security agreements, assignments and such other agreements or instruments as may be necessary or desirable, in the judgment of the authority, to evidence and to provide security for such borrowing;
(d)
To issue revenue bonds, notes or other obligations of the authority and use the proceeds thereof for the purpose of paying, or loaning the proceeds thereof to pay, all or any part of the cost of any project and otherwise to further or carry out the public purpose of the authority and to pay all costs of the authority incident to, or necessary and appropriate to, furthering or carrying out such purpose;
(e)
To make application directly or indirectly to any federal, state, county or municipal government or agency or to any other source, public or private, for loans, grants, guarantees or other financial assistance in furtherance of the authority's public purpose and to accept and use the same upon such terms and conditions as are prescribed by such federal, state, county or municipal government or agency or other source;
(f)
To enter into agreements with the federal government or any agency thereof to use the facilities or the services of the federal government or any agency thereof in order to further or carry out the public purpose of the authority;
(g)
To contract for any period not exceeding fifty (50) years with the State of Georgia, state institutions or any city, town, municipality or county of the state for the use by the authority of any facilities or services of the state or any such state institution, city, town, municipality or county, or for the use by any state institution or any city, town, municipality or county of any facilities or services of the authority, provided such contracts shall deal with such activities and transactions as the authority and any such political subdivision with which the authority contracts are by law authorized to undertake;
(h)
To extend credit or make loans to any person, corporation, partnership (limited or general) or other entity for the costs of any project or any part of the costs of any project, which credit or loans may be evidenced or secured by loan agreements, notes, mortgages, deeds to secure debt, trust deeds, security agreements, assignments or such other instruments, or by rentals, revenues, fees or charges, upon such terms and conditions as the authority shall determine to be reasonable in connection with such extension of credit or loans, including provision for the establishment and maintenance of reserve funds, and, in the exercise of powers granted hereby in connection with any project, the authority shall have the right and power to require the inclusion in any such loan agreement, note, mortgage, deed to secure debt, trust deed, security agreement, assignment or other instrument of such provisions or requirements for guaranty of any obligations, insurance, construction, use, operation, maintenance and financing of a project, and such other terms and conditions, as the authority may deem necessary or desirable;
(i)
As security for repayment of any revenue bonds, notes or other obligations of the authority, to pledge, mortgage, convey, assign, hypothecate or otherwise encumber any property of the authority (including but not limited to real property, fixtures, personal property and revenues or other funds) and to execute any lease, trust indenture, trust agreement, agreement for the sale of the authority's revenue bonds, notes or other obligations, loan agreement, mortgage, deed to secure debt, trust deed, security agreement, assignment or other agreement or instrument as may be necessary or desirable, in the judgment of the authority, to secure any such revenue bonds, notes or other obligations, which instruments or agreements may provide for foreclosure or forced sale of any property of the authority upon default in any obligation of the authority, either in payment of principal, premium, if any, or interest or in the performance of any term or condition contained in any such agreement or instrument and any such agreement or instrument encumbering such property may be foreclosed in accordance with law and the terms thereof;
(j)
As security for repayment of any revenue bonds, notes or other obligations of the authority, to enter into any agreement or other instrument pursuant to which the authority agrees to levy ad valorem taxes (in such amount as the authority may agree upon but not in excess of the maximum authorized by this act) and to pledge, convey, assign, hypothecate or otherwise encumber amounts received by the authority from such taxes, all upon such terms and conditions as the authority may deem desirable;
(k)
To receive and use the proceeds of any tax levied by the authority for any purpose for which funds of the authority may be used pursuant to this act;
(l)
To use any real property, personal property or fixtures or any interest therein or to rent or lease such property to or from others or make contracts with respect to the use thereof, or to sell, lease, exchange, transfer, assign, pledge, or otherwise dispose of or grant options for any such property in any manner as it deems to the best advantage of the authority and the public purpose thereof;
(m)
To acquire, accept or retain equitable interests, security interests or other interests in any real property, personal property or fixtures by loan agreement, note, mortgage, deed to secure debt, trust deed, security agreement, assignment, pledge, conveyance, contract, lien, loan agreement or other consensual transfer in order to secure the repayment of any monies loaned or credit extended by the authority;
(n)
To exercise any power granted by the laws of the State of Georgia to public or private corporations which is not in conflict with the public purpose of the authority or with the amendment.
The powers enumerated in each paragraph above are cumulative with and in addition to those enumerated in the other paragraphs above and elsewhere in this act, and those enumerated in the amendment, and no such power limits or restricts any other power of the authority, under this act or the amendment.
Section 5. - [Financial obligations.]
The revenue bonds, notes and other obligations herein authorized to be issued shall not be deemed to constitute a debt of the City of Valdosta within the meaning of Ga. Const. (1976) art. IX, § VIII, ¶ I (formerly Ga. Const. (1945) art. VII, § VII, ¶ I), nor a pledge of the faith and credit of the City of Valdosta, nor shall the City of Valdosta be subject to any pecuniary liability thereon, nor shall such revenue bonds, notes and other obligations be payable from, or a charge upon, any funds of the City of Valdosta. Any resolution of the authority authorizing the issuance of revenue bonds, notes or other obligations or any trust agreement, indenture of trust or similar instrument or agreement approved by the authority may provide: (i) that any holder of such revenue bonds, notes or other obligations, or any trustee or agent acting for or on behalf of any such holder or holders, shall have the right to compel the authority to levy the special tax provided for by this act to pay such bonds, notes or other obligations; or (ii) that no such holder, trustee or agent shall ever have any right to compel the authority to levy a tax, and, in that event, the authority shall not levy any tax to pay such bonds, notes or other obligations; or (iii) that any such holder, trustee or agent may only compel levy of a tax not to exceed a specified millage rate (less than the maximum authorized by this act) and that such right may be exclusive as to such millage rate or may be nonexclusive as to such millage rate.
Section 6. - [Payment of obligations.]
Revenue bonds, notes and other obligations issued by the authority shall be paid solely from the property (including but not limited to real property, fixtures, personal property, revenues or other funds), agreements, instruments and obligations pledged, mortgaged, conveyed, assigned, hypothecated or otherwise encumbered to secure or to pay such bonds. All revenue bonds, notes and other obligations shall be authorized by resolution of the authority, adopted by a majority vote of the members of the authority at a regular or special meeting. Such revenue bonds, notes or other obligations shall bear such date or dates, shall mature at such time or times not more than forty (40) years from their respective dates (ten (10) years with respect to notes), shall bear interest at such rate or rates (which may be fixed or may fluctuate or otherwise change from time to time), shall be subject to redemption on such terms, and shall contain such other terms, provisions, covenants, assignments and conditions as the resolution authorizing the issuance of such revenue bonds, notes or other obligations may permit or provide. The terms, provisions, covenants, assignments and conditions contained in or provided or permitted by any resolution authorizing the issuance of such revenue bonds, notes or other obligations shall bind the members of the authority then in office and their successors. The authority shall have power from time to time, and whenever it deems refunding expedient, to refund any bonds by the issuance of new bonds, whether the bonds to be refunded have or have not matured, and may issue bonds partly to refund bonds then outstanding and partly for any other purpose permitted under this act. The refunding bonds may be exchanged for the bonds to be refunded, with such cash adjustments as may be agreed upon, or may be sold and the proceeds applied to the purchase or redemption of the bonds to be refunded. All revenue bonds and other obligations and evidences of indebtedness issued by the authority under this act shall be issued and validated under and in accordance with the Revenue Bond Law of Georgia (1937 Ga. Laws, p. 761), as heretofore and hereafter amended, except as provided in this act, provided that notes of the authority may, but shall not be required to, be so validated. There shall be no limitation upon the amount of revenue bonds, notes or other obligations which the authority may issue. Any limitations with respect to interest rates or any maximum interest rate or rates found in the Revenue Bond Law of Georgia (1937 Ga. Laws, p. 761), as now or hereafter amended, the usury laws of the State of Georgia or any other laws of the State of Georgia shall not apply to revenue bonds, notes or other obligations of the authority.
Section 7. - [Use of funds for improvement of private property limited.]
Notwithstanding anything in this act to the contrary, no funds of the authority shall be spent on the improvement of private property, except for planning, engineering and design.
Section 8. - [Securities.]
Any revenue bonds, notes or other obligations issued by the authority under the provisions of this act are hereby made securities in which all public officers and bodies of this state, all counties and all municipalities and all municipal subdivisions, all insurance companies and associations and other persons carrying on an insurance business, all banks, bankers, trust companies, savings banks and savings associations, including savings and loan associations, building and loan associations, investment companies and other persons carrying on a banking business, all administrators, guardians, executors, trustees and other fiduciaries and all other persons whomsoever who are now or may hereafter be authorized to invest in bonds or other obligations of the state may properly and legally invest funds including capital in their control or belonging to them. The revenue bonds, notes or other obligations of the authority are also hereby made securities which may be deposited with and shall be received by all public officers and bodies of this state, all counties and all municipalities and municipal subdivisions for any purpose for which the deposit of the bonds or the other obligations of this state is now or may hereafter be authorized.
