Chapter 26 - CEMETERIES[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Cross reference— Streets, sidewalks and public places, ch. 86.
State Law reference— Criminal trespass and damage to property, O.C.G.A. § 16-7-20 et seq.; disposition of unclaimed dead bodies, O.C.G.A. § 31-21-20 et seq.; abandoned cemeteries and burial grounds, O.C.G.A. § 36-72-1 et seq.; Georgia Cemetery Act of 1983, O.C.G.A. § 44-3-130 et seq.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 26-1. - Permits for burial.
The city will not issue any permit for burial except upon lots in the city cemetery.
(Code 1976, § 6-2001)
Sec. 26-2. - Interments and disinterments.
(a)
All funeral processions upon entering the cemetery shall be under the control and subject to the direction of the supervisor or his designated representative.
(b)
The supervisor is authorized to refuse interment of any body unless the proper certificate is furnished. Eight hours' daylight notice must be given before interment.
(c)
The supervisor may require written authority from the owner or one of the owners of the lot in which interment is to be made before the interment.
(d)
Not more than one body shall be interred in any one grave space, size five feet by ten feet, except in cases where a parent and infant child or two infants are buried at the same time. In such cases, only one memorial shall be permitted.
(e)
Plot owners shall not allow interments on their plots for a remuneration.
(f)
No disinterments shall be made except by cemetery employees or designated persons with the consent of the supervisor. Disinterments shall be made only upon the written request of the lot owner and the next of kin of the deceased.
(g)
When making interments upon any lot, the cemetery or its representatives may temporarily pass over or erect temporary canopies upon neighboring plots.
(h)
All receptacles for human remains shall be at least 12 inches below grade.
(i)
All interments in perpetual care sections shall be made in approved, permanent type vaults.
(Code 1976, § 6-2004)
Sec. 26-3. - Monuments.
(a)
To avoid the appearance of congestion, only one central or family memorial shall be placed on a family lot. When the central memorial is set at the rear of the lot, it shall be at least three inches from the rear line.
(b)
Memorials constructed of artificial stone, composition, wood, tin or iron shall not be permitted except for temporary use not exceeding 90 days.
(c)
Mausoleums or tombs either wholly or partially above ground shall be constructed only on lots designated by the supervisor.
(d)
All die-stones shall be finished smooth on front and back and shall be at least six inches thick.
(e)
While a funeral or interment is being conducted nearby, all work of any description shall cease in that immediate area. It shall also be required that trucks and workmen withdraw to a reasonable distance from the location of the funeral service.
(f)
The size of a family memorial shall be governed according to the ratio of its face area (length multiplied by height) to the surface area of the lot and the ratio of its length (greatest horizontal dimension) to the average width of the lot. The face area of each piece of the memorial is to be figured separately. The face area of the memorial shall not exceed 15 percent of the surface area of the lot, and its length shall not exceed 70 percent of the average width of the lot. In the lawn section and perpetual care section, monuments shall not exceed four feet in height.
(g)
Where foundations for monuments, markers, mausoleums, tombs, etc., are installed by the cemetery, the charges shall be reasonable, uniform and published. Where the cemetery does not install foundations, memorial contractors shall install such foundations in a manner approved by the superintendent.
(h)
Only one marker shall be permitted on any one grave.
(i)
Cradles or copings around individual graves or plots shall not be permitted.
(j)
No exposed brick or concrete work will be allowed in any portion of the cemetery.
(k)
The bottom of every stone shall be dressed or machined to an even, level bed so that it will stand plumb, resting firmly and level on its foundation. All joints on memorials shall be sealed against moisture and with nonstaining material.
(l)
Lot corner marker posts, whenever used, should be of monumental stone placed level with grade. Initials shall be incised; posts shall be finished where they abut on adjacent lots. Posts shall be of uniform size as required by the cemetery.
(Code 1976, § 6-2005)
Sec. 26-4. - Rates, fees and charges.
The various rates, fees and charges for opening and closing graves, perpetual care or other services rendered in connection with cemeteries in the city shall be as set forth in the schedule of fees and charges on file in the office of the city clerk.
(Code 1976, §§ 6-2006, 6-2007, 6-2012, 6-2020; Ord. No. 78-31, 10-4-1978; Ord. No. 78-32, 10-4-1978; Ord. No. 81-8, 2-19-1981; Ord. No. 84-26, 8-23-1984; Ord. No. 84-27, 8-23-1984; Ord. No. 89-29, 8-24-1989; Ord. No. 92-21, 5-7-1992)
Secs. 26-5—26-40. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - SUNSET HILL CEMETERY
DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Sec. 26-41. - Rules and regulations generally.
The following rules shall apply to Sunset Hill Cemetery:
(1)
All lots are sold subject to the beautification plan of the cemetery.
(2)
No trees, shrubs or plants shall be planted, pruned or removed without the consent of the cemetery supervisor. The supervisor shall have authority to prune, remove or transplant any tree, shrub, plant or anything upon a lot when he may consider such a course necessary.
(3)
The supervisor shall be responsible at all times for the operation of the cemetery. He is authorized to enforce the rules, to maintain order, to supervise all workmen and visitors, and to take such action as may be necessary to enforce the rules and regulations.
(4)
No person shall enter the cemetery except through the gates or designated entrances.
(5)
Grave mounds shall not be allowed. No lot shall be raised above the established grade.
(6)
In cases where a lot is owned by more than one person, the supervisor may act upon the authority of any one of the owners.
(7)
The supervisor shall have the right to correct any errors that may be made in good faith in making interments, disinterments or removals, or in the description, transfer or conveyance of any interment property.
(8)
The supervisor shall take reasonable precaution to protect plot owners and their property rights within the cemetery from loss or damage, but shall not be responsible for any failure to do so.
(9)
Each plot owner shall keep the supervisor informed as to his correct mailing address. Notice mailed to a plot owner at the last address on file with the cemetery shall be equivalent to delivery of the notice.
(10)
No lot or plot can be resold except to the city.
(11)
Only authorized vehicles will be allowed off of paved or grass road surfaces. Unless written, special exception is given by the cemetery supervisor, city maintenance vehicles will be exclusively authorized.
(12)
Burials shall be only with an east-west orientation of the longest dimension of the vault.
(13)
Only the number of burials equal to the number of spaces that were purchased from the city shall be allowed on a lot. The burial of cremated remains or infants with an at-grade marker shall be the only exceptions.
(Code 1976, § 6-2002)
Sec. 26-42. - Rules regarding section I, sections G1 and G2.
The following rules shall apply to section I, sections G1 and G2 of Sunset Hill Cemetery:
(1)
All markers and monuments must be at the head of the graves.
(2)
No monument, including the base, will exceed 30 inches in height from the ground.
(3)
No permanent flower containers shall be placed on the ground. Temporary placement of arrangements or plants is permitted for up to two weeks.
(4)
All vases or urns must be on the monument bases that are permanently constructed.
(5)
No monument shall be large enough to serve more than one companion lot.
(6)
The width of the monument and base shall not exceed 70 percent of the average width of the lot.
(7)
No marker shall be flat on the ground unless it has a base at least six inches in depth to protect leveling. Leveling shall be done by memorial companies.
(8)
No corner markers are permitted, except at ground level. Corner markers may only be used on lots of two or more spaces.
(9)
No slabs or copings are permitted.
(10)
Nothing except grass can be planted on a lot.
(11)
Nothing other than a monument and/or markers may be placed on a lot, and cemetery personnel may require removal at the expense of the owner or may remove a nonconforming object charging time and material to the owner.
(Code 1976, § 6-2003; Ord. No. 78-30, 10-4-1978)
Secs. 26-43—26-70. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - PERPETUAL CARE
Subdivision I. - In General

Secs. 26-71—26-90. - Reserved.
Subdivision II. - Sunset Hill Trust Fund[2]

Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
Cross reference— Finance, § 2-491 et seq.

Sec. 26-91. - Established.
There is created and established a trust fund to be known as the Sunset Hill Trust Fund, and all moneys received by the city pursuant to the provisions of this subdivision shall be a part of and be deposited in the trust fund, and shall be kept separately and apart from all other funds of the city; however, half the purchase price of cemetery lots shall be paid into the Sunset Hill Trust Fund, and half deposited into the general fund.
(Code 1976, § 6-2011)
Sec. 26-92. - Receipt of payment; records.
Upon receipt by the city of any payment for perpetual care in Sunset Hill Cemetery, the clerk or other authorized officer or agent of the city shall issue to the person making such payment an appropriate receipt which shall describe or designate the lot with respect to which such payment is made; and henceforth such lot shall be included in and covered by the perpetual care plan established by this subdivision. The city shall make and keep appropriate records of every lot with respect to which such a payment is made.
(Code 1976, § 6-2013)
Sec. 26-93. - Disposition of funds; power of city as trustee.
Payments for perpetual care in Sunset Hill Cemetery shall not be held separately as separate trust funds for the several lots but shall be all deposited in the same Sunset Hill Trust Fund and be held by the city as trustee to provide perpetual care for all of the lots with respect to which such payments are made and subject to the uses and purposes and the powers and authority of the city as trustee, as provided by O.C.G.A. § 49-3-134.
(Code 1976, § 6-2014)
State Law reference— Perpetual care trust fund, O.C.G.A. § 44-3-134.
Sec. 26-94. - Records; use of income and trust fund.
The records of the city shall at all times show the amount of principal held in the Sunset Hill Trust Fund and the amount of accumulated income, if any; and only the income shall be used or expended to provide the perpetual care and maintenance contemplated in this subdivision.
(Code 1976, § 6-2015)
Sec. 26-95. - Premium or discount; treatment by trustee.
In arriving at the income on behalf of the Sunset Hill Trust Fund from any investment, the trustee may treat any premium or discount on such investment as principal or as income, or may apportion the income between the principal and income, at its election.
(Code 1976, § 6-2016)
Sec. 26-96. - Use of excess funds.
Should the income of the Sunset Hill Trust Fund at any time prove to be more than is needed to care for and to maintain the lots then included in and covered by a perpetual care plan, the trustee shall be authorized to use or expend all or any part of such excess income in improving, beautifying or maintaining the streets, parks and other public portion of such cemetery, thereby benefiting indirectly the lots covered by such plan.
(Code 1976, § 6-2017)
Sec. 26-97. - Nature of agreement, amendments.
This subdivision shall constitute a contract and trust agreement between the city as trustee and each of the persons who make payments into the trust fund provided for in this subdivision, but this subdivision may be amended and modified by the mayor and council so long as such amendments do not adversely affect the perpetual care plan with respect to lots covered by such plan at the time such amendments are enacted.
(Code 1976, § 6-2018)
Secs. 26-98—26-110. - Reserved.
Subdivision III. - Sections H and I

Sec. 26-111. - Trust fund established.
There is created and established a trust fund to be known as the Sunset Hill Trust Fund, and all moneys received by the city pursuant to the provisions of this subdivision shall be a part of and be deposited in the trust fund and shall be kept separate and apart from all other funds of the city; however, half the purchase price of cemetery lots shall be paid into the Sunset Hill Trust Fund and half shall be deposited into the general fund.
(Code 1976, § 6-2019)
Sec. 26-112. - Receipt of payment; records.
Upon receipt by the city of any payment into the Sunset Hill Trust Fund, the clerk or other authorized officer or agent of the city shall issue to the person making such payment an appropriate receipt which shall describe or designate the lots with respect to which such payment is made, and thenceforth such lots shall be included in and covered by the perpetual care plan established by this subdivision. Both the clerk and supervisor shall make and keep appropriate permanent records of every lot with respect to which such a payment is made.
(Code 1976, § 6-2021)
Sec. 26-113. - Disposition of funds; power of city as trustee.
Payments into the Sunset Hill Trust Fund shall not be held separately as separate trust funds for the several lots, but shall be all deposited in the Sunset Hill Trust Fund and to be held by the city as trustee to provide perpetual care for all of the lots with respect to which such payments are made and subject to the uses and purposes and the powers and authority of the city as trustee.
(Code 1976, § 6-2022)
Sec. 26-114. - Records; use of income of trust fund.
The records of the city shall at all times show the amount of principal held in the Sunset Hill Trust Fund; and the amount of accumulated income, if any, and only the income shall be used or expended to provide the perpetual care and maintenance contemplated in this subdivision.
(Code 1976, § 6-2023)
Sec. 26-115. - Premium or discount; treatment by trustee.
In arriving at the income from any investment on behalf of the Sunset Hill Trust Fund, the trustee may treat any premium or discount on such investment as principal or as income, or may apportion the income between principal or income, at its election.
(Code 1976, § 6-2024)
Sec. 26-116. - Use of excess funds.
Should the income of the Sunset Hill Trust Fund at any time prove to be more than is needed to care for and maintain the lots then included in and covered by such perpetual care plan, the trustee shall be authorized to use or expend all or part of such excess income in improving, beautifying or maintaining the streets, parks and other public portions of such cemetery, thereby benefiting indirectly the lots covered by such plan.
(Code 1976, § 6-2025)
Sec. 26-117. - Nature of agreement; amendments.
This subdivision shall constitute a contract and trust agreement between the city as trustee and each of the persons who make payments into the trust fund provided for in this subdivision, but this subdivision may be amended and modified by the mayor and council so long as such amendments do not adversely affect the perpetual care plan with respect to lots covered by such plan at the times such amendments are enacted.
(Code 1976, § 6-2026)
