ARTICLE V. - PAWNBROKERS[4]

Footnotes:
--- (4) ---
State Law reference— Pawnbrokers, O.C.G.A. § 44-12-130 et seq.

Sec. 22-151. - License, subject to revocation; indication on face of license.
When any license is issued to a pawnbroker to carry on the business of a pawnbroker within the city, there shall be written across the face of it the following:
"This license is subject to be revoked under chapter 22, article V of the city Code."
(Code 1976, § 7-1102)
Sec. 22-152. - Records; reports; penalty.
(a)
Definitions. The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this section, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this subsection, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Pawnbroker means the owner, operator and/or manager of any pawnshop or other business or establishment engaged in the city in the business of pawnbroker or of making loans upon the security of items of personal property deposited or left with such business establishment, but shall not include banks.
(b)
Report required. Within 30 minutes after closing his place of business for the day, each pawnbroker doing business within the city shall file or cause to be filed electronically with the police department of the city a true and correct list or report of all items of personal property pawned with or pledged to such pawnbroker during that day, or purchased by such pawnbroker from one or more individuals during that day. Such list or report shall include:
(1)
A complete description of each such item of personal property;
(2)
Its approximate value;
(3)
The amount loaned or advanced or the price paid; and
(4)
The name, address, race, sex and approximate age of the person who pawned, pledged or sold the item to the pawnbroker.
(c)
Form. Each such list or report shall be in such form as the chief of police may prescribe or approve, and shall be verified by the affidavit of the pawnbroker.
(Code 1976, § 7-1104)
Sec. 22-153. - Penalties for violations.
(a)
Any person upon being convicted for violation of this article shall be punished as provided in section 1-11.
(b)
In addition to the penalties provided in this article, any pawnbroker doing business within the city violating this article shall be subject to having his license to carry on such business revoked by the mayor and council, at any time such violation may occur, without refunding to him any license or occupation fee, or any part, theretofore paid by him for carrying on such business.
(Code 1976, § 7-1105)
Secs. 22-154—22-190. - Reserved.
