Chapter 1 - GENERAL PROVISIONS

Sec. 1-1. - How Code designated and cited.
The ordinances embraced in this and the following chapters and sections shall constitute and be designated the "Code of Ordinances, City of Vidalia, Georgia," and may be so cited.
Sec. 1-2. - Definitions and rules of construction.
(a)
In the construction of this Code, and of all ordinances, the following rules shall be observed, unless such construction would be inconsistent with the manifest intent of the governing body:
City. The words "the city" or "this city" shall be construed as if the words "of Vidalia, Georgia" followed it.
Computation of time. Except as otherwise provided by time period computations, when a period of time measured in days, weeks, months, years, or other measurements of time except hours is prescribed for the exercise of any privilege or the discharge of any duty, the first day shall not be counted but the last day shall be counted; and, if the last day falls on Saturday or Sunday, the party having such privilege or duty shall have through the following Monday to exercise the privilege or to discharge the duty. When the last day prescribed for such action falls on a public and legal holiday as set forth in the O.C.G.A. § 1-4-1, as amended, the party having the privilege or duty shall have through the next business day to exercise the privilege or to discharge the duty. When the period of time prescribed is less than seven (7) days, intermediate Saturdays, Sundays and legal holidays shall be excluded in the computation.
State Law reference— Similar provisions, O.C.G.A. § 1-3-1(d)(3).
Council, city council, mayor and council, governing body. Whenever the words "council," "city council," "mayor and council" or "governing body" are used, it shall mean the governing body of this city.
County. The words "the county" or "this county" shall mean the County of Toombs or the County of Montgomery, as the case may be.
Delegation of authority. Whenever a provision appears requiring an officer or head of a department of the city to do some act or make certain inspections it is to be construed to authorize the officer or head of the department to designate, delegate and authorize subordinates to perform the required act or make the required inspection unless the terms of the provision or section designate otherwise.
Family unit. A family unit shall be the head of a household and any dependents living within that household.
Gender. A word importing one gender shall extend and be applied to the other genders, except where inappropriate.
Interpretation. In the interpretation and application of any provision of this Code, it shall be held to be the minimum requirements adopted for the promotion of the public health, safety, comfort, convenience and general welfare. Where any provision of the Code imposes greater restrictions upon the subject matter than another general provision imposed by the Code, the provision imposing the greater or more stringent restriction or regulation shall be deemed to be controlling.
Joint authority. All words giving a joint authority to three (3) or more persons or officers shall be construed as giving such authority to a majority of such persons or officers.
Keeper and proprietor. The words "keeper" and "proprietor" shall mean and include the persons, firms, associations, corporations, clubs and partnerships, whether acting by themselves or through a servant, agent or employee.
Limits, corporation. The words "limits" or "corporation" shall mean the corporate limits of the city, the legal boundary of the city.
Mayor. Whenever the word "mayor" is used it shall mean the mayor of this city.
Month. The word "month" shall mean a calendar month.
Municipal court judge or recorder. The terms "municipal court judge" or "recorder" means the municipal court judge who presides over the municipal court of the city.
Name of officer. Whenever the name of an officer is given in this Code or in any ordinance or code referred to or adopted in this Code, it shall be construed as though the words "of the City of Vidalia, Georgia" were added.
Nontechnical and technical words. Words and phrases shall be construed according to the common and approved usage of the language; but technical words and phrases and such others as may have acquired a peculiar and appropriate meaning in law shall be construed and understood according to such meaning.
Number. A word importing the singular number only may extend and be applied to several persons and things as well as to one person and thing.
Oath. The word "oath" shall be construed to include an affirmation in all cases in which, by law, an affirmation may be substituted for an oath, and in such cases the words "swear" and "sworn" shall be equivalent to the words "affirm" and "affirmed".
Or, and. "Or" may be read "and" and "and" may be read "or", if the sense requires it.
Owner. The word "owner," applied to a building or land, shall include any part owner, joint owner, tenant in common, tenant in partnership, joint tenant, or tenant by the entirety, of the whole or of a part of such building or land.
Person. The word "person" shall extend and be applied to associations, clubs, societies, firms, partnerships and bodies politic and corporate as well as to individuals.
Personal property. The term "personal property" shall include every species of property except real property, as herein defined.
Preceding, following. The words "preceding" and "following" shall mean next before and next after, respectively.
Property. The word "property" shall include real and personal property.
Public place. The term "public place" shall mean any park, cemetery, school yard or open space adjacent thereto, or any area available or accessible to the public.
Real property. The term "real property" shall include lands, tenements and hereditaments.
Residence. The term "residence" shall be construed to mean the place adopted by a person as such person's place of habitation, and to which, whenever such person is absent, such person has the intention of returning. When a person eats at one place and sleeps at another, the place where such person sleeps shall be deemed such person's residence.
Seal. The word "seal" shall mean the city seal, the seal of the corporation.
Sidewalk. The word "sidewalk" shall mean any portion of a street between the curb line and the adjacent property line, intended for the use of pedestrians, excluding parkways.
Signature or subscription. The "signature" or "subscription" of a person shall include a mark when the person cannot write.
State. The words "the state" shall be construed to mean the State of Georgia.
Street. The word "street" shall be construed to embrace streets, avenues, boulevards, roads, alleys, lanes, viaducts and all other public highways in the city, and shall include the area between the right-of-way lines thereof.
Tenant, occupant. The word "tenant" or "occupant," applied to a building or land, shall include any person holding a written or oral lease or who occupies the whole or a part of such building or land, either alone or with others.
Tense. Words used in the past or present tense include the future as well as the past and present.
Week. The word "week" shall be construed to mean a calendar week.
Written or in writing. The terms "written" or "in writing" shall be construed to include any representation of words, letters or figures, whether by printing or otherwise.
Year. The word "year" shall mean a calendar year.
(b)
The same rules shall be applied in construing ordinances of this city as are applied in construing the statutes of this state, which rules are found in O.C.G.A. § 1-3-1 et seq., as amended, and the same meanings are to be given words found in the ordinances as are given similar words found in the statutes of this state.
(Code 1968, §§ 1-2, 1-4; Ord. of 8-12-13 )
Sec. 1-3. - Catchlines of sections.
The catchlines of the several sections of this Code printed in boldface type are intended as mere catchwords to indicate the contents of the section and shall not be deemed or taken to be titles of such sections nor as any part of the section, nor, unless expressly so provided, shall they be so deemed when any of such sections, including the catchlines, are amended or reenacted.
Sec. 1-4. - Amendments to Code; effect of new ordinances; amendatory language.
All ordinances passed subsequent to this Code which amend, repeal or in any way affect this Code may be numbered in accordance with the numbering system of this Code and printed for inclusion herein. In the case of repealed chapters, sections and subsections or any part thereof, by subsequent ordinances, such repealed portions may be excluded from the Code by omission from reprinted pages affected thereby.
Amendments to any of the provisions of this Code may be made by amending such provisions by specific reference to the section number of this Code in the following language: "That section _____ of the Code of Ordinances, City of Vidalia, Georgia, is hereby amended to read as follows: …." The new provisions may then be set out in full as desired.
In the event a new section not heretofore existing in the Code is to be added, the following language may be used: "That the Code of Ordinances, City of Vidalia, Georgia, is hereby amended by adding a section (or article or chapter) to be numbered _____, which said section reads as follows: …." The new section may then be set out in full as desired.
In lieu of the foregoing paragraph, when the governing body desires to enact an ordinance of a general and permanent nature embracing a subject not previously existing in the Code, and to incorporate into the Code, a provision in substantially the following language may be made a part of the ordinance: "It is the intention of the governing body, and it is hereby ordained that the provisions of this ordinance shall become and be made part of the Code of Ordinances, City of Vidalia, Georgia, and the sections of this ordinance may be renumbered to accomplish such intention."
All sections, articles, chapters or provisions desired to be repealed should be specifically repealed by section, article or chapter number, as the case may be.
Sec. 1-5. - Supplementation of Code.
(a)
By contract or by city personnel, supplements to this Code shall be prepared and printed whenever authorized or directed by the governing body. A supplement to the Code shall include all substantive, permanent and general parts of ordinances passed by the council or adopted by initiative and referendum during the period covered by the supplement and all changes made thereby in the Code. The pages of a supplement shall be so numbered that they will fit properly into the Code and will, where necessary, replace pages which have become obsolete or partially obsolete. The new pages shall be so prepared that, when they have been inserted, the Code will be current through the date of the adoption of the latest ordinance included in the supplement. Charter amendments may be included in like manner.
(b)
In the preparation of a supplement to this Code, all portions of the Code which have been repealed shall be excluded from the Code by the omission thereof from reprinted pages.
(c)
When preparing a supplement to this Code, the codifier (meaning the person, agency or organization authorized to prepare the supplement) may make formal, nonsubstantive changes in ordinances and parts of ordinances included in the supplement, insofar as it is necessary to do so to embody them into a unified Code. For example, the codifier may:
(1)
Organize the ordinance material into appropriate subdivisions;
(2)
Provide appropriate catchlines, headings and titles for sections and other subdivisions of the Code printed in the supplement, and make changes in such catchlines, headings and titles;
(3)
Assign appropriate numbers to sections and other subdivisions to be inserted in the Code and, where necessary to accommodate new material, change existing section or other subdivision numbers;
(4)
Change the words "this ordinance" or words of the same meaning to "this chapter," "this article," "this division," etc., as the case may be, or to "sections _____ through _____" (inserting section numbers to indicate the sections of the Code which embody the substantive sections of the ordinance incorporated into the Code); and
(5)
Make other nonsubstantive changes necessary to preserve the original meaning of ordinance sections inserted into the Code; but, in no case, shall the codifier make any change in the meaning or effect of ordinance material included in the supplement or already embodied in the Code.
Sec. 1-6. - Effect of repeal of ordinances.
The repeal of an ordinance shall not revive any ordinances in force before or at the time the ordinance repealed took effect.
The repeal of an ordinance shall not affect any punishment or penalty incurred before the repeal took effect, nor any suit, prosecution or proceeding pending at the time of the repeal, for an offense committed or cause of action arising under the ordinance repealed.
(Code 1968, § 1-6)
Sec. 1-7. - Severability of parts of Code.
It is hereby declared to be the intention of the governing body that the sections, paragraphs, sentences, clauses and phrases of this Code are severable, and if any phrase, clause, sentence, paragraph or section of this Code shall be declared unconstitutional by the valid judgment or decree of any court of competent jurisdiction, such unconstitutionality shall not affect any of the remaining phrases, clauses, sentences, paragraphs and sections of this Code, since the same would have been enacted by the governing body without the incorporation in this Code of any such unconstitutional phrase, clause, sentence, paragraph or section.
Sec. 1-8. - General penalty; continuing violations.
Whenever in this Code or in any ordinance or resolution of the city any act is prohibited or is made or declared to be unlawful or an offense, or whenever in such Code, ordinance or resolution the doing of any act is required or the failure to do any act is declared to be unlawful, where no specific penalty is provided therefor, the violation of such provision of this Code or any such ordinance or resolution shall be punished by a fine not to exceed one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) or imprisonment in the city jail for not more than ninety (90) days, or work in the workgang on the public streets or on such public works as the authorities may employ the workgang for not more than ninety (90) days, or by any one or more of these punishments, subject to all limitations contained in the charter of the city. Each day any violation of this Code or of any ordinance shall continue shall constitute a separate offense.
In addition to the penalties hereinabove provided, any condition caused or permitted to exist in violation of any of the provisions of this Code or any ordinance shall be deemed a public nuisance, and may be abated by the city as provided by law, and each day that such condition continues shall be regarded as a new and separate offense.
(Code 1968, § 1-11)
Sec. 1-9. - Fine and bond schedule.
The fine and bond schedule for various offenses against the city shall be as established by the recorder.
Sec. 1-10. - Remission of fines, sentences; parole—Authority of mayor.
(a)
The mayor shall have power and authority to remit or reduce the fines and sentences imposed by the recorder of the city upon persons convicted for violating any of the laws or ordinances of the city, and to parole on good conduct persons convicted by the municipal court judge of violating any of the laws and ordinances of the city, under the rules and regulations prescribed in this section and section 1-11.
(b)
Uncollectible fines shall be charged off with the understanding that cases will be reopened if the fines become collectible.
(Code 1968, § 1-13)
Sec. 1-11. - Same—Petition required.
(a)
Contents: Any person convicted by the recorder and desiring the benefits of section 1-10 shall make application in writing to the mayor in the following form:
"To the Mayor of the City of Vidalia:
I, the undersigned petition your honor to remit or reduce the fine imposed on me, or grant me a parole on good conduct.
This the _____ day of ________, 19___.
EXPAND
Signed _____ Petitioner."
  (b)
Delivery: The petition shall be delivered to the mayor by the applicant or by any other person acting for the applicant.
(c)
Action by mayor: Upon receipt of the petition the mayor may in the exercise of discretion refuse to entertain the same.
(d)
Setting hearing: If the mayor exercises such discretion in favor of the petition, the petition shall be marked "approved" and the mayor shall set a time for hearing thereon and file the same with the city clerk.
(e)
Place of hearing: All applications shall be tried and heard at the council chamber.
(f)
Notice of hearing: Before any application shall be heard the city clerk shall cause written notice to be served on each member of the city council, the same to be prepared by the clerk and in such form as the city clerk may prescribe and to be served by the marshal of the city.
(Code 1968, § 1-14)
Sec. 1-12. - Same—Vote required.
No finding of the mayor upon any application shall become of force unless concurred in by at least three (3) of the councilmen.
(Code 1968, § 1-15)
Sec. 1-13. - Suspension or probation of sentence.
The recorder shall have the authority, in such officers discretion, to suspend or probate all or any part of any fine, sentence or other penalty imposed pursuant to the provisions of section 1-8, and to impose upon such suspension or probation, such terms and conditions as such officer may deem fit and proper.
(Code 1968, § 1-16)
Sec. 1-14. - Altering Code.
It shall be unlawful for any person in the city to change or amend by additions or deletions, any part or portion of this Code, or to insert or delete pages, or portions thereof, or to alter or tamper with such Code in any manner whatsoever except by ordinance or resolution or other official act of the mayor and council, which will cause the law of the city to be misrepresented thereby.
Sec. 1-15. - Certain ordinances not affected by Code.
Nothing in this Code or the ordinance adopting this Code shall be construed to repeal or otherwise affect the validity of any of the following:
(1)
Any rates, fees or charges consistent with this Code;
(2)
Any ordinance promising or guaranteeing the payment of money for the city, or authorizing the issuance of any bonds for the city or any evidence of the city's indebtedness, or any contract or obligation assumed by the city;
(3)
Any ordinance consistent with this Code prescribing traffic regulations for specific locations, such as prescribing through streets, parking limitations, parking prohibitions, one-way traffic or limitations on loads of vehicles or loading zones;
(4)
Any ordinance consistent with this Code fixing salaries of officials, officers or employees of the city; any personnel ordinance consistent with this Code;
(5)
Any budget ordinance or appropriation ordinance; any ordinance levying any tax;
(6)
Any right or franchise granted by any ordinance or resolution to any person;
(7)
Any ordinance dedicating, naming, establishing, locating, relocating, opening, closing, paving, widening or vacating any street or public way in the city;
(8)
Any ordinance establishing and prescribing the street grades of any street in the city;
(9)
Any ordinance providing for local improvements or assessing taxes therefor;
(10)
Any ordinance dedicating or accepting any plat or subdivision in the city or providing regulations for the same;
(11)
Any ordinance establishing or changing the boundary of the city;
(12)
Any zoning ordinance; any subdivision ordinance;
(13)
Any ordinance enacted after October 24, 1989;
all such ordinances are hereby recognized as continuing in full force and effect to the same extent as if set out at length in this Code.
Sec. 1-16. - Schedule of payment of assessments generated by "court fees".
It shall be the responsibility of the "clerk of municipal court" to generate the documentation for the payments of the "court fees" obtained through the operation of the City of Vidalia Municipal Court. The below listed schedule of payments will be followed for dispersing the "fines" and "court fees". Each payment scheduled will be paid in full prior to the payment of the next scheduled payment.
(1)
City of Vidalia's amount of "fine".
(2)
Failure to appear/contempt fee.
(3)
Peace officer annuity and benefit fund (POAB).
(4)
Peace officer, prosecutor training fund (POPT).
(5)
Indigent defense fund (IDF).
(6)
Law library (LL).
(7)
Jail construction and staffing fund (JAIL).
(8)
Crime victim's emergency fund (CVEF).
(9)
Drug abuse treatment and education fund (DATE).
(10)
Local victim's assistance program (LVAP).
(11)
Brain and spinal injury trust fund (BSITF).
(12)
Crime lab fee (CLF).
Upon submission of the above listed documentation by the municipal court clerk, the accounts payable clerk of the city will issue a single check to the Toombs County Clerk of Superior Court. The check will be issued in the total amount of all of the assessments. The check and documentation will be sent to the clerk of superior court prior to the 15th of each month to be dispersed to each appropriate fund listed on the documentation.
Any further added assessments shall be paid subsequent to the city fine payment.
(Ord. of 6-22-04)
