Chapter 7 - CIVIL EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT

Sec. 7-1. - "Emergency management" defined.
As used in this article, the term "emergency management" means the preparation for the carrying out of all emergency functions other than functions for which military forces are primarily responsible to prevent, minimize and repair injury and damage resulting from emergencies or disasters, or the imminent threat thereof, of manmade or natural origin caused by enemy attack, sabotage, civil disturbance, fire, flood, earthquake, wind, storm, wave water contamination requiring emergency action to avert danger or damage, epidemic, air contamination, blight, drought, infestation, explosion, riot or other hostile action or other causes. These functions include, without limitation, firefighting services; police services; medical and health services; rescue; engineering; warning services; communications; defense from radiological, chemical and other special weapons; evacuation of persons from stricken areas; emergency welfare services; emergency transportation; plant protection; temporary restoration of public utility services; and other functions related to civilian protection, together with all other activities necessary or incidental to the preparation for and carrying out of the foregoing functions.
(Code 1968, § 7-1)
Cross reference— Definitions and rules of construction generally, § 1-2.
State Law reference— Similar provisions, O.C.G.A. § 38-3-3(1).
Sec. 7-2. - Emergency management office established; appointment and powers of coordinator.
In agreement with the governing officials of the county, the City of Vidalia and the City of Lyons, there is hereby established the county emergency management office. The officials of the county, the City of Vidalia and the City of Lyons shall nominate for appointment by the governor a coordinator of emergency management for the county. When appointed, the coordinator is charged with the following duties:
(1)
To represent the governing officials of the county, the City of Vidalia and the City of Lyons on matters pertaining to civil preparedness.
(2)
To assist the above government officials in organizing departments for emergency operations.
(3)
To develop, in conjunction with all departments and agencies of the City of Vidalia and City of Lyons, the county plan for emergency functions set forth in this chapter. Such plan will be in consonance with the state emergency operations plan and shall be submitted to the governing officials of the above governmental agencies and thence to the state emergency management office for approval.
(4)
To maintain the office in carrying out the day-to-day administration of the county emergency management program, including the rendering of required reports to the state office.
(5)
To render reports, such as financial, daily activity, etc., as required by governing officials in keeping with good business practices.
(6)
To procure, with the authority of governing officials, a facility to be used as the county emergency operating center.
(7)
To coordinate the activities of the county emergency operating staff during periods of a declared emergency and under the supervision of the county, City of Vidalia and City of Lyons governing officials.
(Code 1968, § 7-2)
Sec. 7-3. - Emergency management departments.
(a)
The county organization shall be established around the departments and agencies of the county, the City of Vidalia and the City of Lyons, and the emergency functions listed in section 7-1 are assigned as follows:
EXPAND
Department Emergency Functions
(1) Executive (elected officials of the county, City of Vidalia, City of Lyons) Direction and control
Public information
Supply—Finance
(2) Police (police units of the county, City of Vidalia, City of Lyons) Security
Movement
Search
Communication
Warning
(3) Fire control (fire departments of the county, City of Vidalia, City of Lyons) Fire control
Rescue
Damage assessment
(4) Public works and engineering Utilities and public service
Hazards analysis
(5) Human resources
a. Division of family and children's services Human needs, including: Welfare
b. Division of physical health Health control
c. Hospital services Medical and mortuary services
d. Ambulance services Casualty transport
(6) Emergency management Shelter
Radio
Rescue
Assistance in industrial and institutional emergency planning
  (b)
Heads of departments listed above are responsible for developing the plan for their assigned emergency functions. Such plans will be submitted through the coordinator to the governing officials of the county, the City of Vidalia and the City of Lyons.
(Code 1968, § 7-3)
Sec. 7-4. - Emergency powers.
In the event of a man-made or natural disaster, actual enemy attack upon the United States or any other emergency which may affect the lives and property of the citizens, the governing officials of the county and other participating governments may declare, in their respective jurisdictions, that a state of emergency exists and thereafter shall have and may exercise for such period as such state of emergency exists or continues the following emergency powers:
(1)
To enforce all rules, laws and regulations relating to emergency management and to assume direct operational control over all emergency management resources.
(2)
To seize, take for temporary use or condemn any property for the protection of the public.
(3)
To sell, lend, give or distribute all or any of such property or supplies among the inhabitants of the city; to maintain a strict accounting of property or supplies distributed and for funds received for such property or supplies.
(4)
To perform and exercise such other functions and duties and take such emergency actions as may be necessary to promote and secure the safety, protection and well-being of the inhabitants of the city.
(Code 1968, § 7-4)
Sec. 7-5. - Volunteers.
All persons, other than officers of the county, the City of Vidalia and the City of Lyons, performing emergency functions pursuant to this chapter shall serve with or without compensation. While engaged in such emergency functions, duly assigned volunteers shall have the same immunities as the county, City of Vidalia and City of Lyons officers and employees.
(Code 1968, § 7-5)
