ARTICLE V. - DROUGHT CONTINGENCY PLAN

Sec. 12-91. - Drought contingency plan.
If due to severe drought, higher then normal demand, decree from the Georgia Department of Natural Resources, or any other emergency situation, the available water supply is deemed insufficient by the mayor and city council, or threatens to be insufficient, to supply the total demand on the municipal water system, the mayor and city council may invoke emergency water shortage response restrictions regulating, limiting, or prohibiting the use of water as follows:
(1)
Initial water use restrictions. In the event of an emergency situation requiring the curtailment of potable water use, the following emergency water use restrictions shall apply to all properties connected to the municipal water system:
a.
Sprinkling/irrigation of lawns and landscaping shall be prohibited between the hours of 4:00 p.m. and 10:00 p.m.
b.
Sprinkling/irrigation of lawns and landscaping shall only be allowed for properties with an even numbered address on even numbered dates within the month and for properties with an odd numbered address on odd numbered dates within the month.
c.
This restriction applies to all residential, commercial, government and institutional outdoor irrigation.
(2)
Restrictions when subsection (1) is not sufficient. If in the opinion of the mayor and city council, and upon written notification from the city manager, the restrictions contained in subsection (1) are not sufficient, the emergency restrictions shall be imposed for all properties connected to the municipal water system.
a.
Sprinkling/irrigation of lawns and landscaping and all other non-essential outdoor water use will be prohibited.
b.
Businesses that use outdoor water that is essential in the daily conduct of business, such as commercial car washes, nurseries, commercial power washing, and commercial testing and repair of irrigation systems, will be exempt from these restrictions.
(3)
Issuance of additional restrictions. During periods of severe drought or similar situations, the mayor and city council, upon recommendation of the city manager, may make and issue additional regulations and restrictions concerning water use restrictions not inconsistent with this article.
(4)
Public announcement. The mayor and city council shall, within twenty-four (24) hours of approving the above water use restrictions, cause such restrictions to be publicly announced by means of broadcasting by stations with a normal operation range covering the city and may cause such announcement to be further published in the local newspaper. The restrictions shall become effective immediately following such announcement. Upon notification from the city manager and following a determination by the mayor and city council that the emergency restrictions are no longer necessary, the mayor and city council shall cause a public announcement declaring the cessation on said restrictions in a like manner.
(5)
Inspection and enforcement. Inspection by duly authorized officers bearing proper credentials and identification during such periods of emergency water use restriction shall be permitted for the purpose of ensuring compliance with the provisions of this article.
a.
Any person found to be in violation of the provisions of this article shall be served written notice stating the nature of the violation and shall be issued a warning ticket for said violation.
b.
For a second violation, water service shall be terminated and, upon correction of the non-conforming condition or activity, a reconnect fee of fifty dollars ($50.00) will be charged.
c.
For all subsequent violations, water service shall be terminated and, upon correction of the non-conforming condition or activity, a reconnect fee of one hundred dollars ($100.00) will be charged.
(Ord. of 7-9-01)
Sec. 12-92. - Restriction on outdoor water of landscape.
(a)
Outdoor watering for purposes of planting, growing, managing, or maintaining groundcover, trees, shrubs, or other plants may occur only between the hours of 4:00 p.m. and 10:00 a.m.; provided, however, that this limitation shall not create any limitation upon the following outdoor water uses:
(1)
Commercial raising, harvesting, or storing of crops; feeding, breeding, or managing livestock or poultry; the commercial production or storing of feed for use in the production of livestock, including, but not limited to, cattle, calves, swine, hogs, goats, sheep, and rabbits, or for use in the production of poultry, including, but not limited to, chickens, hens, ratites, and turkeys; producing plants, trees, fowl, or animals; or the commercial production of aquacultural, horticultural, dairy, livestock, poultry, eggs, and apiarian products or as otherwise defined in O.C.G.A. § 1-3-3;
(2)
Capture and reuse of cooling system condensate or storm water in compliance with applicable city ordinances and state guidelines;
(3)
Reuse of gray water in compliance with O.C.G.A. § 31-3-5.2 and applicable local board of health regulations;
(4)
Use of reclaimed wastewater by a designated user from a system permitted by the Environmental Protection Division of the Georgia Department of Natural Resources to provide reclaimed waste water;
(5)
Watering personal food gardens;
(6)
Watering new and replanted plant[s], seed, or turf in landscapes, golf courses, or sports turf fields during installation and for a period of thirty (30) days immediately following the date of installation;
(7)
Drip irrigation or irrigation using soaker hoses;
(8)
Hand watering with a hose with automatic cutoff or handheld container;
(9)
Use of water withdrawn from private water wells or surface water by an owner or operator of property if such well or surface water is on said property;
(10)
Watering horticultural crops held for sale, resale, or installation;
(11)
Watering athletic fields, golf courses, or public turf grass recreational areas;
(12)
Installation, maintenance, or calibration of irrigation systems; or
(13)
Hydroseeding.
(b)
Enforcement.
(1)
No person shall use or allow the use of water in violation of the restrictions on outdoor water use contained in section.
(2)
The city shall be the enforcement authority for this section. The county/city manager may also authorize other departments as may be deemed necessary to support enforcement.
(3)
Criminal and alternative penalties. Any violation of this section may also be enforced by a citation or accusation returnable to the magistrate court/municipal court or by any other legal means as set forth in this Code.
(Ord. of 2-15-11)
Secs. 12-93—12-100. - Reserved.
