DIVISION 3. - PRETREATMENT OF WASTEWATER

Sec. 12-141. - Pretreatment facilities.
Users shall provide wastewater treatment as necessary to comply with this article and shall achieve compliance with all national pretreatment standards, local limits, and the prohibitions set out in section 12-121 of this article within the time limitations specified by EPA, the state, or the control authority, whichever is more stringent. Any facilities necessary for compliance shall be provided, operated, and maintained at the user's expense. Detailed plans describing such facilities and operating procedures shall be submitted to the control authority for review, and shall be approved by the control authority before such facilities are constructed. The review and/or approval of such plans and operating procedures will in no way relieve the user from the responsibility of modifying such facilities as necessary to produce a discharge acceptable to the control authority under the provisions of this article.
Sec. 12-142. - Additional pretreatment measures.
(a)
Whenever deemed necessary, the control authority may require users to restrict their discharge during peak flow periods, designate that certain wastewater be discharged only into specific sewers, relocate and/or consolidate points of discharge, separate sewage wastestreams from industrial wastestreams, and such other conditions as may be necessary to protect the POTW and determine the user's compliance with requirements of this article.
(b)
The control authority may require any person discharging into the POTW to install and maintain, on their property and at their expense, a suitable storage and flow-control facility to ensure equalization of flow. A wastewater discharge permit may be issued solely for flow equalization.
(c)
Grease, oil, and sand interceptors shall be provided when, in the opinion of the control authority, they are necessary for the proper handling of wastewater containing excessive amounts of grease and oil, or sand; except that such interceptors shall not be required for residential users. All interception units shall be of type and capacity approved by the control authority and shall be so located to be easily accessible for cleaning and inspection. Such interceptors shall be inspected, cleaned, and repaired regularly, as needed, by the user at the user's expense.
(d)
Users with the potential to discharge flammable substances may be required to install and maintain an approved combustible gas detection meter.
Sec. 12-143. - Accidental discharge/slug control plans.
At least once every two (2) years the control authority shall evaluate whether each significant industrial user needs an accidental discharge/slug control plan. The control authority may require any user to develop, submit for approval, and implement such a plan. An accidental discharge/slug control plan shall address, at a minimum, the following:
(1)
Description of discharge practices, including non-routine batch discharges;
(2)
Description of stored chemicals;
(3)
Procedures for immediately notifying the control authority of any accidental or slug discharge, as required by section 12-206 of this article. Such notification must also be given for any discharge which would violate any of the prohibited discharges in section 12-121 of this article; and
(4)
Procedures to prevent adverse impact from any accidental or slug discharge. Such procedures include, but are not limited to, inspection and maintenance of storage areas; handling and transfer of materials, loading and unloading operations; control of plant site runoff; worker training; building of containment structures or equipment; measures for containing toxic organic pollutants (including solvents); and/or measures and equipment for emergency response.
The review and/or approval of such plans will in no way relieve the user from the responsibility of modifying such plans or facilities as necessary to comply with the provisions of this article.
Sec. 12-144. - Hauled wastewater.
(a)
Septic tank waste may be introduced into the POTW only at locations approved by the control authority and at such times as are established by the control authority. Such wastes shall not violate division 2 of this article or any other requirements established by the control authority. The control authority may require septic tank waste haulers to obtain wastewater discharge permits.
(b)
The control authority shall require haulers of industrial waste to obtain wastewater discharge permits. The control authority may require generators of hauled industrial waste to obtain wastewater discharge permits. The control authority also may prohibit the disposal of hauled industrial waste. The discharge of hauled industrial waste is subject to all other requirements of this article.
(c)
Industrial waste haulers may only discharge loads at locations designated by the control authority. No load may be discharged without prior consent of the control authority. The control authority may collect samples of each hauled load to ensure compliance with applicable standards. The control authority may require the hauler to provide a waste analysis of any load prior to discharge.
(d)
Industrial waste haulers must provide a waste-tracking form for every load. This form shall include, at a minimum, the name and address of the waste hauler, permit number, truck identification, names and addresses of sources of waste, and volume and characteristics of waste. The form shall identify the type of industry, known or suspected waste constituents, and whether any wastes are RCRA hazardous wastes.
Secs. 12-145—12-160. - Reserved.
