ARTICLE XIII. - C-2 COMMERCIAL RETAIL DISTRICT

Section 1300. - Declaration of legislative intent.
It shall be the purpose of the C-2 District to establish and preserve areas for those commercial facilities which are especially useful in close proximity to residential areas while minimizing the undesirable impact of such uses on the surrounding neighborhood.
Section 1301. - Use regulations.
A building may be erected, altered or used, and a lot may be used or occupied, for any of the following purposes and no other.
(1)
Any use specifically permitted in a C-1 District;
(2)
Retail sales and pawn shops;
(3)
Taxi businesses;
(4)
Automobile recovery or towing services, provided any storage yard much [must] be fenced and screened from public sight;
(5)
General contractor operations; and
(6)
Mini storage warehouses.
( Ord. of 12-10-12 ; Ord. of 7-8-13 )
Section 1302. - Height regulations.
The maximum height of any building or other structure erected or used in this district shall be thirty-five (35) feet except that the height of any such other building or structure may be increased to a maximum of fifty (50) feet when approved by the board of appeals. Said board shall make a finding that any excess height over thirty-five (35) feet will not be detrimental to the light, air, privacy or architectural scheme of any other structure or use currently existing or anticipated, provided that for every foot in height in excess of thirty-five (35) feet there shall be added to each yard requirement one (1) corresponding foot of width or depth.
Section 1303. - Area regulations, store area, and lot area.
(a)
Lot area: Site plan shall ensure that lot size is adequate to meet requirements of proposed development.
(b)
Building area: For every lot used in whole or in part for commercial purposes, not more than eighty-five (85) percent of the area may be occupied by buildings.
(c)
Front yard: There shall be a front yard on each street on which a lot abuts which shall not be less than fifteen (15) feet in depth.
(d)
Side yards: Side yards shall be no less than five (5) feet, however, a one (1) foot setback is permitted provided ten (10) feet are provided on the opposite side yard. On a lot the interior side lot line of which abuts a residential district, the side yard abutting such district shall have a width not less than that required in such adjoining district.
(e)
Rear yard: There shall be a rear yard not less than fifteen (15) feet in width.
(Ord. of 2-10-97(2))
Section 1304. - Site plan.
Must comply with site plan as described in section 1203.
(Ord. of 2-10-97(2))
Editor's note— An ordinance adopted Feb. 10, 1997(2), deleted § 1304 in its entirety. Formerly, § 1304 pertained to development requirements and derived from the 1968 Code. Said ordinance added new provisions as herein set out.
