ARTICLE II. - NUISANCES
DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Sec. 34-31. - Definition.
A nuisance is anything within the city that causes hurt, inconvenience or damage to another; and the fact that the act done may otherwise be lawful shall not keep it from being a nuisance. The inconvenience complained of shall not be fanciful or such as would affect only one of fastidious taste, but it shall be such as would affect an ordinary, reasonable person. Any such nuisance may be abated as provided in this article.
(Code 1980, § 9-2-1)
Cross reference— Definitions generally, § 1-2.
State Law reference— Similar provisions, O.C.G.A. § 41-1-1.
Sec. 34-32. - Enumeration of nuisances.
(a)
The various nuisances described and enumerated in this section shall not be deemed to be exclusive but shall be in addition to all other nuisances described and prohibited in this Code.
(b)
The following are hereby declared to be nuisances:
(1)
Things interfering with peace or comfort. Sounds, animals or things that interfere with the peace or comfort or disturb the quiet of the community.
(2)
Obnoxious, offensive odors. The emission of obnoxious and offensive odors; the tainting of the air rendering it offensive or unwholesome so as to affect the health or comfort of reasonable persons residing in the neighborhood thereof.
(3)
Discharging of offensive matter. The placing or throwing or discharging from any house or premises and flow from or out of any house or premises, of any filthy, foul or offensive matter or liquid of any kind, into any street, alley or public place, or upon any adjacent lot or ground.
(4)
Water pollution. The obstruction or pollution of any watercourse or source of water supply in the city.
(5)
Emission of dense smoke. The emission of dense smoke from any fire, chimney, engine, oil burner or other agency in the city so as to cause disturbance or discomfort to the public. For the purpose of testing and grading the density of smoke, the Ringelmann Smoke Chart as published and used by the United States Geological Survey shall be the standard for such grading; and smoke shall be defined and declared to be dense when it is of a degree of density of number 3 on the chart, or greater, for more than six minutes in any one hour, whether such period of time is consecutive or not.
(6)
Vacant lots. Any vacant lot whereon debris is permitted to accumulate and remain in such a manner as to create a fire hazard or other hazard to the public health, safety and welfare.
(7)
Nonconforming structures, machines, etc. Any building, business, thing, machine or machinery, erected, repaired, conducted, maintained, operated or used contrary to or in violation of any of the fire and safety regulations of this Code, state law or city ordinance.
(8)
Animal enclosures. Any enclosure in which any animals are kept, dog kennels or runs and other animal or fowl pens wherein manure, dung, filth or litter is allowed to accumulate.
(9)
Dead animals. The carcass of any dead animal of any kind on any premises within the city.
(10)
Depositing trash, garbage, refuse on private or public property. The depositing and leaving on private or public property of trash, garbage, refuse, scrap building materials, paper, cardboard containers, brick, cement rubbish, tree residue, cans, containers, or any other rubbish and trash that is a menace to public health and safety in the city or which unreasonably annoys others.
(11)
Unoccupied buildings and vacant structures. Unoccupied buildings or vacant structures that are not properly maintained and cleaned or which are not in conformity with the requirements of the Code of Ordinances of the City of Vienna in sections 14-10, 14-11 and 14-12.
(12)
Unsafe vehicles, machinery, etc. Unsheltered storage of old, unused, stripped, junked, and other automobiles not in good and safe operating condition, and of any other vehicles, machinery, implements, and/or equipment and personal property of any kind that is no longer safely usable for the purposes for which it was manufactured for a period of 30 days or more (except in licensed junkyards). The absence of a license plate for the current year and/or the absence of a current motor vehicle registration shall be prima facie evidence that such vehicle is junked.
(13)
Gutters or spouts. Any gutter or spout that conveys filth into any street, lane or alley of the city.
(14)
Open or outdoor storage. The open or outdoor storage of appliances, building materials or debris, equipment, garbage, glass, material, merchandise, rubbish, trash or similar items shall not be permitted, maintained or stored on any premises.
Exceptions to these restrictions are:
a.
Property where outdoor storage is authorized by the zoning resolution;
b.
Cut wood which is neatly stacked in lengths not to exceed three linear feet for the personal use of the owner or occupant and which is stored in a side or rear yard; and
c.
Rubbish, garbage, trash or other similar items placed outside in proper and acceptable containers for collection by an authorized waste hauler not more than 24 hours prior to the designated collection date for that property.
(15)
Standing or surface waters. Any standing water or surface water the owner or other occupant of the premises allows to remain thereon for such time as to create conditions conducive to the breeding or attraction of rodents, flies, fleas, ticks, mosquitos, or any other disease-carrying insects.
(Code 1980, § 9-2-1; Ord. of 4-25-16(1))
Sec. 34-33. - Prohibited.
It shall be unlawful for any person to maintain or permit the existence of any nuisance on any property within the city.
(Code 1980, § 9-2-4)
Sec. 34-34. - Issuance of summons for abatement.
Whenever any nuisance exists within the city, or whenever any condition shall exist on any property within the city that is required or subject to be demolished, removed or abated under any of the ordinances of the city, and the owner or other person responsible therefor refuses or fails after reasonable notice to demolish, remove or abate the same, the chief of police, or the officer having responsibility for the enforcement of same, may issue a summons and cause the same to be served upon such owner or other person responsible for such condition, describing the condition complained of and specifying the ordinances or parts thereof claimed to be violated thereby, and requiring such person to appear before the municipal judge at a time, date and place specified therein, to show cause why such condition should not be demolished, removed or abated.
(Code 1980, § 9-2-2)
Sec. 34-35. - Order for abatement.
(a)
If the municipal judge at the hearing required by section 34-34 shall determine that a condition does exist as alleged that constitutes a nuisance or a condition which under this Code or the ordinances of the city is required or subject to be demolished, removed or abated, the judge shall issue his order and judgment so finding and shall order the property owner or other person responsible therefor to demolish, remove or abate the condition within a period of time to be fixed by the judge. The order shall provide how the condition is to be abated, including but not limited to rehabilitation or demolition of any buildings or structures located on the property in question. The order shall further provide that if the property owner or other person responsible therefor shall fail to comply with the order within the time specified, the city shall be authorized to proceed without further notice to demolish, remove or abate such condition and to take whatever action deemed necessary to demolish, remove or abate such condition, and the expense thereof shall be charged against the owner of the property in question and shall be a lien against the property upon which the condition existed, ranking equally with the lien for city taxes.
(b)
Execution shall issue for such costs as in the case of city taxes, and the procedure for the enforcement of the execution shall thereafter be the same as in the case of city taxes.
(Code 1980, § 9-2-2)
State Law reference— Authorization and procedure for abatement of nuisances in cities, O.C.G.A. § 41-2-5.
Sec. 34-36. - Special provisions for old, unused, stripped, junked automobiles.
(a)
Unsheltered storage of old, unused, stripped, junked and other automobiles not in good and safe operating condition, and of any other vehicles, machinery, implements, and/or equipment and personal property of any kind that is no longer safely usable for the purposes for which it was manufactured, for a period of 30 days or more (except in licensed junkyards) within the corporate limits of this city is a nuisance.
(b)
The owner, owners, tenants, lessees and/or occupants of any lot within the corporate limits of this city upon which the storage of property is made, and also the owner, owners, and/or lessees of the property involved in such storage, shall jointly and severally abate the nuisance by the prompt removal of the property into completely enclosed buildings authorized to be used for such storage purposes, if within the corporate limits of the city, or otherwise by removing it to a location without the corporate limits.
Sec. 34-37. - Nuisances constituting imminent danger.
Whenever any condition shall exist which constitutes an immediate and grave hazard to public health and safety requiring immediate action, the condition may be abated or otherwise remedied summarily and without following the procedures set forth in sections 34-34 and 34-35.
Sec. 34-38. - Service on nonresidents and others.
Whenever it shall be necessary for the city to proceed under sections 34-34 and 34-35 and the owner of the property or other person responsible therefor resides outside the city limits, or cannot be found after diligent search, service of the notice required by section 34-35 shall be made by posting a copy of the notice on the property involved, and by publishing the notice in a newspaper having general circulation in the city once a week for four consecutive weeks, the last notice to be not longer than ten days nor less than one day prior to the hearing. Where the address of the person to be served is known, or where there is a last known address, a copy of the notice shall also be mailed to the person at such address by certified mail. In all cases where personal service cannot be made upon such person within the city limits, the case shall proceed as quasi in rem, and the execution shall issue in rem.
Sec. 34-39. - Other powers preserved.
Nothing in this article shall in any way affect the power and authority of the municipal judge to punish for any violations which the conditions may constitute, nor shall it affect the power and authority of the judge to punish by contempt the failure to comply with his order.
Secs. 34-40—34-60. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - VEGETATION

Sec. 34-61. - Certain weeds, grasses and plants declared a nuisance; exemptions.
(a)
Any weeds such as jimson, burdock, ragweed, thistle, cocklebur or other weeds of a like kind found growing in any lot or tract of land in the city, and any weeds, grasses or plants other than trees, bushes, flowers or other ornamental plants, growing to a height exceeding 12 inches anywhere in the city are hereby declared to be a nuisance, subject to abatement as provided in this division.
(b)
Garden flowers, vegetables, cultivated agricultural crops, ornamental shrubbery and trees shall not be considered weeds, grass or vegetation within the meaning of this section.
(c)
The provisions of this division shall apply only to property located within subdivisions of record in the office of the clerk of the superior court of the county, and to the original city lots. They shall not apply to undeveloped areas of unsubdivided land within the city.
Sec. 34-62. - Height permitted.
It shall be unlawful for the owner, lessee, tenant or other person having the possession and control of real property, or responsible for its management, maintenance or upkeep, to permit the growth and accumulation of weeds, grass or other vegetation to a height in excess of 12 inches above the ground.
Sec. 34-63. - Notice to abate.
(a)
For a violation of this division, the owner of the property shall be given notice to remove such excess growth within seven days from the receipt of the notice. Such notice may be served personally, or may be served by registered or certified mail, or by attaching a copy of the notice to the principal entrance of the dwelling, and shall contain a description of the location of the property upon which such condition exists.
(b)
Where notice is given by registered or certified mail, the depositing of such notice in the United States mail by registered or certified mail, return receipt requested, addressed to the owner of the property at the address shown on the latest ad valorem tax return of such owner for such property shall constitute sufficient service of such notice, where the return receipt shall be duly returned signed by the addressee or someone residing on the premises, or where the return receipt or other notification from the federal postal service indicates that the notice was refused, or that there was a refusal to sign the return receipt or that delivery of the notice at such address could not be made.
Sec. 34-64. - Abatement by city; notice of abatement.
(a)
Upon the failure to comply within the required time by the owner of the property when properly notified pursuant to the provisions of section 34-63, the city is authorized to have the contractor enter upon the property, and the contractor is authorized to enter same, and cut and remove the weeds, grass and vegetation. The city shall issue a lot cleaning order to the contractor, who shall promptly perform the work and submit his bill to the city. The city shall inspect the work, and if satisfactory, shall approve the bill for payment and forward it to the city treasurer for payment.
(b)
The city treasurer shall promptly send to the owner of the property a statement of account demanding payment thereof on or before a date named in such demand, which shall not be earlier than 15 days nor later than 45 days after payment to the contractor.
(c)
If payment under subsection (b) of this section shall not have been made on or before the date named, the city treasurer shall issue a notice directed to the owner of the property and signed by the municipal judge, notifying such owner to show cause before the judge at a time and place and on a date named therein why execution should not issue against the property for its approval amount.
(d)
If it shall appear at such hearing that the property was in violation of this division, that the notice required of section 34-63 was given, that the work was performed and the cost thereof paid by the city, and that the city has not been reimbursed, execution shall issue for such amount, signed by the municipal judge and shall be executed by the chief of police in the same manner as tax executions are executed.
(e)
If the owner of the property is unknown, or cannot be located, the provisions of subsections (b) and (c) of this section shall not apply; but in lieu thereof a notice shall be published once a week for four weeks in a newspaper of general circulation in the city, which notice shall be addressed "To Whom It May Concern," shall describe with reasonable particularity the property involved, a statement of the amount due for the removal of the weeds, grass or other vegetation, and shall notify all persons interested to show cause before the municipal judge at a time and place and on a date named in the notice why execution should not issue in rem against the property for such amount. In such event, subsection (a) of this section will apply, but the execution shall issue against the property in rem.
Sec. 34-65. - Remedies.
The remedies provided in this article are cumulative of all other remedies the city has for the accomplishment of the objectives set forth in this division. Nothing in this division shall be construed as relieving any person from the obligation to comply with this Code, all ordinances, laws or regulations of the city, or to permit the maintenance by any person of a nuisance; and any nuisance shall be subject to be abated in the manner provided by law.
Sec. 34-66. - Award of contracts for clearing of lots by city.
Prior to the commencement of each fiscal year, the city shall obtain bids from contractors or other qualified persons for clearing lots of weeds, grass and other vegetation not in excess of two inches in diameter, and for clearing lots of weeds, grass and other vegetation in excess of two inches but not in excess of four inches in diameter; and the mayor and city council shall award a contract to the lowest and best bidder, such contract to remain in effect during the ensuing fiscal year.
Secs. 34-67—34-100. - Reserved.
