ARTICLE VIII. - VEHICLES FOR HIRE[6]

Footnotes:
--- (6) ---
State Law reference— Reciprocal agreements as to operation of vehicles registered in other states inapplicable to motor vehicles for hire, O.C.G.A. § 40-2-95; wrecker driver required to remove glass and parts of vehicle being towed, O.C.G.A. § 40-6-277.

Sec. 8-230. - Exemption.
Limousines and limousine carriers, as defined by O.C.G.A. § 40-1-162, are exempt from regulation by the provisions in this article.
Sec. 8-231. - Compliance with business licensing provisions.
The provisions of this article shall not be deemed to exempt the holder of a license from complying with the requirements of the business licensing provisions of this Code.
(Code 1979, § 9-4-8; Code 1993, § 20-1)
Sec. 8-232. - License required.
Any and all persons desiring to operate taxicabs in the city, or motor vehicles for hire, shall first file a written application under oath with the city council setting forth the name of the owner of the vehicle or vehicles to be operated; the number, the make, the model; and who the operator of the vehicles shall be. The application shall be in writing and shall be authorized by the city council before the city clerk shall be authorized to issue any license or permit under the terms hereinafter set forth.
(Code 1979, § 9-4-1; Code 1993, § 20-2)
Sec. 8-233. - Taxi drivers; special requirements.
All taxi drivers shall have reached the age of 20 years before applying for a permit to drive, and before the license is granted they shall furnish an affidavit as to their moral character and whether or not they have ever had any convictions of any offenses of any description in any place. The affidavit must be submitted to the city council for their approval before the city clerk issues a license or permit to drive. If taxi drivers are changed, new permits shall first be obtained by drivers from the city clerk of the same terms as herein provided.
(Code 1979, § 9-4-2; Code 1993, § 20-3)
Sec. 8-234. - Business license required.
The owner of any taxi business licensed under the terms of this article shall be required to possess a currently valid, fully paid up business license for the taxi business in addition to the taxi license required by this article. This business license must be paid for and obtained after the making of application for a taxi license, but should the application for a taxi license be disapproved, the business license shall be canceled and the full amount of the fee shall be returned.
(Code 1979, § 9-4-3; Code 1993, § 20-4; Ord. No. 02-14-CCO, 8-5-2014)
Sec. 8-235. - Insurance required.
Before any license or permit shall be issued to operate any taxicabs, cars or motor vehicles for hire, hauling passengers or property in the city, the owner of the motor vehicle shall file with the city clerk, as a condition precedent to obtaining the permit or license, an insurance policy in the same amount as required of other common carriers within the state, liability for each and every vehicle permitted to operate upon the streets of the city as taxicabs, and the insurer shall answer for any and all negligence of the owner or his agent or operator or driver of the vehicle to the general public or the members thereof, including the passengers in the taxi. The insurance policy is to be issued by an insurance company licensed to do business in the state, and shall be approved by the city council as a part of the application. Such policy shall be conditioned to indemnify the city for any injury to person or property caused by the negligence in the operation of the vehicle by the owner or his agent, servant or employees.
(Code 1979, § 9-4-4; Code 1993, § 20-5)
Sec. 8-236. - License fees.
There shall be a regular business license fee as set forth in the schedule of fees and charges which covers the operation of one taxi vehicle. There shall be a charge as set forth in the schedule of fees and charges for each additional taxi vehicle.
(Code 1979, § 9-4-5; Code 1993, § 20-6)
Sec. 8-237. - Revocation by city council upon conviction of violation of law.
(a)
In the event that any license holder under the provisions of this article shall have been convicted of any state or federal felony, or any misdemeanor involving moral turpitude or reflecting adversely on the licensee's ability to drive or fitness to hold such license, or of any of the provisions of this article or the city traffic ordinances or ordinances dealing with driving under the influence of intoxicants, the city council shall be authorized to suspend or revoke any license granted under the authority of this article.
(b)
No such revocation or suspension shall be effective until the person involved has been given an opportunity for a hearing before the city council on the question of whether it would be in the public interest to suspend or revoke the licensee's license. At such hearing the licensee shall be allowed to be represented by legal counsel, but shall not be allowed to relitigate the factual issue of his guilt of the offense for which convicted. At such hearing, the licensee may introduce a reasonable amount of material evidence bearing on the licensee's good character since the conviction, or evidence tending to show that the licensee has been rehabilitated since the conviction. All testimony at the hearing shall be under oath.
(Code 1979, § 9-4-6; Code 1993, § 20-7)
Sec. 8-238. - Penalties for violations.
(a)
Any person convicted of a violation of the provisions of this article shall, upon conviction in the municipal court, be punished as provided in section 1-8.
(b)
Each day that a violation of this article continues shall be a separate violation and each violation shall be punishable as a separate offense.
(Code 1979, § 9-4-7; Code 1993, § 20-8)
Secs. 8-239—8-256. - Reserved.
