ARTICLE X. - WINE TASTING

Sec. 4-300. - Permit required; regulations.
A wine-tasting permit for purposes of this section shall be limited to a person possessing a current license from the city for the sale of wine by the package and a valid current wine license from the state.
(1)
No wine tasting shall be conducted on the premises of any place of business licensed to sell distilled spirits in the unbroken container. Any wine tasting occurring on the premises of a business possessing a license to sell wine by the package shall be limited to an area that is separated from the retail area of the premises by walls or other partitions that prohibit pedestrian traffic through the wine tasting area.
(2)
An eligible licensee may petition the city for a wine-tasting permit provided it meets all requirements of this chapter and presently maintains a valid license for the sale of wine by the package issued by the city. A wine-tasting permit shall allow the permittee to offer or sell wine samples in connection with an instructional or educational promotion. A wine-tasting permit is intended to allow such activity on a limited basis and shall not be a part of the core operations of such establishment or occur on a daily basis.
(3)
A wine-tasting permittee shall be subject to all laws, rules and regulations of the city and state, including Rule 560-2-5-.05 of the state department of revenue, alcohol and tobacco division, and shall be subject to permit revocation for violation thereof.
(4)
Said wine-tasting permit need only be applied for once and shall automatically renew when said license to sell wine by the package is renewed; provided, however, that the city may revoke or suspend such wine-tasting permit and/or impose such conditions on its operation at the city's discretion for violation of this Code or in furtherance of the health, safety, and welfare of the city's inhabitants.
(5)
The one-time fee for application for the wine-tasting permit shall be equal to the established fee for applications for wine package sales. The wine-tasting permit shall be approved by the city manager or his designee.
(Ord. No. 0-07-2020 , 8-11-2020; Ord. No. 0-33-2022 , 4-12-2022)
Secs. 4-301—4-317. - Reserved.
