ARTICLE V. - ELECTIONS

Sec. 5.10. - Elections; terms of office.
(a)
The mayor and councilmembers who are serving as such on January 1, 2018, and any person selected to fill a vacancy in any such office shall continue to serve as such officers until the regular expiration of their respective terms of office and upon the election and qualification of their respective successors. Wards 1, 2, 3, 4, and 5, as they exist on January 1, 2018, shall continue to be designated as Wards 1, 2, 3, 4, and 5, respectively[.]
(b)
At the general municipal election in 2019, there shall be elected a mayor and councilmembers to represent wards 1 and 2. Such officers shall have terms of office expiring December 31, 2023; and their successors shall be elected at the general municipal election in 2023 and quadrennially thereafter for terms of four years.
(c)
At the general municipal election in 2021, there shall be elected councilmembers to represent wards 3, 4, and 5. Such officers shall have terms of office expiring December 31, 2025; and their successors shall be elected at the general municipal election in 2025 and quadrennially thereafter for terms of four years.
(d)
All elections for the office of mayor shall be by the voters of the entire city. Each election for the office of councilmember shall be by only the voters of the ward the councilmember is to represent. All elections shall be by a majority (50% plus one) of the votes cast.
(e)
All general municipal elections shall be held on the Tuesday after the first Monday in November.
(f)
Persons newly elected as mayor or councilmember at any general municipal election shall take office on January 1 following the election after having received their oath of office.
(g)
The mayor and all councilmembers shall serve for the terms specified in this section and until their successors are elected and qualified.
(h)
The boundaries of the five wards for elections for councilmembers shall correspond to those five numbered districts described in aid attached to and made a part of this Act and further identified as Plan Name: villaricapropl—Tiger 210. Such attachment may also be referred to as Appendix B [2] of the city charter. Wards 1, 2, 3, 4, and 5 shall be the same territory identified in such attachment as districts 1, 2, 3, 4, and 5 respectively.
(i)
When used in such attachment, the terms [']Tract' and [']BG' (Block Group) shall mean and describe the same geographical boundaries as provided in the report of the Bureau of the Census for the "United States decennial census of 2010 for the State of Georgia.["] The separate numeric designations in a Tract description which are underneath a 'BG' heading shall mean and describe individual Blocks within a Block Group as provided in the report of the Bureau of the Census for the United States decennial census of 2010 for the State of Georgia. Any part of the City of Villa Rica which is not included in any such ward or district described in that attachment shall be included within that ward or district contiguous to such part which contains the least population according to the United States decennial census of 2010 for the State of Georgia. Any part of the City of Villa Rica which is described in that attachment as being in a particular ward or district shall nevertheless not be included within such ward or district if such part is not contiguous to such ward or district. Such noncontiguous part shall instead be included within that ward or district contiguous to such part which contains the least population according to title United States decennial census of 2010 for the State of Georgia. Except as otherwise provided in the description of any council ward or district, whenever the description of such ward or district refers to a named city, it shall mean the geographical boundaries of that city as shown on the census map for the United States decennial census of 2010 for the State of Georgia.
(j)
The City shall evaluate and redraw, if necessary, the boundaries of the five wards as soon as practical subsequent to each decennial census.
(Res. of 02-06-2018 , Exh. A)
Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
Editor's note— Appendix B is not codified herein, but is on file at City Hall for review.

Sec. 5.11. - Qualifying; nomination of candidates; absentee ballots.
The council may by ordinance, when permitted by state law, prescribe rules and regulations governing qualifying fees, nomination of candidates, absentee ballots, write-in votes, challenge of votes, and such other rules and regulations as may be necessary for the conduct of elections in the City of Villa Rica.
(Res. of 02-06-2018 , Exh. A)
Secs. 5.12—5.19. - Reserved.
Sec. 5.20. - Applicability of general laws.
The procedures and requirements for election of all elected officials of the City of Villa Rica as to primary, special or general elections shall be in conformity with the provisions of state law as now or hereafter amended.
(Res. of 02-06-2018 , Exh. A)
Sec. 5.21. - Special elections; vacancies.
In the event that the office of the mayor or councilmember shall become vacant for any cause whatsoever, the council or those remaining shall order a special election to fill the balance of the unexpired term of such office; provided, however, if such vacancy occurs within 12 months of the expiration of the term of office of the mayor or councilmember, said vacancy in office may be filled by appointment by the remaining members of the council. Said appointee shall be a qualified person and, if for council, a resident of the unrepresented ward. Both special elections and qualifications of candidates therefor shall conform to the applicable provisions of this charter and the [Georgia Election Code, O.C.G.A. § 21-2-1 et seq.] as now or hereafter amended.
(Res. of 02-06-2018 , Exh. A)
Sec. 5.22. - Other provisions.
Except as otherwise provided by this charter, the city council shall, by ordinance, prescribe such rules and regulations it deems appropriate to fulfill any options and duties under the Georgia Election Code.
(Res. of 02-06-2018 , Exh. A)
Secs. 5.23—5.29. - Reserved.
Sec. 5.30. - Removal of officers.
(a)
The mayor or councilmembers shall be removed from office for any one or more of the causes provided in Title 45 of the Official Code of Georgia Annotated, or such other applicable laws or ordinances as are or may hereafter be enacted.
(b)
Removal of the mayor or a councilmember pursuant to subsection (a) of this section shall be accomplished by one of the following methods:
(1)
By an order of the Superior Court of Carroll County or Douglas County following a hearing on a complaint seeking such removal brought by any resident of the City of Villa Rica. Venue for such action will be determined by the residency of the office subject to the removal action.
(2)
By an order of the Superior Court of Carroll County or Douglas County following a hearing on a complaint seeking such removal brought by the City pursuant to approval of such action by an affirmative vote of at least four (4) councilmembers.
(3)
By recall election as provided by state law.
(4)
By any other method permitted by state law.
(Res. of 02-06-2018 , Exh. A)
