DIVISION 10. - WASTEWATER VOLUME DETERMINATION

Sec. 28-382. - Metered water supply.
Charges and fees related to the volume of wastewater discharged to the Authority's sewer system shall be based upon the user's total water consumption from all water supply sources. The total amount of water used shall be determined from public meters installed and maintained by the Authority and/or private meters installed and maintained at the expense of the user and approved by the Authority.
(Ord. of 12-11-2008, § 11-1)
Sec. 28-383. - Actual wastewater volume.
(a)
When charges and fees are based upon water usage and/or discharge and where, in the opinion of the Authority, a significant portion of the water received from any metered source does not flow into the community sewer because of the principal activity of the user or removal by other means, the charges and fees will be applied only against the volume of water discharged from such premises into the community sewer. Written notification and proof of the diversion of water must be provided by the user and approved by the Authority.
(b)
The users may install a meter of a type and at a location approved by the Authority to measure either the amount of sewage discharged or the amount of water diverted. Such meters shall be maintained at the expense of the user and be tested for accuracy at the expense of the user when deemed necessary by the Authority.
(Ord. of 12-11-2008, § 11-2)
Sec. 28-384. - Estimated wastewater volume.
For users where, in the opinion of the Authority, it is unnecessary or impractical to install meters, charges and fees may be based upon an estimate of the volume to be discharged. The estimate shall be prepared by the user and approved by the Authority. The number of fixtures, seating capacity, population equivalent, annual production of goods and services, and other such factors as deemed rational by the Authority shall be used to estimate the wastewater discharge volume.
(Ord. of 12-11-2008, § 11-3)
Sec. 28-385. - Domestic flows.
For the separate determination of the volumes of domestic and industrial flows from industrial users for purposes of calculating charges based upon industrial wastewater flows alone, users shall install a meter of a type and at a location approved by the Authority. For users where, in the opinion of the Authority, it is unnecessary or impractical to install such a meter, the volume of the domestic and industrial wastewater shall be based upon an estimate prepared by the users and approved by the Authority.
(Ord. of 12-11-2008, § 11-4)
Secs. 28-386—28-413. - Reserved.
