ARTICLE VI. - WATER AND SEWERAGE AUTHORITY[10]

Footnotes:
--- (10) ---
Editor's note— Printed herein is 1972 Ga. Laws, page 3623, which created the Walnutgrove-Youth Water Authority. Pursuant to 1988 Ga. Laws, page 4105, the name of the authority was changed to Walton County Water and Sewerage Authority. Amendments to the act are indicated by parenthetical history notes following amended provisions. The absence of a history note indicates that the provision remains unchanged from the original act. Obvious misspellings have been corrected without notation. For stylistic purposes, a uniform system of headings, catchlines and citations to state statutes has been used. Additions made for clarity are indicated by brackets.

Section 1. - Short title.
This shall be known and may be cited as the Walton County Water and Sewerage Authority Act.
Section 1.1. - Reconstitution.
The General Assembly finds that it is advantageous to reconstitute the Walton County Water and Sewerage Authority for the following reasons:
(1)
The exceptionally rapid growth of the county requires careful planning for infrastructure, which would be made easier by reconstituting the authority;
(2)
The planning and construction of a reservoir designed to fulfill the county's water needs for the next several decades inaugurates a new era for the county and the authority, and renders obsolete the election of three members of the authority by users of the authority's facilities, since it is now more important that the members of the authority represent the entire county;
(3)
The appointment of three members of the authority by the governing authorities of the City of Monroe, the City of Loganville, and the City of Social Circle is also obsolete, since these cities manage their own water and sewer systems; and
(4)
Close coordination of expansion of the sewerage system with planning for commercial and business development would be more feasible with a reconstituted authority.
(2005 Ga. Laws, Act. No. 41 (S.B. 333), § 1)
Section 2. - Walton County Water and Sewerage Authority.
(a)
This Act continues the existence of a body corporate and politic, known as the Walton County Water and Sewerage Authority, which is deemed to be a political subdivision of the State of Georgia and a public corporation and by that name, style, and title said body may contract and be contracted with, sue and be sued, implead and be impleaded, and complain and defend in all court of law and equity.
(b)
The terms of members of the authority appointed under the provisions of prior law and serving on the authority on the effective date of this Act shall terminate at noon on the effective date of this Act. On and after 12:01 P.M. of the effective date of this Act, the authority shall consist of seven members appointed by the Board of Commissioners of Walton County, one of such members appointed by each district commissioner and one of such members appointed by the chairperson of the board of commissioners.
(c)
Each member of the authority shall be a resident of Walton County and shall live within the service area of the authority. Members of the authority shall be appointed for terms of one year and until their successors are appointed and qualified. Members of the authority shall serve at the will and pleasure of the Board of Commissioners of Walton County. Any member of the authority may be appointed to succeed himself or herself.
(d)
The members of the authority shall elect one of their number as chairperson. Four members shall constitute a quorum. No vacancy on the authority shall impair the right of the quorum to exercise all the rights and perform all the duties of the authority. The authority shall meet at least annually in the month of January of each year and at such other times as the authority may deem necessary.
(e)
In the event of a vacancy on the authority for any reason, a replacement member to complete the unexpired term shall be appointed in the same manner as the member whose absence created the vacancy.
(f)
The members of the authority shall be compensated in the amount of $75.00 for each meeting of the authority attended by a member. All compensation shall be from funds available to the authority.
(g)
The authority shall have perpetual existence. The authority as reconstituted by this Act continues in existence the authority created by the 1972 Act, despite the changes in name and membership. All revenue bond debt of the authority outstanding on the effective date of this Act is expressly ratified and confirmed as revenue bond debt of the authority reconstituted by this Act.
(1988 Ga. Laws, page 4105; 1994 Ga. Laws, page 4675; 2005 Ga. Laws, Act. No. 41 (S.B. 333), § 2)
Section 3. - Definitions.
As used in this Act the following words and terms shall have the following meanings:
(a)
The word "Authority" shall mean the Walton County Water and Sewerage Authority created by Section 2 of this Act.
(b)
The word "project" shall be deemed to mean and include the following:
(1)
The acquisition, construction, and equipping of water facilities for obtaining one or more sources of water supply, the treatment of water, and the distribution and sale of water to users and consumers;
(2)
The acquisition, construction, equipping, creation, maintenance, and extension of any water impoundments, reservoirs, source-withdrawal facilities, or similar or related water-supply sources;
(3)
The acquisition, construction, equipping, creation, maintenance, and extension of any waste-water and sewerage collection and treatment systems, including all lines, processing plants and facilities, servicing systems, and all reasonably related functions and facilities; and
(4)
The provision by any means of water or sewerage services to users and consumers including but not limited to the State of Georgia, counties, and municipalities for the purposes of resale or processing, within and outside the territorial boundaries of Walton County, and additions and improvements to and extensions of facilities and the operation and maintenance of facilities so as to assure an adequate water-supply and water-distribution system and an adequate sewerage system.
(c)
The term "cost of the project" shall embrace the cost of construction, the cost of all lands, properties, rights, easements and franchises acquired, the cost of all machinery and equipment, financing charges, interest prior to and during construction, and for one year after completion of construction, cost of engineering, architectural, fiscal agents' and legal expenses, and of plans and specifications, and other expenses necessary or incident to determining the feasibility or practicability of the project, administrative expense, and such other expenses as may be necessary or incident to the financing herein authorized, the cost of the acquisition or construction of any project, the placing of any project in operation, and the condemnation of property necessary for such construction and operation. Any obligation or expense incurred for any of the foregoing purposes shall be regarded as a part of the cost of the project and may be paid or reimbursed as such out of the proceeds of revenue bonds issued under the provisions of this Act for such project.
(d)
The terms "revenue bonds" and "bonds", as used in this Act, shall mean revenue bonds as defined and provided for in the Revenue Bond Law, [O.C.G.A. § 36-82-60 et seq.] approved February 14, 1957 (1957 Ga. Laws, page 36), as amended, amending the law formerly known as the Revenue Certificate Law of 1937, approved March 31, 1937 (1937 Ga. Laws, page 761), as amended, and such type of obligations may be issued by the Authority as authorized under said Revenue Bond Law and any amendments thereto, and in addition, shall also mean obligations of the Authority, the issuance of which are hereinafter specifically provided for in this Act.
(e)
Any project shall be deemed "self-liquidating" if, in the judgment of the Authority, the revenues and earnings to be derived by the Authority therefrom and all facilities used in connection therewith will be sufficient to pay the cost of operating, maintaining and repairing, improving and extending the project and to pay the principal of and interest on the revenue bonds which may be issued to finance, in whole or in part, the cost of such project or projects.
(f)
The terms "users of the facilities" or "users" shall mean and include each person, firm, partnership, company, corporation, association, organization, municipality, county, school board, political subdivision, authority, or other entity to which water is supplied or sewerage services provided by the authority through the facilities of the authority and which actually makes payment to the authority for such water or sewerage services as are furnished by the authority.
(1973 Ga. Laws, page 2967; 1988 Ga. Laws, page 4105)
Section 4. - Powers.
The authority shall have the following powers to be exercised with the consent of the Board of Commissioners of Walton County:
(1)
To have a seal and alter the same at pleasure;
(2)
To acquire by purchase, lease, or otherwise and to hold, lease, and dispose of real and personal property of every kind and character for its corporate purposes;
(3)
To acquire in its own name by purchase, on such terms and conditions and in such manner as it may deem proper, or by condemnation in accordance with the provisions of any and all laws applicable to the condemnation of property for public use, real property, or rights or easements therein, or franchises necessary or convenient for its corporate purposes, and to use the same so long as its corporate existence shall continue and to lease or make contracts with respect to the use of or dispose of the same in any manner it deems to be the best advantage of the authority;
(4)
To appoint, select, and employ officers, agents, and employees, including engineering, architectural, and construction experts, fiscal agents, and attorneys, and fix their respective compensations;
(5)
To make contracts, leases, or agreements and to execute all instruments necessary or convenient, including contracts for construction of projects and leases of projects or contracts with respect to the use of projects which it causes to be constructed or acquired, and any and all persons, firms, and corporations and the state and any and all political subdivisions, departments, institutions, or agencies of the state are hereby authorized to enter into contracts, leases, or agreements with the authority upon such terms and for such purposes as they deem advisable; and without limiting the generality of the above, authority is specifically granted to municipal corporations, counties, and other political subdivisions and to the authority to enter into contracts, lease agreements, or other undertakings relative to the furnishing of services and facilities by the authority to such municipal corporations, counties, and political subdivisions for a term not exceeding 50 years;
(6)
To acquire, construct, own, repair, add to, extend, improve, equip, operate, maintain, and manage projects, as hereinabove defined, the cost of any such project to be paid, in whole or in part, from the proceeds of revenue bonds of the authority or from such proceeds and any grant or contribution from the United States of America or any agency or instrumentality thereof or from the State of Georgia or any agency or instrumentality thereof;
(7)
To make loans with, and accept loans and grants of money or materials or property of any kind from, the United States of America or any agency or instrumentality thereof, upon such terms and conditions as the United States of America or such agency or instrumentality may require;
(8)
To make loans with, and accept loans and grants of money or materials or property of any kind from, the State of Georgia or any agency or instrumentality or political subdivision thereof, upon such terms and conditions as the State of Georgia or such agency or instrumentality or political subdivision may require;
(9)
To borrow money for any of its corporate purposes and to issue negotiable revenue bonds payable solely from funds pledged for that purpose, and to provide for the payment of the same and for the rights of the holders thereof;
(10)
To exercise any power usually possessed by private corporations performing similar functions that is not in conflict with the Constitution and laws of this state; and
(11)
To do all things necessary or convenient to carry out the powers expressly granted by this Act.
(1988 Ga. Laws, page 4105; 2005 Ga. Laws, Act. No. 41 (S.B. 333), § 3)
Section 4.1. - Lease agreement.
(a)
Without limiting the generality of paragraph (5) of Section 4 of this Act, the authority is expressly authorized to enter into a written lease agreement with the Board of Commissioners of Walton County for the lease of all of the assets of the authority and the management of the operations of such assets in exchange for payments by the board of commissioners sufficient to service the current and future debts and other liabilities of the authority.
(b)
In the event that the authority enters into a lease agreement as described in subsection (a) of this section, all persons employed by the authority immediately prior to the execution of such agreement shall become employees of the Board of Commissioners of Walton County, and members of the civil service system of such county, except for the director and department heads, who shall serve at the will and the pleasure of the board of commissioners. For purposes of computing the length of service and for all other purposes under such civil service system, such employees shall be deemed to have been employees of the county for all periods of time they were employed by the authority.
(c)
In the event that the authority enters into a lease agreement as described in subsection (a) of this section, the authority is authorized to provide advice and recommendations to the board of commissioners regarding infrastructure developments and the review of plans for water and sewer requests in the county.
(2005 Ga. Laws, Act. No. 41 (S.B. 333), § 4)
Section 5. - Revenue bonds.
The Authority, or any authority or body which has or which may in the future succeed to the powers, duties and liabilities vested in the Authority created hereby, shall have power and is hereby authorized to provide by resolution for the issuance of negotiable revenue bonds for the purpose of paying all or any part of the cost as herein defined of any one or more projects. The principal of and interest on such revenue bonds shall be payable solely from the special fund herein provided for such payment. The bonds of each issue shall be dated, shall bear interest at such rate or rates per annum, payable at such time or times, shall mature at such time or times not exceeding 40 years from their date or dates, shall be payable in such medium of payment as to both principal and interest as may be determined by the Authority, and may be redeemable before maturity, at the option of the Authority, at such price or prices and under such terms and conditions as may be fixed by the Authority in the resolution providing for the issuance of bonds.
Section 6. - Same; form; denomination; registration; place of payment.
The Authority shall determine the form of the bonds, including any interest coupons to be attached thereto, and shall fix the denomination or denominations of the bonds and the place or places of payment of the principal thereof and the interest thereon, which may be at any bank or trust company within or without the State. The bonds may be issued in coupon or registered form, or both, as the Authority may determine, and provision may be made for the registration of any coupon bond as to principal alone and also as to both principal and interest.
Section 7. - Same; signatures; seal.
In case any officer whose signature shall appear on any bonds or whose facsimile signature shall appear on any coupon shall cease to be such officer before the delivery of such bonds, such signature shall nevertheless be valid and sufficient for all purposes the same as if such officer had remained in office until such delivery. All such bonds shall be signed by the chairman of the Authority and official seal of the Authority shall be affixed thereto and attested by the secretary and treasurer of the Authority and any coupons attached thereto shall bear the facsimile signatures of the chairman and secretary and treasurer of the Authority. Any coupon may bear the facsimile signatures of such persons and any bond may be signed, sealed and attested on behalf of the Authority by such persons as at the actual time of the execution of such bonds shall be duly authorized or hold the proper office, although at the date of such bonds such persons may not have been so authorized or shall not have held such office.
Section 8. - Same; negotiability; exemption from taxation.
All revenue bonds issued under the provisions of this Act shall have and are hereby declared to have all the qualities and incidents of negotiable instruments under the laws of the State. Such bonds, their transfer and the income thereof shall be exempt from all taxation within the State.
Section 9. - Same; sale; proceeds.
The Authority may sell such bonds in such manner and for such price as it may determine to be for the best interest of the Authority and the proceeds derived from the sale of such bonds shall be used solely for the purpose provided in the proceedings authorizing the issuance of such bonds.
Section 10. - Same; interim receipts and certificates or temporary bonds.
Prior to the preparation of definitive bonds, the Authority may, under like restrictions issue interim receipts, interim certificates or temporary bonds, with or without coupons exchangeable for definitive bonds upon the issuance of the latter.
Section 11. - Same; replacement of lost or mutilated bonds.
The Authority may provide for the replacement of any bonds and coupons which shall become mutilated or be destroyed or lost.
Section 12. - Same; conditions precedent to issuance.
Such revenue bonds may be issued without any other proceedings or the happening of any other conditions or things other than those proceedings, conditions and things which are specified or required by this Act. Any resolution, providing for the issuance of revenue bonds under the provisions of this Act shall become effective immediately upon its passage and need not be published or posted, and any such resolution may be passed at any regular, special, or adjourned meeting of the Authority by a majority of its members.
Section 13. - Credit not pledged.
Revenue bonds issued under the provisions of this Act shall not be deemed to constitute a debt of any county or municipality nor a pledge of the faith and credit of any county or municipality, but such bonds shall be payable solely from the fund hereinafter provided for and the issuance of such revenue bonds shall not directly, indirectly or contingently obligate any county or municipality to levy or to pledge any form of taxation whatever therefor or to make any appropriation for their payment, and all such bonds shall contain recitals on their face covering substantially the foregoing provisions of this Section.
Section 14. - Trust indenture as security.
In the discretion of the Authority, any issue of such revenue bonds may be secured by a trust indenture by and between the Authority and a corporate trustee, which may be any trust company or bank having the powers of a trust company within or without the State. Such trust indenture may pledge or assign fees, tolls, revenues and earnings to be received by the Authority. Either the resolution providing for the issuance of revenue bonds or such trust indenture may contain such provisions for protecting and enforcing the rights and remedies of the bondholders as may be reasonable and proper and not in violation of law, including covenants setting forth the duties of the Authority in relation to the acquisition of property, the construction of the project, the maintenance, operation, repair and insuring of the project, and the custody, safeguarding and application of all monies, and may also provide that any project shall be constructed and paid for under the supervision and approval of consulting engineers or architects employed or designated by the Authority, and satisfactory to the original purchasers of the bonds issued therefor, and may also require that the security given by contractors and by any depositary of the proceeds of the bonds or revenues or other moneys be satisfactory to such purchasers, and may also contain provisions concerning the conditions, if any, upon which additional revenue bonds may be issued. It shall be lawful for any bank or trust company incorporated under the laws of this State to act as such depositary and to furnish such indemnifying bonds or pledge such securities as may be required by the Authority. Such indenture may set forth the rights and remedies of the bondholders and of the trustee, and may restrict the individual right of action of bondholders as is customary in trust indentures securing bonds and debentures of corporations. In addition to the foregoing, such trust indenture may contain such other provisions as the Authority may deem reasonable and proper for the security of the bondholders. All expenses incurred in carrying out such trust indenture may be treated as a part of the cost of maintenance, operation and repair of the project affected by such indenture.
Section 15. - To whom proceeds of bonds shall be paid.
The Authority shall, in the resolution providing for the issuance of revenue bonds or in the trust indenture, provide for the payment of the proceeds of the sale of the bonds to any officer or person who, or any agency, bank or trust company which, shall act as trustee of such funds and shall hold and apply the same to the purposes hereof, subject to such regulations as this Act and such resolutions or trust indentures may provide.
Section 16. - Sinking fund.
The revenues, fees, tolls and earnings derived from any particular project or projects, regardless of whether or not such fees, earnings, and revenues were produced by a particular project for which bonds have been issued, unless otherwise pledged and allocated, may be pledged and allocated by the Authority to the payment of the principal and interest on revenue bonds of the Authority as the resolution authorizing the issuance of the bonds or in the trust instrument may provide, and such funds so pledged from whatever source received, which said pledge may include funds received from one or more or all sources, shall be set aside at regular intervals as may be provided in the resolution or trust indenture, into a sinking fund, which said sinking fund shall be pledged to and charged with the payment of (1) the interest upon such revenue bonds as such interest shall fall due, (2) the principal of the bonds as the same shall fall due, (3) the necessary charges of paying agents for paying principal and interest and other investment charges, and (4) any premium upon bonds retired by call or purchase as hereinabove provided. The use and disposition of such sinking fund shall be subject to such regulations as may be provided in the resolution authorizing the issuance of the revenue bonds or in the trust indenture, but, except as may otherwise be provided in such resolution or trust indenture, such sinking fund shall be maintained as a trust account for the benefit of all revenue bonds without distinction or priority of one over another. Subject to the provisions of the resolution authorizing the issuance of the bonds or in the trust indenture any surplus monies in the sinking fund may be applied to the purchase or redemption of bonds and any such bonds so purchased or redeemed shall forthwith be cancelled and shall not again be issued.
Section 17. - Remedies of bondholders.
Any holder of revenue bonds issued under the provisions of this Act or any of the coupons appertaining thereto, and the trustee under the trust indenture, if any, except to the extent the rights herein given may be restricted by resolution passed before the issuance of the bonds or by the trust indenture, may, either at law or in equity, by suit, action, mandamus, or other proceedings, protect and enforce any and all rights under the laws of the State of Georgia or granted hereunder or under such resolution or trust indenture, and may enforce and compel performance of all duties required by this Act or by such resolution or trust indenture, to be performed by the Authority, or any officer thereof, including the fixing, charging, and collecting of revenues, fees, tolls, and other charges for the use of the facilities and services furnished.
Section 18. - Refunding bonds.
The Authority is hereby authorized to provide by resolution for the issuance of bonds of the Authority for the purpose of funding or refunding any revenue bonds issued under the provisions of this Act and then outstanding, together with accrued interest thereon and premium, if any. The issuance of such funding or refunding bonds, the maturities and all other details thereof, the rights of the holders thereof, and the duties of the Authority in respect to the same shall be governed by the foregoing provisions of this Act insofar as the same may be applicable.
Section 19. - Validation.
Bonds of the Authority shall be confirmed and validated in accordance with the procedure of the Revenue Bond Law, as amended. The petition for validation shall also make party defendant to such action the State of Georgia or any municipality, county, authority, political subdivision or instrumentality of the State of Georgia which has contracted with the Authority for the services and facilities of the project for which bonds are to be issued and sought to be validated and the State or such municipality, county, authority, political subdivision or instrumentality shall be required to show cause, if any exist, why such contract or contracts and the terms and conditions thereof should not be inquired into by the court and the contract or contracts adjudicated as a part of the basis of the security for the payment of any such bonds of the Authority. The bonds, when validated, and the judgment of validation shall be final and conclusive with respect to such bonds and the security for the payment thereof and interest thereon and against the Authority issuing the same, and the State and any municipality, county, authority, political subdivision or instrumentality, if a party to the validation proceedings, contracting with the said Walton County Water and Sewerage Authority.
Section 20. - Venue and jurisdiction.
Any action to protect or enforce any rights under the provisions of this Act or any suit or action against such Authority shall be brought in the Superior Court of Walton County, Georgia, and any action pertaining to the validation of any bonds issued under the provisions of this Act shall likewise be brought in said court, which shall have exclusive, original jurisdiction of such actions.
Section 21. - Interests of bondholders protected.
While any of the bonds issued by the Authority remain outstanding, the powers, duties or existence of said Authority or of its officers, employees or agents shall not be diminished or impaired in any manner that will adversely affect the interests and rights of the holders of such bonds. The provisions of this Act shall be for the benefit of the Authority and the holders of any such bonds.
Section 22. - Moneys received considered trust funds.
All moneys received pursuant to the authority of this Act, whether as proceeds from the sale of revenue bonds, as grants or other contributions, or as revenues, income, fees or earnings, shall be deemed to be trust funds to be held and applied solely as provided in this Act.
Section 23. - Rates, charges and revenues; use.
The Authority is hereby authorized to prescribe and fix rates and to revise same from time to time and to collect fees, tolls and charges for the services, facilities and commodities furnished, and in anticipation of the collection of the revenues of such undertaking or project, to issue revenue bonds as herein provided to finance, in whole or in part, the cost of the acquisition, construction, reconstruction, improvement, betterment or extension of a water system, and to pledge to the punctual payment of said bonds and interest thereon, all or any part of the revenues of such undertaking or project, including the revenues of improvements, betterments or extensions thereto thereafter made.
Section 24. - Rules and regulations for operation of projects.
It shall be the duty of the Authority to prescribe rules and regulations for the operation of the project or projects constructed under the provisions of this Act, including the basis on which water service and facilities shall be furnished.
Section 25. - Tort immunity.
The Authority shall have the same immunity and exemption from liability for torts and negligence as Walton County; and the officers, agents and employees of the Authority, when in the performance of the work of the Authority, shall have the same immunity and exemption from liability for torts and negligence as the officers, agents and employees of Walton County when in performance of their public duties or work of the County.
Section 26. - Powers declared supplemental and additional.
The foregoing Sections of this Act shall be deemed to provide an additional and alternative method for the doing of the things authorized thereby and shall be regarded as supplemental and additional to powers conferred by other laws, and shall not be regarded as in derogation of any powers now existing. This Act does not in any way take from Walton County or any municipality located therein or any adjoining county the authority to own, operate and maintain a water system or to issue revenue bonds as is provided by the Revenue Bond Law.
Section 27. - Liberal construction of act.
This Act, being for the welfare of various political subdivisions of the State and its inhabitants, shall be liberally construed to effect the purposes hereof.
Section 28. - Severability.
In the event any section, subsection, sentence, clause or phrase of this Act shall be declared or adjudged invalid or unconstitutional, such adjudication shall in no manner affect the other sections, subsections, sentences, clauses, or phrases of this Act, which shall remain of full force and effect, as if the section, subsection, sentence, clause or phrase so declared or adjudged invalid or unconstitutional were not originally a part hereof. The General Assembly hereby declares that it would have passed the remaining parts of this Act if it had known that such part or parts hereof would be declared or adjudged invalid or unconstitutional.
Section 29. - Effective date.
This Act shall become effective upon its approval by the Governor or upon its becoming law without his approval.
Section 30. - Repealer.
All laws and parts of laws in conflict with this Act are hereby repealed.
