Chapter 103 - BUILDINGS AND BUILDING REGULATIONS
ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 103-1. - Building permit required.
(a)
Any person desiring to build within the city limits shall file an application for a permit to build. At such time as an application is approved for said building, the builder shall be issued a permit to build.
(b)
Fees set for permits shall be $25.00 for the first $12,000.00 and $1.00 for each additional $1,000.00 thereafter. This shall apply to commercial buildings to the extent that such fee shall not exceed an amount as established by the mayor and city council, from time to time, and made available for public examination in the office of the city clerk.
(Ord. No. 74-07-01, 7-9-1974)
Secs. 103-2—103-20. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - CONSTRUCTION CODES[1]

Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
State Law reference— Minimum state construction codes, O.C.G.A. § 8-2-20.

Sec. 103-21. - Minimum state construction codes.
The following codes, as published by the International Code Council, are adopted by reference as though they were copied herein fully:
(1)
International Building Code (ICC).
(2)
International Plumbing Code (ICC).
(3)
International Fuel Gas Code (ICC).
(4)
International Mechanical Code (ICC).
(5)
International Fire Code (ICC).
(6)
National Electrical Code (NFPA).
(7)
International Residential Code for One-Family and Two-Family Dwellings (ICC).
(8)
International Energy Conservation Code (ICC).
The adoption of these codes is done to facilitate inspection activities by the city relating to construction and to maintenance of buildings within the corporate limits of said city, and to promote public safety, health, and general welfare.
(Ord. No. 86-02-01, § I, 2-11-1986)
Sec. 103-22. - Authority to administer and enforce construction codes.
Authority to administer and enforce the codes cited in section 103-21 is delegated to the county building official or his designated representative.
(Ord. No. 86-02-01, § III, 2-11-1986)
Secs. 103-23—103-47. - Reserved.
ARTICLE III. - HOUSE NUMBERING

Sec. 103-48. - Duties of city clerk; display.
(a)
It shall be the responsibility of the city clerk to administer the general plan for the numbering of houses and buildings located in the corporate limits of the city.
(b)
It shall be the responsibility of the city clerk to assign a proper number to each house and building within the corporate limits of the city.
(c)
Whenever the city clerk ascertains that any house or building is improperly numbered, it shall be his responsibility to assign a proper number for that location. The owner of any such house or building or if the same is not occupied by the owner, the occupant thereof; or if the owner is a nonresident and represented by an agent, the agent therefor, shall be notified by the city clerk of the assignment of the proper number. Those shall be served by first class mail upon the owner or upon the occupant, or upon the agent of the owner, if the owner is a nonresident and is represented by an agent. It shall be the duty of the owner, occupant or agent to remove the old number and affix the new number so assigned in the manner prescribed in subsection (e) of this section within ten days after service of notice. It will be assumed that the notice is received five days after mailing.
(d)
The building official shall not issue final approval of any newly constructed building until the builder or owner has exhibited satisfactory proof that the newly constructed building has displayed the proper number, assigned by the city clerk, which is clearly visible to the public from a position on the nearest public thoroughfare to the building.
(e)
All houses and buildings located in the corporate limits of the city shall conspicuously display the number assigned to such house or building by the city clerk. Such number shall be displayed in a manner so that it shall be clearly visible to the public from a position on the nearest public thoroughfare to the building.
(Ord. No. 91-06-01, § 1, 6-25-1991)
