Chapter 34 - OFFENSES AND MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Cross reference— Traffic and vehicles, ch. 50.
State Law reference— Violation of county ordinances, O.C.G.A. § 15-10-60 et seq.; Criminal Code of Georgia, O.C.G.A. § 16-1-1 et seq.; limitation on home rule powers of municipal corporations with respect to duplication of state criminal offenses, O.C.G.A. § 36-35-6(a)(2).

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Secs. 34-1—34-30. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - DISORDERLY CONDUCT

Sec. 34-31. - Prohibited activities.
Any person who shall do or engage in any of the following in the unincorporated area of the county shall be guilty of disorderly conduct:
(1)
Any person who acts in a violent or tumultuous manner toward another person whereby such person is placed in reasonable fear of the safety of such person's life, limb, or health.
(2)
Any person who acts in a violent or tumultuous manner toward another person whereby public property or the property of such person is placed in danger of being damaged or destroyed.
(3)
Any person who, without provocation, uses to or of another person in such other person's presence, opprobrious or abusive words which by their very utterance tend to incite to an immediate breach of the peace, that is to say, words which as a matter of common knowledge and under ordinary circumstances will, when used to or of another person in such other person's presence, naturally tend to provoke violent resentment, that is, words commonly called "fighting words."
(4)
Any person who shall endanger lawful pursuits of another by acts of violence or threats of bodily harm.
(5)
Any person who shall cause, provoke or engage in any fight, brawl or riotous conduct so as to endanger the life, limb, health or property of another or public property.
(6)
Any person who shall assemble or congregate with another or others and cause, provoke or engage in any fight or brawl.
(7)
Any person who shall congregate with another or others in or on any public way so as to halt the flow of vehicular or pedestrian traffic and refuses to clear such public way when ordered to do so by a peace officer or other person having authority.
(8)
Any person who damages, defouls or disturbs public property or the property of another.
(9)
Any person who, after having been directed by a police officer to move away therefrom, shall remain or loiter in front of any church or other place of public worship during services therein, or in front of any theater, concert hall, or in front of any business house in the city, or shall obstruct any public street, public highway, public sidewalk or any other public place or building by hindering or impeding or tending to hinder or impede the free and uninterrupted passage of vehicles, traffic or pedestrians.
(10)
No person shall recklessly or knowingly throw or propel any stone, brick, piece of wood or other object at any person, vehicle, house, building or other structure or object, or across or upon any private or public property.
(11)
It shall be unlawful for any person to defecate or urinate on or adjacent to any street or sidewalk, or in the halls, elevators, stairways, or any other area designated for public passage within any public or commercial buildings, or on any property open to public view.
(12)
No person shall knowingly and willfully harass or attempt to harass or mislead any police officer by false alarms or unauthorized use of any device of whatever nature to summon police aid without reasonable cause.
(13)
No person shall enter or remain in any public, private or parochial school building who is not a regularly enrolled student, teacher or employee at that school, unless the person shall have first and immediately proceeded to the administrative offices and identified themselves to the principal or the principal's agent and receives permission to remain on the premises.
(14)
It shall be unlawful for any person to enter and remain in any public, private, or parochial school or on the surrounding school grounds after being directed to leave by the principal of the school or by someone with lawful authority.
(15)
It shall be unlawful for any person to create a disturbance in any public, private or parochial school or on the surrounding school grounds lawfully used for school activities while such recreational areas are in use or other activities are in progress thereon.
(Ord. No. 91-19, § 1, 10-1-1991; Ord. of 11-6-18, § 1 (Exh. A))
Editor's note— Ord. of 11-6-18, § 1 (Exh. A), repealed the former section and enacted a new section as set out herein. The former section pertained to similar subject matter and derived from Ord. No. 91-19, § 1, 10-1-1991.
Sec. 34-32. - Penalty.
Any person or persons failing to comply with the mandatory provisions of this article or doing any act prohibited by this article shall be guilty of an offense and upon conviction in the magistrate court of the county shall be punished as provided in section 1-12.
(Ord. No. 91-19, § 2, 10-1-1991)
ARTICLE III. - HARD LABOR CREEK RESERVOIR

Sec. 34-33. - Public access and fishing regulations.
The Hard Labor Creek Reservoir Public Access and Fishing Regulations established by the Walton County Water and Sewerage Authority and posted on the following website: http://www.hardlaborcreek.com/recreation , or such other website maintained by the Walton County Water and Sewerage Authority, as the same may exist from time to time, are by this reference incorporated herein and made a part hereof in as full and complete a manner and with like effect as though set out in full herein.
(Ord. of 10-2-18(2), § 1)
Sec. 34-34. - Boat ramp parking rules and fees.
The Hard Labor Creek Reservoir Boat Ramp Parking Rules and Fees established by the Walton County Water and Sewerage Authority and posted on the following website: http://www.hardlaborcreek.com/recreation , or such other website maintained by the Walton County Water and Sewerage Authority, as the same may exist from time to time, are by this reference incorporated herein and made a part hereof in as full and complete a manner and with like effect as though set out in full herein.
(Ord. of 10-2-18(2), § 1)
Sec. 34-35. - Enforcement.
In addition to the Walton County Sheriff's Office, the Walton County Water Department, the Walton County Planning and Development Department, and the Law Enforcement Division of the Georgia Department of Natural Resources, and their duly authorized agents, shall have full authority to administer and enforce the provisions of this article, to perform all functions necessary to administer and enforce this article, to issue citations to violators of this article, and to summon violators of this article to appear before the Magistrate Court of Walton County, Georgia.
(Ord. of 10-2-18(2), § 1; Ord. of 2-5-19, § 1)
Sec. 34-36. - Penalty.
Any person failing to comply with the mandatory provisions of this article or doing any act prohibited by this article shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction in the Magistrate Court of Walton County, Georgia, shall be punished as provided in section 1-12.
(Ord. of 10-2-18(2), § 1)
Secs. 34-37—34-39. - Reserved.
ARTICLE IV. - NOISE DISTURBANCES

Sec. 34-40. - Title.
This article shall be known as the Walton County Noise Disturbance Ordinance.
(Ord. of 7-9-21)
Sec. 34-41. - Penalty.
It shall be unlawful and punishable as provided in section 1-12 for any person within the unincorporated areas of the county to violate any of the provisions of this article. Alleged violations of this article shall be tried in the magistrate court of the county.
(Ord. of 7-9-21)
Sec. 34-42. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meaning ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Agricultural property means a parcel of real property that is primarily used for agricultural purposes in accordance with the maps, terms and provisions of the Walton County Land Development Ordinance.
Noise disturbance means any sound which:
(1)
May disturb or annoy reasonable persons of normal sensitivities; or
(2)
Causes, or tends to cause, an adverse effect on the public health and welfare; or
(3)
Endangers or injures any person; or
(4)
Endangers or injures personal or real property.
Noise-sensitive area means any area in the unincorporated areas of Walton County where a school, hospital, nursing home, church, court or public library is located.
Ordinance means the Walton County Noise Disturbance Ordinance.
Person means any individual, association, partnership, joint venture, limited liability company or corporation.
Plainly audible means any sound for which any of the content of that sound is communicated to a person using his or her unaided hearing faculties. For the purposes of the enforcement of this article, the detection of any component of sound, including, but not limited to, the rhythmic bass by a person using his or her unaided hearing faculties is sufficient to verify plainly audible sound. It is not necessary for such person to determine the title, specific words or artist of music, or the content of any speech.
Public right-of-way means any street, avenue, boulevard, highway, sidewalk, alley, or similar place normally accessible to the public which is owned or controlled by a governmental entity.
Public space means any real property or structures thereon owned by a governmental entity and normally accessible to the public, including but not limited to parks and other recreational areas.
Real property boundary means an imaginary line along the ground surface, and its vertical extension, which separates the real property owned by one person from real property owned by another person.
Residential area means any real property which contains a structure or building in which one or more persons reside.
(Ord. of 7-9-21)
Sec. 34-43. - General prohibition.
No person shall make, continue, or cause to be made or continued, any noise disturbance.
(Ord. of 7-9-21)
Sec. 34-44. - Enumeration of prohibited noises.
In addition to the general prohibition set forth in section 34-43, the following specific acts are declared to be in violation of this article:
(1)
Horns, signaling devices. The sounding of any horn or signaling device of a motor vehicle that is plainly audible to any person in a public right-of-way or public space for a period of time in excess of 60 seconds, except as a danger or emergency warning.
(2)
Radios, television, musical instruments, loudspeaker and sound amplifier. Operating, playing, or permitting the operation or playing of any radio, television, phonograph, drum, musical instrument, loudspeaker system, sound amplifier, or any such similar device, which produces, reproduces, or amplifies sound in such a manner as to be plainly audible at a distance in excess of 100 feet from the real property boundary of the noise source, within any residential area, noise-sensitive area, public right-of-way, or public space.
(3)
Loudspeaker and sound amplifiers. The use or operation of any loudspeaker system, sound amplifier or other similar device between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m., within or adjacent to a residential area, noise-sensitive area, public right-of-way, or public space such that the sound therefrom is plainly audible across the real property boundary of the noise source. In all residential areas and within 500 feet thereof, no sound amplifying equipment shall be installed, operated, or used for commercial purposes at any time.
(4)
Powered equipment intended for repetitive use in residential areas. The operation of, or permitting the operation of, any lawn mower, backpack blower, lawn edger, riding tractor, or any other machinery, equipment, or other mechanical or electrical device, or any similar tool between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m., within or adjacent to a residential area or noise-sensitive area such that the sound therefrom is plainly audible across the real property boundary of the noise source.
(5)
Emergency signaling devices. The intentional sounding, or permitting the sounding, outdoors of any stationary fire, burglar, or civil defense alarm, siren, whistle, or similar stationary emergency signaling device, except for emergency or testing purposes.
(6)
Motor vehicles.
a.
No person shall operate, or permit to be operated, any motor vehicle, motorcycle, or off-road vehicle not equipped with a muffler or other device in good working order that is intended to effectively prevent loud or explosive noises from the motor vehicle, motorcycle, or off-road vehicle.
b.
No person shall operate, or permit to be operated, any motor vehicle, motorcycle, or off-road vehicle that creates a noise disturbance across a real property boundary in a residential area or in a noise-sensitive area due to the sound of tire squeal.
c.
No person shall operate, or permit to be operated, any motor vehicle, motorcycle, or off-road vehicle that creates a noise disturbance across a real property boundary in a residential area or in a noise-sensitive area due to the sound of high acceleration.
(7)
Consumer fireworks. The use or exploding of consumer fireworks between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 9:00 a.m., except on the dates, and at the times, explicitly specified in chapter 10 of title 25 of the O.C.G.A. (O.C.G.A. § 25-10-1 et seq.).
(8)
Funerals. No person may engage in loud singing, playing of music, chanting, whistling, yelling, or the making of any other sound with, or without, any sound amplification equipment, including, but not limited to, bullhorns, auto horns, and microphones within 200 feet of the real property boundary of any active funeral site, where the level of such sound is plainly audible to the attendees at the site.
(Ord. of 7-9-21)
Sec. 34-45. - Exceptions.
The provisions of this article shall not apply to sounds created by agricultural equipment, including but not limited to tractors, combines, and other similar equipment, when the sounds from such equipment originates on agricultural property or the public right-of-way.
(Ord. of 7-9-21)
