Chapter 22 - CIVIL EMERGENCIES[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Cross reference— Administration, ch. 2.
State Law reference— Probate court's jurisdiction involving the removal of obstructions from roads, O.C.G.A. § 15-9-30.1; Georgia Mutual Aid Act, O.C.G.A. § 36-69-1 et seq.; Georgia Emergency Management Act of 1981, O.C.G.A. § 38-3-1 et seq.; Interstate Civil Defense and Disaster Compact, O.C.G.A. § 38-3-70 et seq.; authority to adopt temporary or experimental traffic regulations to cover emergencies or special conditions, O.C.G.A. § 40-6-371(a)(19).

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Secs. 22-1—22-30. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT

Sec. 22-31. - Definition.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Emergency management means the preparation for the carrying out of all emergency functions other than functions for which military forces are primarily responsible to prevent, minimize, and repair injury and damage resulting from emergencies, energy emergencies, disasters, or the imminent threat thereof, of manmade or natural origin. These functions include, without limitation, firefighting services; police services (public safety); medical and health services; rescue; engineering; warning services; communications; defense from radiological, chemical, and other special weapons; evacuation of persons from stricken areas; emergency welfare services; emergency transportation; nuclear power plant protection; temporary restoration of public service utility services; and other functions related to civilian protection, together with all other activities necessary or incidental to the preparation for and carrying out of the foregoing functions. (Georgia Emergency Management Act of 1981, as amended December 1992, O.C.G.A. § 38-3-3.)
(Res. of 9-15-1998, § I)
Cross reference— Definitions generally, § 1-2.
Sec. 22-32. - Local organization for emergency management.
In cases where the county has an organization for emergency management, such organization shall include participation by each city within the county unless the governing authority of any particular city elects to implement its own organization for emergency management. Any two or more of these political subdivisions may, with the approval of the director, contract with each other so as to form one emergency management organization for the entire area included in the bounds of the contracting political subdivisions. The executive officer or governing body of the political subdivision is authorized to nominate a local director whose nomination must be endorsed by the director prior to the appointment by the governor. Upon appointment, the local emergency management agency director shall have direct responsibility for the organization, administration, and operations of the local organization for emergency management, subject to the direction and control of the executive officer or governing body and shall serve at the pleasure of such executive officer or governing body. The local director shall:
(1)
Maintain an emergency management office in a building owned or leased by the political subdivision and the director or designee shall be available or on call at all times beyond working hours.
(2)
Develop, in conjunction with public and private agencies/organizations that have responsibility for designated emergency support functions, plans for responding to and recovering from disasters and/or emergencies.
(3)
Respond to emergency scenes, command posts, and operation centers.
(4)
Coordinate emergency response of public and private agencies and organizations.
(5)
Attend training and meetings convened by the appointing authority or the state emergency management director.
(6)
Develop or cause to be developed, in collaboration with other public and private agencies within the state, mutual aid arrangements, consistent with state plans and programs, for reciprocal emergency management aid and assistance in case of emergency or disaster too great to be dealt with unassisted.
(7)
Enter into mutual aid agreements, subject to approval of the governor, with emergency management agencies or organizations in other states for reciprocal emergency management aid and assistance in case of emergency or disaster too great to be dealt with unassisted (O.C.G.A. §§ 38-3-27 and 38-3-29).
(Res. of 9-15-1998, § II)
Sec. 22-33. - Local emergency management powers.
Each political subdivision shall have the emergency management power and authority to: appropriate and expend funds; execute contracts; obtain and distribute equipment, materials, and supplies; provide for the health and safety of persons and property, including emergency assistance to victims; direct and coordinate development of local emergency management plans and programs in accordance with federal and state policies and plans; appoint, employ, remove or provide, with or without compensation, chiefs of services, warning personnel, rescue teams, auxiliary fire and police personnel, and other emergency management workers; establish a primary and one or more secondary control centers to serve as command posts; and acquire, temporarily or permanently, by purchase or lease or otherwise identify sites required for installation of temporary housing units and prepare or equip such sites.
(Res. of 9-15-1998, § III)
Sec. 22-34. - Local emergency management financial assistance.
A county or municipality shall be entitled to receive federal disaster funds if the local emergency management organization has met all state and federal requirements to receive such funds. Qualifications include: legal establishment of an emergency management organization by local ordinance or resolution; a legally appointed local director who has been endorsed and approved by the state emergency management director and appointed by the governor; an approved emergency and disaster plan with all applicable annexes and an approved fiscal year program and other necessary compliance documents.
(Res. of 9-15-1998, § IV)
Sec. 22-35. - Immunity of state and political subdivisions.
Neither the state nor any political subdivision of the state, nor the agents or representatives of the state or any political subdivision thereof, shall be liable for personal injury or property damage sustained by any person appointed or acting as a volunteer emergency management worker or member of any agency engaged in emergency management activity. Immunity does not apply in cases of willful misconduct, gross negligence or bad faith.
(Res. of 9-15-1998, § V)
Sec. 22-36. - Local emergency management agency plan.
(a)
Development and review of plan. The county emergency management agency has developed, in partnership with local government and community agencies/organizations which have primary responsibility for emergency support functions, an approved emergency management plan. A copy of this plan and/or major revisions are being submitted to the state emergency management agency by the local emergency management agency director, in coordination with the undersigned local government officials or legally appointed successors. It is understood that the state emergency management agency will review this plan for compliance with all federal and state requirements.
(b)
Agreement with state requirements. The authorized local government officials of the county understand and agree to the requirements of the Georgia Emergency Management Act of 1981, amended December 1992, as stated in this resolution dated and signed this 15th day of September 1998.
(c)
Agreement; record of the plan's completion. The county emergency management agency has developed, in partnership with additional community agencies/organizations from the county, a hazard mitigation plan. This plan has been approved by the local government and/or updated to accommodate major revisions. A copy of the plan including major revisions is being submitted to the state emergency management agency for compliance with all federal and state requirements. The authorized local government officials understand and support the hazard mitigation plan.
(Res. of 9-15-1998, § VI)
Sec. 22-37. - National Incident Management System (NIMS); adopted.
Walton County hereby adopts the National Incident Management System (NIMS) as established under HSPD 5 and the Unified Command System as established under O.C.G.A. § 38-3-57 as its system of preparing for and responding to disaster incidents and directs all incident managers and response organizations in Walton County [to] train and exercise and use these systems in their response operations.
(Res. of 9-1-2005)
Secs. 22-38—22-60. - Reserved.
ARTICLE III. - STATES OF EMERGENCY
DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Secs. 22-61—22-80. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - IMPOSITION OF CURFEWS

Sec. 22-81. - Findings.
(a)
General findings. The health, safety and welfare of the citizens and property of the county may be jeopardized during an emergency, disaster or imminent threat thereof, by the presence of looters, vandals, thieves and others who would take advantage of the confusion and devastation that accompanies such an event.
(b)
Authority to take action. The local governing authority of the county is authorized pursuant to O.C.G.A. §§ 38-3-27(b)(2) and 38-3-28 to take actions necessary to provide for the health and safety of persons and property during periods of emergency or disaster, provided that such actions are not inconsistent with any orders, rules, or regulations promulgated by the governor or his delegatee.
(c)
Maintenance of order; protection of persons and property. The board of commissioners believes that it is desirable to have legislation in place authorizing the board to enact a curfew when it is determined necessary to maintain order and to protect either the citizens or their property during an emergency or disaster in certain areas of the county.
(Ord. of 12-2-2003(01))
Sec. 22-82. - Institution of curfew.
(a)
Generally. Upon the declaration of a state of emergency by the governor, or upon the determination by the county governing authority, or its designee, of the existence of an emergency or disaster, the county governing authority, its designee or the emergency interim successor may adopt a resolution instituting a curfew when it is determined necessary to protect and safeguard the people and property of the county.
(b)
Area subject to curfew. All of the territory of the unincorporated county shall be subject to the terms of the curfew, unless otherwise specified in the resolution.
(c)
Dates and hours of curfew. The resolution instituting the curfew shall include the dates and hours that the curfew shall be in effect.
(Ord. of 12-2-2003(01), § 1)
Sec. 22-83. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this division, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Curfew means a regulation requiring the withdrawal from any person not otherwise exempt from this division from appearing in certain public areas during specified hours.
Exempt individuals. Unless otherwise specified in the resolution implementing the curfew, exempt individuals include those individuals engaged in the provision of designated, essential services, such as fire, law enforcement, emergency medical services and hospital services, military services and utility emergency repairs. The resolution may, in the discretion of the governing authority, also exempt regular employees of local industries traveling to and from their jobs with appropriate identification, news media employees, building and repair contractors, properly registered according to section 22-121 et seq. (requiring registration and licensing of building and repair services during a state of emergency), performing activities related to construction, repair, renovation or improvement of buildings and other structures damaged during the disaster or emergency.
State of emergency means, as defined by O.C.G.A. § 38-3-3(5), a condition declared by the governor when, in his judgment, the threat or actual occurrence of a disaster, emergency, or energy emergency is of sufficient severity and magnitude as to warrant extraordinary efforts in preventing or alleviating the damage, loss, hardship, or suffering threatened or caused thereby.
(Ord. of 12-2-2003(01), § 2)
Cross reference— Definitions generally, § 1-2.
Sec. 22-84. - Prohibition.
It shall be prohibited for any person, other than exempt individuals, to appear in public in the territory subject to the curfew, including but not limited to, streets, highways, alleys, sidewalks, vacant lots, parks, public buildings or any other public places in all or a delineated part of the unincorporated areas of the county during the stated hours of the curfew.
(Ord. of 12-2-2003(01), § 3)
Sec. 22-85. - Penalties.
Any individual violating this division, upon conviction, shall be punishable as provided in section 1-12.
(Ord. of 12-2-2003(01), § 4)
Secs. 22-86—22-100. - Reserved.
DIVISION 3. - PROHIBITION ON OVERCHARGING

Sec. 22-101. - Findings.
(a)
Availability and affordability of goods. The health, safety and welfare of the citizens of the county depend upon the availability and affordability of certain essential goods, materials, services and housing.
(b)
Unjustified price increases. During certain periods of emergency resulting from natural or manmade disaster, citizens of the county are at risk from dramatic and unjustified increases in the prices of such goods, materials, services and housing.
(c)
Excessive price increases. Such increases in price may be excessive and unconscionable during a state of emergency and may hinder the ability of the community to recover from the disaster.
(d)
Necessary legislation. Legislation is necessary to prohibit any person from raising prices for goods, materials, services and housing to excessive, unconscionable or unfair levels during a declared state of emergency or subsequent recovery period.
(e)
Authority to limit price overcharging. Limitations on price overcharging during a declared emergency is authorized pursuant to the police powers of the county and O.C.G.A. § 38-3-28.
(Ord. of 12-2-2003(02))
Sec. 22-102. - Overcharging prohibited.
In order to preserve, protect, or sustain the life, health, or safety of persons or their property, it shall be unlawful during the duration of a state of emergency or subsequent recovery period in which the county has been designated as a disaster area, for any person, firm, or corporation located or doing business in the county to overcharge for any goods, materials, services or housing sold within the county.
(Ord. of 12-2-2003(02), § 1)
Sec. 22-103. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this division, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Overcharging means charging prices for goods, materials, services, or housing which are substantially in excess of the customary charges or in applicable cases substantially in excess of the supplier's or provider's costs for such goods, materials, services or housing. The existence of overcharging shall be presumed from a substantial increase in the price at which the goods, materials, services, or housing was offered in the usual course of business immediately prior to the onset of the emergency, but shall not include increases in costs to the supplier directly attributable to higher costs of materials, supplies, and labor costs resulting from the emergency.
State of emergency means, pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 38-3-3(5), a condition declared by the governor when, in his judgment, the threat or actual occurrence of a disaster or emergency is of sufficient severity and magnitude as to warrant extraordinary efforts in preventing or alleviating the damage, loss, hardship, or suffering threatened or caused thereby.
Subsequent recovery period means that period during which the disaster continues to cause disruptions in the disaster area, but shall not exceed six months after the emergency declaration has been terminated by the governor unless extended by official action of the governing authority of the county.
(Ord. of 12-2-2003(02), § 2)
Cross reference— Definitions generally, § 1-2.
Sec. 22-104. - Penalties.
Violation of the provisions of this division upon conviction shall be punishable as provided section 1-12.
(Ord. of 12-2-2003(02), § 3)
Secs. 22-105—22-120. - Reserved.
DIVISION 4. - REGISTRATION OF BUILDING AND REPAIR SERVICES[2]

Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
Cross reference— Buildings and building regulations, ch. 14.

Sec. 22-121. - Findings.
(a)
Generally. During and following periods of emergency resulting from natural or manmade disaster, the public is at risk from unscrupulous building contractors and repair services, scams, and other unconscionable activities related to constructing, repairing, renovating and making improvements to buildings and other structures damaged during the disaster.
(b)
Authority. Registration of building construction and repair contractors during a declared emergency, as authorized pursuant to the police powers of the county and O.C.G.A. §§ 38-3-28 and 38-3-56, will provide a means to protect the public from unscrupulous and criminal building and repair contractors.
(Ord. of 12-2-2003(03))
Sec. 22-122. - Building contractor registration required.
No person, firm, partnership, corporation or other entity shall engage in, undertake or carry on any business in whole or in part within the unincorporated areas of the county, consisting of or relating to building, constructing, repairing, renovating or making improvements to real property including dwellings, homes, buildings, structures, or fixtures attached thereto without having registered the name of the business with the governing authority of the county and having paid fees as provided by this division.
(Ord. of 12-2-2003(03), § 1)
Sec. 22-123. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this division, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Building contractor means any person, firm, partnership, corporation or other entity engaging in, undertaking or carrying on any business consisting of or relating to building construction, repair, renovation or making improvements to real property including dwellings, homes, buildings, structures, or fixtures attached thereto.
Doing business. A person is doing business subject to the requirements of this division if: (i) he has or operates an office, agency, project site or place of business located in the unincorporated areas of the county, whether permanently, temporarily, periodically, or otherwise, that provides the following activities in the unincorporated areas of the county expressly including but not limited to the construction, renovation or repair of dwellings or buildings or the making of improvements to real property or any fixtures attached thereto; or (ii) he performs the following activities or services in the unincorporated areas of the county expressly including but not limited to the construction, renovation or repair of dwellings or buildings or the making of improvements to real property or any fixtures attached thereto regardless of the location of the principal office.
State of emergency means, pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 38-3-3(5), a condition declared by the governor when, in his judgment, the threat or actual occurrence of a disaster or is of sufficient severity and magnitude as to warrant extraordinary efforts in preventing or alleviating the damage, loss, hardship, or suffering threatened or caused thereby.
Subsequent recovery period means the period during which the disaster continues to cause disruptions in the disaster area, but shall not exceed three months after the emergency declaration has been terminated by the governor.
(Ord. of 12-2-2003(03), § 2)
Cross reference— Definitions generally, § 1-2.
Sec. 22-124. - Registration; certification.
All building contractors doing business or proposing to do business in the unincorporated areas of the county during a state of emergency or the subsequent recovery period shall register and file applications with the clerk of the governing authority of the county or such other person designated by the governing authority at the county courthouse or such other place or places designated by the county. The building contractor shall, under oath, provide the county governing authority with a statement describing the general nature of the business to be conducted and give true and correct information as may be called for on the registration form, application or certificate provided by the county.
(Ord. of 12-2-2003(03), § 3)
Sec. 22-125. - Registration fees.
Building contractor registration fees are fixed under the terms and conditions of this division at $50.00 per annum. Registration fees shall be paid in full at the time of issuance of the registration certification.
(Ord. of 12-2-2003(03), § 4)
Sec. 22-126. - Penalties.
Any building contractor required by this division to pay a registration fee who engages in business without first registering and receiving a registration certification from the county as required shall be in violation of this division. Violation of this division, upon conviction, shall be punishable as provided in section 1-12. Each day a building contractor does business in the unincorporated areas of the county without complying with this division shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. of 12-2-2003(03), § 5)
Sec. 22-127. - Transferability.
Each certification issued under this division is granted to, and shall be accepted by, the building contractor under the condition that the certification is not transferable and after issuance no such certification shall be transferred by the county or the building contractor to another individual or entity.
(Ord. of 12-2-2003(03), § 6)
Sec. 22-128. - Display of registration certification.
Each certification issued under this division shall be posted conspicuously by the building contractor in the place of business of the building contractor or shall be carried on his person or vehicle used in such business. Such certification shall be exhibited to any authorized enforcement officer when so requested.
(Ord. of 12-2-2003(03), § 7)
Sec. 22-129. - Revocation; suspension.
Each certification granted under this division is a mere permit to engage in the business only so long as such business is conducted in a lawful manner. The board of commissioners reserves the right to revoke or suspend any certification granted under this division, if the building contractor, or the building contractor's agent or employee acting within the scope of his employment, violates this division or any other county, state or federal law. If after issuance of a certification, the county desires to revoke such certification, written notice thereof shall be given to the building contractor, which notice shall specify the violation with which the building contractor is charged and a date, time and place at which a hearing shall be held with regard to the violation. The building contractor shall have an opportunity to be heard at such hearing, shall have the right to be represented by counsel, and shall have the right to introduce and submit evidence in opposition to such revocation.
(Ord. of 12-2-2003(03), § 8)
Sec. 22-130. - Severability.
If any section, paragraph, sentence, clause, phrase or word of this division is for any reason held by the court to be unconstitutional, inoperative, or void, such holding shall not affect the remainder to this division.
(Ord. of 12-2-2003(03), § 9)
Sec. 22-131. - Expiration.
This division and any certification issued pursuant to it shall be operative only during the period of a declared state of emergency and any subsequent recovery periods.
(Ord. of 12-2-2003(03), § 10)
Secs. 22-132—22-150. - Reserved.
DIVISION 5. - SUSPENSION OF CODE AND FORMALITIES

Sec. 22-151. - Findings.
(a)
Generally. The health, safety and welfare of the citizens and property of the county may be jeopardized during an emergency, disaster or the subsequent recovery period by the inability for the local governing authority to act expediently without regard to certain formalities.
(b)
Authority. The local governing authority of the county is authorized pursuant to O.C.G.A. §§ 38-3-27(b) and 38-3-28 to take actions necessary to provide for the health and safety of persons and property during periods of emergency or disaster, provided that such actions are not inconsistent with any orders, rules, or regulations promulgated by the governor or his delegatee.
(c)
Powers and functions. The powers and functions exercised by the local governing authority necessary to conduct the business and affairs of the county during an emergency or disaster proclaimed as such by the appropriate state official may continue without the regard to compliance with time-consuming procedures and formalities pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 38-3-54.
(d)
Waiver of contract formalities. In accordance with O.C.G.A. §§ 36-10-4(c)(5) and 32-4-63(6), certain formalities concerning public works contracts may be waived when necessitated by emergency.
(e)
Necessity of legislation. The board of commissioners believes that it is desirable to have legislation in place authorizing the board of commissioners to waive certain formalities and procedures as necessary in case of emergency, natural disaster or the subsequent recovery period.
(Ord. of 12-2-2003(04))
Sec. 22-152. - Authority to waive procedures and fee structures.
(a)
Meetings. Upon proclamation by the appropriate state official of an emergency or disaster of manmade or natural causes or enemy attack impending on or affecting the state or the United States, the affairs and business of the county may be conducted at places other than the regular or usual place thereof, within or outside of the county, when it is not prudent, expedient or possible to conduct business at the regular location. When such meetings occur outside of the county, all actions taken by the local governing body shall be as valid and binding as if performed within the county. Such meetings may be called by the presiding officer or any two members of the governing body without regard to or compliance with time-consuming procedures and formalities otherwise required by law.
(b)
Purchasing and public works contracts. Upon the declaration of a state of emergency by the governor, or upon the determination by the county governing authority, or its designee, of the existence of an emergency or disaster, the county governing authority, their designee or the emergency interim successor may contract for public works without letting such contract out to the lowest responsible bidder and without advertising and posting notification of such contract for four weeks; provided, however, that any public works contract entered into pursuant to this subsection shall be entered on the minutes of the county as soon as practical and the nature of the emergency described therein.
(c)
Code enforcement. Upon the declaration of a state of emergency by the governor, or upon the determination by the county governing authority, or its designee, of the existence of an emergency or disaster, the county governing authority, their designee or the emergency interim successor may temporarily suspend the enforcement of the Code of Ordinances of the county, or any portion thereof, where: (i) the emergency or disaster is of such nature that immediate action outside the Code is required; (ii) such suspension is consistent with the protection of the public health, safety and welfare; and (iii) such suspension is not inconsistent with any federal or state statutes or regulations.
(d)
Fees. Upon the declaration of a state of emergency by the governor, or upon the determination by the county governing authority, or its designee, of the existence of an emergency or disaster, the county governing authority, their designee or the emergency interim successor may temporarily reduce or suspend any permit fees, application fees or other rate structures as necessary to encourage the rebuilding of the area impacted by the disaster or emergency.
(e)
Temporary dwellings. Upon the declaration of a state of emergency by the governor, or upon the determination by the county governing authority, or its designee, of the existence of an emergency or disaster, the county governing authority, their designee or the emergency interim successor may issue temporary mobile home, trailer, recreational vehicle or other temporary dwelling structures or parks in any zoning district while the primary dwelling is being repaired provided that such temporary dwellings or parks are designed by an engineer and the plans are approved by the county health department and county building and inspections department. The temporary permit shall not exceed six months in duration. In the case of continuing hardship and in the discretion of the governing authority or its designee, the permit may be extended for a period for an additional six months. Upon expiration of the temporary permit or an extension, the temporary dwelling shall be removed.
(Ord. of 12-2-2003(04), § 1)
Sec. 22-153. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this division, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Fees means any fee or rate charged by the county for building permits, land disturbance permits, zoning applications, special land use permits, temporary land use permits, and other fees relating to the reconstruction, repair and clean up of areas impacted by the disaster or emergency. The term "fees" shall not include those fees collected by the county on behalf of the federal or state government or those fees charged by the county pursuant to a federal or state statute or regulation.
State of emergency means, as defined by O.C.G.A. § 38-3-3(5), a condition declared by the governor when, in his judgment, the threat or actual occurrence of a disaster, emergency, or energy emergency is of sufficient severity and magnitude to warrant extraordinary efforts in preventing or alleviating the damage, loss, hardship, or suffering threatened or caused thereby.
Subsequent recovery period means the period of time that the disaster emergency continues to cause disruptions in the area impacted by the disaster emergency. The "subsequent recovery period" shall not exceed six months after the state of emergency declaration by the governor is terminated unless extended by official action of the governing authority of the county.
Temporary dwelling means any mobile or easily movable home, trailer, recreational vehicle or structure not otherwise permitted by the zoning regulations of a particular zoning district.
(Ord. of 12-2-2003(04), § 2)
