ARTICLE VIII. - ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT

Sec. 8.1. - Administration.
8.1.1.
Building and zoning inspector. The provisions of this ordinance shall be administered by a building and zoning inspector, the office of which is hereby established.
8.1.1.1.
Duties. The duties of the building and zoning inspector shall be:
8.1.1.1.1.
To receive and check all applications for zoning permits and certificates of occupancy.
8.1.1.1.2.
To issue zoning permits and certificates of occupancy only for construction and uses which are in accordance with the regulations of this ordinance and subsequent amendments; or through board or court approval.
8.1.1.1.3.
To record and file all application for zoning permits and certificates of occupancy together with accompanying plans and documents and keep them for public record.
8.1.1.1.4.
To immediately prepare and publish a complete list of all nonconforming uses and occupations existing at the time of adoption of this ordinance or any amendment thereto. Such list shall contain the names and addresses of the owner or owners of such nonconforming uses and of any occupant other than the owner, the legal description or descriptions of the land, to the degree reasonably attainable, and the nature and extent of land use. Notification of this list shall be given by at least one publication in a newspaper of general circulation within the jurisdiction of this ordinance indicating where and when such list may be examined. Property owners and occupants shall be given one month to inspect the list and suggest necessary changes. They shall be given opportunity to appeal to the board for such changes in the list, as they request, but which are not made by the building and zoning inspector. After any necessary changes have been made by the building and zoning inspector, copies of the list shall be delivered to the board of commissioners for approval and recording.
The building and zoning inspector shall issue certificates of occupancy for legal nonconforming uses. He shall examine them periodically to determine that they do not expand beyond the limitation prescribed in the ordinance.
8.1.1.1.5.
Upon specific request of the commission or board, to furnish such facts, records and similar information, which will assist such body in reaching its decision.
8.1.1.1.6.
To be responsible for keeping this ordinance, including the zoning map, up to date, and to include any amendments thereto. To approve plats which qualify as exceptions to the definitions of a "subdivision" contained in the subdivision regulations.
8.1.1.1.7.
If the building and zoning inspector shall find that any provisions of this ordinance are being violated, such inspector shall notify in writing the person responsible for such violation, indicating the nature of the violation and ordering the action necessary to correct it. Such inspector shall order discontinuance of illegal uses of land, buildings, or structures; removal of illegal buildings or structures or of additions, alterations of structural changes thereto; order discontinuance of illegal work being done; or shall by this ordinance prevent violation of its provisions.
(Mo. of 3-2-1982)
Sec. 8.2. - Zoning permits and certificates of occupancy.
8.2.1.
Zoning permits. A zoning permit shall be required prior to the erection, construction, moving or alteration of any building, structure or portion thereof.
Applications for zoning permits shall be made in writing to the building and zoning inspector, and shall contain all information necessary to ascertain whether the proposed erection, construction, alteration or use complies with the provisions of this ordinance including the following:
8.2.1.1.
Plan in duplicate drawn to scale indicating:
8.2.1.1.1.
Actual dimensions and shape of the lot to be built upon.
8.2.1.1.2.
Exact size and location on the lot of all buildings and other structures, if any, and the location and dimensions of proposed buildings and other structures or alterations.
8.2.1.1.3.
Existing and proposed uses, showing the number of families the building is designed to accommodate.
8.2.2.
Certificate of occupancy. A certificate of occupancy shall be required prior to the occupation for use or change of use of land, building or structure.
Application for certificate of occupancy shall be made in writing to the building and zoning inspector.
When use of premises involves a new building or structure, or alterations to an existing building or structure, such application shall be made at the same time application for a zoning permit is made.
When no construction or alteration is involved, application to occupy and use land may be made at any time. Such application shall contain all information necessary for the building and zoning inspector to determine whether the proposed occupation and use of land conforms to the provisions of this ordinance.
An application for a certificate of occupancy shall be granted or refused within fifteen (15) days after the building and zoning inspector has been officially notified of: (a) completion of construction, or (b) application to occupy and use land where no construction is involved.
Sec. 8.3. - Enforcement.
This ordinance shall be enforced by the building and zoning inspector. No permit or certificate of occupancy provided for in this ordinance shall be granted by such inspector for any purpose except in compliance with the provisions of this ordinance, or with a decision of the governing authority or the courts.
Sec. 8.4. - Complaints regarding violations.
Whenever a violation of this ordinance occurs, or is alleged to have occurred, any person may file a written complaint, stating fully the causes and basis thereof, which shall be filed with the building and zoning inspector. Such inspector shall acknowledge such complaint, immediately investigate, and take action thereon as provided in this ordinance.
Sec. 8.5. - Schedule of fees.
Fees shall be paid in connection with applications under this ordinance as follows:
Application for appeal to the governing authority: $100.00
Application for zone changes: $100.00
Building permits as established by the board of commissioners
(Mo. of 9-2-1975; Mo. of 4-5-1983; Mo. of 9-6-1983)
Sec. 8.6. - Remedies.
In case any building or structure is erected, constructed, altered, repaired, converted, or maintained, or any building, structure or land is used in violation of this ordinance, or of any ordinance or other regulation made under authority conferred hereby, the board of commissioners, or with the approval of the board of commissioners, the building and zoning inspector or other proper official, in addition to other remedies, may institute any appropriate action or proceedings to prevent such unlawful erection, construction, reconstruction, alteration, repair, conversion, maintenance or use to restrain, correct, or abate such violation, to prevent the occupancy of said building, structure or land, or to prevent any illegal act, business, or use in or about such premises.
