Chapter 54 - PLANNING AND DEVELOPMENT[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
State Law reference— Home rule power of county to adopt plans and exercise power of zoning, Ga. Const. art. IX, § II, ¶ IV; powers and duties of county planning generally, O.C.G.A. § 36-70-1 et seq; area planning and development commissions generally, O.C.G.A. § 50-8-30 et seq.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 54-1. - Planning department.
(a)
The board of commissioners creates the Ware County Planning Department. A planning director shall be responsible for supervising and administering the affairs of the planning department. The director shall be appointed by the county manager and confirmed by the board of commissioners.
(b)
It shall be the function and duty of the planning department to make such careful and comprehensive surveys and studies of existing conditions and probable future developments and to prepare such plans for physical, social and economic growth as will best promote the public health, safety, morals, convenience, prosperity or the general welfare as well as efficiency and economy in the development of unincorporated Ware County. In particular, the planning department shall have the power and duty to:
(1)
Prepare and recommend for adoption to the county commission, after consideration and recommendation by the Waycross-Ware County Planning Commission, a comprehensive plan or parts thereof for the development of unincorporated Ware County.
(2)
Prepare and recommend for adoption to the county commission, after consideration and recommendation by the Waycross-Ware County Planning Commission, a zoning resolution and maps for unincorporated Ware County.
(3)
Prepare and recommend for adoption to the county commission, after consideration and recommendation by the Waycross-Ware County Planning Commission, regulations for the subdivision of land within unincorporated Ware County, and to aid in administering the regulations that may be adopted.
(4)
Perform such other planning functions and duties as may be required by the county commission.
(c)
The planning department may make, publish and distribute maps, plans, reports and recommendations relating to the plan and development of unincorporated Ware County to public officials and agencies, public utility companies, civic, education, professional and other organizations and citizens. It may recommend to the county commission programs for public improvements and the financing thereof. All public officials shall, upon request, furnish to the planning department, within a reasonable time, such available information as it may require for its work. In general, the planning department shall have such powers as may be necessary to enable it to perform its functions and promote the planning of unincorporated Ware County.
(Code 1983, § 2-16-1)
Secs. 54-2—54-20. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - PLANNING COMMISSION

Sec. 54-21. - Creation; appointments.
(a)
There is established the Waycross-Ware County Planning Commission, which shall consist of nine members. The members appointed by the Ware County Board of Commissioners shall be residents of unincorporated Ware County and the members appointed by the Commission of the City of Waycross shall be residents of the City of Waycross.
(b)
The initial appointments by the Ware County Board of Commissioners shall be as follows: Two members for a term of one year, two members for a term of two years and one member for a term of three years.
(c)
The initial appointments by the Commission of the City of Waycross shall be as follows: One member for a term of one year, one member for a term of two years and two members for a term of three years.
(d)
Thereafter the term of each member shall be three years and appointments shall rotate so that a majority of five members will alternate each year between the two governing bodies. In the event a vacancy occurs, such vacancy shall be filled by the respective governing body for the unexpired term.
(Code 1983, § 2-16-16)
Sec. 54-22. - Organization; rules; staff.
One member of the Waycross-Ware County Planning Commission elected by the members of the Waycross-Ware County Planning Commission shall serve as chair of the planning commission for a term of one year or until his successor is elected. The Waycross-Ware County Planning Commission shall meet at least once each month at the call of the chair or at such other times as the planning commission may determine, shall adopt rules for the transaction of business and shall keep a record of its resolutions, transactions, findings and determinations, which record shall be public record. The director of the Waycross Planning Department shall be secretary of the Waycross-Ware County Planning Commission until January 1, 1983; thereafter the secretary of the Waycross-Ware County Planning Commission shall be the director of the Ware County Planning Department.
(Code 1983, § 2-16-17)
Sec. 54-23. - Powers and duties.
(a)
It shall be the function and duty of the Waycross-Ware County Planning Commission to consider and otherwise review and comment on all comprehensive surveys and studies of existing conditions and probable future developments and all plans for physical, social and economic growth prepared by the Ware County Planning Department. In particular, the planning commission shall have the power and duty to review, comment and make recommendations on:
(1)
A comprehensive plan or parts thereof for the development of unincorporated Ware County.
(2)
A zoning resolution and zoning maps for unincorporated Ware County.
(3)
Regulations for the subdivision of land within unincorporated Ware County, and to aid in administering the regulations that may be adopted.
(b)
The Ware County Board of Commissioners may refer any matter or class of matters to the Waycross-Ware County Planning Commission serving unincorporated Ware County, before final action thereon by the Ware County Board of Commissioners.
(Code 1983, § 2-16-18)
Secs. 54-24—54-49. - Reserved.
ARTICLE III. - DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY[2]

Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
State Law reference— County powers to authorize local development authorities, O.C.G.A. § 36-62-1 et seq.

Sec. 54-50. - Intent of article.
Action taken by the board of commissioners as specified in this article is not intended in any way to affect the Waycross and Ware County Development Authority including, without limitation, its existence, purpose, organization, powers or function.
(Code 1983, § 2-16-39)
Sec. 54-51. - Need declared.
There is hereby determined and declared a pressing, existing and future need for a development authority (as more fully described and defined in the Development Authorities Law, O.C.G.A. § 36-62-1 et seq.,) to function in the county, for the purpose of developing and promoting for the public good and general welfare, trade, commerce, industry and employment opportunities in said county, thereby promoting the general welfare of its citizenry.
(Code 1983, § 2-16-40)
Sec. 54-52. - Activated; name.
There is hereby activated in the county, the public body corporate and politic known as the "Development Authority of Ware County," which was created upon the adoption and approval of the Development Authorities Law and particularly section 2 thereof, O.C.G.A. § 36-62-1.
(Code 1983, § 2-16-41)
Sec. 54-53. - General responsibilities.
The board of directors of the development authority shall organize itself, carry out its duties and responsibilities and exercise its powers and prerogatives in accordance with the terms and provisions of the Development Authorities Law as it now exists and as it might hereafter be amended or modified.
(Code 1983, § 2-16-42)
Sec. 54-54. - Continuance in office.
If, at the end of any term of office of any director of the development authority, a successor thereto shall not have been elected, then the director whose term of office shall have expired shall continue to hold office until his successor shall be so elected.
(Code 1983, § 2-16-43)
State Law reference— Similar provisions, O.C.G.A. § 36-62-4(a).
