ARTICLE II. - SALE OR DISTRIBUTION IN UNINCORPORATED AREA OF COUNTY; LICENSE A PRIVILEGE; STATE LICENSE REQUIRED

Sec. 6-16. - License required.
No malt beverage, wine, distilled spirits, or any other alcoholic beverage(s) shall be sold or distributed at wholesale or at retail for consumption either on or off the premises where sold in the unincorporated area of the county except under an appropriate license granted by the board of commissioners upon the terms and conditions provided in this chapter and then only for the particular alcoholic beverage and manner of distribution and/or sale specified in such license and only at the establishment specified in such license. Except to the extent expressly set forth herein, nothing in this chapter shall be construed to either supersede or minimize the state law provisions on the same subject as may be presently or in the future enacted and in force.
(Ord. of 12-12-2016, art. II, § 2-1)
Sec. 6-17. - License a privilege; license nontransferable.
All licenses, event permits, and letters of authorization issued pursuant to this chapter shall be a mere grant of a privilege to carry on the licensed, permitted, or authorized, as the case may be, activity during the term of the license, event permit or letter of authorization and are each subject to all terms and conditions imposed by this and other applicable county ordinances or resolutions (including without limitation compliance by the establishment at which the licensed, permitted, or authorized activity is carried out at all times with the county's noise ordinance) and by state law, rules and regulations. No license, event permit, or letter of authorization issued pursuant to this chapter shall be transferable to any other person; any such other person desiring a license, event permit, or letter of authorization under this chapter for the same or different activity or establishment shall be required to make separate application therefor under the provisions of the ordinance. Provided, however, that in the case of the death of any natural person holding a license pursuant to this chapter such license may be transferred to the deceased licensee's personal representative, if the personal representative otherwise meets the licensing requirements of this chapter, upon such personal representative's application to the county for such transfer and payment of the administrative fee but without any additional license fee during the remaining term of such license. If a licensed establishment moves its business and operations to a different location within the unincorporated area of the county then such new location shall be required to apply for and obtain a separate license for such new location.
(Ord. of 12-12-2016, art. II, § 2-2)
Sec. 6-18. - State license required.
Any holder of a license, event permit, or letter of authorization issued pursuant to this chapter is required, before conducting, engaging in or carrying out the licensed, permitted, or authorized, as the case may be, activity to apply for and obtain any and all applicable licenses, permits and authorizations from the state as required by O.C.G.A. tit. 3.
(Ord. of 12-12-2016, art. II, § 2-3)
Sec. 6-19. - Conflicts.
Should there be a conflict in the requirements and provisions of this chapter and other county ordinances or resolutions, then this chapter shall control.
(Ord. of 12-12-2016, art. II, § 2-4)
Secs. 6-20—6-35. - Reserved.
