Chapter 1-7 - UTILITIES
ARTICLE I. - SATILLA REGIONAL WATER AND SEWER AUTHORITY

Sec. 1-7-1. - Creation; membership; eligibility; officers; terms of office; vacancy.
(a)
There is created a public body corporate and politic, to be known as the "Satilla Regional Water and Sewer Authority," which shall be deemed to be a political subdivision of the state and a public corporation, and by that name, style, and title, said body may contract and be contracted with, sue and be sued, implead and be impleaded, and complain and defend in all courts of law and equity. The authority shall have perpetual existence.
(b)
The authority shall consist of four members who shall be appointed by the Board of Commissioners of Ware County and a fifth member who shall be the chairperson of the Board of Commissioners of Ware County. The Chairperson of the Board of Commissioners of Ware County shall serve as an ex officio member of the authority. The initial members of the authority shall be appointed by the board of commissioners of Ware County as follows: one member shall be appointed for a term of office expiring August 1, 2002; one member shall be appointed for a term of office expiring August 1, 2003; one member shall be appointed for a term of office expiring August 1, 2004; and one member shall be appointed for a term of office expiring August 1, 2005. The initial members of the authority shall take office immediately upon their appointment and qualification and shall serve until their respective successors are duly appointed and qualified. Successors shall be appointed by the Board of Commissioners of Ware County from a list of three persons nominated by the authority in the month of July immediately preceding the expiration of a member's term of office and such successor shall take office on August 1 for a term of five years and until his or her respective successor is duly appointed and qualified. In the event the Board of Commissioners of Ware County declines to select one of the three persons nominated by the authority, it shall notify the authority who shall then submit a new list of three nominees prior to the next board meeting of the Board of Commissioners of Ware County. Any member of the authority may be selected and appointed to succeed himself or herself. Immediately after such appointments, the members of such authority shall enter upon their duties. The members of the authority shall be entitled as compensation for their services, an amount which shall be determined by the authority, which shall not be less than $50.00 per meeting attended, payable in monthly payments, and additionally all members shall be reimbursed for their actual expenses necessarily incurred in the performance of their duties. The authority shall have the power to establish bylaws and to promulgate and adopt rules and regulations necessary or desirable for the management and operation of the authority.
(c)
To be eligible for appointment as a member of the authority, a person shall be at least 21 years of age and not have been convicted of a felony.
(d)
The members of the authority shall elect one of their number as chairperson and another as vice chairperson. The members of the authority shall also elect a secretary, who need not be a member of the authority, and may also elect a treasurer, who need not be a member of the authority. The secretary may also serve as treasurer. If the secretary or treasurer is not a member of the authority, such officer shall have no voting rights. Each of such officers shall serve for a period of one year and until their successors are duly elected and qualified. The chairperson of the authority shall be entitled to vote upon any issue, motion, or resolution presented.
(e)
Three members of the authority shall constitute a quorum. No vacancy on the authority shall impair the right of the quorum to exercise all of the rights and perform all of the duties of the authority.
(f)
In the event of a vacancy by reason of death, disqualification, resignation, or other reason, the Board of Commissioners of Ware County shall appoint a person to fill the unexpired term of the member whose position has been vacated from a list of three persons nominated by the authority. In the event the Board of Commissioners of Ware County declines to select one of the three persons nominated by the authority, it shall notify the authority who shall then submit a new list of three nominees prior to the next board meeting of the Board of Commissioners of Ware County. A vacancy shall exist in the office of any member of the authority who is convicted of a felony or who enters a plea of nolo contendere thereto; who is convicted of a crime involving moral turpitude or enters a plea of nolo contendere thereto; who moves his or her residence from Ware County; who is convicted of any act of misfeasance, malfeasance, or nonfeasance of his or her duties as a member of the authority; or who fails to attend any regular or special meeting of the authority for a period of six months without excuse approved by a resolution of the authority.
(2003 Ga. Laws (Act no. 99), page 3689)
Sec. 1-7-2. - Authority.
Authority means the Satilla Regional Water and Sewer Authority created by this division.
(2003 Ga. Laws (Act no. 99), page 3689)
Sec. 1-7-3. - Validation.
Bonds of the authority shall be confirmed and validated in accordance with the procedure of the Revenue Bond Law, as amended. The petition for validation shall also make party defendant to such action the state or any municipality, county, authority, political subdivision, or instrumentality of the state which has contracted with the authority for the services and facilities of the project for which bonds are to be issued and sought to be validated and the state or such municipality, county, authority, political subdivision, or instrumentality shall be required to show cause, if any exists, why such contract or contracts and the terms and conditions thereof should not be inquired into by a court and the contract or contracts adjudicated as a part of the basis for the security for the payment of any such bonds of the authority. The bonds, when validated, and the judgment of validations shall be final and conclusive with the respect to such bonds and the security for the payment thereof and interest thereon and against the authority issuing the same and the state and any municipality, county, authority, political subdivision, or instrumentality, if a party to the validation proceedings, contracting with the authority.
(2003 Ga. Laws (Act no. 99), page 3689)
Sec. 1-7-4. - Required annual audit.
The authority created by this division shall ensure that an annual audit of the financial affairs, books, and records of the authority is conducted at the end of each fiscal year for the preceding year. The authority shall obtain either a certified public accountant or a firm of certified public accountants to conduct the audit. The auditor so appointed shall perform the audit in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles and shall submit a complete and final report and audit to the authority and to the Ware County Board of Commissioners not later than 180 days after the close of the fiscal year. The audit shall be certified to and shall include, but in no way be limited to, a full and complete audit containing a balance sheet, profit and loss statement, and statement of receipts and disbursements.
(2003 Ga. Laws (Act no. 99), page 3689)
