Chapter 50 - PARKS AND RECREATION[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
State Law reference— Local home rule powers include parks, playgrounds and recreation centers, Ga. Const. art. IX, § II, ¶ III(a)(5); county may establish recreation system, vest power to maintain and provide recreation system in another subordinate organization, levy a recreation tax and issue recreation system bond, O.C.G.A. § 36-64-1 et seq.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Secs. 50-1—50-18. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - COUNTY RECREATION SYSTEM
DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Sec. 50-19. - Created; duties.
(a)
Ware County Recreation Department is created as a department of county government. A recreation director shall be hired and shall be responsible for supervising and administering the affairs of the Ware County Recreation Department. The director shall be appointed by the county manager and confirmed by the Board of Commissioners of Ware County.
(b)
It shall be the function and duty of Ware County Recreation Department to make careful and comprehensive studies and surveys of existing recreation facilities and programs and future needs of recreation for citizens of Ware County.
(Code 1983, § 2-14-16)
Sec. 50-20. - Employees.
All employees of the recreation department shall be employees of Ware County and shall be under the Ware County personnel policy, and shall have the same rights and responsibilities as all other employees of Ware County.
(Code 1983, § 2-14-17)
Secs. 50-21—50-43. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - RECREATION DEPARTMENT AND BOARD

Sec. 50-44. - Created; appointed members; terms; function.
(a)
There is hereby created a recreation board which shall consist of seven persons, whose normal term shall be five years.
(b)
The recreation department shall have the powers and duties enumerated in this division.
(Code 1983, § 2-14-28)
Sec. 50-45. - Powers generally.
The Ware County Recreation Board shall:
(1)
Determine and set all policies, rules and regulations concerning public recreation in Ware County.
(2)
Hear and decide all disputes arising as a result of public recreational activities, board policies and regulations.
(3)
Recommend an annual budget to the manager of Ware County by March 1 of each year.
(4)
Report to the Ware County Commission by March 1 of each year all activities in the preceding year sponsored by the recreation department, the number of participants in each, the cost of each activity and the respective participant fees charged.
(5)
Recommend by March 1 of each year any participant fees intended to be charged in the following year together with admission fees intended to be changed.
(6)
Include in its annual report any comments on the retention or release of personnel, including the director, which the board desires the county manager and commission to consider.
(7)
Adopt bylaws, appoint committees and provide for a chair.
(Code 1983, § 2-14-29)
Sec. 50-46. - Administration duties; policy.
In carrying out its duties and setting the policy for recreation, the board shall provide that:
(1)
All activities in recreation areas or units under the authority granted by the recreation board shall be under the direction of a supervisor designated by the director of recreation or his representative.
(2)
Any accident to an individual on the property of a recreation facility during any event by the department shall be reported, in writing, to the director within 24 hours after the injury.
(3)
Smoking shall not be permitted in a recreation building or on a small children's playground area utilized by the department.
(4)
The use of alcoholic beverages in any form on the premises of a recreation area or unit shall not be permitted.
(5)
Every employee of the recreation department will be held responsible and accountable for the proper use and protection of all property which comes under his control. Loss or theft of property shall be reported immediately to the director of recreation within 30 days from date thereof, in the event such property is not recovered.
(Code 1983, § 2-14-30)
