Chapter 1-4 - PLANNING AND DEVELOPMENT[6]
Footnotes:
--- (6) ---
State Law reference— Constitutional authority of county to provide planning and zoning, 1983 Ga. Const. art. IX, § II, ¶¶ III, IV, VI, VII; zoning authority of county generally, O.C.G.A. § 36-66-1 et seq.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Secs. 1-4-1—1-4-15. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - WAYCROSS AND WARE COUNTY DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY

Sec. 1-4-16. - Created by local constitutional amendment.
(a)
There is hereby created a body corporate and politic to be known as the 'Waycross and Ware County Development Authority' which shall be deemed to be an instrumentality of the State of Georgia and a public corporation, its scope and jurisdiction to be limited to the territory embraced by Ware County and the corporate limits of the City of Waycross. The County of Ware and the City of Waycross may contract with the Authority as a public corporation as provided by the Constitution of Georgia.
(b)
The Authority shall consist of eight (8) members who shall have such control, duties, powers and authority as are hereby conferred and as may be prescribed or provided for by the General Assembly of Georgia, and such additional powers as may be delegated to the Authority by the County of Ware and the City of Waycross. Members of the Authority shall be residents of Ware County within or without the corporate limits of the City of Waycross. The first appointments shall be for terms of one, two (2), three (3) and four (4) years. Thereafter all terms and appointments, except in case of a vacancy, shall be for four (4) years. The General Assembly shall provide for appointment of members of the Authority. The Authority shall elect a chair[person], a vice-chair[person] and a secretary-treasurer. The secretary-treasurer shall not be required to be a member of the Authority.
(c)
All lands and improvements thereon the title to which is vested in the Authority, and all debentures and revenue-anticipation certificates issued by the Authority, shall be exempt from State and local taxation.
(d)
Said Authority is created for the purpose of developing and promoting for the public good and general welfare, industry, agriculture, commerce, natural resources, and vocational training and the making of long-range plans for the coordination of such development, promotion and expansion, within its territorial limits. The Authority shall not be empowered or authorized in any manner to create a debt as against the State of Georgia, the County of Ware or the City of Waycross. The Authority is created for nonprofit purposes and all property acquired by the Authority and any funds realized by the Authority shall be used continually and exclusively for the purposes for which the Authority is created.
(1953 Nov.-Dec. Session, Ga. Laws, (Res. Act No. 165), page 266, § 1; 1986 Ga. Laws (Act No. 1030), page 4379, § 1(2))
Editor's note— The above amendment to Ga. Const. (1945) art. V, § VIII, ¶ I, was continued in force and effect by an action of the board of commissioners on Nov. 5, 1985. The above section did not affect the entire state, and therefore, did not need to be submitted for ratification to all the voters of the state. Smith v. Georgia, 217 Ga. 94, 121 S.E.2d 113 (1961). Subsection identifiers "(a)," "(b)," "(c)" and "(d)" were added at the discretion of the editor for organizational clarity.
Sec. 1-4-17. - Short-title.
This [article] may be cited as the Waycross and Ware County Development Authority.
(1955 Ga. Laws (Act No. 259), page 2840 § 1)
Sec. 1-4-18. - Definitions.
As used in this [article], the following words and terms shall have the following meanings, unless a different meaning clearly appears from the context:
Authority. The word "Authority" shall mean the "Waycross and Ware County Development Authority" created by this [article] and by and under Article V, Section VIII, Paragraph I of the Constitution of the State of Georgia.
Cost of project. The term "cost of project" shall embrace the cost of construction, the cost of all lands, properties, easements, rights and franchises acquired, the cost of machinery and equipment, financing charges, interest prior to and during construction and for one year after completion of construction, cost of engineering, architectural and legal expenses, and plans and specifications and other expenses necessary or incident to determining the feasibility or practicability of the project, administrative expenses, and such other expenses as may be necessary or incident to the financing herein authorized, the construction of any project and placing the same in operation.
Project. The word "project" shall be deemed to mean and include the acquisition of lands, properties and improvements for development, expansion and promotion of industry, commerce, agriculture, natural resources and vocational training; the construction of buildings and plants for the purpose of selling, leasing or renting such structures to private persons, firms or corporations.
(1955 Ga. Laws (Act No. 259), page 2840, § 3(a—c))
Sec. 1-4-19. - Created by local special act; membership; officers.
There is hereby created a body corporate and politic to be known as the "Waycross and Ware County Development Authority" which shall be deemed to be an instrumentality of the State of Georgia and a public corporation, and by that name, style and title said body may contract and be contracted with, sue and be sued, plead and be impleaded, and complain and defend in all courts of law and equity. The Authority shall consist of the President of the Waycross and Ware County Chamber of Commerce, ex officio, and eight (8) other members who shall be residents of Ware County within or without the corporate limits of the City of Waycross, and not less than thirty (30) years of age at the time of appointment. In making the nominations and appointments of members of the Authority not more than one member should be selected from any one family, partnership, or other business organization. The members shall be selected in the following manner: Immediately after the approval of this [article] the directors of the Waycross and Ware County Chamber of Commerce shall select and nominate persons for appointment and submit eight (8) or more names to the county and eight (8) or more names to the city. From such lists of nominees the Commission of the City of Waycross and the Commissioners of Ware County each shall appoint four (4) members of the Authority. For the first appointments the county and the city shall each appoint one person for one year, one for two (2) years, one for three (3) years, and one for four (4) years. Thereafter all terms and appointments, except in case of a vacancy, shall be for four (4) years. In the event any vacancy occurs in the county group, the county shall fill by appointment such vacancy for the unexpired term. In the event a vacancy occurs in the city group, the city shall fill by appointment such vacancy for the unexpired term. In making any appointment for a vacancy or after the expiration of a term the city and the county shall request two (2) nominations for each member to be appointed from the directors of the Chamber of Commerce. The governing authorities of the County of Ware and/or the City of Waycross may, in their discretion, request the directors of the Chamber of Commerce to submit additional names before making the first appointments or any subsequent appointment to the membership of the Authority. If no nomination is made within ten (10) days after such request, the appointment shall be made without any nomination. A member who has served a full four (4) year term shall not be eligible for reappointment until the lapse of one year after the expiration of his four (4) year term. The Authority shall elect a chair[person], a vice-chair[person] and a secretary-treasurer, or a secretary and a treasurer. Neither the secretary nor the treasurer shall be required to be a member of the Authority. One city commissioner selected by the city commission and one county commissioner selected by the county commissioners shall be ex officio members of the Authority. The members of this Authority shall be entitled to no compensation. However, all members shall be reimbursed for actual expenses incurred in the performance of their duties.
(1955 Ga. Laws (Act No. 259), page 2840, § 2; 1975 Ga. Laws (Act No. 361), page 3958, § 1(2))
Sec. 1-4-20. - Contracts with city and county.
The County of Ware and the City of Waycross are expressly authorized to enter into contracts with the Authority as a public corporation.
(1955 Ga. Laws (Act No. 259), page 2840, § 4)
Sec. 1-4-21. - Quorum; voting.
Any five (5) members shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of the ordinary business of the Authority; however, any action with respect to any project of the Authority must be approved by not less than five (5) affirmative votes.
(1955 Ga. Laws (Act No. 259), page 2840, § 5)
Sec. 1-4-22. - Powers generally.
The Authority shall have powers:
(1)
To have a seal and alter the same at pleasure.
(2)
To acquire, hold and dispose of personal property, including the stock of other corporations, for its corporate purposes.
(3)
To enter into contracts with the County of Ware and the City of Waycross.
(4)
To acquire in its own name by purchase, on such terms and conditions, and in such manner as it may deem proper, real property or liens or easements therein or franchises necessary or convenient for its corporate purposes, and to use the same, and to lease or make contracts with respect to the use of or dispose of same in any manner the Authority deems to its best advantage. If the Authority shall deem it expedient to construct any project or use any project already constructed on lands, the title to which shall then be in the County of Ware or the City of Waycross, the governing authorities of Ware County and the City of Waycross are authorized in their discretion to convey title to such lands, including any improvements thereon, to the Authority.
(5)
To appoint and select officers, agents and employees including engineers, architects, builders, and attorneys, and to fix their compensation.
(6)
To make contracts, and to execute all instruments necessary or convenient, including contracts for construction of projects and leases and rentals and sale of projects, or contracts with respect to the use of projects which it erects or acquires. The County of Ware and the City of Waycross are hereby expressly authorized and empowered to enter into agreements with the Authority for use by the Authority of funds collected by special tax levies by the county and city for development purposes.
(7)
To construct, erect, acquire, own, repair, remodel, maintain, extend, improve, equip, operate and manage projects, self-liquidating or otherwise, located on property owned or leased by the Authority, and to pay the cost of any such project from the proceeds of revenue-anticipation certificates of the Authority or from any grant from the County of Ware or City of Waycross, or from any contribution or loans by persons, firms or corporations, all of which the Authority is hereby authorized to receive and accept and use.
(8)
To borrow money for any of its corporate purposes and to execute notes, mortgages, deeds to secure debt, trust deeds and such other instruments as may be necessary or convenient to evidence and secure such borrowing.
(9)
To exercise any power granted by the laws of the State of Georgia to public or private corporations, performing similar functions, which is not in conflict with the Constitution and laws of the State of Georgia.
(10)
To do all things necessary or convenient to carry out the powers expressly conferred by this [article].
(11)
To adopt, alter or repeal its own bylaws, rules and regulations governing the manner in which its business may be transacted and in which the power granted to it may be enjoyed, as the Authority may deem necessary or expedient in facilitating its business.
(12)
To issue revenue-anticipation certificates for the purpose of paying all or any part of the cost of any project of the Authority. Such revenue-anticipation certificates shall be issued and validated under and in accordance with the applicable provisions of the Act of the General Assembly of 1937 (1937 Ga. Laws, pages 761—774) [the "Revenue Bond Law," O.C.G.A., § 36-82-60 et seq.] [sic], and as subsequently amended, providing for the issuance of revenue-anticipation certificates.
(1955 Ga. Laws (Act No. 259), page 2840§ 6)
Editor's note— The above section is authorized by the Constitutional amendment providing for the Authority and is not in violation of 1983 Ga. Cons. art. IX, § VI, ¶¶ I, II, III and 1983 Ga. Const. art. XI, § I, ¶ IV. See generally O.C.G.A. § 36-82-60. Smith v. Georgia, 217 Ga. 94, 121 S.E.2d 113 (1961).
Sec. 1-4-23. - Tax exemption.
All lands and improvements and personal property, the title to which is vested in the Authority, and all debentures, notes, bonds and revenue-anticipation certificates issued by the Authority, shall be exempt from State and local taxation.
(1955 Ga. Laws (Act No. 259), page 2840, § 7)
Sec. 1-4-24. - Debts.
The Authority shall not be empowered or authorized in any manner to create a debt as against the State of Georgia, the County of Ware or the City of Waycross, but the Authority is authorized and empowered to take over the assets and the activities of [the] Ware County Industrial Development Association, Inc., and to assume and to pay any outstanding bonds, notes and debentures of this corporation, the proceeds of which have been used for projects and development purposes as herein defined as functions of the Authority.
(1955 Ga. Laws (Act No. 259), page 2840, § 8)
Sec. 1-4-25. - Audits.
The books and records of the Authority shall be audited at least annually, at the expense of the Authority, by a competent auditor. The Authority shall furnish copies of said audit to the County of Ware and the City of Waycross.
(1955 Ga. Laws (Act No. 259), page 2840, § 9)
Sec. 1-4-26. - Liberal construction.
This [article,] being for the purpose of developing and promoting the public good and the welfare of the County of Ware and the City of Waycross and their inhabitants, shall be liberally constructed to effect the purposes hereof.
(1955 Ga. Laws (Act No. 259), page 2840, § 10)
