ARTICLE VIII. - BROWNBAGGING

Sec. 6-171. - Brownbagging prohibited.
Except as permitted by this article, brownbagging and allowing, facilitating, permitting, or participating in brownbagging is unlawful and prohibited.
(Ord. of 12-12-2016, art. VIII, § 8.1)
Sec. 6-172. - Operation of a brownbagging establishment prohibited.
Except as permitted by this article, operating or allowing, facilitating, permitting, or participating in the operation of a brownbagging establishment is unlawful and prohibited.
(Ord. of 12-12-2016, art. VIII, § 8.2)
Sec. 6-173. - Private residences.
Notwithstanding the other provisions of this chapter, brownbagging and allowing, facilitating, permitting, or participating in brown bagging shall not be unlawful or prohibited at private residences.
(Ord. of 12-12-2016, art. VIII, § 8.3)
Sec. 6-174. - When brownbagging not prohibited.
(a)
Notwithstanding the other provisions of this chapter, but only during the times that it is lawful within the unincorporated areas of Ware County for a licensee to sell alcoholic beverages at retail for consumption on the premises where sold, brownbagging and allowing, facilitating, permitting, or participating in brownbagging shall not be unlawful or prohibited at:
(1)
Private events held on an occasional basis; or
(2)
Events of bona fide nonprofit civic organization (which for purposes of this article shall include only those which are charitable, civic, religious. educational, artistic, theatrical, fraternal, or veterans organizations).
(b)
Notwithstanding the other provisions of this chapter, but only during the times that it is lawful within the unincorporated areas of Ware County for a licensee to sell alcoholic beverages at retail for consumption on the premises where sold, a brown bagging establishment shall not include all or any portion of a business, commercial establishment, or other facility or location at which is then occurring:
(1)
A private event held on an occasional basis; or
(2)
An event of a bona fide nonprofit civic organization (which for purposes of this article shall include only those which are charitable, civic, religious, educational, artistic, theatrical, fraternal, or veterans organizations).
(Ord. of 12-12-2016, art. VIII, § 8.4)
Secs. 6-175—6-190. - Reserved.
