Chapter 66 - STREETS AND HIGHWAYS[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
State Law reference— Counties have home rule powers regarding the construction and maintenance of streets, sidewalks, and curbs, Ga. Const. art. IX, § II, ¶ III(a)(4); county road administration, O.C.G.A. § 32-4-41 et seq; road construction contracts, O.C.G.A. § 32-4-60 et seq.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 66-1. - Priority of construction.
No new roads or bridges shall be undertaken and be placed upon the project priority of the board of commissioners without previous sanction of the board, and the same shall be reflected in the minutes of the board of commissioners.
(Code 1983, § 2-17-1)
Sec. 66-2. - Duty of road department.
No new roads or bridges shall be constructed by the road department unless the same have previously been sanctioned and authorized by the board of commissioners and the same are reflected in the minutes of the board of commissioners.
(Code 1983, § 2-17-2)
Sec. 66-3. - Acceptance of deeds of right-of-way.
No deeds of right-of-way shall be accepted by any member of the commission unless the same shall have first been sanctioned and accepted by the board of commissioners.
(Code 1983, § 2-17-3)
Sec. 66-4. - Opening of roads which have been dedicated and accepted.
(a)
Any roads, which have been previously accepted by Ware County shall be opened by Ware County, at the request of an owner, provided that the owner has a residence located on that road, which residence was in existence and shown on the county tax rolls, as being in existence prior to July 1, 1988, and provided further that such road has access to an already open public road.
(b)
This policy shall not mean that upon applications for opening such road, it shall be immediately opened, but it shall be given such priority as is necessary taking into consideration such items as cost, the need of the resident and such other work as the county forces may have scheduled.
(Code 1983, § 2-17-4)
Sec. 66-5. - Maintenance of roads to residencies.
The county will accept and maintain any road to any existing residence in Ware County, provided:
(1)
The residence was occupied and shown on the tax rolls of Ware County on July 1, 1988; and
(2)
The owner of such residence shall procure and convey an easement of at least 50 feet in width to the county, which easement will connect with an existing public road.
(Code 1983, § 2-17-5)
Secs. 66-6—66-28. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - VOLUNTARY PAVING

Sec. 66-29. - Program adopted.
The county declares and adopts a policy and program of voluntary road paving (referred to in this article as "the program").
(Code 1983, § 2-17-16)
Sec. 66-30. - Petition—Contents.
Residents of the county desiring to participate in the program shall petition the board of commissioners in writing requesting approval of their street-paving project. Each petition must bear the signature of more than one-half of the owners on the road or street or portion of the road or street involved. Signatures by duly authorized representatives and agents will be honored. The petition must state that the petitioners are willing to pay 100 percent of the cost of actual paving.
(Code 1983, § 2-17-17)
Sec. 66-31. - Same—Acceptance.
The board of commissioners shall have the discretion to approve or reject any petition submitted under this article.
(Code 1983, § 2-17-18)
Sec. 66-32. - Conformance to subdivision regulations.
The petitioners must select one of the street design alternatives as set forth in the county subdivision regulations in effect at the time the petition is filed with the board of commissioners. No work shall commence until said selection is made. Additionally, the road must meet the requirements of said regulations.
(Code 1983, § 2-17-19)
Sec. 66-33. - Preliminary work by county.
The county will, at its expense, and using the county work force and equipment, provide necessary road preparation and drainage in advance of the actual paving.
(Code 1983, § 2-17-20)
Sec. 66-34. - Bids for construction; deposit by petitioners.
The county shall authorize bids for any approved project under this article but shall not let bids until petitioners deposit with the county the entire cost of paving (i.e., the contract price). If the sums so deposited are insufficient to meet the lowest and best bids (i.e., contract price) and petitioners are unable to provide the additional funds, the project will be abandoned and all sums advanced refunded to petitioners. If the sums deposited by petitioners exceed the lowest and best bid (i.e., contract price), the excess will be refunded to the petitioners.
(Code 1983, § 2-17-21)
Sec. 66-35. - Refund to petitioners.
Once the costs of paving under this article have been deposited with the county and the contract has been let, petitioners shall not be allowed to receive refunds of the contract price.
(Code 1983, § 2-17-22)
Sec. 66-36. - Parties to construction contract.
The paving contract under this article shall be between the county and the contractor.
(Code 1983, § 2-17-23)
Sec. 66-37. - Termination of project for unforeseen circumstances, etc.
If the county should discover the necessity of incurring substantial sums or any unforeseen circumstances, the county may terminate the project and refund sums advanced to the petitioners.
(Code 1983, § 2-17-24)
Secs. 66-38—66-62. - Reserved.
ARTICLE III. - STREET NAMES, STREET SIGNS AND IMPROVED PROPERTY NUMBERING

Sec. 66-63. - Short title.
This article shall be known and may be cited as the "Street Names, Street Signs and Improved Property Numbering Ordinance of Ware County."
(Code 1983, § 2-17-41)
Sec. 66-64. - Definitions.
For the purposes of this article, the following words and phrases shall have the meanings respectively ascribed:
Improved property number. The official, designated property number for a specific improved property or building, residential or commercial, upon a specific street, to establish a unique location address for that particular property, to be known as that particular property's address for all purposes.
Property numbering map. The official map of Ware County from which improved property numbers are assigned by the county. Said map depicts the overall numbering system, and shall be located in the planning department.
Street names. The official, designated name for a particular road, street or highway.
Street signs. An appropriate format sign which displays the official name for the road, street or highway beside which the sign is erected.
(Code 1983, § 2-17-42)
Sec. 66-65. - Street names.
(a)
All streets, roads or highways within unincorporated Ware County shall have an officially designated name, to be known by said name for all purposes and intents. Street names shall be determined in accordance with this article.
(b)
Proposed street names may be submitted by interested parties, or from within county government. Proposed street names, together with an alternative name for each proposal, shall be submitted to the planning commission. The planning commission shall review the proposed street names for duplication of names, appropriateness of names, and for overall compliance with this article. The continuation of an existing street shall have the same name. The name of a new street shall not duplicate the name of an existing street within the area served by the same post office.
(c)
The planning commission may modify or amend the proposed name as it deems necessary in order to bring it into conformance with this article. The decision of the planning commission may be appealed to the board of commissioners within 15 days after the action by the planning commission. The approved street name shall be submitted to the board of commissioners for official approval and recordation.
(Code 1983, § 2-17-43)
Sec. 66-66. - Street signs.
Street signs displaying the official name for that particular street shall be installed and maintained at the intersection of all streets and highways and at such other locations as may be determined necessary by the director of public works. The street signs shall be located to be clearly legible from the traffic lanes.
(Code 1983, § 2-17-44)
Sec. 66-67. - Improved property numbers.
(a)
Designation of improved property numbers. Each improved property in unincorporated Ware County shall be assigned, by the county, an official property number designating that particular improved property location upon that particular street, to be known as that particular property's address for all purposes and intents. The number shall be assigned by the Ware County Planning Department in accordance with its administrative procedures, and shall be assigned in accordance with the official improved property numbering map of Ware County.
(b)
Posting of designated improved property address numbers. The owner, occupant or person in charge of any house or building to which a number has been assigned will be notified in writing by the planning department or county police of the number assigned to the same.
(c)
New structures.
(1)
Numbers shall be assigned to each proposed lot or tract on the surveyor's copies of final subdivision plats by the Ware County Planning Department.
(2)
Within 60 days after the receipt of such written notification from the planning department or county police, the owner, occupant or person in charge of a house or building to which the number has been assigned shall affix the number in a conspicuous manner in a conspicuous place upon said house or building.
(3)
It shall be the duty of such owner, occupant or person in charge thereof upon affixing the new number to remove any different number which might be mistaken for, or confused with, the number assigned to said structure by the planning department.
(4)
Each principal building shall display the number assigned to the frontage on which the front entrance is located, said number to be affixed over or near the front entrance. In case a principal building is occupied by more than one business or family dwelling unit, each separate front entrance shall display a separate number.
(5)
Numerals indicating the official numbers for each principal building or each front entrance to such building shall be posted in a manner to be legible and distinguishable from the street on which the property is located. The numbers must be easily legible figures not less than three inches high and in a color contrasting to the building background. Reflective numbers are recommended.
(6)
No building permit shall be issued for any principal building until the owner or developer has procured from the planning department the official number of the premises. Final approval for a certificate of occupancy of any principal building erected or repaired after the effective date of the ordinance from which this article is derived shall be withheld until permanent and proper numbers have been displayed in accordance with the requirements of this section.
(Code 1983, § 2-17-45)
Sec. 66-68. - Penalties.
In the event that the owner or occupant or person in charge of any house or building refuses to comply with the terms of this article by failing to affix the number assigned within 60 days after notification, or failing within said period of 60 days to remove any old numbers affixed to such house, building, house entrance, building entrance or elsewhere, which may be confused with the proper number assigned thereto, he shall be tried in the Magistrate Court of Ware County and punished as a misdemeanor as provided for in O.C.G.A. § 15-10-60.
(Code 1983, § 2-17-46)
