APPENDIX C - ZONING ORDINANCE[1]
An Ordinance of the Mayor and Council of the City of Warner Robins, Georgia, establishing zoning districts and regulating the uses of land therein; and specifying off-street parking and loading requirements; adopting general zoning regulations; adopting a map for the purpose of indicating land districts; describing zoning rules and regulations in said districts; defining said districts; providing for rezoning and redistricting; establishing certain building and zoning regulations in each of the said districts; regulating land uses and accessory uses; prescribing the percentage of land area which may be occupied under varying circumstances; providing for variances and nonconforming uses; establishing a planning and zoning commission and a board of zoning appeals; defining certain of the terms herein used providing a method of administration and practice and procedure; providing penalties for violation; providing remedies for enforcement hereof to repeal all conflicting laws and regulations; and for other purposes.
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Editor's note— Ord. No. 32-14, adopted November 3, 2014, repealed the former appendix C, §§ 31, 32, 41—46, 51—55, 61—69, 71—75, 81—83, 90—99, 101—108, 111—122, and enacted a new appendix C as set out herein. The former appendix C pertained to similar subject matter. See the Code Comparative Table for the ordinance history.
Cross reference— Buildings and building regulations, ch. 6; manufactured homes and manufactured home parks, ch. 11; planning and development, ch. 19; subdivisions, app. B.
State Law reference— Planning and zoning powers, Ga. Const. art. IX, § II, ¶ IV.

ARTICLE I. - PURPOSE AND ENACTMENT
The City of Warner Robins, Georgia, under the authority of Article IX, Section II, Paragraph IV of the Constitution of the State of Georgia 1983, as amended, and for the purpose of promoting the health, safety, convenience, order, prosperity, the general welfare of the City of Warner Robins, Georgia and designed to lessen congestion in the streets; to secure safety from fire, panic, and other dangers; to promote health and general welfare; to provide adequate light and air; to provide for better land management; to avoid undue concentration of population; to facilitate the adequate provision of transportation, water, sewerage, schools, parks and other public requirements; hereby ordains and enacts into law the official Zoning Regulations for the City of Warner Robins, Georgia.
(Ord. No. 32-14, 11-3-14)
ARTICLE II. - TITLE
These regulations shall be known and may be cited as "The Official Zoning Regulations for the City of Warner Robins, Georgia."
(Ord. No. 32-14, 11-3-14)
ARTICLE III. - DEFINITIONS OF TERMS USED IN THESE REGULATIONS

Section 31. - General.
Except as specifically described herein, all words shall have the customary dictionary meaning. Words used in the present tense include the future tense, and words used in the future tense include the present. Words used in singular number include the plural, and words used in the plural include the singular. The word "person" includes a firm, corporation, association, organization, trust, or partnership. The word "lot" includes "plot" or "parcel." The word "building" includes "structure."
The word "shall" is always mandatory. The word "used" or "occupied" as applied to any land or building shall be construed to include the words "intended, arranged, or designated to be used or occupied." The word "map" means the "Official Zoning Map."
(Ord. No. 32-14, 11-3-14)
Section 32. - Specific definitions.
modified
When used in these regulations the following words and phrases shall have the meaning given in this section:
1.
Accessory structure: A structure detached from the principal building on the same lot and customarily incidental and subordinate to the principal building or use.
2.
Accessory use: A use customarily incidental and subordinate to the principal use or building and located on the same lot with such principal use or building.
3.
Adult entertainment: Entertainment that is characterized by an emphasis on the depiction, display or featuring of specified anatomical areas or specified sexual activities. Specific adult entertainment businesses as defined in the City of Warner Robins Code of Ordinances, chapter 2.5.
4.
Airport: A transportation terminal facility where aircraft take off and land.
5.
Alley: A public way dedicated to and accepted by a governing body and which is primarily for vehicular service access to the rear or side of properties otherwise abutting on a street.
6.
Assisted living facility: A residential facility providing living quarters restricted to individuals who require access to services but not daily nursing or medical intervention. Incidental uses and/or services may include protective supervision, personal care, social and recreational services, assistance with medical requirements, assistance with meals, and laundry and transportation service.
7.
Automobile repair garage: A building or portion thereof, other than a private or parking garage, designed or used for the storage, servicing, repairing, equipping, or hiring of motor-driven vehicles.
8.
Automobile service stations: Any area of land, including structures thereon, used for the retail sale of motor fuels (including alternative fuels such as natural gas or hydrogen), oil, automobile accessories, and incidental services including facilities for lubricating, automobile washing, and cleaning, or otherwise servicing automobiles, but excluding painting, major repair.
9.
Bar/tavern/pub/cocktail lounge means a commercial structure open for public use in which alcoholic beverage sales may constitute more than fifty (50) percent of the gross sale of goods. All such facilities must operate in compliance with O.C.G.A. § 3-3-40 et seq., as amended, or any other applicable state law.
10.
Block: A piece or parcel of land entirely surrounded by public highways or streets, other than alleys.
11.
Buffer: A dense planting of trees and/or shrubs shall be established on a strip of land not less than fifteen (15) feet in width or a fence of solid appearance with a minimum height of six (6) feet eight (8) inches from the pavement on a strip of land not less than five (5) feet along those lot lines of the parking areas which abut residential districts. If a planted buffer is used, it shall be established to a minimum height of six (6) feet within two (2) years of planting.
12.
Building: Any structure having a roof supported by columns or walls and intended for the shelter, housing, or enclosure of persons, animals, or chattels.
13.
Building, alterations of: Any change in the supporting members of a building such as bearing walls, beams, columns, and girders, except such change as may be required for its safety; any addition to a building; any change in use resulting from moving a building from one (1) location to another.
14.
Building, height of: The vertical distance measured from the average elevation of the proposed finished grade at the front of the building, including parapets, except that the distance shall be measured to the average height between the eaves and ridge for gable, hip, and gambrel roofs and to the deck line of a mansard roof.
15.
Building, main: A building in which is conducted the principal use of the lot on which it is situated. In any residential district, any dwelling shall be deemed to be a main building on the lot on which it is situated.
16.
Building setback line: A line on the plat generally parallel to the street right-of-way line or property lines indicating the distance from which buildings and structures shall be erected from those lines.
17.
Carport: A structure with a solid weatherproof roof that is permanently open on at least two (2) sides and is designed to shelter one (1) or more vehicles. A carport may be freestanding or attached to another structure. A trellis or similar structure is not considered a carport.
18.
City: The City of Warner Robins, Georgia.
19.
Clinic: An establishment where patients, who are not lodged overnight, are admitted for examination and treatment.
20.
Club: Buildings and facilities owned or operated by a corporation, association, person or persons for social, educational, or recreational purposes, but not primarily for profit or to render a service to the general public.
21.
Community sewer system: A privately-owned sewer system meeting the minimum standards set by the Environmental Protection Division of the Georgia Department of Natural Resources.
22.
Community water system: A privately-owned water system meeting the minimum standards set by the Environmental Protection Division of the Georgia Department of Natural Resources.
23.
Comprehensive plan (master plan): The various maps, plats, charts, and descriptive and explanatory material and all textual matter approved by the planning and zoning commission for the purpose of guiding and shaping the growth of an area.
24.
Convenience store: Any retail establishment offering for sale a limited line of groceries and household items intended for convenience of the neighborhood, but excluding the sale of gasoline.
25.
Crematory: An establishment where bodies of dead people are cremated.
26.
District: (Zoning) Any section of the City of Warner Robins, Georgia, within which the zoning regulations are uniform.
27.
Daycare center: Any place operated by a person, society, agency, corporation, or institution, or any other group wherein are received for pay seven (7) or more children under eighteen (18) years of age for group care, without transfer of custody, for more than four (4) hours and less than twenty-four (24) hours per day.
28.
Daycare home: A private residence operated by any person who receives therein for pay and for supervision and care fewer than twenty-four (24) hours per day, without transfer of legal custody, three (3) but not more than six (6) children under eighteen (18) years of age who are not related to such persons and whose parents or guardians are not residents in the same private residence.
29.
Dwelling: Any building or portion thereof which is designed for or used for residential purposes.
30.
Dwelling, multi-family: A building designed for or occupied exclusively by three (3) or more families living independently of each other.
31.
Dwelling, single-family (detached): A building designed for or occupied exclusively by one (1) family. For regulatory purposes, the general term is not to be construed as including the special form of one-family dwelling defined as mobile home or portable housing for recreational or other temporary use or a single-family attached or semi-detached dwelling as defined herein.
32.
Dwelling attached, single-family: A dwelling unit which is erected on an individual lot but as part of a single building, containing three (3) or more dwelling units on adjoining lots, each being separated from the adjoining unit or units by an approved fire resistant party wall or walls extending from the basement or cellar floors to the roof along the dividing lot line.
33.
Dwelling semi-detached, single-family: A dwelling unit which is erected on an individual lot but as part of a single building containing one (1) additional dwelling unit on an adjoining lot, and separated by an approved fire-resistant party wall extending from the basement or cellar floor to the roof along the dividing lot line.
34.
Dwelling, farm tenant: A residential structure located on a farm and occupied by a farm worker employed by the owner of the farm.
35.
Dwelling, two-family (duplex): A building designed for and occupied exclusively by two (2) families living independently of each other with individual kitchen and bathroom facilities.
36.
Dwelling unit: A dwelling or portion thereof providing complete living facilities for one (1) family.
37.
Easement: A grant by a property owner for the use for a specific purpose (or purposes) of a piece of land by the general public, a corporation, or a person or persons.
38.
Fallout shelter: A structure or portion of a structure intended to provide protection to human life during periods of danger from nuclear fallout, air raids, storms, or other emergencies.
39.
Family: One (1) or more individuals related by blood, marriage, adoption, legal guardianship, or not more than five (5) unrelated individuals, who live together in a single dwelling unit and who function as a single housekeeping unit, have established ties and familiarity with each other, jointly use common areas, interact with each other, and share meals, household activities, expenses, and responsibilities. This definition shall include five (5) or fewer mentally handicapped, developmentally disabled persons, and other handicapped persons, as defined in the Fair Housing Act, 42 U.S.C. Sec. 3601, et seq., living as a housekeeping unit and otherwise meeting the definition of "family" herein.
40.
Floor area: The sum of the gross horizontal areas of the total number of floors of a building measured from the exterior faces of the exterior walls or from the centerline of walls separating two (2) buildings, but not including: the attic space providing headroom for less than seven (7) feet; unusable basement or cellar space not used for retailing, uncovered steps or fire escapes; open porches; accessory water or cooling towers; accessory off-street parking spaces; and accessory off-street loading berths.
41.
Frontage, lot: The distance for which the front boundary line of the lot and the street line are coincident.
42.
Frontage, street: All the property on the side of a street between two (2) intersecting streets (crossing or terminating), or if the street is dead-ended, then all the property abutting on one (1) side between an intersecting street and the dead-end of the street.
43.
Funeral establishment: A place with facilities for the preparation of the dead for burial or cremation, for the viewing of the body and for funerals, called also: Funeral home, funeral parlor, funeral chapel, funeral church, and mortuary.
44.
Garage, apartment: A dwelling unit for one (1) family erected above a private garage detached from the main dwelling.
45.
Garage, parking: A building or portion thereof designed or used for storage of motor-driven vehicles, and at which motor fuels and oils may be sold, and in connection with which may be performed general automotive servicing as distinguished from automotive repairs.
46.
Garage, private: An accessory building or a portion of a main building used for the parking or storage of automobiles of the occupants of the main building. A carport is considered a private garage.
47.
Gas station minimart: A place where gasoline, motor oil, lubricants or other minor accessories are retailed directly to the public on the premises in combination with the retailing of items typically found in a convenience store or supermarket.
48.
Governing body: "Governing body" shall mean the mayor and council for the City of Warner Robins.
49.
Group homes: A residential care facility in which six (6) or fewer people who do not meet the definition of "family" including any resident staff who share a single housekeeping unit. Requires licensing by the State of Georgia. The term "group home" shall not include a residence of post incarcerated individuals or those who are a danger to themselves or others.
50.
Halfway house: A group facility occupied and used for the business purpose of providing transitional offender rehabilitation or similar purposes, whether for profit or nonprofit, and whether or not required to have a state or federal permit, provided that the majority of the residents shall meet one of the following criteria:
(a)
On parole or probation, or has been ordered to reside in such type of facility as a condition of parole or probation; or
(b)
Has been convicted of a felony and has completed his or her sentence; or
(c)
Has been convicted of a criminal offense and has been ordered to reside in such type of facility as part of the criminal sentencing.
51.
Home occupation: A lawful activity for gain or support, carried on within a dwelling by a resident(s) where: the office is secondary to the use of the dwelling for living purposes, the residential character of the dwelling is maintained and no employees come to the site. Examples include artists, counseling, crafts people, hair cutting/styling, tutoring, writers, and consultants.
52.
Hospice: A home for terminally ill persons with less than six (6) months to live in which palliative care and social services, including bereavement counseling, are provided.
53.
Hospital: An institution, licensed by the state department of health, in which is provided inpatient health care for people, including general medical and surgical services, psychiatric care and specialty medical facilities. Outpatient facilities within such structures in which such services are provided are included.
54.
Industrialized building: Any building or building component which is manufactured in accordance with the Georgia Industrialized Building Act and the rules of the commissioner of community affairs issued pursuant thereto. Each unit must bear a seal of approval issued by the commissioner or must be inspected during the time of manufacture by the inspection department of this jurisdiction.
55.
Institution, nonprofit: A nonprofit corporation or a nonprofit establishment.
56.
Intermediate regional flood: A flood which has a one (1) percent chance of occurring in any year. Such a flood is representative of large floods known to have occurred generally in the area and which is reasonably characteristic of what can be expected to occur on a particular stream.
56.1
Interparcel Access: Refers to the connectivity of adjacent parcels established by a private access road that is delineated from parking areas and allows short trips between developments without using major roadways.
57.
Junkyard: A lot, land, or structure, or part thereof, used primarily for the collecting, storage, and sale of waste paper, rags, scrap metal, or discarded material; or for the collecting, dismantling, storage, and salvaging of machinery or vehicles not in running condition, or for the sale of parts thereof.
58.
Kennels: Any location where raising, grooming, caring for, or boarding of dogs, cats, or other small animals for commercial purposes is carried on.
59.
Kindergarten: A school for pre-elementary school children.
60.
Landing Area: The area of an airport used for landing, taking off, or taxiing of aircraft.
61.
Laundromat: A business that provides home-type washing, drying, and/or ironing machines for hire.
62.
Laundry and dry cleaning pick-up: A business that provides only for the convenience of taking and picking up of laundry, such as establishments not having any equipment for processing of the laundry.
63.
Loading space: A space within the main building or on the same lot, providing for the standing, loading, or unloading of trucks and other carriers.
64.
Lodgings, transient: Bed and breakfast: A building in which lodging and board is provided for more than three (3) and fewer than twenty (20) persons.
(a)
Boarding house: A building, where for compensation, both lodging and meals are provided for not more than ten (10) persons, providing that a single-family dwelling shall not be deemed to be a boarding house by reason of a contribution to or expense-sharing arrangement with the owner or tenant occupying the dwelling by a person related by blood or marriage.
(b)
Hotel: A building in which lodging, or board and lodging, are provided for more than twenty (20) persons and offered to the public for compensation, and in which ingress and egress to and from each sleeping room is made through the interior of the building.
(c)
Inn: A building in which lodging, or board and lodging, are provided and offered to the public for compensation, having no more than twenty (20) guestrooms.
(d)
Motel: A building or a group of buildings containing sleeping accommodations for rental primarily to transients and in which ingress and egress to and from each sleeping room is generally to the outside of the building.
(e)
Rooming house: A building other than a hotel, boarding house or motel where lodging for three (3) in addition to the owner or manager, but not more than twenty (20) persons, is provided with no meals served.
65.
Lot: A portion of a subdivision or other parcel of land, intended as a unit for transfer of ownership or for building development.
66.
Lot, depth of: A mean horizontal distance between the front and rear lot lines, measured in the general direction of its side lot lines.
67.
Lot of record: A lot or parcel of land whose existence, location, and dimensions have been recorded in the office of the Clerk of the Superior Court of Houston County.
68.
Lot, corner: A lot bounded on two (2) adjacent sides by streets.
69.
Lot, double frontage: A lot having a frontage on two (2) streets as distinguished from a corner lot.
70.
Lot, flag. A lot not fronting or abutting a public roadway and where access to the public roadway is limited to a narrow private right-of-way.
71.
Lot, interior: A lot other than a corner lot.
72.
Lot width: The distance between lot side lines measured at the building line.
73.
Manufactured home: A structure, transportable in one (1) or more sections, which, in the traveling mode, is eight (8) body feet or more in width or forty (40) body feet or more in length or, when erected on site, is three hundred twenty (320) or more square feet and which is built on a permanent chassis and designed to be used as a dwelling with or without a permanent foundation when connected to the required utilities and includes the plumbing, heating, air-conditioning, and electrical systems contained therein; except that such term shall include any structure which meets all the requirements of this paragraph except the size requirements and with respect to which the manufacturer voluntarily files a certification required by the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) and complies with the standards established under the National Manufactured Housing Construction and Safety Standards Act of 1974, 42 U.S.C. Section 5401, et seq. The term "manufactured home" does not include campers, travel trailers, recreational vehicles (RVs), motor homes or modular homes.
74.
Manufactured home park: Any lot where manufactured homes are customarily parked for a longer period of time than thirty (30) days for living or sleeping purposes, or where spaces are set aside and offered for rent for use by manufactured homes for living or sleeping purposes, including any land, building, structure, or facility used by occupants or manufactured homes on such premises.
75.
Manufactured home stand: That part of a manufactured home lot which has been reserved for the actual physical placement and tie down of a manufactured home for non-transient use.
76.
Manufactured home subdivision: A subdivision designed and intended for residential use where residence is primarily in manufactured homes.
77.
Manufactured home space: A plot of ground within a manufactured home park designed for the accommodation of one (1) manufactured home.
78.
Modular home: A factory-fabricated single-family dwelling which is constructed in one (1) or more sections designed to be incorporated at a building site on a permanent foundation into a permanent structure and complies with the definition of "industrialized building."
79.
Nonconforming use: A building, structure, or use of land existing at the time of the enactment of these regulations or at the time of a zoning amendment and which does not conform with the regulations of the use district in which it is located.
80.
Nursing/convalescent home: A facility established for profit or non-profit, which provides bed care and in-patient services for persons requiring regular medical attention but excluding a facility providing surgical or emergency medical services and excluding a facility providing care for alcoholism, drug addiction, mental disease or communicable disease.
81.
Open space: A yard area which is not used for or occupied by a driveway, off-street parking, loading space, drying yard, or refuse storage space.
82.
Parking space: The area required for parking one (1) automobile, which in these regulations is held to a minimum width of nine (9) feet and a minimum length eighteen (18) feet, excluding passageways, and so arranged as to accommodate a standard automobile and to provide necessary maneuvering space.
82.a.
Subcompact Parking space: The area required for parking (1) subcompact automobile, which in these regulations is held to a minimum width of eight (8) feet and a minimum length fifteen (15) feet, excluding passageways, and so arranged as to accommodate a subcompact automobile and to provide necessary maneuvering space.
83.
Personal care home: A residence in which two (2) or more unrelated persons with disabilities reside that provide one (1) or more personal care services including but not limited to assistance with or supervision of self -administered medication and essential activities of daily living such as eating, bathing, grooming, dressing, and toileting, that do not provide nursing or medical care and are licensed by the state department of human resources as a personal care home under O.C.G.A. tit. 31.
84.
Planning and zoning commission: Shall mean the Warner Robins Planning and Zoning Commission.
85.
Planned development districts: Parcel(s) of land to be developed as an integrated unit under single ownership or control, and includes the planned development residential (PDR), planned development commercial (PDC), planned development industrial (PDI) and planned development extraordinary district districts.
86.
Plat: A map, plan; or layout of a county, city, town, section, or subdivision indicating the location and boundaries of individual properties.
87.
Playschool: A school for pre-kindergarten and kindergarten-age children.
88.
Principal use: The primary purpose for which land or building is used.
89.
Professional: When used in connection with "use" and "occupancy," a use or occupancy by persons generally engaged in rendering personal, executive, sales, or administrative services or activities, including accountants, architects, engineers, and land surveyors, doctors, lawyers, insurance offices, real estate offices, religious organizations, stock brokers, and administrative agencies considered professional in character. The term, however, does not include repairs or sales of tangible personal property stored or located within the structure nor any use which would create any loud noise or noxious odors.
90.
Public sewer system: A publicly-owned sewer system meeting the minimum standards set by the Environmental Protection Division of the Georgia Department of Natural Resources.
91.
Public water system: A publicly-owned water system meeting the minimum standards set by the Environmental Protection Division of the Georgia Department of Natural Resources.
92.
Public way: Any piece of land over which the general public has a right of usage, whether acquired through prescription, by adverse use of the general public, or otherwise.
93.
Restaurant, drive-in: An eating and/or drinking establishment which caters to motor-driven vehicle business where the person being served may consume food and/or drink while sitting in a motor-driven vehicle.
94.
Retirement home: A residence designed for occupancy primarily for elderly persons, which may contain, for the convenience of its residents, common eating areas, personal/infirmary care, common recreational areas and accessory retail uses.
95.
Right-of-way: Access over or across particularly described property for a specific purpose or purposes.
96.
Right-of-way line: The dividing line between a lot, tract, or parcel of land contiguous to street, railroad, or other public utility rights-of-way.
97.
Self-storage facility: A building or group of buildings consisting of individual, self-contained units leased to individuals, organizations, or businesses for self-storage of personal property.
98.
Setback: Generally the minimum required distance between a property line and a building or a structure. Depending on the shape of the property, there could be more than one (1) side setback or no rear or more than one (1) rear but there will always be a front setback.
99.
Setback, front: A line drawn between the two (2) side lot lines, parallel (or as close as practical) to the front property line the minimum distance required by the applicable zoning district.
100.
Setback, rear: A line drawn between the two (2) side lot lines, parallel (or as close as practical) to the front setback line the minimum distance required by the applicable zoning district.
101.
Setback, side: A line drawn parallel to a side lot line the minimum distance required by the applicable zoning district.
102.
Temporary shelter: A residential facility serving as a temporary protective sanctuary to receive and house persons who are victims of crime or abuse, including dependents of the victim, to provide temporary boarding, lodging, counseling and day care. The facility shall meet all certification requirements of the state, as applicable.
103.
Shopping center: A group of commercial establishments planned and developed as a unit, with common off-street parking and stormwater management provided on the property.
104.
Sign: Any name, identification, description, display, illustration or device which is affixed to or represented directly or indirectly upon a building, structure or land in view of the general public and which is intended to convey information.
105.
Sign size: The smallest square, rectangle, triangle, circle, or combination thereof encompassing the entire advertising area, excluding architectural trim and structural supports.
106.
Sign, outdoor advertising: A structural poster panel or painted sign, either freestanding or attached to a building, for the purpose of conveying information, knowledge, or ideas to the public about a subject unrelated to the premises upon which it is located.
107.
Sign structure: A structure composed of one (1) or more poles which is located on the ground or on top of another structure and which supports no more than two (2) signs.
108.
Sign structure facing: The surface of the sign upon, against, or through which the message of the sign is exhibited, not including architectural trim and structural supports.
109.
Single housekeeping unit: When one (1) or more persons who have free access to the entire structure, share all the facilities of the dwelling and if renting, occupy the premises under a single lease agreement or sublease agreement.
110.
Site plan: A detailed scaled and dimensioned drawing based on a certified boundary survey, showing but not limited to the specific locations of all buildings, building elevations, structures, drainage ways, roads, internal roadway circulation, means of ingress and egress, recreation areas, parking areas, landscape strips and buffers, public roads and facilities adjacent to the property for which the site plan has been drawn.
111.
Story: That portion of a building, other than a cellar, included between the surface of the floor and the ceiling above it.
112.
Street: A public way dedicated to and accepted by a governing body for the use of vehicular or pedestrian traffic by the general public and may be referred to as a street, highway, parkway, road, avenue, drive, boulevard, lane, place, etc.
(a)
Arterial. A street designed for rapid, continuous movement of all types of traffic but with less control over the access points from streets and adjacent property than expressways.
(b)
Collector street. A street designated to carry traffic with relatively little interruption and at moderate speeds between local service streets and arterials, including the principal entrance streets of a residential development and streets for circulation within such a development.
(c)
Cul-de-sac. A service street having one (1) end open to traffic, with the other end permanently terminated by a turnaround.
(d)
Marginal access street. A street generally parallel and adjacent to expressways, arterials, or collector streets, for the purpose of providing access to abutting properties and of separating high-speed from local traffic.
(e)
Local service street. A street intended to provide direct access to abutting property.
(f)
Expressways. A street designed for fast, continuous movement of all types of traffic, with control over access to abutting property and the spacing of street intersections.
113.
Street line: A right-of-way or property line of a street as indicated by dedication or by deed or plat or record.
114.
Structure: Anything constructed or erected, the use of which requires a location on the ground, or attached to something having a location on the ground.
115.
Subdivider: Any person who undertakes the subdivision of land as herein defined.
116.
Subdivision: Any division of a tract or parcel of land into two (2) or more lots, building sites or other divisions for the purpose, whether immediate or future, of sale, legacy or building development, and includes all division of land involving a new street or a change in existing streets, and includes resubdivision and, where appropriate to the context, relates to the process of subdividing or to the land or area subdivided; provided, however, that the following are not included in this definition.
(a)
The division of land into parcels of five (5) acres or more where no new street is involved; and
(b)
The combination or recombination of portions of previously platted lots where the total number of lots is not increased and the resultant lots are equal to the standards of these regulations.
117.
Townhouse: A single-family attached dwelling unit that is erected in a row as part of a single building, on adjoining lots, each being separated from the adjoining unit or units by an approved fire resistant party wall or walls extending from the basement or cellar floor to the roof along the dividing lot line.
118.
Transitional living center: A community-based residential facility that provides short-term (one hundred twenty (120) days or less) room and board in a supervised living environment and is generally integrated with other social services, counseling and rehabilitation programs to assist in the transition to self-sufficiency though the acquisition of a stable income and permanent housing for homeless persons and/or those with a history of juvenile delinquency, behavioral disorders, alcoholism, or drug abuse.
119.
Travel trailer: Portable recreational housing units: General terms used interchangeably and intended to include travel trailers, pick-up campers, motorized homes, converted buses, tent trailers, tents, or similar devices designed and intended for use as temporary portable recreational housing but containing not more than three hundred twenty (320) square feet of floor area.
120.
Travel trailer park: Any lot on which is temporarily parked one (1) or more travel trailers for a period of less than thirty (30) days.
121.
Variance: A variance is a relaxation of the terms of the zoning ordinance for a specific parcel, except use, where such variance will not be contrary to the public interest and where, owing to conditions peculiar to the property and not the result of the actions of the applicant, a literal enforcement of the ordinance would result in unnecessary and undue hardship to the property. Establishment or expansion of a use otherwise prohibited shall not be allowed by variance. Nor shall a variance be granted because of the presence of nonconformities in the zoning district or uses in an adjoining zoning district.
122.
Yard: A space on the same lot with a main building, such space being open, unoccupied, and unobstructed by buildings or structures from ground to sky except where encroachments and accessory buildings are expressly permitted.
123.
Yard, front: An open, unoccupied space on the same lot with the main building, extending the full width of the lot and situated between the street line and the front line of the building projected to the side lines of the lot. The depth of the front yard shall be measured between the front line of the building and the street line. Covered porches, whether enclosed or unenclosed, shall be considered as part of the main building and shall not project into a required front yard. On corner lots, the front yard shall be considered as parallel to the street upon which the lot has its least dimension.
124.
Yard, rear: An open space on the same lot with the main building, such space being unoccupied except possibly by an accessory building and extending the full width of the lot and situated between the rear line of the lot and the rear line of the main building projected to the side lines of the lot. On all corner lots the rear yard shall be at the opposite end of the lot from the front yard.
125.
Yard side: An open, unoccupied space, on the same lot with a main building, situated between the side line of the building and the adjacent side line of the lot extending from the rear line of the front yard to the front line of the rear yard. If no front yard is required, the front boundary of the side yard shall be the front line of the lot and if no rear yard is required, the rear boundary of the side yard shall be the rear line of the lot. On corner lots, the side yard shall be considered as parallel to the street upon which the lot has its greatest dimension.
126.
Yard sale/garage sale: The sale or trading of clothing, furniture, household items, food, dishes, antiques or similar goods or merchandise on a residentially zoned lot or parcel of land within the city.
(Ord. No. 32-14, 11-3-14; Ord. No. 03-17, § 1, 2-6-17; Ord. No. 40-22, § 1, 10-17-22)
ARTICLE IV. - ESTABLISHMENT OF DISTRICTS

Section 41. - Division of the City of Warner Robins into districts.
For the purpose of this regulation, the City of Warner Robins is hereby divided into the following types of districts:
EXPAND
R-1 Single-Family Residential District
R-2 Single-Family Residential District
R-3 General Residential District
R-4 Multi-Family Residential District
R-MH Manufactured Home Residential District
C-1 Neighborhood Service Commercial District
C-2 General Commercial District
C-3 Concentrated Commercial District
M-1 Wholesale and Light Industrial District
M-2 General Industrial District
PDR, PDC, PDI, PDE Planned Development Districts
BE Base Environs Overlay District
AH Airport Hazard District
FH Flood Hazard District
R-AG Agricultural Residential District
  (Ord. No. 32-14, 11-3-14)
Section 42. - Intent of districts.
In order to protect the character of existing neighborhoods, to prevent excessive density of population in areas which are not adequately served with water, sewerage facilities, and fire protection; to ensure that adequate and suitable areas will be available in the city, to provide housing for a growing population, and to protect residential areas from the blighting effects of the traffic, noise, odors, and dust generated by commercial and industrial activity; to provide for and accommodate growth and expansion of commercial and industrial activities; to prevent blight and slums and to promote orderly growth and development by grouping similar and related uses together and by separating dissimilar and unrelated uses; and in order that the various other purposes of this chapter may be accomplished, there are hereby established within the City of Warner Robins, Georgia, the abovementioned zoning districts.
(Ord. No. 32-14, 11-3-14)
Section 43. - Incorporation of the zoning map.
Said districts are bounded as shown on the sectional atlas property maps contained in one (1) volume entitled, "Official Zoning Map for Warner Robins, Georgia" and certified by the city clerk, hereinafter called "official zoning map" or simply "map," and which, with all notations, references, including dates of amendments, and other information shown thereon is hereby made a part of these regulations. Said map shall be made a public record and shall be kept permanently in the office of the zoning enforcement officer, where said map shall be accessible to the general public.
(Ord. No. 32-14, 11-3-14)
Section 44. - Map amendment.
If, in accordance with provisions of these regulations, changes are made in the district boundaries or other information portrayed on the official zoning map, changes shall be made on the map within seven (7) days after the amendment has been approved by the mayor and council. A notation, certified by the zoning enforcement officer, shall be entered on the map at the time any change is made, which shall include the date of the amendment and a numerical entry referring to the application on file with the zoning enforcement officer which states a brief description of the nature of the changes.
(Ord. No. 32-14, 11-3-14)
Section 45. - Rules for determining boundaries.
Where uncertainty exists with respect to the boundaries of any of the aforesaid districts as shown on the official zoning map, the following rules shall apply:
45.1. Unless otherwise indicated, the district boundaries are indicated as approximately following property lines, land lot lines, center lines of streets, highways, alleys, or railroads, shorelines of streams, reservoirs, or other bodies of water, or civil boundaries, and they shall be construed to follow such lines.
45.2. Where district boundaries are approximately parallel to the center lines of streets, highways, or railroads, or right-of-way of the same, or the center lines of streams, reservoirs, or other bodies of water, or said lines extended, such district boundaries shall be construed as being parallel thereto and at such distance therefrom as indicated on the official zoning maps. If no distance is given, such dimensions shall be determined by the use of the scale shown on the official zoning maps.
45.3. Where a public road, street, or alley is officially vacated or abandoned, the regulations applicable to the property to which it is reverted shall apply to such vacated or abandoned road, street, or alley.
45.4. In case the exact location of a boundary cannot be determined by the foregoing methods, the mayor and council, upon application, determines the location of the boundary.
(Ord. No. 32-14, 11-3-14)
Section 46. - Comprehensiveness of zoning districts.
The purpose of these regulations and the accompanying map is to place all portions of the City of Warner Robins in zoning districts. Should any area appear either by reference to the maps or by interpretation to be inadvertently or otherwise omitted from a classification district, that area or areas are hereby placed in an R-1 Single-Family Residential District and subject to all the regulations pertaining thereto until such time as the planning and zoning commission and the mayor and council can determine its proper zoning district classification.
(Ord. No. 32-14, 11-3-14)
ARTICLE V. - APPLICATION OF REGULATIONS
Except as hereinafter provided:

Section 51. - Use.
No building or land shall hereafter be used or occupied and no building or part hereof shall be erected, moved or altered unless in conformity with the regulations herein specified for the district in which it is or is to be located. Said conformity shall be evidenced by the issuance of a valid building permit, certificate of occupancy, or certificate of zoning exception or variance. No more than one (1) principal use per lot shall be permitted except as provided herein.
(Ord. No. 32-14, 11-3-14)
Section 52. - Height requirements.
No building or structure shall hereafter be erected, moved or altered which does not comply with the following height requirements.
52.1. Height obstructions. The purpose of these provisions is to prevent the construction of objects which, because of their height, illumination or reflectivity, electrical emissions, and/or air emissions, represent an obstruction or safety hazard to air traffic operating in and out of Robins Air Force Base (RAFB).
52.1.1. Definitions. The following definitions shall be used to interpret the requirements of section 52.1.
52.1.1.1. Approach-departure surface. This surface is symmetrical about the RAFB runway centerline extended, begins as an inclined plane (glide angle) two hundred (200) feet beyond each end of the primary surface to the centerline elevation of the runway end, and extends for fifty thousand (50,000) feet. The slope of the approach-departure clearance surface is 50:1 (one (1) foot change in elevation for each fifty (50) feet in distance from the starting point) along the extended runway (glide angle) centerline until it reaches an elevation of five hundred (500) feet above the established airfield elevation, at which point it becomes a horizontal surface. It then continues horizontally at this elevation to a point at fifty thousand (50,000) feet from the start of the glide angle. The width of this surface at the runway end is two thousand (2,000) feet. It then flares uniformly, with an end width of sixteen thousand (16,000) feet at a distance fifty thousand (50,000) feet from both starting points.
52.1.1.2. Conical surface. This inclined surface extends outward and upward from the outer periphery of the inner horizontal surface for a horizontal distance of seven thousand (7,000) feet. The slope of the conical surface is 20:1 (one (1) foot change in elevation for each twenty (20) feet in distance from the starting point), with an inner elevation of one hundred fifty (150) feet above the established airfield elevation and an outer elevation of five hundred (500) feet above the established airfield elevation.
52.1.1.3. Clear zone surface. This surface defines the limits of the obstruction clearance requirements in the vicinity contiguous to the end of the primary surface. The length and width (for a single runway) of a clear zone surface is three thousand (3,000) feet by three thousand (3,000) feet.
52.1.1.4. Established airfield elevation. The altitude, measured in feet above mean sea level (MSL), of the Robins Air Force Base main runway surface. This elevation is hereby declared to be two hundred ninety-five (295) feet MSL.
52.1.1.5. Height. The true highest altitude of a structure or natural feature (including trees, protruding rocks, or natural ground surface) as measured in feet above mean sea level.
52.1.1.6. Inner horizontal surface. This surface is a plane, oval in shape, that extends seven thousand five hundred (7,500) feet from the RAFB airfield runway centerline at a height of one hundred fifty (150) feet above the established airfield elevation.
52.1.1.7. Obstruction. Any structure or natural feature (including trees, protruding rocks, or natural ground surface) which exceeds the height limitation defined by the primary surface, clear zone surface, approach-departure clearance surfaces, inner horizontal surface, conical surface, outer horizontal surface, or transitional surfaces established for Robins Air Force Base.
52.1.1.8. Outer horizontal surface. This surface is a horizontal plane that begins at the outer edge of the conical surface and extends for thirty thousand (30,000) feet at a height of five hundred (500) feet above the established airfield elevation.
52.1.1.9. Primary surface. This surface defines the limits of the obstruction clearance requirements in the immediate vicinity of the landing area. The primary surface comprises surfaces of the runway, runway shoulders, and lateral safety zones and extends two hundred (200) feet beyond the runway end. The width of the primary surface for the RAFB runway is two thousand (2,000) feet, or one thousand (1,000) feet on each side of the runway centerline.
52.1.1.10. Structure. Any stationary or mobile object constructed or installed by man, including, without limitation, buildings, towers, cranes, smoke stacks, earth formations, and overhead transmission lines.
52.1.1.11. Transitional surfaces. These surfaces connect the primary surfaces, clear zone surfaces, and approach-departure clearance surfaces to the outer horizontal surface, conical surface, and other horizontal or transitional surfaces. The slope of the transitional surface is 7:1 (one (1) foot in elevation for each seven (7) feet in distance from the starting point) outward and upward at right angles to the runway centerline extended.
52.1.2. Application. These regulations shall apply to all lands within the City of Warner Robins that are overlaid by the primary surface, clear zone surface, approach-departure clearance surfaces, inner horizontal surface, conical surface, outer horizontal surface, or transitional surfaces established for Robins Air Force Base. These boundaries of these surfaces are shown on the Official Zoning Map of Warner Robins, Georgia. All development activity within these areas shall comply with the performance standards in section 52.1.3. below in addition of the requirements of the underlying zoning district. Where conflicting standards and requirements exist, the more stringent standards and requirements shall apply.
52.1.3. Performance standards. All development within the areas governed by these height requirements shall comply with the following performance standards.
52.1.3.1. Height limitation. No structure shall be built which, by virtue of its finished height, would constitute an obstruction within the meaning of these regulations. Where the development or redevelopment of land within the areas affected by these regulations will involve substantial grading and/or site preparation, the planning and zoning commission or board of zoning appeals may require the applicant to remove any existing obstructions (either natural or manmade) on the site as a condition of development plan approval.
52.1.3.2. Use restrictions. No use may be made of land or water located within the RAFB approach-departure surfaces that would:
52.1.3.2.1. Create or result in electrical interference with navigational signals or radio communication between RAFB and aircraft operating within the affected areas;
52.1.3.2.2. Produce or reflect light in a sufficient intensity or manner that would make it difficult for pilots to distinguish between airport lights and other light sources, result in glare in the eyes of pilots using the base airport, or otherwise impair visibility in the vicinity of the base. All proposed light sources that could conflict with this requirement (except structure lighting required under FAR Part 77) shall be properly shielded or directed away from a pilot's field of visions;
52.1.3.2.3. Emit smoke or particulate matter which, in sufficient quantities or concentrations, would impair pilot visibility in the vicinity of the base or clog aircraft engines; or
52.1.3.2.4. Attract large flocks of birds, which would constitute a hazard to air navigation in the vicinity of the base. No solid waste disposal facility or landfill may be sited within areas affected by these regulations.
52.1.4. Review procedures. The standard zoning compliance process for the City of Warner Robins shall apply to the areas affected by these regulations. However, any applicant proposing to construct a structure that is:
(1)
Located within the RAFB outer horizontal surface or the approach-departure horizontal surface and would exceed two hundred (200) feet in height as measured from its tallest point to the finished ground level; or
(2)
Located within the RAFB primary surface, clear zone surface, inner horizontal surface, conical surface, approach-departure glide angle surface, or any transitional surface and would exceed one hundred (100) feet in height as measured from its tallest point to the finished ground level; shall comply with the following review procedures, in addition to the normal zoning compliance process.
52.1.4.1. RAFB civil engineer's office review. The City of Warner Robins shall provide a copy of an application for zoning compliance within the affected areas, including the development plan and a copy of the FAR Part 77 review transmittal letter and application as required, to the staff of the Middle Georgia Regional Commission (MGRC), within five (5) days of submittal by applicant. The staff of the MGRC will forward such information to the RAFB civil engineer's office and any other affected parties for review. The MGRC will review all comments and provide written recommendations to the City of Warner Robins zoning officer within ten (10) days of receipt. The planning and zoning commission may condition any approval upon RAFB recommendations.
52.1.4.2. FAA review. The applicant shall submit a copy of the application for FAA review under FAR Part 77, if applicable. A copy of the FAR Part 77 review transmittal letter and application shall be submitted to the planning and zoning commission to document compliance with this requirement. The planning and zoning commission may condition any approval upon FAA approval under FAA Part 77 review.
52.1.5. Submission requirements. An applicant shall submit a preliminary plan in accordance with the applicable requirements of these regulations for any development application that satisfies the special review requirements in section 52.1.4 above. The City of Warner Robins zoning officer may require the applicant to submit any or all of the items specified below, if the additional information is necessary to ensure compliance with the performance standards in section 52.1.3 above.
52.1.5.1. Imaginary surface boundaries. The applicant may be required to delineate on the preliminary plan the boundaries of any primary surface, clear zone surface, approach-departure clearance surfaces, inner horizontal surface, conical surface, outer horizontal surface, or transitional surfaces, if the location of the aforementioned surface boundaries with respect to the proposed development site or proposed structure locations is in question. All maps prepared to show the location of these boundaries shall be drawn to a scale designated by the City of Warner Robins zoning officer.
52.1.5.2. Location of structures. The applicant may be required to delineate the placement of all existing and proposed buildings and structures, including any existing or proposed tree stands.
52.1.5.3. Specification of uses. The applicant may be required to specify the proposed uses to occur within each structure or activity area on the development site.
52.1.5.4. Surface elevation benchmarks. The applicant may be required to show the surface elevation of all structures (above mean sea level) and the maximum height in feet of any structure. For residential subdivisions, the zoning officer may require the applicant to show surface elevations for the property in five-foot contours with sufficient benchmarks to verify contour elevations.
52.1.5.5. Narrative description. The applicant may be required to prepare a narrative describing the location of the site, its total acreage, existing character and use; the concept of the proposed development or use, such as proposed residential density, and the relation of the proposed development plan to the comprehensive plan.
52.1.6. Variances. Any applicant wishing to erect a new structure, increase the height of an existing structure, permit the growth of any tree, or commit the property to a use that is not in compliance with the regulations prescribed in these regulations may apply to the planning and zoning commission for a variance. The application for variance must be submitted in the form and manner specified in these regulations, and it must be accompanied by a written determination from the Federal Aviation Administration and the RAFB civil engineer's office stating that the proposed structure will not be located within a normal aircraft flight track, that the requested height variance will not be excessive, and that all appropriate measures will be taken by the applicant to prevent any negative impacts on safe navigation within the protected air space surrounding RAFB. Such variances shall be issued only where it is duly determined that a literal application or enforcement of these regulations will result in unnecessary hardship, and the relief granted will not be contrary to the public interest, will not create a hazard to air navigation, will do substantial justice, and will be in accordance with the spirit and intent of these regulations. In addition, the planning and zoning commission may solicit the testimony of a qualified professional, at the expense of the applicant, to evaluate the proposed development plans and issue any professional findings or opinions that would assist the board in reaching a decision regarding the variance request. The selection of a qualified professional shall be done by the planning and zoning commission.
52.2. Exemptions. No building or structure shall hereafter be erected, moved or altered so as to exceed the height limitations that may be specified herein for the district in which it is located, except for the following buildings and structures:
52.2.1. Churches, schools, hospitals, sanitariums and other public and semi-public and public utility buildings. There shall be no restriction on the height on [of] such buildings, provided the front, side, and rear yards required in the district in which such building is to be located shall be increased an additional one (1) foot for each one (1) foot that the building exceeds the maximum height permitted in the district.
52.2.2. Barns, silos, grain elevators, or other farm structures; belfries, cupolas and domes; monuments; water towers; transmission towers, windmills, chimneys; smokestacks; flagpoles; ratio towers, masts, and aerials.
52.2.3. Bulkheads, water tanks, and scenery lofts and similar structures provided that such structures shall not cover more than twenty-five (25) percent of the total roof area of the building on which such structures are located.
52.2.4. None of these exceptions to height limits shall be construed to allow structures located within the primary surface, clear zone surface, approach-departure clearance surfaces, inner horizontal surface, conical surface, outer horizontal surface, or transitional surfaces established for Robins Air Force Base to exceed the height restrictions imposed by section 52.1 above.
52.2.5. None of these exceptions to height limits shall apply to signs or outdoor advertising signs or poster panels which shall be subject to all height limitations of the district in which they are located.
(Ord. No. 32-14, 11-3-14)
Section 53. - Lots.
No lot, even though it may consist of one (1) or more adjacent lots of record, shall be reduced in size so that lot width or depth; front, side, or rear yard; inner or outer court; lot area per family; or other requirements of these regulations are not maintained. No building shall hereafter be constructed on a lot which does not have a minimum frontage of thirty (30) feet on a street. This section shall not apply when a portion of the lot in question is acquired for public purpose.
(Ord. No. 32-14, 11-3-14)
Section 54. - Yards and other spaces.
No part of a yard or open space, or loading space, or off-street parking space about any building, required for the purpose of complying with the provisions of these regulations shall be included as part of a yard, or off-street parking, or loading space, or open space similarly required for another building. Every part of a required yard or court shall be open from its lowest point to the sky unobstructed, except for the ordinary projection of sills, cornices, buttresses, ornamental features, chimneys, flues, and eaves, provided such projections shall not extend more than two (2) feet beyond the yard area requirements.
(Ord. No. 32-14, 11-3-14)
Section 55. - Densities.
No building shall hereafter be erected, moved, or altered so as to accommodate or house a greater number of families or household that is specified in the regulations herein for the district in which the building is or is to be located.
(Ord. No. 32-14, 11-3-14)
ARTICLE VI. - GENERAL PROVISIONS

Section 61. - Nonconformities.
Within the district established by these regulations or amendments that may later be adopted, there exists lots, structures, uses of land and structures, and characteristics of use which were lawful before these regulations were passed or amended, but which would be prohibited, regulated, or restricted under the terms of these regulations or future amendments. It is the intent of these regulations to permit these nonconformities to continue until they are removed, but not to encourage their survival. It is further the intent of these regulations that nonconformities shall not be enlarged upon, expanded or extended, nor be used as grounds for adding other structures or uses prohibited elsewhere in the same district.
61.1. Incompatibility of nonconforming uses. Nonconforming uses are declared by these regulations to be incompatible with permitted uses in the districts in which such use is located. A nonconforming use of structure, a nonconforming use of land, or a nonconforming use of a structure and land in combination shall not be extended or enlarged after passage of these regulations either by the attachment on a building or premises, of additional signs intended to be seen from off the premises; or by the addition of other uses of the property which would be generally prohibited in the district in which such use is located; or additions to any existing structure.
61.2. Avoidance of undue hardship. To avoid undue hardship, nothing in these regulations shall be deemed to require a change in the plans, construction, or designated use of any building on which actual construction was lawfully begun prior to the effective date of adoption or amendment of these regulations and upon which actual building construction has begun.
61.3. Single nonconforming lots of record. A single lot of record which does not meet the requirements for area or width, or both that are applicable in the district existing at the effective date of adoption or amendments of these regulations may be used or sold for the erection of those buildings and accessory buildings necessary to carry out the permitted uses in that district provided:
61.3.1. Yard dimensions and lot coverage requirements other than those applying to area or width or both, of the lot shall conform to the regulations for the district in which such lot is located;
61.3.2. Variance for yard dimensions and lot coverage requirements shall be obtained only through action of the planning and zoning commission as provided for in section 114;
61.3.3. Location requirements of accessory buildings and uses are met as provided for in section 93.1;
61.3.4. Parking space requirements for all districts as provided for in section 62.2;
61.3.5. Such lot must not have continuous frontage with other lots in the same ownership;
61.3.6. In residential districts, buildings shall be limited to single-family detached dwellings.
61.4. Nonconforming lots of record in combination. If two (2) or more lots or a combination of lots and portions of lots with continuous frontage in single ownership are of record at the time of passage or amendment of these regulations and if all or part of the lots do not meet the requirements established for lot width and area, the land involved shall be considered to be an undivided parcel for the purpose of these regulations and no portion of said parcel shall be used or sold in a manner which diminishes compliance with lot width and area requirements established by these regulations nor shall any division of any parcel be made which creates a lot with a width or area below the requirements stated in these regulations.
61.5. Nonconforming uses of land. Where, at the time of adoption of these regulations, lawful uses of land exist which would not be permitted by the requirements imposed by these regulations the uses may be continued so long as they remain otherwise lawful, provided:
61.5.1. No such nonconforming uses shall be enlarged or increased, nor extended to occupy a greater area of land than was occupied at the effective date of adoption or amendment of these regulations;
61.5.2. No such nonconforming uses shall be moved in whole or in part to any portion of the lot or parcel other than that occupied by such uses at the effective date of adoption or amendment of these regulations;
61.5.3. If any such nonconforming uses of land are discontinued for a period of more than one (1) year, any subsequent use of such land shall conform to the requirements specified by these regulations for the district in which such land is located; and
61.5.4. No additional structures not conforming to the requirements of these regulations shall be erected in connection with such nonconforming use of land.
61.6. Nonconforming structures. Where a lawful structure exists at the effective date of adoption or amendment of these regulations that could not be built under the terms of these regulations by reason of restriction on area, lot coverage, height, yards, its location on the lot, bulk, or other requirements concerning the structure, such structure may be continued so long as it remains otherwise lawful, subject to the following provisions:
61.6.1. No such nonconforming structure may be enlarged or altered in a way which increases its nonconformity, but any structure or portion thereof may be altered to decrease its nonconformity; further, that any such enlargement or alteration shall not in itself be nonconforming;
61.6.2. Should such nonconforming structure or nonconforming portion of structure be destroyed by any means to the extent of more than fifty (50) percent of its current replacement value, it shall not be reconstructed except in conformity with the provisions of these regulations;
61.6.3. Should such structure be voluntarily moved for any reason for any distance whatever, it shall thereafter conform to the requirements for the district in which located after it is moved.
61.7. Nonconforming uses of structures or structures and premises in combination. If a lawful use involving individual structures, or of a structure and premises in combination, exists at the effective date of adoption or amendment of the regulations that would not be allowed in the district under the terms of these regulations, the lawful use may be continued so long as it remains otherwise lawful; subject to the following provisions:
61.7.1. No existing structure devoted to a use not permitted by these regulations in the district in which it is located shall be enlarged, extended, constructed, reconstructed, voluntarily moved, or structurally altered except in changing the use of the structure to a use permitted in the district in which it is located;
61.7.2. Any structure, or structure and land in combination, in or on which a nonconforming use is superseded by a permitted use, shall thereafter conform to the regulations for the district, and the nonconforming use may not thereafter be resumed;
61.7.3. Any nonconforming use may be extended throughout any parts of a building which were manifestly arranged or designed for such use at the time of adoption or amendment of these regulations, but no such use shall be extended to occupy any land outside such building;
61.7.4. When a nonconforming use of a structure, or structure and premises in combination is discontinued or abandoned for more than one (1) year, the structure or structure and premises in combination, shall not thereafter be used except in conformity with the regulations of the district in which it is located;
61.7.5. Where nonconforming use status applies to a structure and premises in combination, removal or destruction of the structure to the extent of more than fifty (50) percent of its current replacement value, shall not eliminate the nonconforming status of the land.
61.8. Repairs and maintenance. On any nonconforming structure or portion of a structure containing a nonconforming use, work may be done on ordinary repairs including remodeling, or repair or replacement of nonbearing walls, fixtures, wiring, or plumbing, provided that the cubic content existing when it became nonconforming shall not be increased. Nothing in this section shall be deemed to prevent the strengthening or restoring to a safe condition of any building or part thereof declared to be unsafe by any official charged with protecting the public safety, upon order of such official.
(Ord. No. 32-14, 11-3-14)
Section 62. - Off-street automobile parking.
Off-street automobile storage or parking space shall be provided on every lot on which any permitted use is established in accordance with these regulations.
62.1. General requirements. For the purpose of these regulations, the following general requirements are specified:
62.1.1. The term "off-street parking space" shall mean a space with minimum dimensions shown below:
62.1.1.1 Conventional car space width of nine (9) feet and a minimum length of eighteen (18) feet, excluding area for egress and ingress and maneuverability of vehicles.
62.1.1.2 Compact car space width of eight (8) feet and a minimum length of fifteen (15) feet, excluding area for egress and ingress and maneuverability of vehicles.
62.1.2. Parking spaces for all uses shall be located on the same lot with the main buildings to be served, except as provided below:
62.1.2.1. If an off-street parking space cannot be reasonably provided on the same lot on which the principal use is conducted, the planning and zoning commission may permit (as a special exception) such space to be provided on other off-street property, provided such space lies within four hundred (400) feet of an entrance to the principal building and provided that such space is located within a zoning district which permits the principal use. Such vehicle parking space shall be associated with the permitted use and shall not thereafter be reduced or encroached upon in any manner.
62.1.2.2. The required number of parking spaces for any number of separate uses may be combined in one (1) lot, but the required space assigned to one (1) use may not be assigned to another use at the same time, except that up to one-half (½) of the parking space required for an existing church whose peak attendance will be at night or on Sundays may be assigned to a use which will be closed at nights or on Sundays. Other shared use may be approved as provided for in section 62.1.3.
62.1.3 Shared parking shall be allowed in accordance with the guidelines and model agreements shown in appendix B.
62.1.4. An area reserved for off-street parking in accordance with the requirements of these regulations shall not be reduced in area or changed to any other use unless the permitted use which it serves is discontinued or modified, except where equivalent parking space is provided to the satisfaction of the planning and zoning commission.
62.1.5. Off-street parking existing at the effective date of these regulations in connection with the operation of an existing building or use shall not be reduced to an amount less than hereinafter required for a similar new building or use.
62.1.6. All parking design shall be consistent with the Warner Robins Stormwater Local Design Manual and the most current version of the Institute of Traffic Engineers Parking Generation manual.
62.1.7. If the parking lot has fifty (50) or more required spaces, thirty (30) percent of those spaces shall be compact car dimensions.
62.1.8. Pervious pavement should be used in parking lots greater than fifty spaces (50) for overflow parking and shall not exceed twenty (20) percent of the total number of spaces required.
62.2. Parking space requirements for all districts except C-3 Concentrated Commercial Districts. Off-street automobile storage or parking space shall be provided with vehicular access to a street or alley, and shall be equal to the minimum requirements for the specified land use set forth.
EXPAND
Land Use Parking Requirements
Dwellings:
1. One (1) and two (2) families Two (2) spaces for each dwelling unit.
2. Multiple-family One (1) and one-half (1½) space per dwelling unit except for efficiency apartments for which one (1) space per dwelling unit shall be provided and housing for the elderly for which one (1) space for each dwelling unit shall be provided.
3. Hotels One (1) space for each one (1) room plus one (1) additional space for each five (5) employees.
4. Motels, tourist courts and homes, mobile homes and travel trailer parks One (1) space for each guest bedroom, mobile home or travel trailer space, plus one (1) additional space for a resident manager or owner.
5. Board and rooming houses, dormitories One (1) space for each bedroom.
Public assembly:
1. Churches and other places of worship One (1) space for each four (4) seats in the main auditorium or sanctuary.
2. Private clubs, lodges, and fraternal buildings not providing overnight accommodations One (1) space per sixty (60) square feet of floor area provided for patron use.
3. Theaters, auditoriums, coliseums, stadiums, and similar places of assembly One (1) space for each four (4) seats.
4. Libraries, museums One (1) space for each five hundred (500) square feet of gross floor space.
5. Schools, including kindergartens, playschools, and day care centers One (1) space for each four (4) seats in assembly hall, or one (1) space for each employee, including teachers and administrators, whichever is greater, plus five (5) spaces per classroom for high schools and colleges.
6. Skating rinks, dance halls, exhibition halls, pool rooms and other places of amusement or assembly without fixed seating arrangements One (1) space for each one hundred (100) square feet of floor area or ground area used for amusement or assembly.
7. Bowling alleys Four (4) spaces for each lane.
Health facilities:
1. Hospitals, sanitariums, nursing homes for the aged, and similar institutional uses One (1) space for each four (4) beds, plus one (1) space for each staff or visiting doctor, plus one (1) space for each four (4) employees, including nurses.
2. Kennels and animal hospitals One (1) and one half (1½) spaces for every one hundred (100) square feet of waiting room area, plus one (1) space for each two (2) employees.
3. Medical, dental, and health offices and clinics One (1) space for each two hundred (200) square feet of floor area used for offices and similar purposes.
4. Crematories, mortuaries, and funeral establishments Five (5) spaces per parlor or chapel unit, or one (1) space per four (4) seats, whichever is greater.
Businesses:
1. Automobile service and repair establishments One (1) space for each regular employee plus one (1) space for each two hundred fifty (250) square feet of service area.
2. Food and beverage store or grocery stores Four (4) spaces for each one thousand (1,000) square feet of total gross floor area.
3. Restaurants, including bars, cafes, taverns, night clubs, lunch counters, and all similar dining and/or drinking establishments One (1) space for each three (3) seats provided for patron use.
4. Office buildings, including banks, business, commercial, and professional offices One (1) space for each three hundred (300) square feet of ground floor area, plus one (1) space for each five hundred (500) square feet of upper floor space.
5. General business, commercial, or personal service establishments catering to the retail trade, but excluding food stores Four (4) spaces for each one thousand (1,000) square feet of total gross floor area.
6. Government offices One (1) space for each three hundred (300) square feet of ground floor area plus one (1) space for each five hundred (500) square feet of upper floor area and one (1) space for each governmental vehicle.
7. Shopping centers Five (5) parking spaces for each one thousand (1,000) square feet of gross floor area up to twenty thousand (20,000) SF and Four and half (4½) parking spaces for each one thousand (1,000) square feet of gross floor area in excess of twenty thousand (20,000) square feet.
8. Furniture stores One (1) space for each five hundred (500) square feet of gross floor area.
9. Public utilities, such as telephone exchanges and substations, radio, and TV stations, and electric power and gas substations A parking area equal to twenty-five (25) percent of the gross floor area.
10. Passenger car rental center One (1) space for each four hundred (400) square feet of gross floor area, plus one (1) space for each rental vehicle.
Industries:
1. Commercial, manufacturing, and industrial establishments, not catering to the retail trade One (1) space for each three (3) employees on the maximum working shift, plus one (1) space for each company vehicle operating from the premises.
2. Wholesale establishments One (1) space for every fifty (50) square feet of customer service area, plus two (2) spaces for each three (3) employees on the maximum working shift, plus one (1) space for each company vehicle operating from the premises.
  62.3. Parking space requirements for C-3 Concentrated Commercial District. All provisions set forth in Sections 61.1 and 61.2 shall apply to the C-3 Concentrated Commercial District except as follows:
62.3.1. Any commercial building existing on the effective date of these regulations may be reconstructed, remodeled, or enlarged without increasing the existing off-street parking spaces provided such reconstruction, remodeling, or enlargement does not exceed more than ten (10) percent of the original gross commercial floor area. Additional off-street parking must be provided for only that portion of the additional gross commercial floor area in excess of ten (10) percent in accordance with the provision set forth in these regulations.
62.3.2. Off-street automobile storage or parking space shall be provided with vehicular access to a street or alley, and shall be equal in area to at least the minimum requirements for the following specific land uses when such uses exceed three thousand (3,000) square feet of gross floor area:
EXPAND
Land Use Parking Requirements
1. Restaurants, including bars, grills, diners, cafes, taverns, nightclubs, lunch counters, and all similar dining and/or drinking establishments One (1) space for each six (6) seats provided for patron use plus one (1) space for each one (1) square foot of floor area provided for patron use but not containing seats.
2. Office buildings, including banks, business, commercial and professional offices and buildings, but excluding medical, dental, and health offices and clinics One (1) space for each five hundred (500) square feet of gross floor area.
3. General business, commercial or personal service establishments catering to the retail trade, but excluding food stores One (1) space for each four hundred (400) square feet of floor area designated for retail sales only.
4. Governmental offices One (1) space for each five hundred (500) square feet of gross area and one (1) space for each governmental vehicle.
  62.4. Site requirements. All off-street parking, except that for one- and two-family dwellings, shall be laid out, constructed, and maintained in accordance with the following requirements:
62.4.1. All such parking areas shall be hard surfaced with concrete or plant bituminous material. Overflow parking may be constructed with approved pervious materials and design. The remainder of the lot not occupied by structures shall be so mulched, seeded, sodded, or otherwise protected so that erosion and washing are prevented.
62.4.2. Lighting facilities shall be so arranged that light is reflected away from adjacent properties.
62.4.3. The parking lot shall be adequately drained.
62.4.4. A buffer consisting of a dense planting of trees and/or shrubs shall be established on a strip of land not less than fifteen (15) feet in width or a fence of solid appearance with a minimum height of six (6) feet eight (8) inches from the pavement on a strip of land not less than five (5) feet along those lot lines of the parking areas which abut residential districts. If a planted buffer is used, it shall be established to a minimum height of six (6) feet within two (2) years of planting.
62.4.5. A raised curb of at least six (6) inches shall be erected along all parking and parking lot areas except for driveway openings, and those lot lines abutting residential districts where the requirements in section 62.4.4 shall prevail. Where dry swales, infiltration strips, bioretention or other approved stormwater BMP's are proposed, curbing may be omitted as needed.
62.4.6. No off-street parking space or driveway shall be designed or constructed so as to require the backing of vehicles into the right-of-way of a public street.
62.4.7. For parking areas with twenty-one (21) or more parking spaces, at least five (5) percent of the parking lot area shall be permanently landscaped, excluding buffers as required in section 62.4.4.
(Ord. No. 32-14, 11-3-14; Ord. No. 03-17, § 1, 2-6-17)
Section 63. - Off-street loading and unloading space.
Off-street loading and unloading spaces shall be provided as hereinafter required by these regulations.
63.1. Size of off-street loading spaces. Each off-street loading space shall have minimum dimensions of fourteen (14) feet in height, twelve (12) feet in width, and fifty-five (55) feet in length. However, upon sufficient demonstration that a particular loading space will be used exclusively by smaller trucks, the planning and zoning commission may reduce the minimum size.
63.2. Connection to street or alley. Each required off-street loading space shall have access to a street or alley via a driveway which offers satisfactory ingress and egress for trucks.
63.3. Floor area over ten thousand square feet. There shall be provided for each hospital, institution, hotel, commercial, or industrial building or similar use requiring the receipt or distribution of materials or merchandise, and having a floor area of more than ten thousand (10,000) square feet, at least one (1) off-street loading space for each ten thousand (10,000) square feet of floor space or fraction thereof. Such space shall be so located as not to hinder the free movement of pedestrians and vehicles over sidewalk, street or alley.
63.4. Floor area less than ten thousand square feet. There shall be provided for each commercial or industrial building requiring the receipt or distribution of material or merchandise and having a floor area of less than ten thousand (10,000) square feet, sufficient off-street loading space (not necessarily a full space if shared by an adjacent establishment) so located as not to hinder the free movement of pedestrians and vehicles over a sidewalk, street, or alley.
63.5. Bus and trucking terminals. There shall be provided sufficient space to accommodate the maximum number of buses or trucks to be stored or to be loaded at the terminal at any one (1) time.
63.6. Location of off-street loading spaces. All required off-street loading spaces shall be located on the same lot as the building which they are intended to serve, or on an adjacent lot when shared with the use occupying said adjacent lot.
63.7. Permanent reservation. Area reserved for off-street loading in accordance with the requirements of these regulations shall not be reduced in area or changed to any other use unless the permitted use which is served is discontinued or modified, except where equivalent loading space is provided and approved by the planning and zoning commission.
(Ord. No. 32-14, 11-3-14)
Section 64. - Control of curb cuts and vision clearance.
The requirements for controlling curb cuts and maintaining vision clearance shall be as follows:
64.1. Curb cuts. No curb cut shall exceed fifty (50) feet in length, nor shall curb cuts be closer than twenty (20) feet to an intersection of two (2) streets measured along the curb line beginning at the end of the curb radius. All curb cuts shall be in compliance with the specifications detailed in Appendix A of these regulations.
64.2. Vision clearance. In all use districts, except C-3, Concentrated Commercial, no fence, wall, shrubbery, sign, marquee, or other obstruction to vision between the heights of two and one-half (2½) and ten (10) feet from the ground level shall be permitted within twenty-five (25) feet of the intersection of the right-of-way lines of two (2) streets or railroad lines, or of a street intersection with a railroad line.
(Ord. No. 32-14, 11-3-14)
Section 65. - Classification of streets.
All streets and roads in the City of Warner Robins are hereby divided into the following classes as shown on the major thoroughfare plan adopted by the appropriate city council.
65.1. Expressways. A street designed for fast, continuous movement of all types of traffic, with control over access to abutting property and the spacing of street intersections.
65.2. Arterial. A street designed for rapid, continuous movement of all types of traffic but with less control over the access points from streets and adjacent property than expressways.
65.3. Collector street. A street designated to carry traffic with relatively little interruption and at moderate speeds between local service streets and arterials, including the principal entrance streets of a residential development and streets for circulation within such a development.
65.4. Marginal access street. A street generally parallel and adjacent to expressways, arterials, or connector streets, for the purpose of providing access to abutting properties and of separating high-speed from local traffic.
65.5. Local service street. A street intended to provide direct access to abutting property.
65.6. Cul-de-sac. A service street having one (1) end open to traffic, with the other end permanently terminated by a turnaround.
(Ord. No. 32-14, 11-3-14)
Section 66. - Storage and parking of trailers and commercial vehicles.
Commercial vehicles and trailers used for commercial purposes shall not be parked or stored on any lot occupied by a dwelling or any lot in any residential district except in accordance with the following requirements:
66.1. No more than one (1) commercial vehicle per dwelling shall be permitted; and in no case shall commercial tractor trailers nor vehicles carrying explosives, gasoline (other than in the fuel tank used for propelling the vehicle), or liquefied petroleum products be permitted. The planning and zoning commission may grant a special exception to the terms of this provision based upon the following:
66.1.1. The commercial vehicles are not parked within a public street right-of-way.
66.1.2. The location of any commercial vehicles allowed creates no adverse safety hazards, traffic obstruction, or an impediment to access and egress of other properties.
66.2. A travel trailer shall not be occupied either temporarily or permanently while it is parked or stored in any area except in a travel trailer park authorized under these regulations.
(Ord. No. 32-14, 11-3-14; Ord. No. 05-18, Exh. A(a), 1-16-18)
Section 67. - Screening and lighting.
67.1. In any commercial or industrial district, any operation not conducted within a building, such as drive-in businesses, outdoor recreation, outdoor storage of materials, and outdoor servicing activities, shall be enclosed by a wall or fence of solid appearance or tight evergreen hedge not less than six (6) feet in height on a buffer strip of not less than ten (10) feet in width where necessary to conceal such areas or facilities from a residential district adjoining or facing across a street in the rear or on the side.
67.2. In any district where reference is made requiring adequate screening or buffering of a specified operation, such screen or buffer shall be a wall or fence of uniform material, solid in appearance or tight evergreen hedge not less than six (6) feet in height on a strip of land of not less than ten (10) feet in width.
67.3. Outdoor lighting of all types shall be directed so as to reflect away from all residential dwellings, and shall be so situated as not to reflect directly into any public right-of-way.
(Ord. No. 32-14, 11-3-14)
Section 68. - Minimum distance between buildings.
The following minimum distances between buildings shall be required unless otherwise specified within these regulations.
68.1. The minimum distance between main multi-family buildings located on the same lot or parcel shall be:
68.1.1. Front to front arrangement .....40 feet
68.1.2. Front to rear arrangement .....50 feet
68.1.3. Rear to rear arrangement .....30 feet
68.1.4. Side to side arrangement .....20 feet
68.1.5. All other combinations .....20 feet
(Ord. No. 32-14, 11-3-14)
Section 69. - Annexation of property.
69.1. Except as provided below, all property proposed to be annexed into the city shall be annexed with the same zoning classification assigned by Houston County.
69.2. Any property owner desiring annexation into the city contingent upon a zoning classification other than that assigned by the county shall submit an annexation petition conditioning such annexation on obtaining the stipulated zoning change. Thereafter, the procedure shall be the same as provided in section 114 of these regulations. Before final action, the mayor and council shall consider the land use plan in effect at the time of the petition. If the mayor and council do not approve the stipulated zoning change or special exception, then the owner may withdraw the petition to annex.
(Ord. No. 32-14, 11-3-14)
Section 70. - Storage of motor vehicle tires.
(1)
Finding. The mayor and council find that the open, uncovered storage of tires or the covered storage of tires from which water has not been drained, each provide breeding grounds for mosquitoes and other insects and provide watering sources for rodents and similar animals resulting in a nuisance to neighboring individuals and detriment to neighboring properties and consequent health and other hazards. This body further finds that it is necessary that the storage of such tires be regulated and that storage be prohibited unless in accordance with the terms of this ordinance.
(2)
Definition. For the purposes of this chapter, the word "tire" is defined as a hollow ring, made of rubber or other material, which is designed for placement on the wheel or rim of a motor vehicle to facilitate its operation.
(3)
Outside or uncovered storage of tires when prohibited. It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, corporation, organization or association of any kind in charge or control of any property within the area of the City of Warner Robins, whether as owner, tenant, occupant, lessee, agent or otherwise, to store or permit the storage of tires in the open or in an uncovered condition.
(4)
Covered storage of tires prohibited; exception. It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, corporation, organization or association of any kind in charge or control of any property within the area of the City of Warner Robins, whether as owner, tenant, occupant, lessee, or agent or otherwise, to store or permit the storage of tires in a covered area unless the same is protected from the elements and prior to storage, all water has been drained therefrom.
(5)
New storage. Any person, firm or corporation desiring to store more than twenty-five (25) used tires on property in the City of Warner Robins shall, before undertaking such storage, make application to the code enforcement office for a permit to affect such storage and which shall meet the following requirements:
(a)
All tires must be stored dry to prevent mosquito breeding.
(b)
The applicant shall demonstrate to the code enforcement officers how the intended storage will thereafter prevent the accumulation of water in the stored tires.
(c)
The application must be accompanied by payment of a fee of one hundred dollars ($100.00).
(d)
Upon receipt of the application and payment of the fee, the code enforcement office will cause the site to be inspected and will examine the proposed method of storage.
(6)
When permit issued. If the code enforcement officers determine that the tires to be stored are free of accumulations of water and the method of storage will be such as to thereafter prevent accumulations of water in the tires, the office shall issue a permit which shall be valid for the site of storage so long as the method of storage remains effective to prevent the accumulation of water and newly added stock is stored dry. If the storage methods and site fail to meet the foregoing standards, the office may, after notice and hearing, revoke the permit.
(7)
Application to existing storage site of tires. The owners or occupants of existing storage sites of tires shall, immediately upon the passage of this ordinance, make application as provided in subsection (6) above, and shall comply with the standards therein set forth; provided, however, that the owners or occupants of existing sites shall be allowed a period of thirty (30) days in which to bring existing storage into compliance with the provisions of this ordinance.
(8)
Code enforcement to carry out terms of chapter. The code enforcement office is hereby designated as the agency to receive and approve or disapprove applications under the provisions of this chapter and to enforce its terms. Each code enforcement officer is hereby appointed as agent for the City of Warner Robins for the service of citations for violations hereof.
(9)
When storage unlawful. It shall be unlawful for any person, or corporation to begin to store or continue the storage of used or discarded tires or to permit the storage of used or discarded tires unless the owner or occupant is the holder of a currently valid permit issued by code enforcement.
(10)
Zoning ordinance unaffected. Nothing herein contained shall be deemed to authorize any outside storage when it is prohibited by the zoning ordinance of the city.
(Ord. No. 32-14, 11-3-14)
ARTICLE VII. - USE REQUIREMENTS BY DISTRICTS

Section 71. - Residential districts.
71.1. R-I Single-Family Residential Districts.
71.1.1. Intent of district. This district is intended to be used for single-family residential areas with low population densities. Additional uses allowed only by special exception, include related noncommercial, recreational, religious, and educational facilities normally required to provide the basic elements of a balanced and attractive residential area. These areas are intended to be defined and protected from the encroachment of uses not performing a function necessary to the residential environment.
71.1.2. Permitted uses. Within the R-1, Single-Family Residential District, the following uses are permitted:
(1)
Single-family dwellings.
(2)
Accessory buildings and uses when located on the same lot or parcel of land as the main structure and customarily incident thereto and provided the requirements in section 93 are met.
(3)
Home swimming pools, provided that (1) the location of such is not closer than ten (10) feet to any property line; (2) the pool is enclosed by a wall or fence of at least four (4) feet in height; and (3) approval from the building and transportation department has been obtained.
(4)
Public utility structures and buildings provided installation is properly screened as required by section 67 and is required for service of the immediate area. No office shall be permitted, and no equipment shall be stored on the site.
(5)
Signs as provided in the City of Warner Robins Code of Ordinances chapter 6, article IX, Advertising and Signs.
(6)
Modular homes as defined above.
71.1.3. Uses allowed only by special exception. The following uses may be allowed only by special exception after a public hearing and approval by the planning and zoning commission in accordance with the provisions of section 114:
(1)
Churches and related accessory buildings, provided they are located on a lot fronting an arterial or collector street and are placed not less than fifty (50) feet from any property line.
(2)
Golf, swimming, tennis, or country clubs, publicly and privately owned and operated community clubs or associations, athletic fields, parks, and recreation areas, provided that no building for such purposes is located within one hundred (100) feet of any property line and also provided that any activity associated with such use which generates excessive or unusual light or noise shall not be located closer than two hundred fifty (250) feet to any residential structure in a residential zoning district.
(3)
Home business provided the requirements in section 95 are met.
(4)
Public and private schools and libraries excluding business and trade schools.
(5)
Group homes and personal care homes provided the requirements of section 97 are met.
71.2. R-2 Single-Family Residential District.
71.2.1. Intent of district. This district is intended to be used for single-family residential areas with low-to-medium population densities. Additional uses allowed only by special exception, include related noncommercial, recreational, religious and educational facilities normally required to provide the basic elements of a balanced and attractive residential area. These areas are intended to be defined and protected from the encroachment of uses not performing a function necessary to the residential environment.
71.2.2. Permitted uses. Within the R-2 district, the following uses are permitted:
(1)
Any use permitted in an R-1 district.
71.2.3. Uses allowed only by special exception. The following uses may be allowed only by special exception by the planning and zoning commission in accordance with the provisions of section 114.
(1)
Any use allowed only by special exception in an R-1 district.
(2)
Group homes and personal care homes provided the requirements of section 97 are met.
71.3. R-3 General Residential District.
71.3.1. Intent of district. This is a residential district to provide for a medium population density. The district permits an intermixture of dwelling types; to provide more interesting aesthetic categories of dwellings; and to situate these uses where they are well served by public and commercial services.
71.3.2. Permitted uses. Within the R-3 district, the following uses are permitted:
(1)
Any use permitted in an R-2 district.
(2)
Two-family dwellings (duplex).
(3)
Single-family attached dwellings provided the requirements in sections 90 and 92 are met.
(4)
Single-family semi-detached dwellings.
71.3.3. Uses permitted by special exceptions. The following uses may be allowed only by special exception by the planning and zoning commission in accordance with the provisions of section 114:
(1)
Any use allowed by special exception in an R-1 district.
(2)
Group homes and personal care homes provided the requirements of section 97 are met.
71.4. R-4 Multi-Family Residential District.
71.4.1. Intent of district. This is a residential district to provide for higher population densities. The principal uses of land may range from single-family to multiple-family apartment uses. Certain uses which are more compatible functionally with intense residential uses than with commercial uses are allowed only by special exception.
71.4.2. Permitted uses. Within the R-4 district, the following uses are permitted:
(1)
Any use permitted in an R-3 district.
(2)
Multi-family dwellings.
71.4.3. Uses allowed by special exception. The following uses may be allowed only by special exception by the planning and zoning commission in accordance with the provisions of section 114:
(1)
Any use allowed only by special exception in an R-1 district.
(2)
Hospitals, sanitariums, clinics, convalescent or nursing homes, provided that the lot fronts on an arterial or major collector street.
(3)
Clubs and lodges, provided that food service facilities are limited to members and their guests.
(4)
Medical, dental, or chiropractic office, clinic, and/or laboratory.
(5)
Professional office uses.
(6)
Group homes and personal care homes provided the requirements of section 97 are met.
71.5. R-MH Manufactured Home Residential District.
71.5.1. Intent of district. The intent of this district shall be to provide adequate locations and densities for manufactured home parks, individual manufactured homes and other uses permitted by these regulations within this district.
71.5.2. Permitted uses. Within an MHP district, the following uses are permitted:
(1)
Any use permitted in an R-1 district.
(2)
Individual manufactured homes.
(3)
Manufactured home parks as provided for in section 91.2.
(4)
Service and auxiliary buildings located and specifically designed to serve only the residents of one (1) manufactured home park, not to include automobile or manufactured home repair facilities or repair facilities of any type. Permitted buildings shall be limited to the following uses:
(a)
Manufactured home park management office.
(b)
Storage for maintenance tools, equipment, and supplies.
(c)
Residence for the exclusive use of a watchman, caretaker, owner or manager of a manufactured home park.
(d)
Recreation, assembly, and laundry facilities for the exclusive use of the manufactured home residents and their guests.
71.5.3. Uses allowed only by special exception. The following uses may be allowed only by special exception by the planning and zoning commission in accordance with the provisions of section 114.
(1)
Any use allowed by special exception in an R-1 district.
71.6. R-AG Agricultural Residential District.
71.6.1. Intent of district. This district is established to protect rural areas against the blight and depreciation which can result from premature development; to encourage the development of rural areas in a coordinated and orderly manner; to protect the use of land adjoining roads passing through the rural portions of the county against strip development which can lead to traffic congestion and traffic hazards.
71.6.2. Permitted uses. Within an R-AG agricultural district, the following uses are permitted:
(1)
Single-family dwellings.
(2)
Accessory buildings and uses when located on the same lot or parcel of land as the main structure and customarily incident thereto and provided the requirements in section 93 are met.
(3)
Home swimming pools, provided that (1) the location of such is not closer than ten (10) feet to any property line; (2) the pool is enclosed by a wall or fence of at least four (4) feet in height; and (3) approval from the building inspections department has been obtained.
(4)
Agricultural crops, including the raising of livestock and poultry, provided that all animals and fowl (except those generally recognized as household pets) shall be kept in a structure, pen, or corral, and that no structure containing livestock or poultry and no storage of manure or odor or dust-producing substance or use shall be located within fifty (50) feet of any property line.
(5)
Churches and related accessory buildings, provided they are located on a lot fronting an arterial or collector street and are placed not less than fifty (50) feet from any property line.
(6)
Public utility structures and buildings provided installation is properly screened as required in section 67. No office shall be permitted, and no equipment shall be stored on the site.
(7)
Individual manufactured homes.
71.6.3. Uses permitted by special exception. The following uses may be permitted as a special exception by the planning and zoning commission in accordance with the provisions of section 114.
(1)
Public or privately owned and operated golf, swimming, tennis, or country clubs, community clubs or association, fishing and hunting clubs, athletic fields, parks and other recreation areas, provided that no building for such purposes is located within one hundred (100) feet of any property line.
(2)
Home occupations provided the requirements in section 95 are met.
(3)
Kindergartens, playschools, and day care centers and day care homes.
(4)
Private schools and libraries.
(5)
Cemeteries, provided they are located abutting a paved road and are screened six (6) feet from adjoining properties.
(6)
Tenant houses, and one-family dwellings, when located on the same lot or tract as the principle residence, on the basis of one-residence structure for each five (5) acres in addition to the minimum lot area required for the principle residence, and subject to all the yard requirements of this district.
(7)
Sale of products and commodities raised on the premises provided that no structure for such sales shall be closer than twenty-five (25) feet to either the front or side property lines.
(8)
Riding stable and academics, provided that no structure, pen or corral housing animals shall be closer than two hundred (200) feet to any property line.
(9)
Sanitariums, rest homes, hospitals, and animal kennels.
(10)
Airplane landing fields including flight strips and helicopter ports and accessory facilities.
(11)
Radio or television transmission stations.
(12)
Quarries and strip mining operations subject to the requirements of the Georgia Surface Mining Act of 1968, and provided that all operations are screened from the view of adjoining roads and properties.
(13)
Temporary or portable sawmills for the cutting of timber on adjacent land and provided that all operations are screened from the view of adjoining roads and properties.
(14)
Additional dwellings on a single lot, provided the requirements of section 107 are met.
(15)
Sanitary landfills subject to the provisions of the Georgia Solid Waste Management Act and the rules of the Georgia Department of Natural Resources governing solid waste management.
(16)
Group homes and personal care homes provided the requirements of section 97 are met.
Section 72. - Commercial districts.
72.1. C-1 Neighborhood Service Commercial District.
72.1.1. Intent of district. The C-1 district is specifically intended to provide for the customary retail and service needs of a residential neighborhood and other land uses intended to serve the immediate vicinity or neighborhood as the primary service area.
72.1.2. Required conditions.
(1)
All sales, business, servicing, storage, or processing shall be conducted within a completely enclosed building except where the nature of the activity makes it impossible, as for example, off-street loading, automobile parking for customers while on the premises, and the sale of automobile fuel at service stations. No more than twenty (20) percent of the floor space is to be used for storage.
(2)
Uses, processes, or equipment employed shall be limited to those which are not objectionable by reason of odor, dust, bright lights, smoke, noise, or vibration.
(3)
No sale of beer or wine for consumption on the premises, except with meals.
(4)
Products to be sold only at retail.
(5)
No sale, display, or storage of second-hand merchandise except as incidental to sale of new merchandise.
(6)
Lot must front onto an arterial or collector street.
(7)
Off-street parking shall not require backing or maneuvering into the right-of-way of a public street.
72.1.3. Permitted uses. Within the C-1 district, the following uses are permitted:
(1)
Retail business involving the sale of merchandise on the premises, in stores having a size under three thousand five hundred (3,500) square feet.
(a)
Book, magazine and newspaper stores (except those marketing adult-oriented merchandise).
(b)
Candy store.
(c)
Delicatessen.
(d)
Drugstore or pharmacy (excluding those marketing comparison shopping goods).
(e)
Photographic, camera or art store, providing such art is not adult-oriented material.
(f)
Grocery store.
(g)
Bakery providing goods baked on premise are sold retail only.
(h)
Butcher shop or poultry/fish store providing no slaughter on premises.
(i)
Convenience store.
(j)
Florist shop.
(k)
Gift or curio shop or antique shop.
(l)
Bicycle repair shop.
(m)
Insurance agency.
(n)
Jewelry and watch repair shop.
(o)
Real estate agency.
(p)
Hobby and toy stores.
(2)
Businesses in facilities having a size under three thousand five hundred (3,500) square feet involving the rendering of a personal service or the repair and servicing of small equipment, limited to:
(a)
Barber shop, beauty shop, or combination thereof.
(b)
Dressmaker, seamstress, tailor.
(c)
Dry cleaning and/or laundry self-service facilities and pick-up station.
(d)
Office for governmental, business, professional, or general purpose (but no storage of vehicles or equipment on the premises is permitted except emergency vehicles).
(e)
Studio offering instruction in art, music, dancing, drama, or similar cultural activity.
(f)
Shoe repair shop.
(3)
Other land uses intended to serve the immediate vicinity of neighborhoods or the primary service area, limited to:
(a)
Private or semi-private club, lodge, union hall or social center.
(b)
Church, synagogue, or other place of worship.
(c)
Publicly-owned and operated building, facility, or land (but overnight storage of vehicle or equipment other than emergency vehicles on the premises is not permitted).
(d)
Kindergarten, play schools, and day care centers and homes.
(e)
Accessory buildings and uses when located on the same lot or parcel of land as the main structure and customarily incident thereto, provided the requirements in section 93 are met.
(f)
Public utility substation or other installation provided that such use is adequately screened as required by section 67, and there is neither commercial operation nor storage of vehicles or equipment on the premises.
(g)
Group homes and personal care homes provided the requirements of section 97 are met.
(h)
Assisted living facilities, nursing homes, personal care homes and similar uses.
72.1.4. Uses allowed only by special exception. The following uses may be allowed only by special exception by the planning and zoning commission in accordance with the provisions of section 114:
(1)
Locksmith or gunsmith.
(2)
Automobile service station, provided no automobile repair is performed and the requirements in section 96 are met.
(3)
Restaurants, grills, and lunch counters having a size under three thousand five hundred (3,500) square feet (but not including night clubs, bars, taverns, liquor stores, drive-in restaurants, or curb-service establishments).
(4)
Dry cleaning or laundry establishments, providing that only laundering, cleaning or pressing done on the premises involves only articles delivered to the premises by individual customers. This is intended to exclude laundering and dry cleaning centralized plants serving multiple locations and/or route pickups.
(5)
Branches of banks and savings and loan associations.
(6)
Halfway houses.
72.2. C-2 General Commercial District.
72.2.1. Intent of district. The intent of this district shall be to provide a commercial district designed to serve the community at-large consisting of a wide variety of sales and service facilities and locations that will be accessible to all shoppers, as well as serving the motoring public.
72.2.2. Required conditions.
(1)
All businesses, servicing, storage, or processing shall be conducted within a completely enclosed building except where the nature of the activity makes it impossible, as, for example, off-street loading, automobile parking for customers while on the premises, miniature golf courses, and the sale of automobile fuel at service stations.
(2)
Uses, processes, and equipment employed shall be limited to those which are not objectionable by reason of odor, dust, bright lights, smoke, noise or vibration.
72.2.3. Permitted uses. Within the C-2 General Commercial District, the following uses are permitted:
(1)
All uses permitted and allowed only by special exception in C-1 district, without regard to size of establishment.
(2)
Amusement enterprises, such as miniature and Par-3 golf, golf-driving ranges, skating rinks, coin-operated amusement centers, "go-cart"-type miniature auto racing tracks and similar enterprises, provided that any such "go-cart"-type miniature auto racing tracks shall be at least two hundred fifty (250) feet from any residential structure in a residentially-zoned district.
(3)
Motels and hotels which shall contain a minimum lot area of forty thousand (40,000) square feet.
(4)
Automobile repair garage, mechanical and body, provided all operations are conducted in a building. Within one hundred (100) feet of a residential district, no openings, other than a stationary window, shall face a residential district. An automobile repair garage shall not store or otherwise maintain any parts or waste material outside such buildings.
(5)
Bus and railroad terminal facilities.
(6)
Restaurants, including drive-in establishments provided that when such a drive-in establishment abuts a residential district, it shall be separated from such district by a six-foot high buffer (as defined in section 32) and having no light shining directly into residential districts.
(7)
Theatres, including drive-in theaters, provided acceleration and deceleration lanes of at least two hundred (200) feet in length are provided for the use of vehicles entering or leaving the theatre and the volume or concentration of traffic will not constitute a safety hazard or unduly impede highway traffic movements, and provided the screen is not visible from any expressway, freeway, arterial, or collector street located two thousand (2,000) feet from such screen.
(8)
Travel trailer parks provided the requirements in section 91 are met.
(9)
Bars, taverns and night clubs.
(10)
Any retail business or commercial use in which there is no processing or treatment of materials, goods, or products (except for merchandise for sale on the premises, or as otherwise provided for herein), including:
(a)
General farming equipment and horticulture sales.
(b)
Furniture, home furnishings, office furniture, and equipment.
(c)
Automobile, travel trailer, farm equipment and implements, and mobile home sales (new and used) which need not be enclosed, by any mechanical or body repair must be conducted entirely within a structure which shall not have any opening, other than a stationary window, within one hundred (100) feet of a residential district and provided further that all vehicles on a used vehicle or equipment sales lot must be in operating condition at all times.
(d)
Produce sales and farmers market.
(e)
Package liquor stores.
(f)
Clothing stores.
(g)
Hardware stores.
(h)
Variety stores (dollar stores).
(i)
Record/music stores.
(j)
Jewelry stores.
(k)
Sporting goods.
(l)
Paint stores.
(m)
Pet stores.
(11)
Golf, swimming, tennis, or country clubs, privately owned and operated community clubs, or recreational areas provided that any activity associated with such uses which generate excessive or unusual noise or light shall not be located closer than two hundred fifty (250) feet of any residential structure in a residential zoning district.
(12)
Public utility structure and buildings, including electric and natural gas substations, telephone exchanges, radio and television stations, and similar structures for the storage of supplies, equipment or service operations when properly screened as required in section 67.
(13)
Places of assembly, including auditoriums, stadiums, coliseums, and dance halls provided that any activity associated with such uses which generates excessive or unusual noise or light shall not be located closer than two hundred fifty (250) feet to any residential structure.
(14)
Public and private schools and libraries.
(15)
Board and rooming houses.
(16)
Food locker plant renting lockers for the storage of food, including sale of retail delivery, and cutting package of meats but not including slaughtering.
(17)
Printing, blueprinting, book binding, photostating, lithography, and publishing establishments.
(18)
Undertaking, mortuary, crematory or funeral establishments and ambulance services.
(19)
Hospitals, clinics, sanitariums, convalescent or nursing homes.
(20)
Commercial parking garage or lot provided no entrance or exit be on the same side of the street and within the same block as an elementary school and that curb breaks be limited to two (2) for each one hundred (100) feet of street frontage, each not to exceed thirty (30) feet in width and not closer than twenty (20) feet to a street intersection.
(21)
Temporary uses including sale of Christmas trees, tents for revivals, carnivals, church bazaars, sale of seasonal fruit and vegetables from roadside stands, but such use not permitted for a period to exceed two (2) months in any calendar year.
(22)
Veterinary hospital, kennel, or clinic provided any structure used for such purpose shall be a minimum of one hundred (100) feet from any residential district.
(23)
Automobile laundry or car wash provided that a paved area shall be located on the same lot for the storage of vehicles awaiting entrance to the washing process sufficient to contain a number of vehicles [at two hundred (200) square feet per vehicle] equal to one-third (⅓) of the practical hourly capacity of the washing machines and in addition that curb breaks be limited to two (2), each not to exceed thirty (30) feet in width, and located not closer than twenty (20) feet to an intersection.
(24)
Appliance, television, or radio repair with no outside storage of such or of parts of such.
(25)
Furniture repair or upholstering (but not furniture manufacturing).
(26)
Indoor shooting ranges.
(27)
Self-storage facilities. Uses not related to the short-term storage of household items and non-hazardous, non-perishable durable goods are prohibited at self-storage facilities, this includes storage of hazardous items, perishable goods or animals, and use as a residence, office, workshop, studio, band rehearsal area or place of business.
(28)
Group homes and personal care homes provided the requirements of section 97 are met.
72.2.4. Uses allowed only by special exception. The following uses may be permitted as a special exception by the planning and zoning commission in accordance with the provisions of section 114:
(1)
Appliance, television, or radio repair with outside storage of such or of parts of such provided a buffer is planted and maintained.
(2)
Building and lumber supply establishments provided that:
(a)
The entire storage area is properly screened as required in section 67 or for a height greater as required to adequately screen such area, and
(b)
Any machine operations be conducted entirely within a building which shall not have any opening facing a residential district, other than a stationary window, within one hundred (100) feet of a residential district.
(3)
The repair of electric components and the assembly of electric components, subassemblies and small systems composed of plastic, vinyl or other materials, under the following restrictions:
(a)
No manufacturing or goods from raw materials shall be allowed;
(b)
All such operations must be conducted indoors;
(c)
Such operations shall be limited to building structures with less than ten thousand (10,000) square feet; and
(d)
No more than twenty (20) percent of the total square footage of any building shall be used for the storage of any type materials and/or goods, whether assembled or unassembled.
(4)
Halfway houses.
72.3. C-3 Concentrated Commercial District.
72.3.1. Intent of district. The intent of this district is to allow a more intense use of land for both commercial and residential uses in an area that is adjacent and complementary to the central business district of the city. The specific purposes of the district are to:
(1)
Accommodate mixed-use buildings with neighborhood-serving retail, service, and other uses on the ground floor and residential units above the nonresidential space;
(2)
Encourage development that exhibits the physical design characteristics of pedestrian-oriented, storefront-style shopping streets; and
(3)
Promote the health and well-being of residents by encouraging physical activity, alternative transportation, and greater social interaction.
72.3.2. Definitions. When used in these regulations the following words and phrases shall have the meaning given in this section:
(1)
Accessory parking is parking that is available on or off-site that is not part of the uses' minimum parking standard.
(2)
Floor area ratio means the ratio of a building's gross floor area to the area of the lot on which the building is located.
(3)
Gross floor area is the sum of the gross horizontal areas of all floors of a building measured from the exterior faces of the exterior walls or from the centerline of walls separating two (2) buildings. Gross floor area does not include basements when at least one-half (½) the floor-to-ceiling height is below grade, accessory parking, attic space having a floor-to-ceiling height less than seven (7) feet, exterior balconies, uncovered steps, or inner courts.
(4)
Mixed-use building means a building that contains at least one (1) floor devoted to allowed nonresidential uses and at least one (1) devoted to allowed residential uses.
72.3.3. Permitted uses. Uses are allowed in the mixed-use development district in accordance with the use table of this section.
Use Categories: Residential, Public and Civic, Commercial, Industrial and Other
P = Permitted C = Conditional Use N = Not Allowed
EXPAND
RESIDENTIAL
Household living
Artist live/work space located above the ground floor P
Artist live/work space, ground floor C
Dwelling units located above the ground floor P
Detached house C
Multi-unit (3+ units) residential C
Single-room occupancy C
Townhouse C
Two-flat C
Group living
Assisted living C
Group home P
Halfway house C
Nursing home C
Personal care home C
Temporary shelter C
Transitional living center C
PUBLIC AND CIVIC
Colleges and universities P
Cultural exhibits and libraries P
Day care P
Hospital N
Lodge or private club N
Parks and recreation P
Postal service P
Public safety services P
Religious assemblies P
School C
Utilities and services, minor P
Utilities and services, major C
COMMERCIAL
Adult use N
Animal services
Shelter/boarding kennel N
Sales and grooming P
Veterinary P
Artist work or sales space P
Drive-through facility C
Eating and drinking establishments
Restaurant P
Tavern C
Entertainment and spectator sports
Small (1—149 seats) P
Medium (150—999 seats) N
Large (1,000+ seats) N
Financial services P
Food and beverage retail sales P
Gas stations N
Lodging
Small (1—16 guest rooms) P
Large (17+ guest rooms) C
Medical service P
Office P
Parking, commercial (non-accessory) C
Personal service, health clubs and gyms P
Repair service, consumer, including bicycles P
Residential storage warehouse N
Retail sales, general P
Vehicle sales, service, and repair N
INDUSTRIAL
Manufacturing, production and industrial services
Artisan (hand-tools only; e.g. jewelry or ceramics) C
OTHER
Wireless communication facilities
Co-located P
Freestanding (towers) C
  72.3.4. Commercial establishment size limits. The gross floor area of commercial establishments in the mixed-use development district shall not exceed fifteen thousand (15,000) square feet.
72.3.5. Indoor/outdoor operations. All permitted uses in the mixed-use development district must be conducted within completely enclosed buildings unless otherwise expressly authorized. This requirement does not apply to off-street parking or loading areas, automated teller machines, or outdoor seating areas.
72.3.6. Floor-to-floor heights and floor area of ground-floor space.
(1)
All commercial floor space provided on the ground floor of a mixed-use building must have a minimum floor-to-ceiling height of eleven (11) feet.
(2)
All commercial floor space provided on the ground floor of a mixed-use building must contain the following minimum floor area:
a.
At least eight hundred (800) square feet or twenty-five (25) percent of the lot area (whichever is greater) on lots with street frontage of less than fifty (50) feet; or
b.
At least twenty (20) percent of the lot area on lots with fifty (50) feet of street frontage or more.
72.3.7. Lot area per unit (density). The minimum lot area per dwelling unit shall be one thousand (1,000) square feet for mixed-use buildings and one thousand five hundred (1,500) square feet for all other buildings.
72.3.8. Floor area ratio. The maximum FAR shall be 2.0 for mixed-use buildings and 1.25 for all other buildings.
72.3.9. Setbacks.
(1)
The entire building façade must abut front and street side property lines or be located within ten (10) feet of such property lines.
(2)
The minimum rear setback is zero (0) to thirty (30) percent of the lot depth.
(3)
No interior side setbacks are required in the mixed-use development district, except when MUDD-zoned property abuts R-zoned property, in which case the minimum side setback required in the MUDD District shall be the same as required for a residential use on the abutting R-zoned lot.
72.3.10. Building height. The maximum building height shall be thirty-eight (38) to fifty (50) feet for mixed-use buildings and thirty-five (35) to forty-seven (47) feet for all other buildings.
72.3.11. Off-street parking. See section 62: Off-street automobile parking in zoning ordinance for off-street parking requirements. No off-street parking is required for nonresidential uses in the MUDD District unless such uses exceed three thousand (3,000) square feet of gross floor area, in which case off-street parking must be provided for the floor areas in excess of three thousand (3,000) square feet. Off-street parking spaces must be located to the rear of the principal building or otherwise screened so as to not be visible from public right-of-way or residential zoning districts.
72.3.12. Transparency.
(1)
A minimum of sixty (60) to seventy-five (75) percent of the street-facing building façade between two (2) feet and eight (8) feet in height must be comprised of clear windows that allow views of indoor space or product display areas.
(2)
The bottom of any window or product display window used to satisfy the transparency standard of paragraph (1) above may not be more than three (3) to four and one-half (4.5) feet above the adjacent sidewalk.
(3)
Product display windows used to satisfy these requirements must have a minimum height of four (4) feet and be internally lighted.
72.3.13. Doors and entrances.
(1)
Buildings must have a primary entrance door facing a public sidewalk. Entrances at building corner may be used to satisfy this requirement.
(2)
Building entrances may include doors to individual shops or businesses, lobby entrances, entrances to pedestrian-oriented plazas, or courtyard entrances to a cluster of shops or businesses.
72.3.14. Vehicle and driveway access. No curb cuts are allowed for lots that abut alleys.
72.3.15. Landscaping. Minimum standards for landscaping are necessary to ensure that higher standards of site planning are realized and to tie the separate elements of the mixed use development together. Refer to the City of Warner Robins' Tree Preservation and Landscaping Ordinance for requirements and standards.
(Ord. No. 32-14, 11-3-14)
Section 73. - Wholesale and industrial districts.
73.1. M-1 Wholesale and Light Industrial District.
73.1.1. Intent of district. The intent of this district shall be to create and protect areas for wholesale and light industrial uses and to provide performance standards for the operation of such uses. It is further intended that no new residential uses shall be permitted.
73.1.2. Permitted uses. Within the M1 Wholesale and Light Industrial District, the following uses are permitted:
(1)
All permitted uses in a C-2 General Commercial District except multi-family dwellings.
(2)
Ice plants.
(3)
Contractor's storage and equipment yards when located entirely within a building or fenced area as required in section 67.
(4)
Building and lumber supply establishments provided entire storage area is properly screened as required in section 67, or for a greater height as required to adequately screen such areas, and that any machine operations be conducted entirely within a building which shall not have any opening facing a residential district, other than a stationary window, within one hundred (100) feet of a residential district.
(5)
Wholesale warehouses and distribution of materials or commodities.
(6)
Auto auctions.
(7)
Trade shops including sheet metal, roofing, upholstering, electrical, plumbing, venetian blind, cabinet making and carpentry, rug and carpet cleaning, and sign painting provided that all operations are conducted entirely within a building which shall not have any opening facing a residential district other than stationary windows, within one hundred (100) feet of any residential district.
(8)
Establishments for manufacture, repair assembly, or processing including:
(a)
Confectionery manufacture.
(b)
Clothing and garment manufacture.
(c)
Laboratories for testing materials, chemical analysis, photography processing.
(d)
Manufacture and assembly of scientific, optical, and electronic equipment.
(e)
Manufacture of musical instruments and parts.
(f)
Manufacture of souvenirs and novelties.
(g)
Manufacture of toys, sporting, and athletic goods.
(9)
Food processing plants, such as commercial bakeries, meat packers, fish and poultry houses which do not involve the slaughtering or cleaning of animal carcasses on the premises.
(10)
Bottling works for soft drinks.
(11)
Frozen food and milk bottling, distribution, and processing plants.
(12)
Truck terminals provided that acceleration lanes of at least two hundred (200) feet are provided for trucks entering and leaving the site and that truck traffic so generated will not create a safety hazard or unduly impede traffic movement.
(13)
Any other establishments for the manufacture, repair, assembly, or processing of materials similar in nature to those listed in this section which are not objectionable by reason of smoke, dust, odors, bright lights, noise or vibration, or which will not materially contribute to the congestion of traffic.
(14)
Above-ground tanks for the storage of gasoline, liquefied petroleum gas, oil, or other inflammable liquids or gases provided that (1) they are located within a totally-enclosed facility; and (2) all pertinent rules and regulations of the Georgia Safety Fire Commissioner are met.
73.2. M-2 Industrial District.
73.2.1. Intent of district. The intent of this district shall be to create and protect areas for industrial use and to provide performance standards for the operation of such uses. It is further intended that no new residential uses shall be permitted.
73.2.2. Permitted uses. Within the M-2 Industrial District, the following uses are permitted:
(1)
All permitted uses in M-1 Wholesale and Light Industrial District.
(2)
Agriculture, forestry, livestock, and poultry processing, provided that the operation is conducted on a tract of land not less than ten (10) acres in area, and that no structure containing poultry or livestock and no storage of manure or odor- or dust-producing substance or use shall be located within two hundred (200) feet of a property line. All animals (except those generally recognized as pets) shall be kept in a structure, pen, or corral.
(3)
Dwelling, including a mobile home, for the exclusive use of a watchman or caretaker when located on the same tract as the industrial use and subject to all dimensional and area requirements of the R-4 Multi-Family Residential District.
(4)
Manufacturing, assembling, processing, fabricating, repair and servicing of any commodity or product, subject to the performance standards for nonresidential uses given in section 99.
(5)
Outside above-ground tanks for the storage of gasoline, liquefied petroleum gas, oil, or other inflammable liquids or gases provided that all pertinent rules and regulations of the Georgia Safety Fire Commission are met and facilities used for the storage of inflammable liquids or gases are not located any closer than five hundred (500) feet of any residential district.
73.2.3. Uses allowed only by special exception. The following uses may be permitted as a special exception by the planning and zoning in accordance with the provisions of section 114:
(1)
Junkyards provided the following provisions are met:
(a)
No such operation shall be permitted to locate closer than three hundred (300) feet to a residential district and no closer than fifty (50) feet to any property line.
(b)
No such operation shall be permitted to locate on or facing a state or federal highway.
(c)
All such operations shall be completely enclosed by a buffer or wall, in accordance with the provisions of section 67, except driveway areas, having a minimum height of six (6) feet, but in no case less than such a height as will effectively screen all operations from view.
(d)
The number of vehicular driveways permitted on any single street frontage shall be limited to one per five hundred (500) feet with a maximum of twenty (20) feet driveway width.
(Ord. No. 32-14, 11-3-14)
Section 74. - Special districts.
74.1. Planned development districts.
74.1.1. Intent of districts. The purpose of this section is to provide greater design flexibility in the development of land consistent with the comprehensive development plan. The use of planned development zoning classifications should be encouraged when they promote a harmonious variety of uses, provide for an economy of shared services and facilities, are compatible with surrounding areas, and foster the creation of attraction, healthful, efficient, and stable environments for living, shopping or working.
The planned development district regulations and procedures may apply to the development of presently open or vacant lands and may apply to parcels of relatively small size as well as large-scale development, depending upon the nature of the proposed use and improvements and their relationship with other surrounding uses and the overall characteristics of the area in which they are located.
Planned development district regulations are intended to encourage innovations in land development techniques so that the changing demands of the community may be met with greater flexibility and variety in type, design, and layout of sites and buildings and by the conversion and more efficient use of open spaces and other amenities generally enhancing the quality of life.
Planned development projects should also encourage a more efficient use of land which reflects changes in the technology and economics of land development so that resulting economies may accrue to the benefit of the community at large.
Planned development residential (PDR), planned development commercial (PDC), planned development industrial (PDI) and planned development extraordinary (PDE) districts differ from each other in the nature of the uses permitted.
74.1.2. Eligibility requirements for planned development districts. In determining the eligibility of an area of land or development for designation as a planned development district, the commission must find that one (1) or more of the following conditions exists:
(1)
More than one (1) principal use of land or separate uses of land, which would not be permitted to locate within the same district, are proposed for development on a parcel(s) under single ownership or unified control;
(2)
Development standards contained elsewhere in these regulations would not permit the proposed development; and
(3)
Controlled development of a parcel(s) of land is necessary to reduce the adverse impact of a proposed use on neighboring properties.
74.1.3. Uses allowed and development standards for each planned development district. Listed below by district are the uses allowed and development standards for each district:
(1)
PDR-Planned Development Residential. This district is intended primarily for residential development, emphasizing flexibility in design to permit varying densities as circumstances may require. Limited retail sales and services may be allowed.
(a)
Uses allowed:
(i)
All residential uses in residential districts.
(ii)
Multi-family developments.
(iii)
Residential cluster developments.
(iv)
Retail and service uses limited to the following: convenience stores, bakeries, confectioneries, drugstores, barber and beauty shops, branch post offices, and laundromats. Such uses are to be designed for the service and convenience of the population living within the PDR.
(v)
Recreation areas and structures, including private clubs.
(vi)
Public utility structures and uses.
(vii)
Public and private schools and libraries.
(viii)
Kindergartens, playschools, and day care centers and homes.
(ix)
Churches and other places of worship.
(x)
Accessory buildings and uses customarily incident to any use allowed in this district.
(xi)
Group homes, personal care homes, halfway houses, assisted living facilities, nursing homes and similar uses.
(xii)
Communication towers and antennae subject to the requirements of article XV and section 52.
(b)
Development standards:
(i)
The size of the proposed PDR district shall be approved by the city.
(ii)
Not less than eighty (80) percent of the interior floor area of all buildings to be included in the development shall be used for residential dwellings or customary accessories to such dwellings.
(iii)
Not more than five (5) percent of the interior floor area of all buildings shall be used for commercial purposes as defined in subsection 74.1.3(1)(a)(iv).
(iv)
Multi-family dwelling units shall be connected to public sewer and be arranged to provide an access for firefighting as certified by the Warner Robins Fire Department.
(v)
Residential cluster developments shall be developed in accordance with sections 90 and 92.
(vi)
Development within the district shall maintain a harmonious relationship with adjacent uses and between uses within the district.
(vii)
Lot size, density, yard requirements, height requirements, parking, and other development standards shall be established by the city.
(viii)
Only business signs two (2) feet square in area are permitted, and no neon or other self-illuminated signs shall be used either on the exterior or in windows, and all signs shall be attached flat to the face of the building.
(2)
PDC-Planned Development Commercial. This district is intended primarily for commercial or other nonresidential, emphasizing flexibility in design.
(a)
Uses allowed:
(i)
Any commercial use in any commercial zoning district under this ordinance, except residential uses.
(ii)
Theaters (indoor).
(iii)
Public utility buildings and structures.
(iv)
Churches and other places of worship.
(v)
Private and public schools and libraries.
(vi)
Kindergartens, playschools and day care centers and homes.
(vii)
Recreation areas and structures including private clubs, bowling alleys, skating rinks, and the like.
(viii)
Places of assembly including auditoriums, stadiums and coliseums.
(ix)
Motels when located on a state or federal highway.
(x)
Shopping centers containing uses which are otherwise allowed in this section.
(xi)
Communication towers and antennae subject to the requirements of article XV and section 52.
(b)
Development standards:
(i)
The size of the proposed PDC district shall be approved by the city.
(ii)
Development within the district must maintain a harmonious relationship with adjacent areas within the district.
(iii)
Lot size, density, yard requirements, height requirements, signs, parking, and other development standards as approved by the city.
(3)
PDI-Planned Development Industrial.
(a)
Uses allowed: Manufacturing and industrial uses and such commercial uses as reasonably related to the support or convenience of the intended industrial uses or their occupants. Communication towers and antennae shall be subject to requirements of section 52 and article XV.
(b)
Development standards:
(i)
The size of the proposed PDI district shall be approved by the city.
(ii)
Not less than eighty (80) percent of the interior floor area of all buildings to be included in the development shall be used for industrial or manufacturing purposes or such accessory uses customarily to industrial uses.
(iii)
Lot size, density, yard requirements, height requirements, signs, parking, and other development standards as approved by the city.
(4)
PDE-Planned Development Extraordinary.
(a)
Uses allowed: Any use allowed in PDR, PDC, and PDI districts. To be eligible for this district, a development plan must not be otherwise distinguishable under any previous planned development classification. Communication towers and antennae shall be subject to the requirements of article XV and section 52.
(b)
Development standards:
(i)
The size of the proposed PDE district shall be approved by the city.
(ii)
Development within the district must maintain a harmonious relationship with adjacent areas and between areas within district.
(iii)
Lot size, density, yard requirements, height requirements, signs, parking, and other development standards as approved by the city.
74.1.4. Two-step procedure required for planned development district. Creation of planned development districts requires, first, the approval of the city to rezone the land in question from its present zoning classification to a planned development classification and, second, site plan approval by the city, which approval permits issuance of a special zoning permit allowing construction to begin.
74.1.5. Application procedures for rezoning to planned development district. It is the intention of this section of the land development resolution that proposals for planned development be of such community significance and concern that they be made at the early planning stages in order to allow time for full evaluation and orderly processing, to consider alternative plans or methods of development, to assess the full impact and consequences of the proposal, to formulate modifications or conditions that may be necessary, and to provide ample opportunity to determine the best means for implementation. The city may, from time to time, promulgate such guidelines, rules and regulations as may be deemed necessary for the orderly presentation and processing of such proposals in addition to those contained in this section, which guidelines may also establish permanent or temporary priorities on the type, location or scale of the development proposed.
(1)
Submission of application. Application for a planned development district shall be submitted to the city through its zoning enforcement officer or designated staff member.
(2)
General requirements:
(a)
An application for a planned development district shall conform to all requirements of section 114 except as may otherwise be required by this section. Applications shall be submitted forty-five (45) days prior to the date of the hearing at which the application will be heard by the city zoning commission.
(b)
An application for a planned development district shall indicate the requested category and shall be accompanied by a conceptual plan for the development of the site.
(c)
The following development standards will be at the discretion of city except when a planned development abuts a residential area or is bounded by arterial or collector streets of less than one hundred (100) feet in width. In such cases the minimum setback from any collector or arterial street shall be fifty (50) feet and the minimum setback from a residential area shall be twenty-five (25) feet:
(i)
Minimum front, side, and rear yard (feet).
(ii)
Minimum lot area (square feet).
(iii)
Minimum lot width (feet).
(iv)
Maximum density (units per acre).
(v)
Maximum lot coverage (percent).
(vi)
Parking requirements (spaces per unit).
(3)
Submission requirements for the conceptual plan. The conceptual plan shall consist of text, maps, drawings and other information which the applicant may deem necessary to support his application. The applicant shall clearly describe how the proposed development of the site will meet the standards and purpose of the planned development district. Such text, maps and drawings may be conceptual and shall include the following information.
(a)
A graphic representation of existing topography, major vegetative growth, floodplains, significant water bodies, landfills, wetlands, and areas of potential historic significance.
(b)
A land use plan indicating: the location and use of all buildings, which will include, where applicable, the numbers and types of dwelling units; the location and type of community and recreational facilities; open spaces, including developed open spaces, and those to be preserved in their existing state; location of land to be dedicated to public use; and points of access to the site, pedestrian and vehicular circulation ways, and parking spaces.
(c)
A statement and analysis demonstrating the manner in which the proposed development will result in a more efficient and desirable development than could be accomplished by the use of conventional zoning categories.
(d)
Statements relating to proposed restrictions, agreements or other documents indicating the manner in which any land intended for common or quasi-public use but not proposed to be in public ownership will be held, owned and maintained in perpetuity for the indicated purpose.
(e)
A list of proposed development standards consisting of lot area or size, yard setbacks, lot widths at building lines, building heights, maximum lot coverage of buildings and structures, distances between all structures and buildings and parking requirements except as specified in subsection (2)(c) above.
(f)
Such other materials as the applicant may consider of importance in the evaluation of the plan or as the commission may require in order to evaluate the proposed planned development with the requirements and purposes of the planned development district.
74.1.6. Action of zoning enforcement officer upon submission of application for planned development district. The zoning enforcement officer shall process the application utilizing the following procedures:
(1)
The zoning enforcement officer shall review the proposal to determine if it meets the requirements of these regulations.
(2)
The zoning enforcement officer shall transmit the application and any accompanying material to the proper staff for review. The staff shall prepare an opinion regarding:
(a)
The verification of data shown on the application or in accompanying materials;
(b)
The proposed development's relationship with the existing zoning regulations and with the comprehensive development plan;
(c)
The compatibility of the proposed development with surrounding development; and
(d)
Such other factors or considerations as may be appropriate considering the merit of the proposed development.
(3)
Upon completion of the application and review procedure, the matter will be placed on the agenda for rezoning hearing in accordance with the provisions of section 114.
74.1.7. Action of the city application for planned development district.
(1)
The city zoning commission will hear the application in accordance with the procedures outlined in section 114 and make a recommendation to the mayor and council for final action.
(2)
Approval of the application by the mayor and council will be by amendment to the official zoning maps reflecting the planned development classification approved. Such approval is land use approval only and shall not constitute approval of any site plan submitted with the application.
(3)
In the event the city rezones the property, it shall have the power to approve the rezoning subject to such restrictions, conditions, or limitations as it may deem appropriate.
74.1.8. Procedure after rezoning. Following land use approval by the city, the applicant will submit to the zoning enforcement officer detailed site plans for all or any part of a planned development. The applicant shall, prior to final approval, present firm evidence of the unified control of the entire area within the proposed PD district.
The applicant shall also provide agreements, contracts, deeds restrictions, and sureties acceptable to the city for completion of the development according to the plans approved at the time of rezoning to PD and for continuing operation and maintenance of such areas, functions, and facilities as are not to be provided, operated, or maintained at public expense.
The zoning enforcement officer shall process the site plan utilizing the following procedures:
(1)
The zoning enforcement officer shall review the site plan to determine if the plan meets the requirements of these regulations.
(2)
The zoning enforcement officer shall transmit the site plan and any accompanying material to the staff for review. The staff shall prepare an opinion regarding:
(a)
The verification of data shown on the site plan or in accompanying materials;
(b)
The site plan's relationship with existing zoning regulations and with the comprehensive development plan;
(c)
The compatibility of the site plan with surrounding development;
(d)
Building plans showing the architectural layout for all floors and architectural elevations; and
(e)
Such other factors or considerations as may be appropriate considering the merit of the site plan.
(3)
Upon completion of the application and review procedure, the matter will be placed on the agenda for site plan approval by the mayor and council.
74.1.9. Requirements for site plan. Each site plan shall become a part of the initial application and shall include the following requirements (if not previously incorporated within the conceptual plan):
(1)
Be in accordance with the conceptual plan, or as it may have been amended by the city, to include stated developments standards;
(2)
Include all of the information required for the submission of a preliminary subdivision plat as set forth in sections 53 and 54 of the city's subdivision ordinance;
(3)
Include a grading plan, showing the existing topography and proposed grading of the site at contour intervals of not more than five (5) feet;
(4)
Show water runoff drawings, calculations, and plans for soil erosion and sedimentation control, both during and after construction;
(5)
Show existing vegetation, tree line, and other natural features, wetlands, bodies of water and watercourses, and the hundred-year floodplain;
(6)
Show location, height, ground coverage, and use of all structures and location and areas of open spaces, parking facilities and areas dedicated to public spaces. Calculations of building coverage, numbers of parking spaces, and areas devoted to open spaces shall also be indicated;
(7)
Show all utility service lines, and all easements and rights-of-way, existing or proposed;
(8)
Show adjacent highways and streets serving the site, noting centerlines, widths of paving, grades, and median breakpoints;
(9)
Show the location, dimension, and grades of all roads, streets, driveways, parking facilities, loading areas, points of access surrounding streets, and pedestrian walks and pathways;
(10)
Show, for each residential structure, the number and type of dwelling units;
(11)
Show floor areas of all nonresidential buildings;
(12)
Contain a landscaping and screening plan, showing all manmade features and the location, size, and species of all planting materials;
(13)
Contain an exterior lighting plan, covering all parking areas, driveways, and pedestrian ways, and including the height, number, and type of fixtures to be installed;
(14)
Show the location of all public schools, parks, and other community recreational facilities, indicating the location and use of all land to be dedicated to public use;
(15)
Provide documents indicating in detail the manner in which any land intended for common or quasi-public use, but not proposed to be in public ownership, will be held, owned, and maintained in perpetuity for the indicated purpose;
(16)
If a detailed site plan is one (1) of a number of detailed site plans within a planned development, each detailed site plan shall show how it is related to and coordinated with other detailed site plans, either completed, under construction, or yet to be submitted; and
(17)
Contain any additional information which may be required by the commission in order to enable it to evaluate the detailed site plan.
74.1.10. Binding nature of rezoning to planned development district.
(1)
All terms, conditions, safeguards, and stipulations made or imposed at the time of rezoning to a planned development district shall be binding upon the applicant or any successors in interest. Deviations from approved plans or failure to comply with any requirement, condition, or safeguard without city approval shall constitute a violation of these zoning regulations. Any proposed amendment, change, or deviation from the approved developments must be approved by the city under the provisions of section 74-1-8.
(2)
Where a planned development project is proposed in phases and the city finds that the development of all phases is necessary for the development of any part to be approved, the city may require that the applicant agree to the following:
(a)
Proceed with the proposed development according to the provisions of these zoning regulations and the proposed development plan for the area and such conditions as may be attached to the rezoning of the land to a planned development district;
(b)
Provide agreements, contracts, deed restrictions, and sureties acceptable to the city for completion of the development according to the plans approved at the time of rezoning to PD and for continuing operation and maintenance of such areas, functions, and facilities as are not to be provided, operated, or maintained at public expense; and
(c)
Bind their successors in title to any commitments made under subsections (a) and (b) preceding.
All such agreements and evidence of unified control shall be examined by the city attorney, and no rezoning of land to a planned development classification shall be adopted without a certification by the city attorney that such agreements and evidence of unified control meet the requirements of these zoning regulations.
74.2. AH Airport Hazard District.
74.2.1. Intent of district. This district is composed of lands and structures located with the flight approach areas or navigable airspace of an airport. The regulations are intended to prevent the development of high residential densities or the concentration of large numbers of persons in those areas endangered by low flying aircraft in the process of landing or taking off and to protect flying aircraft by limiting the height of buildings and trees.
74.2.2. Superimposed district. This district is superimposed over other existing districts, and the special requirements of this district shall apply in addition to the requirements of the use district within which a specific property is located.
74.2.3. Permitted and conditional uses. All permitted and conditional uses of the use district which is superimposed by the (AH) Airport Hazard District shall be allowed as regulated by the requirements of such district, except those uses listed in section 74.2.4.
74.2.4. Prohibited uses. The following uses are prohibited in the (AH) Airport Hazard District within the area of runway approach surfaces as described on the "Airport Approach Standards Zoning Map" which is on file in the office of the zoning enforcement officer.
(1)
Churches, schools, lodges, clubs, theatres, and other places of public assembly.
(2)
Multi-family dwellings.
(3)
Hospitals and institutions.
(4)
Any other similar uses where concentrations of persons are customary.
74.2.5. Dimensional requirements. The developer shall adhere to all dimensional requirements of the use district in which the specific property is located.
74.2.6. Maximum height requirements. The maximum height of all principal and accessory buildings, structures, and trees in this district shall be as described on the "Airport Approach Standards Zoning Map," which is on file in the office of the zoning enforcement officer and shall adhere to all regulations adopted by the Federal Aviation Agency.
74.2.7. Variances. Any variance which is desired by any person, corporation or agency under the provisions of sections 114 and 115 must, in addition, have written approval from the Federal Aviation Agency.
74.2.8. Hazard marking and lighting. Any variance granted under section 74.2.7 may, if such action is deemed advisable to effectuate the purpose of this ordinance and reasonable in the circumstances, be so conditioned as to require the owner of the structure or tree in question to install, operate, and maintain thereon such markers and lights as may be necessary to indicate to flyers the presence of a hazard to air navigation.
74.3. FH Flood Hazard District. [2]
74.3.1. Intent of district. To restrict or prohibit uses which may be dangerous to health, safety, or property in times of flood, or which may cause increased flood heights or velocities; to require that uses vulnerable to floods, including public facilities which serve such uses, be provided with physical flood protection features at the time of initial construction; to protect individuals from buying lands which are unsuited for intended purposes, because of flood hazards; and other public requirements to protect against floods.
74.3.2. District boundaries. For the purpose of these regulations, the Flood Insurance Study for the City of Warner Robins, Georgia, Houston County, as prepared by the Federal Emergency Management Agency and dated December 3, 1991, is hereby made a part of these regulations. The study shall be kept permanently in the office of the city engineer and shall be accessible to the general public. The boundaries of the Flood Hazard District shall be synonymous with the limits of an intermediate region flood as determined in the above-said study.
74.3.3. Permitted uses. The following open-type uses are permitted in the FH Flood Hazard District subject to approval of the planning and zoning commission, and to such conditions the said board may specify to protect the public interest.
74.3.3.1. Adjacent to Agriculture and Residential Districts.
(1)
Agricultural uses including crop, nursery stock, and tree farming, truck gardening, livestock grazing and other agricultural uses which are of the same or a closely similar nature.
(2)
Railroads, streets, bridges, and public utility wire and pipe lines for transmission and local distribution purposes.
(3)
Public parks and playgrounds and outdoor private clubs including but not limited to country clubs, swimming clubs, tennis clubs, provided that no principal building is located in the floodway.
(4)
Recreational camp, campgrounds, and camp trailer parks, provided that restroom facilities shall be located and constructed in accordance with the health department requirements.
(5)
Commercial excavation of natural materials and improvements of a stream channel.
(6)
Other similar uses accessory to those permitted in the adjoining district.
74.3.3.2. Adjacent to a commercial district.
(1)
Any of the above permitted uses.
(2)
Archery range, drive-in theatres, miniature golf courses, and golf driving ranges.
(3)
Marina, boat launching ramp, boat rental, boat sales provided that no principal building is located in the floodway unless it is designed and constructed to withstand without major damages, the flood conditions at the site.
(4)
Loading and unloading areas, parking lots, used car lots.
(5)
Other similar uses accessory to those permitted in the adjoining district.
74.3.3.3. Adjacent to an industrial district.
(1)
Agricultural uses including crop, nursery stock, and tree farming, truck gardening, livestock grazing, and other agricultural uses which are of the same or closely similar nature.
(2)
Storage yards for equipment and material not subject to major damage by flood, provided, such use is accessory to a use permitted in an adjoining district.
(3)
Parking lots.
(4)
Railroads, streets, bridges, and utility lines.
(5)
Other similar uses accessory to those permitted in the adjoining district.
74.3.4. Required plans. No permit shall be issued for the construction of any building or structure including railroads, streets, bridges, and utility lines or for any use within the Flood Hazard District until the plans for such construction or use have been submitted to the planning and zoning commission and approval is given in writing for such construction or use. In its review of plans submitted, the planning and zoning commission shall be guided by the following standards, keeping in mind that the purpose of this district is to prevent encroachment into the floodway which will unduly increase flood heights and endanger life and property.
(1)
Any structure or the filling of land permitted shall be of a type not appreciably damaged by flood waters, provided no structures for human habitation shall be permitted.
(2)
Any use permitted shall be in harmony with and not detrimental to the uses permitted in the adjoining district.
(3)
Any permitted structures or the filling of land shall be designed, constructed, and placed on the lot so as to offer the minimum obstruction to and effect upon the flow of water.
(4)
No filling of land within the floodway shall be allowed except where necessary for the construction of railroads, streets, bridges, and utility lines.
(5)
Any structure, equipment, or material permitted shall be firmly anchored to prevent it from floating away and thus damaging other structures and threatening to restrict bridge openings and other restricted sections of the stream.
(6)
Where in the opinion of the said board topographic data, engineering, and other studies are needed to determine the effects of flooding on a proposed structure or fill and/or the effect of the structure or fill on the flow of water, the said board may require the applicant to submit such data or other studies prepared by competent engineers and other technical people.
(7)
The granting of approval of any structure or uses shall not constitute a representation, guarantee, or warranty of any kind or nature by the city or the planning and zoning commission or by any officer or employee thereof, or the practicality or safety of any structure or use proposed and shall create no liability upon or cause action against such public body, officer, or employee for any damage that may result pursuant thereto.
74.3.5. Warning of disclaimer of liability. The degree of flood protection required by these regulations is considered reasonable for regulatory purposes and is based on engineering and scientific methods of study. Larger floods may occur on rare occasions or the flood height may be increased by manmade or natural causes, such as bridge openings restricted by debris. These regulations do not imply that areas outside the flood district boundaries or land uses permitted within such district will be free from flooding or flood damages. These regulations shall not create liability on the part of the government or any officer or employee thereof for any flood damage that results from reliance on these regulations or any administrative decision lawfully made thereunder.
74.4. BE Base Environs Overlay District.
74.4.1. Title and purpose. The Base Environs Overlay District (BE) is hereby created with the following purposes:
To protect the public health, safety, and welfare by regulating development and land uses within noise-sensitive areas and accident potential zones;
To ensure compatibility between and surrounding land uses and Robins Air Force Base; and
To protect RAFB from encroachment by incompatible development.
The Base Environs Zoning District (BE) shall serve as an overlay district that applies additional standards and requirements to properties located within an underlying zoning district. Proposed developments located within this zoning district shall comply with these requirements and the requirements of the underlying zoning district and any other overlay districts that apply to lands within this zone. In the case of conflicting standards and requirements, the more stringent standards and requirements shall apply.
74.4.2. Definitions. The following definitions shall be used to interpret the terms used in section 74.4.
74.4.1.1. Accident potential zone (APZ). The geographic area that is determined by the RAFB Air Installation Compatible Use Zone Study to possess a significant potential for aircraft crashes.
74.4.1.2. Aircraft noise contours. The geographic area that is affected by RAFB flight operations and defined on the basis of those areas immediately affected by the 65 Ldn and greater noise exposure area from the noise zone map that is contained within the RAFB Air Installation Compatible Use Zone Study.
74.4.1.3. Airport hazard. Any structure or object of natural growth or use of land within an APZ or an aircraft noise contour that obstructs the air space required for the flight of aircraft in landing or taking off at any airport or is otherwise hazardous to such landing or taking off of aircraft.
74.4.1.4. Day-night sound level (Ldn). A cumulative aircraft noise index that estimates the exposure to aircraft noise at a certain geographic point and relates the estimated exposure to an expected community response.
74.4.1.5. Ldn contour. A line linking together a series of points of equal cumulative noise exposure based on the Ldn metric. These contours are developed based on the Ldn metric and are defined by aircraft flight patterns, the number of daily aircraft operations by type of aircraft and time of day, noise characteristics of each aircraft, and typical runway usage patterns.
74.4.1.6. Structure. Any object, whether permanent, temporary, or mobile, including, but not limited to, a building, tower, crane, smokestack, earth formation, transmission line, flagpole, or sign.
74.4.2. Subdistricts. The Base Environs Zoning District (BE) is subdivided into five (5) subdistricts that represent the differing levels of noise impact and aircraft accident potential. The geographic location of these subdistricts is indicated on the Official Zoning Map of Warner Robins, Georgia, sheet numbers C-13, D-13, E-13, F-13, E-14, F-14 and G-14, dated February 3, 1994. The five (5) subdistricts are the following:
Subdistrict A. Includes the area within the 65 Ldn to 70 Ldn aircraft noise contours surrounding RAFB (BE-A).
Subdistrict B. Includes the area within the 70 Ldn to 75 Ldn aircraft noise contours (BE-B) surrounding RAFB.
Subdistrict C. Includes the area within the 75 Ldn and greater aircraft noise contours surrounding RAFB (BE-C).
Subdistrict D. Includes the area within RAFB APZ I (BE-D).
Subdistrict E. Includes the area within RAFB APZ II (BE-E).
The boundaries of the Base Environs Zoning District (BE) and its subdistricts, as adopted herein, shall be reviewed and amended whenever RAFB updates or amends its aircraft noise contour maps and/or AICUZ Study. It shall be the responsibility of RAFB to notify the City of Warner Robins of any such update or amendment and to provide a copy of same to the City of Warner Robins. Copies of the current aircraft noise contour maps and AICUZ Study shall be on file and open to public inspection in the local planning and zoning office and at the RAFB civil engineer's office.
74.4.3. Application of these regulations. Within the Base Environs Zoning District (BE), any proposed use or structure is subject to review as described herein and shall be evaluated relative to the standards and requirements provided for herein.
74.4.4. Exemptions. The provisions of these regulations shall not be deemed applicable to the following when permitted in the underlying districts:
74.4.4.1. Existing uses. Uses existing on the effective date of these regulations shall not be required to change in order to comply with the requirements specified herein. The nonconforming use requirements of these regulations shall apply to the future applicability of the standards and requirements contained herein.
74.4.4.2. Temporary uses. Temporary uses, including but not limited to public celebrations and outdoor entertainment events, so long as the period of operation does not exceed five (5) days in any one-year period. A variance may be requested to extend the time period for a temporary use.
74.4.4.3. Temporary structures. Temporary buildings and structures that are not used for residential purposes and that meet said applicable requirements as contained within this ordinance, so long as such uses and associated structures are constructed incidental to a permitted use (as per the requirements of this ordinance), do not generate excessive glare or electrical emissions that could interfere with standard RAFB aircraft operations, and do not exceed the applicable height restrictions contained in these regulations.
74.4.4.4. Agricultural structures. Bona fide agricultural buildings, structures, improvements, and associated nonresidential developments, provided such structures do not exceed the applicable height restrictions contained in these regulations.
74.4.4.5 Accessory uses and structures. Accessory uses and structures incidental to a permitted principal structure or use and within the intent, purposes, or objectives of these regulations.
74.4.5. Development standards. The following development standards shall apply to all proposed uses and structures.
74.4.5.1. Proposed uses and structures. Table 74.4-A, Land Use Compatibility Standards, contained herein, identifies development standards that apply to proposed uses and structures with the Base Environs Zoning District (BE). All proposed uses and structures must comply with these standards.
74.4.5.2. Interior day-night average noise level (Ldn). All proposed uses and structures must comply with the noise level reduction (NLR) standards as provided in Table 74.4-A. Compliance with NLR requirements shall be evidences prior to issuance of an occupancy permit.
74.4.5.3. Flammable/hazardous substance storage. Aboveground storage of flammable or explosive substances within subdistricts D and E of the Base Environs Zoning District (BE) shall be prohibited. All underground storage tanks containing flammable or explosive substances shall be double-lined.
74.4.5.4. Lighting and glare. No development within the Base Environs Zoning District (BE) may produce or reflect light in a sufficient intensity or manner that would make it difficult for pilots to distinguish between airport lights and other light sources, result in glare in the eyes of pilots using the base airport, or otherwise impair visibility in the vicinity of the base. All proposed light sources that could conflict with this requirement (except structure lighting required under FAR Part 77) shall be properly shielded or directed away from a pilot's field of vision.
74.4.5.5. Electrical emissions or interference. No development within the Base Environs Zoning District (BE) may create or result in electrical interference with navigational signals or radio communication between RAFB and aircraft operating within the affecting areas.
74.4.5.6. Air emissions. No development within the Base Environs Zoning District (BE) may emit smoke or particulate matter which, in sufficient quantities or concentrations, would impair pilot visibility in the vicinity of the base or clog aircraft engines.
74.4.5.7. Noise. No development within subdistricts A, B, and C of the Base Environs Zoning District (BE) may produce noises that would increase average day/night noise levels beyond the boundaries of the development property by more than three (3) decibels. Where field testing is necessary to determine compliance with this requirement, it shall be conducted and paid for by the applicant.
74.4.6. Notice to purchasers. The City of Warner Robins may provide a notice to all applicants for any development-related permit, informing the applicant that the respective property is located, either partially or wholly, within the Base Environs Zoning District (BE) and may be subject to aircraft overflight.
74.4.7. Plat notice. A notice shall be place on all final subdivision plats for properties located within the Base Environs Zoning District (BE) that states the following:
Noise/air hazard warning. This property, either partially or wholly, lies within the noise exposure/accident potential area of RAFB and is subject to noise and/or aircraft accident potential that may be objectionable.
74.4.8. Development review. The zoning compliance process for the City of Warner Robins shall apply to the Base Environs Zoning District (BE), with the following additions.
74.4.8.1. RAFB civil engineer's office review. A copy of an application for zoning compliance under the BE District, including the development plan, shall be provided, within five (5) days of submittal by applicant, by the City of Warner Robins to the staff of the Middle Georgia Regional Commission (MGRC) for any development located in subdistricts A, B, C, D, and E. The staff of the MGRC will forward such information to the RAFB civil engineer's office and any other affected parties for review. The MGRC will review all comments and provide written recommendations to the City of Warner Robins within ten (10) days of receipt. Where a development application satisfies the criteria for review as a development of regional impact, the MGRC shall be responsible for submitting a copy of the application to the RAFB civil engineer's office in accordance with section 74.4.8.2 below.
74.4.8.2. Developments of regional impact review. Any development application which exceeds the applicable threshold criteria for developments of regional impact (DRI) shall be submitted to the Middle Georgia Regional Commission for review. The government shall submit a completed DRI request for review form and two (2) complete copies of the application to the MGRC. Where DRI review is required, the MGRC shall provide a copy of the application to the RAFB civil engineer's office in accordance with the DRI review procedures. No local approval of a DRI within the Base Environs Zoning District shall be granted prior to completion of the required regional review.
74.4.9. Preliminary plan requirements. An applicant shall submit a preliminary plan in accordance with the applicable requirements of these regulations for any development application that satisfies the special review requirements in section 74.4.8 above. The City of Warner Robins zoning officer may require the applicant to submit any or all of the items specified below, if the additional information is necessary to ensure compliance with the performance standards in section 74.4.5 above.
74.4.9.1. Ldn noise contour and APZ boundaries. The applicant may be required to delineate on the preliminary plan the boundaries of any subdistrict boundary of the BE District, if the location of the aforementioned boundaries with respect to the proposed development site or proposed structure locations is in question. All maps prepared to show the location of these boundaries shall be drawn to a scale designated by the City of Warner Robins zoning officer.
74.4.9.2. Location of structures. The applicant may be required to delineate the placement of all existing and proposed buildings and structures, including any existing or proposed tree stands.
74.4.9.3. Specification of uses. The applicant may be required to specify the proposed uses to occur within each structure or activity area on the development site.
74.4.9.4. Narrative description. The applicant may be required to prepare a narrative describing the location of the site, its total acreage, existing character and use; the concept of the proposed development or use, such as proposed residential density, and the relation of the proposed development plan to the comprehensive plan.
74.4.10. Development review criteria. The preliminary plan described in section 74.4.9 shall be reviewed and evaluated using, at a minimum, the following criteria:
74.4.10.1. Proposed uses. All elements of the proposed development shall be consistent with Table 74.4-A, Land Use Compatibility Standards.
74.4.10.2. Siting. Buildings and structures should be located the greatest distance from the noise source, taking maximum advantage of existing topographical features to minimize noise impact, and within zoning district requirements, such as required setbacks. Buildings and structures should be oriented to minimize exposure to the noise source and building openings, such as windows, should be located away from the noise source.
74.4.10.3. Passive outdoor recreation space. The amount of passive outdoor recreational space where individuals would be subject to noticeable or severe levels of noise should be minimized. Landscaping materials should be used to deflect noise.
74.4.11. Variances. Any applicant wishing to erect a new structure or construct a development that is not in compliance with the regulations prescribed in these regulations may apply to the planning and zoning commission for a variance. Variances for prohibited land uses and/or applicable sound insulation requirements are not permitted. The application for variance must be submitted in the form and manner specified in these regulations, and it must be accompanied by a written determination from the Federal Aviation Administration stating that appropriate mitigation measures will be taken by the applicant to prevent any negative impact on safe navigation within the protected air space surrounding RAFB. The planning and zoning commission will send a copy of the variance application to the RAFB civil engineering office. These comments will be considered by the planning and zoning commission, along with all other public comments submitted on the variance application. Such variances shall be issued only where it is duly determined that a literal application or enforcement of these regulations will result in unnecessary hardship, and the relief granted will not be contrary to the public interest, will not create a hazard to air navigation, will do substantial justice, and will be in accordance with the spirit and intent of these regulations. In addition, the planning and zoning commission may solicit the testimony of a qualified professional, at the expense of the applicant, to evaluate the proposed development plans and issue any professional findings or opinions that would assist the planning and zoning commission in reaching a decision regarding the variance request. The selection of a qualified professional shall be done by the planning and zoning commission.
Table 74.4-A
AICUZ Land Use Compatibility Table
EXPAND
Land Use Accident Potential Zones Noise Zones
SLUCM No. Name Clear Zone APZ I APZ II 65-69 dB 70-74 dB 75-79 dB 80+ dB
10 Residential
11 Household units
11.11 Single units; detached N N Y 1 A 11 B 11 N N
11.12 Single units; semi-detached N N N A 11 B 11 N N
11.13 Single units; attached row N N N A 11 B 11 N N
11.21 Two units; side-by-side N N N A 11 B 11 N N
11.22 Two units; one above the other N N N A 11 B 11 N N
11.31 Apartments; walk-up N N N A 11 B 11 N N
11.32 Apartments; elevator N N N A 11 B 11 N N
12 Group quarters N N N A 11 B 11 N N
13 Residential hotels N N N A 11 B 11 N N
14 Mobile home parks or courts N N N N N N N
15 Transient lodgings N N N A 11 B 11 C 11 N
16 Other residential N N N 1 A 11 B 11 N N
20 Manufacturing
21 Food and kindred Products; manu-facturing N N 2 Y Y Y 12 Y 13 Y 14
22 Textile mill products; manu-facturing N N 2 Y Y Y 12 Y 13 Y 14
23 Apparel and other finished products made from fabrics, leather, and similar materials; manufacturing N N N 2 Y Y 12 Y 13 Y 14
24 Lumber and wood products (except furniture); manu-facturing N Y 2 Y Y Y 12 Y 13 Y 14
25 Furniture and fixtures; manufacturing N Y 2 Y Y Y 12 Y 13 Y 14
26 Paper and allied products; manufac-turing N Y 2 Y Y Y 12 Y 13 Y 14
27 Printing, publishing, and allied industries N Y 2 Y Y Y 12 Y 13 Y 14
28 Chemicals and allied products; manufacturing N N N 2 Y Y 12 Y 13 Y 14
29 Petroleum refining and related industries N N N Y Y 12 Y 13 Y 14
30 Manufacturing
31 Rubber and miscellaneous plastic products; manu-facturing N N 2 N 2 Y Y 12 Y 13 Y 14
32 Stone, clay and glass products; manufacturing N N 2 N 2 Y Y 12 Y 13 Y 14
33 Primary metal industries N N 2 N 2 Y Y 12 Y 13 Y 14
34 Fabricated metal products; manu-facturing N N 2 N 2 Y Y 12 Y 13 Y 14
35 Professional, scientific, and controlling instruments; photographic and optical goods; watches and clocks; manufacturing N N N 2 Y A B N
39 Miscellaneous manufacturing N Y 2 Y 2 Y Y 12 Y 13 Y 14
40 Transportation, communications and utilities
41 Railroad, rapid rail transportation N 3 Y 4 Y Y Y 12 Y 13 Y 14
42 Motor vehicle transportation N 3 Y Y Y Y 12 Y 13 Y 14
43 Aircraft transportation N 3 Y 4 Y Y Y 12 Y 13 Y 14
44 Marine craft trans-portation N 3 Y 4 Y Y Y 12 Y 13 Y 14
45 Highway and street right-of-way N 3 Y Y Y Y 12 Y 13 Y 14
46 Automobile parking N 3 Y 4 Y Y Y 12 Y 13 Y 14
47 Communications N 3 Y 4 Y Y A 15 B 15 N
48 Utilities N 3 Y 4 Y Y Y Y 12 Y 13
48.5 Solid waste disposal (landfills, incinerators, etc.) N N N N N N N
49 Other transportation, communications and utilities N 3 Y 4 Y Y A 15 B 15 N
50 Trade
51 Wholesale trade N Y 2 Y Y Y 12 Y 13 Y 14
52 Retail trade-building materials hard-ware and farm equipment N Y 2 Y Y Y 12 Y 13 Y 14
53 Retail trade—general merchandise N N 2 Y 2 Y A B N
54 Retail trade—food N N 2 Y 2 Y A B N
55 Retail trade—automotive, marine craft, aircraft and accessories N N 2 Y 2 Y A B N
56 Retail trade—apparel and accessories N N 2 Y 2 Y A B N
57 Retail trade—furniture, home furnishings and equipment N N 2 Y 2 Y A B N
58 Retail trade—eating and drinking establishments N N N 2 Y A B N
59 Other retail trade N N 2 Y 2 Y A B N
60 Services
61 Finance, insurance and real estate services N N Y 6 Y A B N
62 Personal services N N Y 6 Y A B N
62.4 Cemeteries N Y 7 Y 7 Y Y 12 Y 13 Y 14,21
63 Business services N Y 8 Y 8 Y A B N
64 Repair services N Y 2 Y Y Y 12 Y 13 Y 14
65 Professional services N N Y 6 Y A B N
65.1 Hospitals, nursing homes N N N A * B * N N
65.1 Other medical facilities N N N Y A B N
66 Contract construction services N Y 6 Y Y A B N
67 Governmental services N N Y 6 Y * A * B * N
68 Educational services N N N A * B * N N
68.1 Child care services, child development centers, and nurseries N N N N N N N
69 Miscellaneous services N N 2 Y 2 Y A B N
69.1 Religious activities N N N N N N N
70 Cultural, entertainment and recreational
71 Cultural activities (including churches) N N N 2 A * B * N N
71.2 Nature exhibits N Y 2 Y Y * N N N
72 Public assembly N N N Y N N N
72.1 Auditoriums, con- cert halls N N N A B N N
72.11 Outdoor music shell, amphitheaters N N N N N N N
72.2 Outdoor sports arenas, spectator sports N N N Y 17 Y 17 N N
73 Amusements N N Y 8 Y Y N N
74 Recreational activities (including golf courses, riding stables, water recreation N Y 8,9,10 Y Y * A * B * N
75 Resorts and group camps N N N Y * Y * N N
76 Parks N Y 8 Y 8 Y * Y * N N
79 Other cultural, entertainment and recreation N Y 9 Y 9 Y * Y * N N
80 Resources production and extraction
81 Agriculture (except livestock Y 16 Y Y Y Y 19 Y 20 Y 20,21
81.5 to 81.7 Livestock farming and animal breeding N Y Y Y 18 Y 19 Y 20 Y 20,21
82 Agricultural-related activities N Y 5 Y Y 18 Y 19 N N
83 Forestry activities and related services N 5 Y Y Y 18 Y 19 Y 20 Y 20,21
84 Fishing activities and related services N Y 5 Y Y Y Y Y
85 Mining activities and related services N Y 5 Y Y Y Y Y
89 Other resources production and extraction N Y 5 Y Y Y Y Y
90 Other
91 Undeveloped land Y Y Y Y Y Y Y
93 Water areas N 22 N 22 N 22 N 22 N 22 N 22 N 22
  LEGEND
SLUCM — Standard Land Use Coding Manual, U.S. Department of Transportation.
Y — (Yes) — Land use and related structures are compatible without restriction.
N — (No) — Land use and related structures are not compatible and should be prohibited.
Y x — (yes with restrictions) — Land use and related structures generally compatible; see notes indicated by the superscript.
N x — (no with exceptions) — See notes indicated by the superscript.
NLR — (Noise Level Reduction) — NLR (outdoor to indoor) to be achieved through incorporation of noise attenuation measures into the design and construction of the structures.
A, B, or C — Land use and related structures generally compatible; measures to achieve NLR for A (DNL/DNEL 65—69), B (DNL/CDEL 70-74), C (DNL/CNEL 75-79), need to be incorporated into the design and construction of structures. The NLR is less than 60 DNL.
A * , B * , and C * — Land use generally compatible with NLR. However, measures to achieve an overall noise level reduction do not necessarily solve noise difficulties and additional evaluation is warranted. See appropriate footnotes.
*  — The designation of these uses as "compatible" in this zone reflects individual federal agencies' and program considerations of general cost and feasibility factors, as well as past community experiences and program objectives. Localities, when evaluating the application of these guidelines to specific situations, may have different concerns or goals to consider.
SUPERSCRIPT NOTES
1.
Suggested maximum density of one (1) to two (2) dwelling units per acre, possibly increased under a planned development district (PDR, PDC, PDI, PDE) where maximum lot coverage is less than twenty (20) percent.
2.
Within each land use category, uses exist where further deliberating by local authorities may be needed due to the variation of densities in people and structures. Shopping malls and shopping centers are considered incompatible use in any accident potential zone (CZ, APZ I, or APZ II).
3.
The placing of structures, buildings, or aboveground utility lines in the clear zone is subject to severe restrictions. In a majority of the clear zones, these items are prohibited. See AFI 32-7060 (formerly AFR 19-9) and AFJM 32-8008 (formerly AFM 86-14) for specific guidance.
4.
No passenger terminals and no major aboveground transmission lines in APZ I.
5.
Factors to be considered: labor intensity, structural coverage, explosive characteristics, and air pollution.
6.
Low-intensity office uses only. Meeting places, auditoriums, etc. are not recommended.
7.
Excludes chapels.
8.
Facilities must be low intensity.
9.
Clubhouse not recommended.
10.
Areas for gatherings of people are not recommended.
11.
A.
Although local conditions may require residential use, it is discouraged in DNL/CDEL 65-69 dB and strongly discouraged in DNL/CNEL 70-74 dB. The absence of viable alternative development options should be determined, and an evaluation indicating a demonstrated community need for residential use would not be met if development were prohibited in these zones should be conducted prior to approvals.
B.
Where the community determines the residential uses must be allowed, measures to achieve outdoor to indoor noise level reduction (NLR) for DNL/CNDL 65-69 dB and DNL/CNDL 70-74 dB should be incorporated into building codes and considered in individual approvals.
C.
NLR criteria will not eliminate outdoor noise problems. However, building location and site planning, and design and use of berms and barriers can help mitigate outdoor exposure, particularly from near ground level sources. Measures that reduce outdoor noise should be used whenever practical in preference to measures which only protect interior spaces.
12.
Measures to achieve the same NLR as required for facilities in DNL/CNEL 65-69 dB range must be incorporated into the design and construction of portions of these buildings where the public is received, office areas, noise sensitive areas or where the normal noise level is low.
13.
Measures to achieve the same NLR as required for facilities in DNL/CNEL 70-74 dB range must be incorporated into the design and construction of portions of these buildings where the public is received, office areas, noise sensitive areas or where the normal noise level is low.
14.
Measures to achieve the same NLR as required for facilities in DNL/CNEL 75-79 dB range must be incorporated into the design and construction of portions of these buildings where the public is received, office areas, noise sensitive areas or where the normal noise level is low.
15.
If noise sensitive, use indicated NLR; if not, the use is compatible.
16.
No buildings.
17.
Land use compatible provided special sound reinforcement systems are installed.
18.
Residential buildings require the same NLR as required for facilities in DNL/CNEL 65-69 dB range.
19.
Residential building require the same NLR as required for facilities in DNL/CNEL 70-74 dB range.
20.
Residential buildings are not permitted.
21.
Land use is not recommended. If the community decides the use is necessary, hearing protection devices should be worn by personnel.
22.
Naturally occurring water features (e.g. rivers, lakes, streams, wetlands) are pre-existing, nonconforming land uses. Naturally occurring water features that attract waterfowl present a potential BASH. Actions to expand naturally occurring water features or construction of new water features should not be encouraged. If construction of new features is necessary for stormwater retention, such features should be designed so that they do not attract water fowl.
74.5. Zone of transition. Where a boundary line of a commercial or industrial district abuts a residential district, the planning and zoning commission, after a review of an application and public hearing thereon, may permit within a distance of one hundred fifty (150) feet to the boundary and within the residential district a private or public parking lot used for the parking of passenger vehicles related to the commercial or industrial establishment abutting such parking area provided that the off-street parking requirements in section 62 are adhered to.
74.6. Standards for cottage housing developments (CHD). The following regulations apply to cottage housing developments (CHDs):
(a)
CHDs are allowed in the following zoning districts: Planned development residential (PDR).
(b)
The following requirements shall apply to all CHDs:
(1)
Density and minimum lot area.
a.
In CHDs, the permitted density shall be one (1) dwelling unit per two thousand nine hundred four (2,904) square feet of lot area (fifteen (15)/acre).
b.
The minimum lot area for a CHD shall be seven thousand (7,000) square feet.
c.
Cottage homes shall be developed in clusters of minimum of two (2) homes to a maximum of twelve (12) homes.
(2)
Height limit and roof pitch.
a.
The height limit permitted for structures in CHDs shall be eighteen (18) feet from the finished first floor height, subject to the exception described in subsection (b).
b.
Where the ridge of a roof is pitched with a minimum loped of six (6) to twelve (12), the maximum roof height may extend up to twenty-five (25) feet. All parts of the roof above eighteen (18) feet shall be pitched. These heights are intended to allow maximum one and one-half (1½) story homes.
(3)
Lot coverage and floor area. The maximum first floor or main floor area for an individual principal structure in a CHD shall be four hundred (400) square feet.
(4)
Yard setbacks.
a.
Front yard setbacks. CHDs will only front "minor" streets. The front yard setback shall be at least fifteen (15) feet with an allowable seven (7) foot encroachment for a front porch. On non-public streets, the front yard setback shall be at least ten (10) feet with an allowable encroachment for a front porch of no greater than five (5) feet.
b.
Rear yards. The minimum rear yard shall be ten (10) feet.
(5)
Required open space.
a.
A minimum of four hundred (400) square feet per unit of common open space is required.
b.
At least fifty (50) percent of the cottage units shall abut the common open space.
c.
All of the cottage unity shall be located within one hundred (100) feet walking distance of the common open space.
d.
The common open space shall have cottages abutting at least two (2) sides.
e.
At least fifty (50) percent of the cottage home units shall be oriented around the common open space with their covered porches or main entry facing the common open space.
(6)
Parking. Parking space for each cottage home unit shall be provided as follows:
a.
Units that are four hundred (400) square feet on the main floor: two (2) spaces. Units less than four hundred (400) square feet on main floor: one and one half (1½) spaces.
b.
Location. Parking shall be located on the CHD property. It may be located in a structure, under a structure, or outside a structure provided that:
(i)
Parking is screened from direct view from street by one (1) or more building facades, by garage doors, or by a fence and landscaping;
(ii)
Parking is not located in the front yard;
(iii)
Parking is only allowed between structures when it is located toward the rear of the principal structure and is served by an alley or private driveway;
(iv)
Parking may be located between any structure and the rear lot line of the lot or between any structure and a side lot line which is not a street side lot line.
(7)
Additional requirements.
a.
Cottage homes shall have a covered porch at least sixty (60) square feet in size.
b.
All structures shall maintain ten (10) feet of separation between houses.
c.
The condominium association or home owners' association shall maintain the required open space and all common areas.
d.
Each cottage home shall have access to clothes washers and dryer facilities through installation of connections to clothes washers and dryers in the cottage home.
e.
Developers of cottage homes are encouraged to provide pervious parking areas. In any event, every cottage home development shall comply with the City Code regarding storm water management.
f.
All structures will remove trailer hitches, any and all wheels and be place on a permanent foundation.
g.
Each cottage home shall be connected to the city's water and sewer.
(Ord. No. 32-14, 11-3-14; Ord. No. 05-18, Exh. A(b), (h), 1-16-18; Ord. No. 19-19, § 1, 7-8-19)
Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
Cross reference— Flood damage prevention, § 6-401 et seq.

ARTICLE VIII. - OTHER REQUIREMENTS BY DISTRICTS

Section 81. - Minimum lot area and lot width, maximum lot coverage, maximum height and stories.
81.1. Uses not served by public or community water system. All uses, regardless of district location, not served by a public or community water system shall have a minimum lot area of forty-three thousand five hundred sixty (43,560) square feet; such lots shall have a minimum lot width (measured at building line) of one hundred fifty (150) feet; and maximum lot coverage shall be twenty-five (25) percent. 1
81.2. Table of requirements by district and use. Within the zoning districts listed herein, the following requirements shall apply, unless otherwise specified within these regulations.
EXPAND
District and Type of Use Minimum Lot Area (sq. ft.) Minimum Lot Width Measured at Building Line (feet) Maximum Lot Coverage (Percent) Maximum Height (feet) Maximum Stories
R-1 Single-Family
All permitted uses:
with septic tank 32,670 100 25 35 3
with sewer 14,000 80 5 25 35 3
R-2 Single-Family
All permitted uses:
with septic tank 32,670 100 25 35 3
with sewer 10,000 75 30 35 3
R-3 General
Single-Family:
with septic tank 32,670 85 25 35 3
with sewer 7,500 60 35 35 3
Two-Family:
with septic tank 32,670 100 25 35 3
with sewer 9,000 75 35 35 3
Single-Family, Attached 2 2,000 3 18 50 35 3
Single-Family, Semi-Detached 2 6,000 60 35 35 3
Other permitted uses:
with septic tank 32,670 85 25 35 3
with Sewer 7,500 60 35 35 3
R-4 Multi-family
Uses other than multi-family (Same as R-3)
Multi-family 2 (See Section 81.3)
R-MH Residential Manufactured Home
Uses other than manufactured homes (Same as R-3)
Individual Manufactured Homes
with septic tank 32,670 85 25 35 3
with sewer 7,500 (See Section 91)
Manufactured Home Parks
C-1 Neighborhood Service
All permitted uses:
with septic tank 32,670 100 50 35 4 2 4
with sewer 3,500 30 50 35 4 2 4
C-2 General Commercial
Multi-Family (See Section 81.3)
Other permitted uses:
with septic tank 32,670 100 50 70 4 5 4
with sewer 3,500 30 50 70 4 5 4
C-3 Concentrated Commercial
Multi-Family (See Section 81.3)
Other permitted uses:
with septic tank 32,670 100 None 70 4 5 4
with sewer 3,500 30 None 70 4 5 4
M-1 Wholesale and Light Industry
All permitted uses 10,000 75 50 40 4 2 4
M-2 Industrial
All permitted uses 20,000 150 65 40 4 3 4
R-AG Agricultural Residential:
All permitted uses
with septic tanks, open ditch 43,560 200 25
with sewer, curb and gutter 43,560 125 25
1 See section 61 for nonconforming lots of record.
2 All single-family, attached and semi-detached dwellings shall be connected to a public or community sewer system. No septic tanks or other methods of disposing of waste will be permitted.
3 The developer of single-family attached dwellings is required to set aside an additional two thousand five hundred (2,500) square feet of common open space for each dwelling unit. This area shall be located within the same block as the dwelling unit and cannot be used for any other purpose except as open space. See sections 90 and 92.
4 Height limits may be exceeded upon approval of the planning and zoning commission and the chief of the fire department, subject to the provisions of section 52.
5 In order to promote greenspace/open areas, a reduction in lot width shall not be used to increase the total number of lots.
  81.3. Multi-family residential dwelling units.
81.3.1. Within use districts permitting multi-family dwellings, the minimum lot area shall be based on the following minimum lot area and maximum lot coverage requirements, except as otherwise provided herein:
EXPAND
Height Building
(No. of Floors) Minimum
Number
of Units Total Lot Area/
Per Unit (Sq. Ft.) Maximum Lot
Coverage
(Percent)
One and two 3 3,000 40
Three 6 2,500 40
Four 16 2,100 30
Five 20 1,500 30
Six to eight 24 1,250 25
Eight or more 32 1,000 25
  81.3.2. Within use districts permitting multi-family residential dwelling units, the minimum lot width measured at the building line shall be eighty-five (85) feet.
81.3.3. All multi-family dwelling units shall be connected to a public sewer. No septic tanks, or other methods of disposing of waste, will be permitted in any multi-family dwelling unit developments.
(Ord. No. 32-14, 11-3-14; Ord. No. 03-17, § 1, 2-6-17)
Section 82. - Minimum setbacks.
Within the zoning districts herein defined, the following minimum setbacks requirement shall apply except as provided for in sections 103, 105 and 106.
EXPAND
Zoning District Front Yard * Rear Yard (feet) Side Yard Interior Lot (feet)
Arterial and Collector Streets (feet) Minor Streets (feet)
R-1 Residential 40 20 25 10
R-2 Residential 40 20 25 10
R-3 Residential
One and two-family 40 20 25 8
Single-family, semi-detached 40 20 25 16 **
R-4 Residential
One and two-family 40 20 25 8
Single-family, semi-detached 40 20 25 16 **
Multi-family 40 20 25 a
R-MH Residential
One and two-family 40 20 25 8
Single-family, semi-detached 40 20 25 16 **
Multi-family 40 20 25 a
Individual manufactured homes 40 20 25 8
C-1 Neighborhood Commercial 40 25 b c
C-2 General Commercial
Multi-family 40 25 25 a
Commercial 40 25 b c
C-3 Concentrated Commercial
Multi-family 40 25 25 a
Commercial None None b c
M-1 Wholesale and Light Industry 50 30 b c
M-2 Industrial 50 30 b c
R-AG Agricultural
Residential 40 30 35 10
  * For corner lots, front yard requirements shall be met for both intersecting streets.
** Applies only to one (1) side yard.
a—Ten (10) feet plus two (2) additional feet for each story (floor) above two (2) stories, but not exceeding twenty (20) feet; and when dwelling unit faces side yard, the dwelling unit shall not be less than twenty (20) feet from the side lot line.
b—None, except when abutting residential district and then not less than twenty-five (25) feet.
c—None, except when abutting residential district and then not less than ten (10) feet.
(Ord. No. 03-17, § 1, 2-6-17)
Section 83. - Special setbacks.
From time to time, it may become necessary for the planning and zoning commission to establish special setbacks for all structures along certain thoroughfares within the City of Warner Robins. Such special setbacks shall be considered an amendment to these regulations and shall be established in accordance with the procedures outlined in section 114.
(Ord. No. 32-14, 11-3-14)
ARTICLE IX. - SPECIAL PROVISIONS

Section 90. - Open or common space.
Within developments where open or common space is required or where such space is provided by a developer, the following conditions shall apply:
90.1. Location of open space. Open space should be located evenly throughout the development so that all residents of the development have easy access to such areas.
90.2. "Open space" defined. At least fifty (50) percent of all required common open space shall be approximately level, defined as not more than five (5) percent grade. The common open space shall be land within the total development site used for recreational, park or environmental purposes for enjoyment by occupants of the development and their guests or dedicated to the city for a public park. Common open space shall not include public or private streets, driveways, private yards, or patios, parking areas, water detention areas or utility easements where the found surface cannot be used appropriately for active or passive recreation, nor other areas primarily designed for other operational functions.
90.3. Management agreement for control and maintenance of common areas. No lot or dwelling unit in a development containing open space shall be sold until a corporation, association, property owner's group or similar entity has been formed with the right to assess all the properties which are jointly owned with interests in the common areas and facilities in the entire development or in the tract which is a part of the entire development to meet the expense of such entity, and with authority to control, and the duty to maintain all of said mutually available features of the development or tract portion thereof. Such entity shall operate under recorded conditions, covenants and restrictions which may include compulsory membership of all owners of lots and/or dwelling units, and flexibility of assessments to meet changing costs of maintenance, repairs, and services. The developer shall submit evidence of compliance with the requirement to the planning and zoning commission. This condition shall not apply to land dedicated to the city for public purposes.
(Ord. No. 32-14, 11-3-14)
Section 91. - Manufactured homes, campgrounds, and travel trailer parks.
91.1. Travel trailer parks and campgrounds. In any district where travel trailer parks are permitted, the applicant must submit a layout of the park subject to the following conditions:
91.1.1. No travel trailer park shall be located except with direct access to a county, state, or federal highway, with a minimum lot width of not less than fifty (50) feet for portion used for entrance and exit. No entrance or exit shall be through a residential district, or shall require movement of traffic from the park through a residential district.
91.1.2. The minimum lot area per travel trailer park shall be one and one-half (1½) acres.
91.1.3. Space in travel trailer parks may be used by travel trailers provided they meet any additional laws and regulations of the city.
91.1.4. Management headquarters, recreational facilities, toilets, showers, laundry facilities, and other uses and structures customarily incidental to operation of a trailer park are permitted as accessory uses in any district in which trailer parks are allowed, provided:
(1)
Such establishments and the parking area related to their operations shall not occupy more than ten (10) percent of the area of the park.
(2)
Such establishments shall be restricted in their use to occupants of the park.
(3)
Such establishments shall present no visible evidence of their commercial character which would attract customers other than occupants of the park.
91.1.5. No space shall be so located that any part intended for occupancy for sleeping purposes shall be within forty (40) feet of the right-of-way line of any freeway, expressway, or collector street, or within twenty-five (25) feet of the right-of-way of any minor street.
91.1.6. In addition to meeting the above requirements, the travel trailer park site plan shall be accompanied by a certificate of approval of the county health department.
91.2. Manufactured home parks. In any district where manufactured home parks are permitted, the applicant shall submit to the zoning enforcement officer a layout of the park subject to the conditions of this section. The zoning enforcement officer shall submit to the planning and zoning commission one copy of the manufactured home park plan for its review and recommendations. The zoning enforcement officer shall base his decision to issue the necessary permits, as required by these regulations, on the recommendations of the planning and zoning commission.
91.2.1. The following minimum standards shall apply to each manufactured home space or stand:
(1)
Minimum size: Four thousand five hundred (4,500) square feet.
(2)
Minimum width of space: Fifty (50) feet.
(3)
Minimum size yard required: Ten (10) feet.
(4)
Minimum front yard: Twenty (20) feet.
(5)
Minimum rear yard: Ten (10) feet.
91.2.2. The following minimum standards shall apply to each manufactured home park.
(1)
Minimum lot area per park: Five (5) acres.
(2)
Minimum lot width for portion used for entrance and exit shall be fifty (50) feet.
(3)
No manufactured home shall be located closer than twenty (20) feet to any roadway within the park and in no case shall be on the right-of-way, nor shall they be located closer than forty (40) feet to the right-of-way line of any street adjacent to the park.
91.2.3. The minimum number of spaces completed and ready for occupancy before the first occupancy is permitted shall be ten (10) spaces.
91.2.4. No manufactured home shall be admitted to any park unless it can be demonstrated that it meets the requirements of any additional laws and regulations of the city.
91.2.5. Convenience establishments of a commercial nature, including stores, laundry and dry cleaning establishments and pickup laundry and dry cleaning agencies, and beauty shops and barber shops may be permitted in manufactured home parks provided that such establishments and the parking areas primarily relate to their operations:
(1)
Shall not occupy more than ten (10) percent of the area of the park;
(2)
Shall be subordinate to the residential use and character of the park;
(3)
Shall be located, designed, and intended to serve frequent trade or service needs of persons residing in the park;
(4)
Shall present no visible evidence to their commercial character from any portion of any residential district outside the park.
91.2.6. The following minimum standards shall apply to streets within each manufactured home park.
(1)
General: Streets shall be provided on the site where necessary to furnish principal traffic-ways for convenient access to manufactured home stands and the other important facilities on the property.
(2)
Definition: Streets located within manufactured home parks whether public or private shall be classified as minor or major streets. Major streets are those which carry traffic from minor streets to the system of streets and highways outside the manufactured home park. Minor streets are those which are used primarily for access for manufactured home stands.
(3)
Recognition of existing facilities: The street system shall be designed to recognize existing easements, utility lines, etc., which are to be preserved; and to permit connection to existing facilities where necessary for the proper functioning of the drainage and utility systems.
(4)
Circulation: The street system should provide convenient circulation by means of minor streets and properly located major streets. Closed ends of dead-end streets should be provided with an adequate paved vehicular turning circle at least eighty (80) feet in diameter.
(5)
Pavement widths: Pavements should be of adequate widths to accommodate the contemplated parking and traffic load in accordance with the type of street; and shall comply with the following guidelines when measured from back-of-curb to back-of-curb.
(a)
All entrance streets and other major streets with guest parking both sides: forty-three (43) feet minimum.
(b)
Major streets with no parking: Twenty-seven (27) feet minimum.
(c)
Minor street with parking on one side: Thirty-five (35) feet minimum.
(d)
Minor or cul-de-sac street with no parking: Twenty-seven (27) feet minimum.
(e)
One-way minor street with no parking (generally acceptable only if less than twenty-five (25) manufactured home stands): Sixteen (16) feet minimum.
(6)
Alignment and gradient: Streets should be adapted to the topography and should have suitable alignment and gradient for traffic safety, satisfactory surface and groundwater drainage, and proper functioning of sanitary and storm sewer system.
(7)
Intersections: Street intersections should generally be at right angles. Offsets at intersections and intersections of more than two (2) streets at one point should be avoided.
(8)
Extent of improvements: The street improvements shall extend continuously from the existing improved street system to the site. They shall provide suitable access to the manufactured home stand and other important facilities on the property, adequate connections to existing or future streets at the boundaries of the property, and convenient circulation for vehicles.
(9)
Grading: Streets shall be graded for their full width to provide suitable finish grades for pavement and any sidewalks with (1) adequate surface drainage and (2) convenient access to the manufactured home stands and other important facilities on the property.
(10)
Dedication requirements. In the event that the major and minor streets of the manufactured home park are to be dedicated for public use then said streets shall be developed, inspected, and maintained in accordance with all of the requirements of the subdivision regulations of the city.
91.2.7. The following minimum standards shall apply to parking spaces in manufactured home parks.
(1)
Number: Car parking spaces shall be provided in sufficient number to meet the needs of the property and their guests without interference with normal movement of traffic. Such facilities should be provided at the rate of at least one (1) car space for each manufactured home lot plus an additional car space for each four (4) lots to provide for guest parking, for two-car tenants, and for delivery and service vehicles.
(2)
Location: Required car parking spaces should be located for convenient access to the manufactured home stands. Usually one (1) car space should be located on each lot and the remainder located in adjacent parking bays.
(3)
Size, minimum:
(a)
Width: Nine (9) feet;
(b)
Length: Eighteen (18) feet.
91.2.8. In addition to meeting the above requirements, the manufactured home park site plan shall be accompanied by a certificate of approval from the county health department.
(Ord. No. 32-14, 11-3-14)
Cross reference— Manufactured homes and manufactured home parks, ch. 11.
Section 92. - Single-family, attached dwellings.
Within the district permitting single-family attached dwellings, including planned development districts, the following requirements shall apply:
92.1. No more than ten (10) or fewer than three (3) continuous dwelling units shall be built in a row with approximately the same (but staggered) front line.
92.2. No side yard is required except that the end of the building in any grouping shall conform to the side yard requirements of that district.
92.3. Not more than fifty (50) percent of the lot area shall be occupied by buildings.
92.4. Insofar as practicable, off-street parking facilities shall be grouped in bays, either adjacent to streets or in the interior of blocks; and no off-street parking space shall be more than one hundred (100) feet by the most direct pedestrian route, from a door of the dwelling unit it intends to serve. Maneuvering incidental to parking shall take place entirely within the designated parking area.
92.5. All attached dwelling complexes shall be required to tie into the public or community sanitary sewer system. No other means of waste disposal shall be permitted.
92.6. All other requirements within the district in which the single-family, attached dwellings are located shall prevail.
92.7. In group development projects involving single-family, attached dwellings, common open space shall be provided as required under section 81.2, in addition to any other common open space requirement of the development. No buildings, parking, storage, or other use shall be made of this open space.
92.8. Provision for the maintenance of all common parking, open access, and other spaces and areas shall be included in the deed restriction of the properties.
(Ord. No. 32-14, 11-3-14)
Section 93. - Accessory and temporary structures.
93.1. Accessory building structures: General provisions and prohibited uses. All accessory structures must meet the following general provisions and prohibited uses:
93.1.1. Detached accessory uses or structures shall be permitted only in rear yards except as otherwise provided in this ordinance.
93.1.2. A detached accessory building, not more than two (2) stories in height, may be constructed on not more than thirty (30) percent of the rear yard, and shall be no closer than five (5) feet to the side or rear lot lines.
93.1.3. In a residential district, accessory structures customarily located within front or side yards including: driveways; sidewalks; flagpoles; basketball goals; gazebos and pergolas of twenty (20) square feet or less; and decorative landscaping including but not limited to stepping stones, fountains, birdbaths, birdhouses, light posts and bridges shall be permitted in front, side or rear yards.
93.1.4. No accessory structure except mailboxes, driveways, light post, and decorative landscaping shall be permitted within public right-of-way.
93.1.5. Shall not be allowed where the review authority determines that roadways, public utilities or services are inadequate.
93.1.6. Where an accessory structure is attached to a main building, it shall be subject to and must conform to all requirements of this ordinance applicable to the main building. An accessory structure shall be considered to be a part of the main building when joined to the main building by a common wall not less than four (4) feet long or by a roofed passageway which shall not be less than eight (8) feet in width.
93.1.7. A building permit is required to be obtained regardless of size if the building or structure is proposed to contain an electrical, mechanical or plumbing system.
93.2. Roofed accessory structures. The installation or construction of any roofed accessory structure larger than twenty (20) square feet requires the issuance of a building permit by the city. An application for an accessory structure that complies with all applicable requirements of this section shall be approved administratively without a public hearing. All permit applications shall indicate the proposed use of the structure and shall include a drawing that shows the exact location on the property with distance(s) from the adjacent property line(s). All such accessory structures shall meet the following requirements:
(1)
Located no closer than five (5) feet from the side or rear lot line(s) or within an easement;
(2)
Located within the rear yard;
(3)
Not more than two (2) stories in height;
(4)
The combined sum of roofed accessory structures shall not exceed thirty (30) percent of the rear yard.
93.3. Carports. A carport may be constructed in a residential district if the following requirements are met:
93.3.1. Minimum yard setback requirements are met for the zoning district in which it is located;
93.3.2. The area of the carport, combined with all other structures on the lot, shall not exceed the maximum lot coverage established for the zoning district in which it is located;
93.3.3. No part of the proposed carport canopy or appurtenance may extend beyond the front property line or on the public right-of-way;
93.3.4. The carport shall only be used for the storage of operable vehicles and shall not be used for the outside storage of other personal property, including materials, goods, supplies, furniture, appliances, or inoperable automobiles;
93.3.5. Reserved.
93.3.6. A building permit shall be required prior to the construction of the carport, and the carport shall comply with all applicable building, zoning and development codes;
93.3.7. The carport shall not be enclosed or the building permit shall be revoked and the owner cited for noncompliance.
93.3.8. Exceptions: Construction of carports may be allowed to extend beyond the minimum front yard setback requirement in residential districts upon approval by the planning and zoning commission. The planning and zoning commission shall not have discretion to approve encroachment onto the front yard setback requirement unless items 93.3.2 through 93.3.6 are met.
93.4. Walls and fences. The location of walls and fences in residential districts must meet the following requirements:
93.4.1. Front yard fences and walls shall not exceed four (4) feet in height and shall not extend into the public right-of-way. On lots with more than one (1) street frontage, the front yard shall be determined as along the street designated by the least dimension.
93.4.2. No fence material shall exceed eight (8) feet in height, from the top of the finished fence to grade elevation within a rear or side yard. All fences shall provide sufficient ground clearance for draining purposes.
93.5. Temporary buildings. Temporary buildings used in conjunction with construction work only may be permitted in any district and shall be removed immediately upon completion of construction.
93.6. Other accessory structures and features. Accessory structures or features not specifically named above in this section may be required to comply with the stated requirements for similar, specifically named accessory structures or features.
(Ord. No. 32-14, 11-3-14; Ord. No. 05-18, Exh. A(c), (d), 1-16-18)
Section 94. - Fallout shelters.
Fallout shelters are permissible as principal or accessory uses and structures in any district, subject to the following conditions:
94.1. If any portion of the structure extends above the ground, that portion above the ground must comply with the yard and lot coverage regulations of the district in which it is located, and the site plan for such shelter must be approved by the zoning enforcement officer.
94.2. If the structure is completely underground, it need not comply with yard requirements or percentage of lot coverage requirements.
94.3. A fallout shelter, underground or aboveground, shall be confined to a side or rear yard and shall not be located in the front yard between the main building and the street on which it fronts.
94.4. Fallout shelters may contain or be contained in other structures or may be constructed separately.
94.5. Fallout shelters may be used for any permissible use in the district where situated.
(Ord. No. 32-14, 11-3-14)
Section 95. - Home occupations.
95.1. Intent and purpose. Only such uses will be allowed which:
(1)
Are incidental to the use of the premises as a residence;
(2)
Are compatible with residential uses;
(3)
Are limited in extent; and
(4)
Do not detract from the residential character of the neighborhood.
95.2. General provisions. All home occupations, where permitted, must meet the following general provisions:
95.2.1. The home occupation shall be clearly incidental and secondary to the use of the dwelling. Internal or external changes which will make the dwelling unit or lot appear less residential in nature or function are prohibited. Examples of such prohibited alterations include construction of parking lots, paving of required setbacks, or adding commercial-like exterior lighting.
95.2.2. The dwelling unit must be the primary and legal place of residence for the owner of the home occupation. Owner of the home occupation is defined as an individual, not a partnership or corporation, that has sole ownership of fifty-one (51) percent or more of the stock, assets, or value of the home occupation. Renters shall provide written evidence of the owner approval for a home occupation.
95.2.3. The home occupation shall be conducted entirely within the principal dwelling unit and/or in a properly permitted, approved and fully enclosed accessory building that complies with the standards set forth in section 93. All accessory structures must be of similar construction, architecture and materials to the main dwelling unit.
95.2.3.1. For home occupations located within the principle dwelling unit, no more than twenty-five (25) percent of the total floor area of a dwelling unit may be used in connection with a home occupation.
95.2.4. No separate entrance or driveway shall be permitted for the home occupation.
95.2.5. No exterior storage or display of any goods, materials or equipment associated with the home occupation shall be permitted
95.2.6. No window displays are permitted. No business signs shall be placed on the premises in conjunction with any home occupation.
95.2.7. The home occupation shall not be open to the public or receive deliveries earlier than 6:00 a.m. or later than 8:00 p.m. Routine residential-type carriers, such as the USPS, UPS and/or FedEx, excepted.
95.2.8. A home occupation shall not generate excessive traffic or produce obnoxious odors, fumes, smoke, dust, heat, glare, noise, vibration, electrical disturbance, or radioactivity or other conditions that will be a nuisance to the surrounding area.
95.2.9. Toxic, explosive, flammable, combustible, corrosive, radioactive, or other restricted materials, if any, shall be used, stored and disposed of in accordance with the International Fire Code and National Fire Protection Association Life Safety Code. Activities conducted and material/equipment used shall not be of a nature to require the installation of fire safety features not common to residential uses.
95.2.10. Group instruction, assembly or activity shall be prohibited.
95.2.11. No person other than the principal occupant(s) of the dwelling shall work on premise.
95.2.12. Home occupation may not serve as headquarters or dispatch centers where employees come to the site and are dispatched to other locations.
95.2.13. More than one (1) home occupation may be permitted in a single residence. The above limitations shall apply to combined uses.
95.3. Parking. All parking associated with the home occupation must be in the driveway where the home occupation is located. No parking shall be permitted in the street or yard. No shared parking is permitted associated with any home occupation.
95.3.1. No home occupation shall require any on or off-street parking other than normally required for a residence.
95.3.2. Off-site employees of the resident shall not congregate on the premises for any purpose concerning the home occupation nor park their vehicles at the location.
95.4. Allowable uses. The following uses are examples of allowed home occupations:
•
General office or business services.
•
Studios/work spaces for handicraft production, fine arts, cooking, tailors, etc.
•
Direct sale product distribution (Avon, Tupperware, Pampered Chef, etc.).
•
Barber/beauty shop.
•
Counseling/tutoring
•
Contractors, painters, masonry or plumbing.
•
Landscape maintenance.
•
Television or other small electrical repairs, excluding major appliances (i.e. washers, dryers, refrigerators, televisions larger than thirty-six (36) inches, etc.).
•
Upholstering.
•
Woodworking and furniture restoration.
•
Childcare for up to six (6) children, excluding the children of the provider.
95.4.1. Recording studios are an allowable home occupations provided that (a) internal noise shall not be audible from outside the building and (b) external activity or noise generations shall not be greater than the existing background notice level of the surrounding area.
95.5. Prohibited uses. The following uses shall be prohibited as home occupation:
•
Ambulance service.
•
Any type of painting, repair or assembly of vehicles or equipment with internal combustion engines (such as autos, motorcycles, marine engines, lawn mowers, chainsaws and other small engines) or large appliances (such as washing machines, dryers, and refrigerators) or any other work related to automobiles and their parts.
•
Eating establishments.
•
Funeral establishments and crematories.
•
Junk and salvage operations.
•
Massage parlors and adult uses.
•
Veterinary uses including grooming or boarding (except when working at clients' homes).
95.6. Other uses. Any use not listed in section 95.4 shall require a classification of use request. Such request shall address a specific use in detail and how it conforms to the standards as set forth in this ordinance. The zoning enforcement officer shall decide classification of use requests based upon the standards contained in this ordinance. Anyone aggrieved by a decision of the zoning enforcement officer on the classification of use request may appeal to the planning and zoning commission in accordance with section 114.3.
95.7. Permit procedures. Home occupations complying with the standards established in this section shall be required to obtain approval by mayor and council and an occupational tax license prior to commencement.
95.7.1. Expiration [of permit]. An occupational tax license shall expire under the following conditions:
95.7.1.1. Whenever the applicant ceases to occupy the premises for which the home occupation was issued, no subsequent occupant of such premises shall engage in any home occupation until he shall have been issued a new permit after proper application.
95.7.1.2. Whenever the holder of such a permit fails to exercise the same for any period of six (6) consecutive months.
95.7.1.3. A permit for a home occupation shall be revocable by the zoning enforcement officer because of the failure of the owner or operator of the use covered by the permit to observe all requirements of the permit and the zoning ordinance.
95.8. Yard or garage sales. Garage, yard, rummage or estate sales do not require a permit. However, they are required to meet the following standards:
95.8.1. Sales may not last longer than two (2) days.
95.8.2. Sales are held no more than two (2) times during a twelve-month period.
95.8.3. Sales are conducted on the owner's property. Multiple family sales are permitted if they are held on the property of one of the participants.
95.8.4. Sales will not be allowed on any commercially zoned property within the city unless conducted completely within an enclosed building.
95.8.5. Signs advertising sales may be erected in accordance with the City of Warner Robins Code of Ordinances chapter 6, article IX, Advertising and Signs.
(Ord. No. 32-14, 11-3-14; Ord. No. 20-17, § 1, 4-17-17)
Section 96. - Automobile service stations.
Within the districts permitting automobile service stations, the following requirements shall apply:
96.1. Location. The property on which an automobile service station is located shall not be within one hundred (100) feet of any residential district, or any property containing a school, public playground, church, hospital, public library, institution for children or dependents.
96.2. Site requirements. An automobile service station shall have a minimum frontage on the primary street of one hundred twenty (120) feet and a minimum area of twelve thousand (12,000) square feet. All buildings shall be set back forty (40) feet from all street right-of-way lines, and all canopies shall be set back fifteen (15) feet from all street right-of-way lines.
96.3. Access to site. Vehicular entrances or exits at an automobile service station shall meet the requirements of section 64 of these regulations regarding curb cuts.
96.4. Gasoline pump islands. All gasoline pump islands shall be set back at least fifteen (15) feet from the right-of-way line, or where a future widening line has been established, the setback line shall be measured from such line; and where pump islands are constructed perpendicular to the right-of-way line, the pump island shall be located not less than thirty (30) feet back of the right-of-way line; however, the pumps shall be at least sixty (60) feet from the center line of an arterial street, fifty-five (55) feet from the center line of a collector street, and forty-five (45) feet from the center line of other streets.
96.5. Off-street parking. A minimum of two (2) off-street parking spaces are required with an additional off-street parking space for each lubrication and wash bay.
96.6. Other site improvements. In addition to the above requirements, the following additional site improvements shall be adhered to:
96.6.1. A raised curb of at least six (6) inches in height shall be erected along the street property lines, except for driveway openings. Curbing may be eliminated where approved stormwater BMPs requires the removal.
96.6.2. A solid fence or wall six (6) feet in height shall be erected along all adjacent property lines facing any residential lot consistent with the provisions of section 67.
96.6.3. Exterior lighting shall be arranged so that it is deflected away from adjacent properties and in accordance with section 67.
96.6.4. Signs, whether permanent or temporary, shall not be placed within the public right-of-way and shall be arranged so that they do not obstruct visibility for drivers or pedestrians.
96.6.5. All drives, parking storage, and service areas shall be paved and curbed and a good stand of grass shall be maintained on the remainder of the lot.
96.7. Storage of inflammable products. Outside aboveground tanks for the storage of gasoline, liquefied petroleum gas, oil, or other inflammable liquids or gases shall be prohibited at any automobile service station in all zoning districts.
(Ord. No. 32-14, 11-3-14; Ord. No. 03-17, § 1, 2-6-17)
Section 97. - Group residences.
97.1. If located in a residential zoning district, the design and/or maintenance of the structure used for the group residence must be residential in appearance and in keeping with neighboring homes.
97.2. The group residence shall be operated in a manner compatible with the neighborhood and shall not be detrimental to adjacent properties as a result of traffic, noise, light, refuse, parking or other activities.
97.3. A group residence with six (6) or fewer persons is allowed by special exception in R1, R2, R3, and R4 residential zoning districts and in commercial zoning districts. In residential districts, the resident manager is counted toward the limit.
97.4. The operator of the group residence shall comply with all applicable local, state and federal laws and regulations. Copies of all applicable licenses and permits, including but not limited to a City of Warner Robins business license, and State of Georgia Department of Human Resources license, shall be provided to the planning and zoning staff. Evidence shall be made available to the planning and zoning staff on an annual basis that the group residence maintains and is in compliance with all licensing requirements.
97.5. The group residence shall comply with all applicable building, housing, and fire codes. A fire inspection shall be required prior to issuance of a business license and shall be required annually prior to the renewal of said business license.
97.6. To prevent the institutional atmosphere created by a concentration or clustering of several group residences thereby defeating the group residence goal of integrating individuals into the community, each group residence shall be a minimum of five hundred (500) feet from any other group residence or similar use if located in a single-family residential zoning district. (Said distance shall be measured from the property lines.)
97.7. The applicant shall submit a 24-hour crisis intervention plan. It shall be within the city's discretion to require the group residence to enter into a memorandum of understanding with the appropriate local agencies such as schools, hospitals or other crisis intervention agencies for provision of emergency services, including, where applicable, 24-hour crisis intervention.
97.8. The operator of a group residence housing juveniles shall provide the Warner Robins Police Department with a current list of residents. If any of the juveniles were placed in the group residence by the department of family and children's services, a list shall also be provided to the Houston County Office of the Department of Family and Children's Services. Said list shall be updated within ten (10) days of a change in residents. The operator of the group residence shall also provide a 24-hour contact number for the person or organization owning the group residence.
(Ord. No. 32-14, 11-3-14)
Section 98. - Cemeteries.
Within the districts' permitting cemeteries, the following requirements shall apply:
98.1. The site proposed for a cemetery shall not interfere with the development of a system of collector or larger streets in the vicinity of such site. In addition, such site shall have direct access to a thoroughfare.
98.2. Any new cemetery shall be located on a site containing not less than twenty (20) acres.
98.3. All structures shall be set back no less than twenty-five (25) feet from any property line or street right-of-way line.
98.4. All graves or burial lots shall be set back not less than twenty-five (25) feet from any property line or minor street right-of-way lines, and not less than fifty (50) feet from any collector, arterial, or expressway right-of-way line.
98.5. The entire cemetery property shall be landscaped and maintained.
(Ord. No. 32-14, 11-3-14)
Section 99. - Performance standards for nonresidential uses.
99.1. General requirements. The manufacturing, assembling, processing, fabrication, repair, and servicing of any commodity or product subject to the following conditions:
99.1.1. Any such use as determined by the zoning enforcement officer that may be obnoxious or offensive by reason of the emission of odors, dust, smoke, gas, noise, or vibration shall be referred to the Environmental Protection Division of the Georgia Department of Natural Resources; and
99.1.2. Prior to issuing a building permit, the applicant shall provide the zoning enforcement officer with written approval of the nature, plans, and specifications of the said use from the Environmental Protection Division of the Georgia Department of Natural Resources; and
99.1.3. All other requirements within the district in which these industrial activities can be located shall be met.
ARTICLE X. - EXCEPTIONS AND MODIFICATIONS

Section 101. - Height limits.
Height limits provided for herein may be exceeded only as provided for in section 52.2 of these regulations.
(Ord. No. 32-14, 11-3-14)
Section 102. - Reserved.
Section 103. - Yard requirements.
Yard requirements shall be modified subject to the following conditions:
103.1. On double frontage lots, the required front yard shall be provided on each street.
103.2. Whenever a rear property line of a lot abuts upon an alley, one-half (½) of the alley width shall be considered as a portion of the required rear yard.
103.3. An unroofed porch may project into a required front yard for a distance not exceeding ten (10) feet.
(Ord. No. 32-14, 11-3-14)
Section 104. - Access to public street.
Access to public streets, except if provided for herein, shall be maintained in accordance with the following requirements:
104.1. Each principal use shall be located on a lot or parcel which provides frontage on a public street having a right-of-way of not less than thirty (30) feet.
104.2. Any additional dwelling shall have access to a public street by means of a passageway open to the sky at least fifteen (15) feet in width.
104.3. If and when a development plan indicates the construction of streets, utilities or common space on private property, the owner shall indicate planned means for the maintenance of such streets and utilities, and such streets shall conform to construction specifications for the City of Warner Robins, and access shall be provided over such streets to a public street having a right-of-way of not less than thirty (30) feet. In addition, the owner shall state, through an agreement prepared or approved by the city attorney, that the mayor and council for the City of Warner Robins shall be relieved of any responsibility for the maintenance of said improvements. Such agreements shall conform to the Georgia Condominium Act as applicable, and shall receive such approval prior to the final review by the planning and zoning commission.
Section 105. - Front and side yard setback for dwellings.
The setback requirements of these regulations for side yards on corner lots and/or front yards shall not apply to any lots where the average setback on developed lots located, wholly or in part, one hundred (100) feet on each side such lot and within the same block and zoning district and fronting on the same streets as such lot, is less than the minimum required setback. In such cases, the setback on such lot may be less than the required setback but not less than the average of the existing setbacks on the existing developed lot.
(Ord. No. 32-14, 11-3-14)
Section 106. - Zero side yard.
Upon review and approval by the planning and zoning commission, the side yard setback requirements for single-family (detached) dwelling lots may be reduced to allow a zero (0) side yard setback on one (1) side of a lot providing the following conditions are met:
106.1. Any reduction in one (1) side yard requirement shall result in a corresponding increase in the side yard requirement for the opposite side yard. In this manner the overall side yard requirement of the district shall be met.
106.2. Front yard, rear yard and corner side yard requirements of the district shall not be modified.
106.3. Side yard setback requirements shall not be modified for an individual lot unless it is part of a block in which each lot's side yard setback is to be modified. The arrangement of modified side yard requirements shall allow for an open side yard area between each dwelling unit.
106.4. The developer of a subdivision for which modifications to the side yard setback requirements are requested shall furnish to the planning and zoning commission a copy of proposed deed restrictions, conditions, or covenants. Such covenants shall include, as a minimum, provisions for:
(1)
A maintenance easement which will allow for the maintenance of exterior dwelling walls facing a zero setback line.
(2)
A requirement that dwelling walls facing a zero setback be windowless.
(Ord. No. 32-14, 11-3-14)
Section 107. - Additional dwellings on a single lot.
The planning and zoning commission, after review of an application and public hearing thereon, may grant a special exception to permit one (1) additional single-family dwelling, or mobile home on the same lot or parcel of land as that of the main dwelling provided that:
107.1. Each additional dwelling conforms to the minimum lot area, minimum width and maximum lot coverage requirements for such dwelling as set forth in section 81, and conforms to the yard requirements as set forth in section 82;
107.2. The arrangement of such additional dwellings are in such a manner that if the lot or parcel of land is ever subdivided, no nonconforming lots or nonconforming buildings are created; and
107.3. Each additional dwelling or mobile home has access to a public street by means of an unobstructed passageway of at least fifteen (15) feet in width.
(Ord. No. 32-14, 11-3-14)
Section 108. - Livestock in residential districts.
Ponies and horses may be kept in the R-1 and R-2 districts subject to the district regulations and the following conditions.
108.1. The minimum lot area upon which livestock may be kept in the R-1 and R-2 districts is two (2) acres for the first head of livestock and one-half-acre for each additional head of livestock.
108.2. Space or shelter shall be provided where livestock is kept or fed, and shall not be permitted within fifty (50) feet of any property line in the R-1 and R-2 districts.
(Ord. No. 32-14, 11-3-14)
ARTICLE XI. - ZONING ADMINISTRATION

Section 111. - Establishment of the planning and zoning commission and the board of zoning appeals.
111.1 Planning and zoning commission. The planning and zoning commission is established in order to guide and accomplish a coordinated and harmonious development of the city which will, in accordance with existing and future needs, best promote the public health, safety, morals, order, convenience, prosperity, aesthetic appeal, and the general welfare, as well as efficiency and economy in the process of development, the Warner Robins Planning and Zoning Commission, hereinafter referred to as the commission, is hereby created and established.
111.1.1 Membership; appointment; compensation; oath of office. The membership of the planning and zoning shall consist of five (5) members who shall be residents of the city throughout their tenure on the commission. Each member shall be appointed for a term of five (5) years staggered in such a manner that on January 1 of each year, the term of office of one (1) member shall end and a new appointment by the mayor and council shall be made. All members shall receive one hundred seventy-five dollars ($175.00) per month and may be reimbursed for actual expenses incurred in connection with their official duties.
No member shall assume office until that person has executed and filed with the clerk of the city an oath obligating himself or herself to faithfully and impartially perform the duties of that member's office.
The oath shall read as follows and be administered by the Mayor.
"I do solemnly swear or affirm that I will faithfully and impartially perform the duties of Member of the Planning and Zoning Commission of Warner Robins and that I will support and defend the Charter of the City of Warner Robins as well as the Constitution and laws of the State of Georgia and of the United States of America. I will not knowingly receive, directly or indirectly, any money or other valuable thing, for the performance or nonperformance of any act or duty pertaining to my office, other than the compensation allowed by law. I further swear or affirm that I will faithfully discharge my duties as a Member of the Planning and Zoning Commission of Warner Robins to the best of [my] ability."
111.1.1.1. Vacancies. Any vacancy in the membership shall be filled for the unexpired term. Members shall be removed for cause by the mayor and council upon written charges and after public hearing thereon.
111.1.1.2. Public office held. No member shall hold any public office.
111.1.2. Rules of procedure. The planning and zoning commission shall observe the following procedures:
111.1.2.1. Said commission shall adopt rules in accordance with the provisions of these regulations and the laws of the State of Georgia for the conduct of its affairs.
111.1.2.2. Said commission shall elect one (1) of its members as chairman, who shall serve for one (1) year or until he is re-elected or his successor is elected. The zoning enforcement officer shall serve as secretary to the commission.
111.1.2.3. The regular scheduled meetings of said commission shall be held at such times as may be established by the commission. Other meetings shall be held at the call of the chairman or at any other such times as said commission may determine.
111.1.2.4. All meetings of said commission shall be open to the public.
111.1.2.5. Said commission shall keep minutes of its proceedings, showing the vote of each member upon each question, or if absent or failing to vote, indicating such fact, and shall keep records of its examinations and other official actions, all of which shall be immediately filed on the office of the commission secretary and shall be a public record.
111.2. Establishment of the board of zoning appeals.
111.2.1 Membership; oath of office. The board of zoning appeals shall consist of five (5) members who shall be residents of the city appointed by the mayor and council for overlapping terms of four (4) years.
No member shall assume office until that person has executed and filed with the clerk of the city an oath obligating himself or herself to faithfully and impartially perform the duties of that member's office. The oath shall read as follows and be administered by the mayor:
I do solemnly swear or affirm that I will faithfully and impartially perform the duties of Member of the Board of Zoning Appeals of Warner Robins and that I will support and defend the Charter of the City of Warner Robins as well as the Constitution and laws of the State of Georgia and of the United States of America. I will not knowingly receive, directly or indirectly, any money or other valuable thing, for the performance or nonperformance of any act or duty pertaining to my office, other than the compensation allowed by law. I further swear or affirm that I will faithfully discharge my duties as a Member of the Board of Zoning Appeals of Warner Robins to the best of my ability.
111.2.1.1. Vacancies. Any vacancy in the membership shall be filled for the unexpired term. Members shall be removed for cause by the mayor and council upon written charges and after public hearing thereon.
111.2.1.2. Public offices held. No member shall hold any public office; however, one (1) member appointed may be a member of the planning and zoning commission.
111.2.2. Rules of procedure. The board of zoning appeals shall observe the following procedures:
111.2.2.1. Said board shall adopt rules in accordance with the provisions of these regulations and the General Planning and Enabling Legislation of 1957, as amended, for the conduct of its affairs.
111.2.2.2. Said board shall elect one (1) of its members, other than a member of the planning and zoning commission, as chairman, who shall serve for one (1) year or until he is re-elected or his successor is elected. The zoning enforcement officer shall serve as secretary to the board.
111.2.2.3. The meetings of said board shall be held at the call of the chairman and at such other times as said board may determine. The chairman, or in his absence, the acting chairman, may administer oaths and compel the attendance of witnesses by subpoena.
111.2.2.4. All meetings of said board shall be open to the public.
111.2.2.5. Said board shall keep minutes of its proceedings, showing the vote of each member upon each question, or if absent or failing to vote, indicating such fact, and shall keep records of its examinations and other official actions, all of which shall be immediately filed in the office of the board secretary and shall be a public record.
(Ord. No. 32-14, 11-3-14; Ord. No. 05-21, §§ 1, 2, 3-15-21; Ord. No. 2-22, § 1, 2-7-22)
Charter reference— Boards, commissions, and authorities, § 3.11.
Cross reference— Boards and commissions generally, § 2-176 et seq.
Section 112. - Duties and powers of the planning and zoning commission and the zoning enforcement officer.
112.1. Planning and zoning commission. The planning and zoning commission shall have the following duties and powers:
112.1.1. To receive application for changes to zoning classifications from one district to another, or other amendments to these regulations; to hear, after prescribed public notice, public testimony regarding the proposed changes; to review the current comprehensive plan and future land use map, as applicable; to consider the effect of the proposal upon the public welfare; and to render a written recommendation to the mayor and council regarding the proposed change.
112.1.2. To hear and decide appeals where it is alleged there is error in any order, requirement, decision, of determination made by the zoning enforcement officer, or other administrative official, in the enforcement of these regulations.
112.1.3. To hear and decide special exceptions to the terms of these regulations upon which said commission is required to pass under these regulations. In granting a special exception, the commission shall determine that:
(1)
The use meets all required conditions.
(2)
The use is not detrimental to the public health or general welfare.
(3)
The use is appropriately located with respect to transportation facilities, water supply, fire and police protection, waste disposal, and similar services.
(4)
The use will not violate neighborhood character nor adversely affect surrounding land uses.
112.1.4. To authorize upon appeal in specific cases such variance from the terms of these regulations as will not be contrary to the public interest where, owning to special conditions, a literal enforcement will, in an individual case, result in unnecessary hardship, so that the spirit of these regulations shall be observed, public safety and welfare secured, and substantial justice done. Such variance may be granted in such individual case of unnecessary hardship upon a finding by the commission that:
(1)
There are extraordinary and exceptional conditions pertaining to the particular piece of property in question because of its size, shape, or topography;
(2)
The application of these regulations to this particular piece of property would create an unnecessary hardship to the property;
(3)
Such conditions creating the difficulty are peculiar to the particular piece of property involved due to the size, shape or topography;
(4)
Relief, if granted, would not cause substantial detriment to the public good or injurious to other property or improvements in the neighborhood or impair the purpose and intent of these regulations;
(5)
The variance is not a request to permit a use of land, buildings, or structures which is not permitted by right or by special exception in the district;
(6)
The variance is the minimum variance that will make possible an economically viable use of the land, building or structure;
(7)
The variance will not confer upon the property of the applicant any special privilege denied to other properties in the district;
(8)
The purpose of the variance is not based exclusively upon reasons of convenience, profit or caprice. It is understood that any development necessarily increases property value, and that alone shall not constitute an exclusive finding;
(9)
The alleged difficulty has not been created by the property owner or the owner's predecessors in title;
(10)
The proposed variance will not substantially increase the congestion of the public streets, or increase the danger of fire, or endanger the public safety; and
(11)
The variance complies, as nearly as possible, with the spirit, intent, and purpose of the comprehensive plan.
112.2. Duties and powers of the board of zoning appeals. The board of zoning appeals shall have the following duties and powers:
To hear and decide appeals where it is alleged that in the enforcement and application of these regulations there is error in any order, requirement, decision, or determination made by the planning and zoning commission, the zoning enforcement officer, or other administrative official.
112.3. Zoning enforcement officers. The zoning enforcement officer shall be the building official and/or any public official designated by the city whose duties and powers are as follows:
112.3.1. The zoning enforcement officer is authorized and empowered on behalf and in the name of the city to administer and enforce the provisions of these regulations to include receiving applications, inspecting premises, and issuing building permits and certificates of occupancy for use and structures which are in conformance with the provisions of these regulations.
112.3.2. The zoning enforcement officer does not have the authority to take final action on applications or matters involving nonconforming uses, or other exceptions which these regulations have reserved for action by the planning and zoning commission, the board of zoning appeals, and/or the mayor and council.
112.3.3. The zoning enforcement officer is authorized and empowered to approve minor variances, as defined in section 114.2.11. All other applications or matters involving variances are reserved for action by the planning and zoning commission, the board of zoning appeals, and/or the mayor and council.
112.3.4. The zoning enforcement officer shall keep accurate records of all plats and permits issued in accordance with the administration of these regulations. These include building permits, certificates of occupancy, certificates of zoning exception or variance, and subdivision plats with notations of all special conditions involved. He shall also keep and maintain current the official zoning map of the city, the approved future land use map, records of all violations and enforcement action, and the minutes of the planning and zoning commission.
112.3.5. The zoning enforcement officer shall function as the secretary to the planning and zoning commission and shall maintain for public record the minutes and all other documents incidental to the procedures of the commission.
(Ord. No. 32-14, 11-3-14)
Section 113. - Permits and certificates.
Permits and certificates shall be issued in accordance with the following provisions:
113.1. Building permits. The zoning enforcement officer shall issue a building permit for zoning compliance, for construction, or structural alteration provided such proposed use of land construction, or structure, or structural alteration is in conformance with the provision of these regulations. Such permits shall be evidence of compliance with these regulations contained herein.
113.1.1. When required by the zoning enforcement officer, an application shall be accompanied by two (2) copies of a dimensional sketch or a to-scale plan, signed by the owner, or his authorized agent, to include, as a minimum the following: lot dimensions with property line monuments located thereon; shape, size, height, uses, and location of the buildings proposed to be erected, demolished, altered, or moved, and of any buildings already on the lot yard dimensions and the use of structures, including the number of dwelling units within each structure, where appropriate; easements (private and public); water courses; fences; street names and street right-of-way lines; and such other information regarding abutting property as directly affects the application.
113.1.2. Each permit shall be conspicuously posted and displayed on the premises described in the permit during the period of construction or reconstruction.
113.1.3. If the proposed excavation, filling, construction, or movement set forth in said sketch or plan is in conformity with the provisions of these regulations and other appropriate codes and regulations then, in effect, the zoning enforcement officer shall sign and return one (1) copy of the building permit and retain one (1) copy of the permit and all accompanying sketches and plans for his records.
113.1.4. If the sketch or plan submitted describes work which does not conform to the requirements of these regulations, the zoning enforcement officer shall not issue a building permit, but shall return one (1) copy of the sketch or plan to the applicant along with a signed refusal and shall cite the portions of these regulations with which the submitted sketch or plan does not comply. The zoning enforcement officer shall retain one (1) copy of the sketch or plan and the refusal.
113.1.5. Any building permit for zoning compliance shall automatically expire six (6) months from the date of issuance if the person, firm, or corporation to which the certificate or permit was issued has not clearly demonstrated that the permit is being exercised for the purpose for which it was issued, or if the work so authorized is suspended or discontinued for a period of one (1) year, or if it is determined that work is not proceeding in accordance with the approved sketch or plan.
113.2. Certificate of occupancy. Certificates of occupancy shall be issued by the zoning enforcement officer in accordance with the following provisions:
113.2.1. Certificate of occupancy required. A certificate of occupancy is required in advance of occupancy or use of:
(1)
A building hereafter erected;
(2)
A building hereafter altered so as to affect height, or side, front or rear yards;
(3)
A change of type or occupancy or use of any building on premises.
113.2.2. Issuance of certificate of occupancy. The zoning enforcement officer shall sign and issue a certificate of occupancy if the proposed use of land or building, as stated on the application for such certificate and signed thereto by the owner or his appointed agent, is found to conform to the applicable provisions of these regulations and if the building, as finally constructed, complies with the sketch or plan submitted for the building permit for zoning compliance.
113.2.3. Denial of certificate of occupancy. A certificate of occupancy shall not be used unless the proposed use of a building or land conforms to the applicable provisions of these regulations or unless the building, as finally constructed, complies with the sketch plan upon which the building permit for zoning compliance was issued.
113.3. Certificate of zoning exception or variance. Certificate of zoning exception or variance shall be issued by the zoning enforcement officer after approval by the planning and zoning commission in accordance with the following provisions:
113.3.1. Certificate of zoning exception or variance required. A certificate of zoning exception or variance is required as follows:
(1)
In all instances where new construction, alteration of existing construction, occupancy of existing construction, or use of land is allowed only by special exception after review and approval by the planning and zoning commission.
(2)
In all instances where variance from the terms of these regulations is authorized after review and approval by the planning and zoning commission.
113.3.2. Issuance of certificate of zoning exception or variance. Excepting minor variances, as detailed below in section 114.2.11, the zoning enforcement officer does not have the authority to take final action on the issuance of certificates of zoning exception or variance until review and approval by the planning and zoning commission.
113.3.3. Denial of certificate of zoning exception or variance. A certificate of zoning exception or variance shall not be issued when after review by the planning and zoning commission such new construction, alteration or existing construction, occupancy of existing construction, or use of land is found to be contrary to these regulations or the public interest. In such instances, the zoning enforcement officer shall return one (1) copy of the application for certificate of zoning exception or variance citing the reason(s) for denial and shall retain one (1) copy of the application and an accompanying sketch and plans.
(Ord. No. 32-14, 11-3-14)
Section 114. - Procedures for requesting a zoning amendment; special exception or variance; and appeals from the decision of the zoning enforcement officer.
114.1. Zoning amendments. The mayor and council may, from time to time, after examination, review, and a public hearing thereon, amend, supplement or change these regulations and the zoning districts contained herein or subsequently established. Unless initiated by the mayor and council or the planning and zoning commission, all applications to amend the land use plan, official zoning map or conditions of the zoning must be submitted by the owner of the affected property or the authorized agent of the owner. Such authorization shall be notarized and attached to the application. Proposals for zoning amendments, whether initiated by the mayor and council, the planning and zoning commission, or any person, firm, or corporation, shall be in compliance with the following procedures:
114.1.1. An application to amend the text of this ordinance, the land use plan or the official zoning map shall be submitted in writing to the zoning enforcement officer at least forty-five (45) days before any hearing by the planning and zoning commission. Any application that does not include all of the components required in sections 114.1.2, 114.1.3 and/or 114.1.4 shall be considered incomplete; submission date shall be considered the date upon which the application is accepted as complete by the planning and zoning staff.
114.1.2. Text amendment applications shall include the following:
(1)
Name and address of the applicant;
(2)
Current provisions of the text to be affected by amendment;
(3)
Proposed wording of text change;
(4)
Letter of intent explaining what is proposed and reason for request; and
(5)
Disclosure of campaign contributions and conflict of interest certification, see sections 1 14.1.15 and 114.1.16.
114.1.3. Land use plan amendment applications shall include the following:
(1)
A current legal description of the property proposed for amendment. If the property proposed for amendment includes multiple parcels, provide a separate legal description for each individual parcel, together with a composite legal description for all parcels.
(2)
All permitted land uses for the identified area under the existing land use plan;
(3)
All changes to existing land use designations that are proposed by the application;
(4)
All land uses immediately adjacent to the subject property under the existing land use plan;
(5)
Letter listing all reasons for the amendment application;
(6)
Applicant's and/or owner's certification;
(7)
Names and addresses of the owner(s) of the land or their agent(s), if any, authorized to apply for an amendment;
(8)
Verification by Houston County that all property taxes owed have been paid (for all parcels subject to this application);
(9)
A certificate of title (for all parcels subject to the application);
(10)
A map indicating the subject property(ies) and the adjacent properties, identified by tax parcel number; and
(11)
An initiating party shall also file any other information or supporting materials that are required by the mayor and council, planning and zoning commission and/or the planning and zoning staff.
114.1.4. Zoning map amendment applications require the following:
114.1.4.1. A pre-application conference is required for all zoning map amendment petitions. All applicants must meet with a member of the planning and zoning staff to discuss the application procedures, the public hearing process, and any other information which may be pertinent to the proposed request. Applications will not be accepted until a pre-application conference has been held. Conferences may be handled via telephone at the discretion of staff.
114.1.4.2. Unless waived by the zoning enforcement officer, each application submitted by a person other than the city shall include all the following information about the subject property:
(1)
Legal description;
(2)
Survey plat showing acreage, compiled by a licensed surveyor;
(3)
Current zoning of the subject property and abutting properties and description of all existing uses of abutting properties;
(4)
A statement of intent explaining the requested zoning change, the proposed use and any special or unusual parts of the rezoning request;
(5)
A description of suitability for development under existing and proposed zoning and a description of all existing uses and structures;
(6)
The duration of vacancy or non-use if the property is vacant and unused at the time the application is submitted;
(7)
A site plan drawn to scale showing the proposed use, including at a minimum information on proposed improvements, including parking and traffic circulation areas of required landscaping, stormwater, detention structures, amenities, buildings and buffers;
(8)
For any applications for commercial industrial uses, the site plan shall also identify the maximum gross square footage of structures, the minimum square footage of landscaped area, the maximum height of any structure, the minimum square footage of parking and drive areas, and the proposed number of parking spaces, landscaping and buffers, stormwater retention structures;
(9)
For any application for single-family residential uses, the site plan shall also identify the maximum number of residential dwelling units, the maximum height of any structure, the minimum square footage of landscaped area, the maximum gross square footage of structures, and the proposed number of parking space;
(10)
For any application for multi-family residential uses, the site plan shall also identify the maximum height of any structure, location of amenities and buffer areas; and
(11)
Any other information may be reasonably required by the zoning enforcement officer, planning and zoning commission or council.
114.1.5. All applications for amendments shall be accompanied by payment of a non-refundable fee as established by the City of Warner Robins Fee Schedule. The mayor and council shall establish a schedule of fees, charges, and expenses and a collection procedure for building permits, certificates of occupancy, appeals, and other matters pertaining to the zoning ordinance. The schedule of fees shall be posted in the planning and zoning department and may be altered or amended only by the mayor and council.
114.1.6. The planning and zoning staff, upon receiving a complete application to amend the zoning ordinance or the official zoning map, may do the following:
(1)
Consult with other departments of the city or county to fully evaluate the impact of any land use category or zoning district change upon public facilities and services including, but not limited to schools, drainage, traffic and related facilities;
(2)
Conduct a site review of the property and surrounding area; and
(3)
Submit a written record of investigation and recommendations to the planning and zoning commission and mayor and council. Said report shall be a matter of public record. The planning and zoning staff's report may recommend amendments to the applicant's request which would reduce the land area for which the application is made, change the land use category or zoning district requested and/or recommend conditions of rezoning which may be deemed advisable so that the purpose of this ordinance will be served and the public health, safety, morality and general welfare secured.
114.1.7. The application shall be submitted to the planning and zoning commission for a public hearing, review and recommendation. Said commission shall have thirty (30) days in which to submit a recommendation to the mayor and council.
114.1.8. Whenever an amendment is proposed or initiated by a party other than the city to change the zoning district of a particular parcel or parcels of property, the applicant shall identify the property to be rezoned as required by the zoning enforcement officer as to allow the posting of a sign on the property in a conspicuous place at least fifteen (15) days in advance of the hearing to be held on the amendment. Such sign shall indicate that a proposal to rezone the property has been submitted to the planning and zoning commission and interested parties may make inquiries for details of the amendment sought. More than one (1) sign may be posted if, in the opinion of the zoning enforcement officer, one (1) sign would not give adequate notice. The cost of each such sign shall be paid by the applicant in accordance with the schedule of fees set forth by mayor and council.
114.1.9. At least fifteen (15) but not more than forty-five (45) days prior to the day of the public hearing; a legal notice shall be published in a newspaper of general circulation within the city giving notice of the time, of the place and purpose of such hearing.
114.1.10. The planning and zoning commission shall hold a public hearing on each complete application in accordance with a schedule adopted by the mayor and council. The planning and zoning commission shall consider the standards in section 114.1.13 prior to any recommendations. Staff recommendations on each application shall be submitted to the planning and zoning commission in advance of the public hearing. In addition, the planning and zoning commission shall, with respect to each application, investigate and make a recommendation for approval, denial, deferral, withdrawal without prejudice or no recommendation. As applicable, a written report of the planning and zoning commission's investigation and recommendation, along with the planning and zoning staff's written report of investigation and recommendation shall be submitted to the mayor and council and shall be of public record.
114.1.11. At the public hearing conducted by the planning and zoning commission, the chairman shall open the hearing at the time and place specified in the hearing notice. The chair shall announce the rules of the hearing before proceeding to address the proposed amendments listed on the agenda.
The chair shall announce each proposed amendment. The chair shall then call for a show of hands of those present wishing to speak in support of the proposed amendment. The chair shall recognize each such person in turn and ask him or her to rise, state his or her name and address, and present his or her statement. The chair shall then call for a show of hands of those present wishing to speak in opposition to the proposed amendment. The chair shall recognize each such person in turn and ask him or her to rise, state his or her name and address, and present his or her statement. The duration of arguments, both for and against the proposed amendment, shall be limited by the chair, and no statement, either in support of or in opposition to the amendment, shall be allowed to exceed the time limit so imposed. All speakers are expected to adhere to the standards of conduct set forth in section 114.1.12 below.
After all of the proposed amendments listed on the agenda have been fully addressed in the foregoing manner, the chair shall declare the public hearing to be closed.
114.1.12. All speakers shall speak only from the podium, shall address only the merits of the pending application and shall address remarks only to the planning and zoning commission. Each speaker shall refrain from personal attacks on any other speaker, any discussion irrelevant to the pending application, or any other inappropriate behavior. No debate or argument between speakers or with commission members will be allowed. Speakers shall not repeat previous comments, as repetition deprives other speakers of valuable time to provide new information. The presiding officer or his/her designee shall refuse a speaker the right to continue, if the speaker, after once being cautioned, continues to violate any section of this ordinance. Speakers should provide supporting documentation prior to the date of the hearing. Speakers shall sign the speaker sign-in sheet prior to the hearing.
114.1.13. The planning and zoning commission and the mayor and council will consider the following factors in determining zoning decisions:
(1)
The location, present use and zoning classification of subject property, and its suitability and economic viability for use as currently zoned;
(2)
The proposed use and zoning classification of the subject property;
(3)
Whether the proposal is consistent with the comprehensive plan;
(4)
The existing land use pattern and the official future land use plan as adopted in the surrounding area or neighborhood;
(5)
The possible creation of an isolated district unrelated to other, nearby districts (spot zoning);
(6)
The increase in population density;
(7)
The possible overloading of the capacity of public facilities including, but not limited to, schools, streets and highways, sanitary sewer system, water system, fire and police protection, and drainage structures;
(8)
Impact on the physical, cultural, and social environment;
(9)
The effect on adjacent properties;
(10)
Whether there are substantial reasons why the property cannot be used in accordance with existing zoning and/or the length of time the property has remained vacant at its present zoning as considered in the context of land development in the area;
(11)
The aesthetic effect of existing and future use of the property as it relates to the overall environment of the surrounding area;
(12)
The relative public benefits to be derived as compared to any potential hardship imposed upon the individual property owner(s); and
(13)
Reasonable conditions, as set forth on the site plan as submitted by the petitioner, as recommended by the planning and zoning commission, or as imposed by the mayor and council at the time the petition is granted;
(14)
Any other factors relevant to the balancing interest in promoting health, safety, morality or general welfare against the unrestricted use of property including, but not limited to, impact upon police and fire protection capabilities and the protection of flood zones and natural areas.
The annexation/zoning petition report and recommendation in its present or future form will be the instrument used to provide decision-making information to mayor and council and planning and zoning commission members.
114.1.14. The mayor and council shall take action on the said proposed amendment within forty-five (45) days after the date of the public hearing held by the planning and zoning commission. The mayor and council shall review the reports prepared by the planning and zoning staff and the planning and zoning commission. Mayor and council may approve or deny the application, approve with modifications or conditions, approve an alternate district or land use category to address the request or defer the decision to a specified meeting date. An action by mayor and council to defer the application shall include a statement of the date and time of the next meeting at which the application will be considered. Such statement shall constitute public notice and no further notice, as outlined in sections 114.1.8—9, is required. The mayor and council shall have the authority to resubmit the proposed amendment for reconsideration by the commission. In the event of a resubmission, the commission shall issue its final recommendation to the mayor and council within thirty (30) days.
114.1.15. The permitted order in which amendments may be made to the text of the zoning ordinance, land use plan and the official zoning map, respectively, is as follows:
(1)
The text of the zoning ordinance may be amended without prior or subsequent amendment to the land use plan or the official zoning map.
(2)
The official zoning map may be amended without an amendment to the land use plan if the proposed amendment would permit a use that is permitted by the land use plan.
(3)
If a proposed amendment to the official zoning map would permit a use that is not authorized within the land use category of the subject property as shown on the land use plan, then the applicant must obtain an appropriate amendment to the land use plan before applying for the rezoning. The applicant may apply for an appropriate amendment to the land use plan and at the same time apply for zoning map amendment.
(4)
The land use plan may be amended regardless of the zoning districts that apply to the subject property.
(5)
Where an application to amend the land use plan and an application to amend the official zoning map each affect the same property and are scheduled to be heard at the same hearing, the application to amend the land use plan shall be heard first, and action authorized by this ordinance taken before the application to amend the official zoning map is heard and action taken with respect thereto.
114.1.16. Disclosure of campaign contributions and/or gifts (O.C.G.A. § 36-67A-3). When any applicant for any zoning action, or any supporter or opponent of any zoning action who has contacted the city to express an opinion or who wishes to speak at a public hearing or submit written opinion, has made within two (2) years immediately preceding the filing of that application campaign contributions totaling two hundred and fifty dollars ($250.00) or more to an official of the City of Warner Robins or to a member of the Warner Robins Planning and Zoning Commission it shall be the duty of said person to file a disclosure report with the city. In the case of the applicant, filing shall be within ten (10) days after the application is made, and in the case of a supporter or opponent, filing shall be at least five (5) days before the first public hearing. Such disclosure report shall include the name and official position of the official to whom the campaign contribution and/or gift was made and the dollar amount, date, and description of each campaign contribution and/or gift made during the two (2) years immediately preceding the fling of the application.
114.1.17. Conflict of interest (O.C.G.A. § 36-67A-2). Any city official who has property interest in real property affected by a zoning action which the city will consider or has a financial interest in any business entity which as a property interest in any real property affected by a zoning action which the city will consider, or has a member of the family having any such interest, shall immediately disclose the nature and extent of such interest, in writing, to the council. Such city official shall disqualify himself from attending, participating in or voting on the zoning action. Disclosures made in accordance with this section shall be public record and available for public inspection during normal business hours. Terms used here are defined below.
(1)
Business interest: Any corporation, partnership, limited liability company, limited partnership, limited liability partnership, firm, enterprise, franchise, association, or trust.
(2)
Financial interest: All direct ownership interests of total assets or capital stock of any business entity of ten (10) percent or more.
(3)
City official: The mayor, council member, or any member of the planning and zoning commission.
(4)
Member of the family: The spouse, parent, sibling or child of a city official.
(5)
Property interest: The direct ownership of real property, including any percentage of ownership.
114.1.18. Procedure relative to ex parte contact with mayor and council. The planning and zoning commission is not subject hereto. To maintain transparency and to avoid an appearance of impropriety in the decision-making process, there shall be no unsolicited substantive ex parte (individual) communication with the mayor or council members by an applicant or his/her representative(s) or by supporters of or opposition to the rezoning, unless the mayor or councilperson agrees to such. Unsolicited e-mails, letters, and faxes to the mayor and council as a whole, copied to the zoning enforcement officer are permissible. They will be made a part of the record. The applicant and his/her representative(s) and supports and opponents are to limit their unsolicited verbal contacts with city officials and employees to the zoning enforcement officer and to the city attorney if the proposed contact is from legal counsel. Mayor and council members will accept verbal presentations in the advertised public hearing and meetings, and via express solicitation or agreement in other instances. If an individual mayor or council member shall direct that person to the zoning enforcement officer, and city attorney and advise the person of upcoming public hearing(s), and disclose such to the mayor and council at the public hearing.
114.1.19. Any petition for a zoning amendment may be withdrawn prior to action thereon by the mayor and council at the discretion of the person, firm, or corporation initiating such request. Written notice of the withdrawal shall be submitted to the zoning enforcement officer.
114.1.20. An application to alter conditions of a rezoning shall be submitted and processed in accordance with all provisions applicable to map amendments through the planning and zoning staff, the planning and zoning commission for a public hearing, and to the mayor and council for final approval.
114.1.21. If a decision for the rezoning of said property is defeated by the mayor and council, then the same property may not be considered for rezoning until the expiration of at least six (6) months immediately following the vote of the mayor and council denying such. A text and/or map amendment may be initiated by the city at any time.
114.1.22. If a site development plan or preliminary plat has not been submitted to the zoning enforcement officer within twelve (12) months of the date of approval of the rezoning application, then the planning and zoning commission may review each case to determine if there are circumstances clearly justifying such delays. If justifying circumstances do not exist, the planning and zoning commission may recommend to the mayor and council that the zoning map be amended to change the land to its prior zoning classification.
114.2. Special exceptions (including home occupation) or variances. The zoning enforcement officer shall submit to the planning and zoning commission each application for special exception. Following each submission, the planning and zoning commission may authorize the zoning enforcement officer to issue such special exception. However, at request of the zoning enforcement officer or when required by the planning and zoning commission, the following procedures for issuance of a special exception shall be followed: After examination, review, and a public hearing thereon, the planning and zoning commission may grant special exceptions to the terms of these regulations upon which said commission is required to pass under these regulations; and in addition, grant minor variances and variances from the terms of these regulations where it will not be contrary to the public interest.
114.2.1. An application must be submitted in writing to the zoning enforcement officer and must be accompanied with site plans, sketches, or any other such information which may be required for review as set forth in section 114.2.3 and section 114.2.9.
114.2.2. The public hearing requirements set forth in section 114.1.11 apply.
114.2.3. Each application for a special exception must be submitted to the zoning enforcement officer at least forty-five (45) days before any hearing by the planning and zoning commission. Unless waived by the zoning enforcement officer, each application shall include all the following information about the subject property:
(1)
Name and address of the applicant, and name and address of the owner or operator of the proposed structure or use, if different from the applicant;
(2)
Nature of proposed use, including without limitation, type of activity proposed, manner of operation, number of occupants and/or employees, hours of operation, number of vehicle trips, water and sewer use and similar matters;
(3)
Vicinity map, location of the proposed use or structure, and its relationship to exiting adjacent uses or structures, and use of adjacent property;
(4)
Area, dimensions and details of the proposed structure(s) or use(s), including without limitation, existing and proposed parking, landscaped areas, height and setbacks of any proposed buildings, and location and number of proposed parking/loading spaces and access ways;
(5)
Identification and location of all existing and proposed utilities; and
(6)
Any other pertinent information that the zoning enforcement officer, planning and zoning commission or council may require, including without limitation, the application contents required by a pre-application conference.
114.2.4. A special exception shall be approved only when it is determined based on the evidence presented at the public hearing that all of the following conditions have been met:
(1)
The proposed use will not be detrimental to adjacent properties or the general neighborhood, the proposed use will not significantly adversely affect public health, safety, morality and welfare, and the proposed use as designed will minimize adverse effect to the surrounding neighborhood.
(2)
Applicable standards in article VIII have been met.
(3)
The proposed use is consistent with the comprehensive plan, and the conditional use is compatible with the community development pattern.
(4)
A rezoning to allow the requested use as permitted use would not be appropriate.
(5)
The proposed use will not be injurious to the natural environment or the other property in the immediate vicinity, or unconstitutionally diminish property values within the surrounding neighborhood.
(6)
Off-street parking and loading, and access thereto will be adequate.
(7)
Public facilities and utilities are capable of adequately serving the proposed use, and the use would not lead to a major negative change in existing levels of public service, or fiscal stability.
(8)
The use will not be an extension of a use which will cause a damaging volume of (a) agricultural, (b) commercial, (c) industrial, or (d) higher density residential use into a stable neighborhood of well-maintained single-family homes, nor likely lead to decreasing surrounding property values, neighborhood deterioration, spreading of blight or additional requests of similar nature which would expand the problem.
(9)
The use would not significantly increase congestion, nose or traffic hazards.
(10)
Granting this request would not have a "domino effect," in that it becomes the opening wedge for further rapid growth, urbanization or other land-use change beyond what is indicated in the comprehensive plan.
114.2.5. The application shall be sent to the planning and zoning commission for review, public hearing and an approval/denial thereof. The planning and zoning commission shall have thirty (30) days in which to make a decision.
114.2.5.1. Whenever a proposed special exception involves an application for home occupation, a day care center, group home or a personal care home, the planning and zoning commission will make a recommendation to mayor and council. The mayor and council shall take action on the said proposed amendment within forty-five (45) days after the date of the public hearing held by the planning and zoning commission. The mayor and council shall review the reports prepared by the planning and zoning staff and the planning and zoning commission. Mayor and council may approve or deny the application, approve with modifications or conditions, approve an alternate district or land use category to address the request or defer the decision to a specified meeting date. An action by mayor and council to defer the application shall include a statement of the date and time of the next meeting at which the application will be considered. Such statement shall constitute public notice and no further notice, as outlined in sections 114.1.8—9, is required. The mayor and council shall have the authority to resubmit the proposed amendment for reconsideration by the commission. In the event of a resubmission, the commission shall issue its final recommendation to the mayor and council within thirty (30) days.
114.2.6. Whenever a proposed special exception involves an application for a day care center, group home, or a personal care home, then the applicant shall provide the zoning enforcement officer with the signature and addresses of all residents and/or property owners contiguous to the applicant's property, including the owners of property lying directly across the adjacent rights-of-way. The signatures are to show that these potentially affected property owners have received notice of the special exception application and the upcoming public hearing. When, in the opinion of the zoning enforcement officer, the proposed use would directly affect the integrity of the existing neighborhood by reason of increased traffic or the possible overloading of other public facilities, then the zoning enforcement officer is authorized to require the signatures and addresses of additional area property owners as deemed necessary to adequately inform the neighborhood of the application.
114.2.7. Whenever a proposed special exception involves an application for home occupation, a day care center, group home, or a personal care home, or when, in the opinion of the zoning enforcement officer, the proposed use would directly affect the integrity of the neighborhood, a sign containing information as to the proposed request shall be posted in a conspicuous location on the property at least fifteen (15) days prior to the date of the public hearing. Such sign shall indicate that a proposal for a special exception has been submitted to the planning and zoning commission and interested parties may make inquiries for details of the type of use sought. More than one (1) sign may be posted if, in the opinion of the zoning enforcement officer, one (1) sign would not give adequate notice. The cost of each such sign shall be paid by the applicant in accordance with the schedule of fees set forth by mayor and council.
114.2.8. Whenever a proposed special exception involves an application for a home occupation and the applicant is not the owner of the property then said application shall be accompanied by the written permission of the owner.
114.2.9. Use variances are prohibited. No variance may be granted that would permit a use not permitted by right or as a special exception in a district.
114.2.10. Each application for a variance must be submitted to the zoning enforcement officer at least forty-five (45) days before any hearing by the planning and zoning commission. Each application shall include all the following information about the subject property:
(1)
Name and address of the applicant;
(2)
Location of the structure and/or use of the structure for which the variance is sought, as shown on a plat by a licensed surveyor;
(3)
Relationship of the structure and/or use to existing structures and uses on adjacent lots;
(4)
Specific sections of this ordinance which would cause hardship, see section 112.1.4.
(5)
Characteristics of the property related to its size, shape or topography that prevent compliance with this ordinance;
(6)
The particular hardship that would result from strict application of this ordinance, see section 112.1.4;
(7)
For any application within an overlay district (i.e. Corridor Overlay, Historic District, etc.) a certificate of appropriateness or a letter of support from a design review board for the district; and
(8)
Any other pertinent information that the zoning enforcement officer, planning and zoning commission or council may require, including without limitation the application contents required by a pre-application conference.
114.2.11. Minor variance provides a simplified procedure for city review and decision on variance requests that propose only a minor modification of applicable zoning code standards. The zoning enforcement officer has the authority to review and grant a minor variance, with or without conditions, or may defer action and refer the application to the planning and zoning commission.
(1)
A public hearing shall not be required for a decision on a minor variance, unless the review authority determines that the specifics of the application justify the holding of a public hearing.
(2)
An application for a minor variance shall be considered by the zoning enforcement officer governing only the development standards identified in following table.
EXPAND
Types of Minor Variances Allowed Maximum
Adjustment
1. Projections. An increase in the allowable projection of canopies, cornices, eaves, fireplaces, landings, masonry chimneys, overhangs, raised porches, stairways, and steps into a required setback area, but not closer to any property line than allowed by the International Building Code, or other such codes as mandated by the State of Georgia. 25%
2. Setback areas. A decrease in a required setback, but no closer to the property line than the average of the developed lots on the same block face, and so that no projection into a public utility easement is allowed. 25%
3. Structure height. An increase in the maximum allowable structure height. 25%
4. Required variance. A request which exceeds the limitations identified in this section shall require the filing of a variance application.
  114.2.12. The granting of any variance or minor variance will only occur upon a finding by the zoning enforcement officer or planning and zoning commission that the request meets the conditions outlined in section 112.1.4.
114.2.13. The granting of a prior variance shall not set a precedent for the granting of a further variance, and each application shall be considered only on its individual merits.
114.2.14. A variance shall not be granted if the review authority finds that the condition of the specific piece of property for which a variance is sought, is so general or recurrent in the area as to make practicable the formulation and adoption of a general regulation (e.g. a zoning ordinance amendment) to address and provide for the prevailing condition.
114.2.15. Variances shall lapse one (1) year from the date of the grant of the variance by the zoning enforcement officer unless:
(1)
A zoning or building permit is in effect, the land is being used as contemplated in the variance, or regular progress toward completion of the use or structures contemplated in the variance has taken place in accordance with plan for which the variance was granted; or
(2)
A longer period of validity is established by the zoning enforcement officer or planning and zoning commission; or
(3)
The variance is for future installation or replacement of utilities at the time such installation becomes necessary.
114.2.16. Any application for special exceptions or variances may be withdrawn prior to action by the planning and zoning commission at the discretion of the applicant upon written notice to the zoning enforcement officer.
114.2.17. An applicant shall not initiate action for a special exception or variance involving the same parcel of land more often than once every twelve (12) months.
114.3. Appeals from the zoning enforcement officer. The planning and zoning commission may, from time to time, hear appeals where it is alleged there is error in any order, requirement, decision, or determination made by the zoning enforcement officer or other administrative officials in the enforcement of these regulations.
114.3.1. A request for a hearing before the planning and zoning commission to appeal a decision of the zoning enforcement officer or other administrative officials must be submitted in writing to the zoning enforcement officer and must be accompanied by any information and documentation relevant to the appeal.
114.3.2. The planning and zoning commission shall schedule the requested hearing within thirty (30) days.
(Ord. No. 32-14, 11-3-14; Ord. No. 25-17, § 1, 5-15-17; Ord. No. 05-18, Exh. A(e), (f), 1-16-18)
State Law reference— Zoning proposal review procedures, O.C.G.A. § 30-66-1 et seq.
Section 115. - Procedure for requesting a hearing before the board of zoning appeals.
Request to hear and decide appeals where it is alleged that in the enforcement and application of these regulations there is error in any final order, requirement, decision, or determination made by the planning and zoning commission, the zoning enforcement officer, or other administrative official, shall observe the following procedures provided, however, that provisions of this section shall not apply to any decisions of the planning and zoning commission, the zoning enforcement officer or other administrative officials which are merely recommendations and not final decisions.
115.1. A request for a hearing before the board of zoning appeals to appeal a decision of the planning and zoning commission or the zoning enforcement officer or other administrative official(s) must be submitted in writing to the zoning enforcement officer. The request must be accompanied by any information and documentation relevant to the appeal.
115.1.1. No request for appeal to a decision of the zoning enforcement officer or other administrative official(s) shall be considered by the board of zoning appeals without first having been heard by the planning and zoning commission.
115.1.2. A request for appeal of a decision of the planning and zoning commission must be submitted within thirty (30) days of said decision.
115.2. The request shall be sent to the board of appeals for review. The board of zoning appeals shall fix a reasonable time for the hearing of appeals or other matters referred to said board, give at least fifteen (15) days public notice thereof, as well as due notice to the parties in interest, and decide the same within forty-five (45) days from the date of such public hearing.
115.2.1. The board of zoning appeals may deny a request for hearing and appeal if after review of the request, it is determined that the request is inconsistent with the procedures specified in these regulations or there is no substantive basis for the request.
115.2.2. Whenever an appeal concerns a special exception which involves an application for home occupation, then the applicant shall provide the zoning enforcement officer with a list of names and addresses of all residents and property contiguous to the applicant's property, including the owners of property lying directly across the adjacent rights-of-way. Then the zoning enforcement officer shall notify all identified residents and property owners regarding the nature of the proposed request; the time, date and place the application will be heard, and the telephone number of the zoning enforcement officer should additional information be required.
115.3. A request for appeal stays all legal proceeding relative to and in furthering of the decision being appealed unless the zoning enforcement officer certifies to the board of zoning appeals that in his opinion a stay would cause imminent peril to life and property. Said certification shall include sufficient facts substantiating the imminent peril.
115.3.1. A restraining order of the board of zoning appeals or a court of record shall overrule a certification of the zoning enforcement officer, in which case a legal proceeding will be stayed.
115.4. In exercising the powers granted the board of zoning appeals in section 111.2 of these regulations, the said board may, in conformity with the provisions of these regulations, reverse or affirm wholly or in part, or may modify the order, requirements, decisions or determination of the zoning enforcement officer, or the planning and zoning commission and to that end shall have all the powers of the zoning enforcement officer or the planning and zoning commission and may issue or direct the issuance of a certificate of zoning exception or variance.
115.5. A property owner, or his appointed agent, shall not initiate action for a hearing before the board of zoning appeals relating to the same parcel of land more often than once every twelve (12) months provided that any such request shall have been heard again by the planning and zoning commission in accordance with the procedures outlined in section 114.
115.6. Any petition for a hearing before the board of zoning appeals may be withdrawn prior to action thereon by said board at the discretion of the person, firm, or corporation initiating such a request upon written notice to the secretary of said board.
115.7. Any person or persons severally or jointly aggrieved by any decision of the board of zoning appeals may take an appeal to the superior court.
(Ord. No. 32-14, 11-3-14)
ARTICLE XII. - ENFORCEMENT AND REMEDIES

Section 116. - Penalties.
A violation of any provision of these regulations shall subject the violator to the maximum punishment provided under the City Charter. Each day any such violation continues shall be deemed a separate offense.
(Ord. No. 32-14, 11-3-14)
Section 117. - Remedies.
Remedies as provided in O.C.G.A. § 69-1212 [now repealed].
(Ord. No. 32-14, 11-3-14)
ARTICLE XIII. - AMENDMENTS

Section 118. - Procedure.
The mayor and council on its own motion, on petition, or on recommendation of the planning and zoning commission, may amend, extend, supplement, change, modify, or repeal these regulations after giving notice and holding public hearings as prescribed by O.C.G.A. § 36-66-1 et seq.
(Ord. No. 32-14, 11-3-14)
ARTICLE XIV. - LEGAL STATUS PROVISIONS

Section 119. - Conflict with other laws.
Wherever the requirements of these regulations are at variance with the requirements of any other lawfully adopted statutes, rules, regulations, resolutions, ordinances, the most restrictive, or that imposing higher standards, shall govern.
(Ord. No. 32-14, 11-3-14)
Section 120. - Validity.
Each phrase, sentence, paragraph, section or other provision of these regulations is severable from all other such phrases, sentences, paragraphs, sections, and provisions. Should any phrase, sentence, paragraph, section, or provision of these regulations be declared by the courts to be unconstitutional or invalid, such declaration shall not affect any other portion or provision of these regulations.
(Ord. No. 32-14, 11-3-14)
Section 121. - Repealed resolutions and ordinances.
All resolutions and ordinances, or portions thereof, in conflict with these regulations shall be and the same are hereby repealed.
Section 122. - Effective date.
These regulations shall take effect and be in force from and after the date of their adoption by the mayor and council [November 3, 2014].
(Ord. No. 32-14, 11-3-14)
ARTICLE XV. - STANDARDS FOR TELECOMMUNICATIONS ANTENNAE AND TOWERS

Section 123. - Purposes.
This ordinance is designed and intended to balance the interests of the residents of the City of Warner Robins, telecommunications providers, and telecommunications customers in the siting of telecommunications facilities within the City of Warner Robins so as to protect the health, safety and integrity of residential neighborhoods and foster, through appropriate zoning and land use controls, a competitive environment for telecommunications carriers that does not unreasonably discriminate among providers of functionally equivalent personal wireless services and shall not prohibit or have the effect of prohibiting the provision of personal wireless services, and so as to promote the City of Warner Robins as a proactive city in the availability of personal wireless telecommunications service. To that end, this ordinance shall:
A.
Provide for the appropriate location and development of telecommunications facilities in the city;
B.
Protect the city's built and natural environment by promoting compatible design standards for telecommunications facilities;
C.
Minimize adverse visual impacts of telecommunications facilities through careful design, siting, landscape screening and innovative camouflaging techniques;
D.
Avoid potential damage to adjacent properties from tower or antennae failure through engineering and careful siting of telecommunications tower structures and antennae;
E.
Maximize use of any new and existing telecommunications towers so as to minimize the need to construct new towers and minimize the total number of towers throughout the city;
F.
Maximize and encourage use of alternative telecommunication tower structures as a primary option rather than construction of additional single-use towers; and
G.
Encourage and promote the location of new telecommunications facilities in areas which are not zoned for residential use.
Section 124. - Definitions.
As used in this ordinance, the following terms' shall have the meanings indicated:
Antenna means any exterior apparatus designed for the sending and/or receiving of electromagnetic waves for telephonic, radio, television, or personal wireless services. For the purposes of this ordinance the term antenna does not include any tower and antenna under seventy (70) feet in total height which is owned and operated by an amateur radio operator licensed by the Federal Communications Commission, any device designed for over-the-air reception of radio or television broadcast signals, multichannel multipoint distribution service or direct broadcast satellite service, or any cable television headend or hub towers and antennae used solely for cable television services.
Building official means the building official of the City of Warner Robins or his/her designee.
Governing body means the mayor and council of the City of Warner Robins.
Micro telecommunications facilities are those which are located on existing buildings, poles or other existing support structures where antennae do not project more than three (3) feet above the top of the structure and there are no more than six (6) antennae per site.
Macro telecommunications facilities are those which are located on existing buildings, poles or other existing support structures and which project more than three (3) feet above the top of the structure but no more than ten (10) feet above the roof line, parapet or top of the structure. Macro telecommunication facilities may exceed the height limitation specified for the zoning district.
Monopole tower means a telecommunications tower consisting of a single pole, constructed without guy wires or ground anchors.
Telecommunications facilities refers to antennae and towers, either individually or together.
Tower means a structure, such as a lattice tower, guy tower, or monopole tower, constructed as a free-standing structure or in association with a building, other permanent structure or equipment, on which is located one (1) or more antennae intended for transmitting or receiving analog, digital, microwave, cellular, telephone, personal wireless service or similar forms of electronic communication. The term includes microwave towers, common carrier towers, and cellular telephone towers.
(Ord. No. 32-14, 11-3-14)
Section 125. - Exclusions.
The following shall be exempt from this ordinance:
A.
Any tower and antenna under seventy (70) feet in total height which is owned and operated by an amateur radio operator licensed by the Federal Communications Commission;
B.
The non-commercial use of any device under seventy (70) feet in total height designed for over-the-air reception of television broadcast signals, multichannel multipoint distribution service or direct broadcast satellite service;
C.
Any telecommunications facilities located on property owned, leased or otherwise controlled by the city provided a license or lease authorizing the telecommunications facility has been approved by the governing body; or
D.
Any cable television headend or hub towers and antennae used solely for cable television services.
Section 126. - Placement of telecommunications facilities by zoning district.
Except as provided in section 52, Height Requirements, of the Warner Robins Zoning Ordinance, tower heights shall be as follows:
A.
In Light Industrial (M-1) and Heavy Industrial (M-2) zoning districts, micro and macro telecommunications facilities shall be allowed as a use by right. Telecommunications towers designed and intended to accommodate at least one (1) user are permitted as a use of right up to a height of eighty (80) feet following design review by and receipt of a building permit from the building official. Telecommunications towers designed and intended to accommodate at least two (2) users are permitted as a use of right up to a height of one hundred (100) feet following design review by and receipt of a building permit from the building official. Telecommunications towers designed and intended to accommodate at least three (3) users are permitted as a use of right up to a height of one hundred twenty (120) feet following design review by and receipt of a building permit from the building official.
B.
In Central Business (C-3), General Commercial (C-2), and Neighborhood Shopping (C-1) zoning districts, micro and macro telecommunications facilities shall be allowed as a use by right following design review by and receipt of a building permit from the building official. Monopole towers up to a height of fifty (50) feet are permitted as a special use following design review by and receipt of a building permit from the building official and monopole towers up at a height of eighty (80) feet designed and intended to accommodate at least two (2) users are permitted as a special use following design review by and receipt of a building permit from the building official.
C.
In Multi-Family Residential (R-4), Manufactured Home Park (R-MH), and Agricultural (R-Ag) zoning districts, micro and macro telecommunications facilities shall be allowed as a use by right following design review by and receipt of a building permit from the building official. Monopole towers up to a height of fifty (50) feet are permitted as a special use following design review by and receipt of a building permit from the building official.
D.
In Single-Family Residential (R-1) and Planned Development Districts (PDR, PDC, PDI, PDE), zoning districts, micro telecommunications facilities shall be allowed as a use as of right on nonresidential structures following design review by and receipt of a building permit from the building official. Macro telecommunications facilities shall be allowed as a special use on nonresidential structures following design review by and receipt of a building permit from the building official.
E.
Telecommunications facilities outside the guidelines listed above may only be built after approval of a variance in accordance with section 114.2 of the zoning ordinance of the City of Warner Robins as well as receipt of a building permit.
Section 127. - Preferred and disfavored location sites.
A.
Preferred location sites.
1.
Co-location sites: Any existing telecommunications towers currently being used for transmitting or receiving analog, digital, microwave, cellular, telephone, personal wireless service or similar forms of electronic communication shall be a preferred location site regardless of the underlying zoning designation of the site provided, however, that locations which meet this criteria shall be subject to the design and siting components of this ordinance, and co-location sites shall not become an "antenna farm" or otherwise be deemed by the building official or the governing authority to be visually obtrusive.
2.
Publicly-used structures: Publicly-used structures are preferred locations throughout the city because they appear in virtually all neighborhoods, are dispersed throughout the city, and due to their institutional or infrastructure uses are generally similar in appearance to or readily adaptable for telecommunications facilities. Therefore, telecommunications facilities should be less noticeable when placed on publicly-used structures than when placed on commercial or residential structures. Publicly-used structures include, but are not limited to, facilities such as police or fire stations, libraries, community centers, civic centers, courthouses, utility structures, water towers, elevated roadways, bridges, flag poles, schools, hospitals, clock or bell towers, light poles and churches.
3.
Industrial and commercial structures: Wholly industrial and commercial structures such as warehouses, factories, retail outlets, supermarkets, banks, garages, or service stations shall be preferred locations particularly where existing visual obstructions or clutter on the roof or along a roofline can and will be removed as part of the installation of the telecommunications facility.
4.
Mixed use buildings in high density districts: Mixed use buildings (housing above commercial or other non-residential space) are also preferred location sites.
B.
Disfavored location sites: Any single-family residential structure or site or multi-family duplex shall be a disfavored site for the location of telecommunications facilities.
Section 128. - Requirements for telecommunications facilities.
A.
General requirements for all telecommunications facilities: The requirements set forth in this section shall govern the location and construction of all telecommunications facilities governed by this ordinance.
1.
Building codes and safety standards: To ensure the structural integrity of telecommunications facilities, the owner of a telecommunications facility shall ensure that it is maintained in compliance with standards contained in applicable local building codes and the applicable standards for such telecommunications facilities, as amended from time to time. Owners of telecommunications facilities shall conduct periodic inspections of such facilities at least once every year to ensure structural integrity. Inspections shall be conducted by a qualified, independent engineer licensed to practice in Georgia. The results of such inspection shall be provided to the building official.
2.
Regulatory compliance.
a.
All telecommunications facilities must meet or exceed current standards and regulations of the FAA, the FCC and any other agency of the state or federal government with the authority to regulate telecommunications facilities. If such standards and regulations are changed, then the owners of the telecommunications facilities governed by this ordinance shall bring such telecommunications facilities into compliance with such revised standards and regulations within the date established by the agency promulgating the standards or regulations.
b.
Owners of telecommunications facilities shall provide documentation showing that each telecommunications facility is in compliance with all applicable federal and state requirements. Evidence of compliance must be submitted every twelve (12) months.
3.
Security: All telecommunications facilities shall be equipped with an appropriate anti-climbing device or other similar protective device to prevent unauthorized access to the telecommunications facility.
4.
Lighting: No illumination is permitted on telecommunications facilities unless required by the FCC, FAA or other state or federal agency of competent jurisdiction or unless necessary for air traffic safety. If lighting is required or necessary, the building official may review the available lighting alternatives and approve the design that would cause the least disturbance to the surrounding uses and views.
5.
Advertising: No advertising is permitted on telecommunications facilities. However, a whip antenna may be allowed on any legally permitted permanent billboard or outdoor advertising sign as long as the other requirements of this ordinance are met.
6.
Visual impact.
a.
Telecommunications facilities shall either maintain a galvanized steel finish or, subject to any applicable standards of the FAA or other applicable federal or state agency, be painted a neutral color or painted and/or textured to match the existing structure so as to reduce visual obtrusiveness.
b.
If an antenna is installed on a structure other than a tower, the antenna and associated electrical and mechanical equipment must be of a neutral color that is identical to, or closely compatible with, the color of the supporting structure so as to make the antenna and related equipment as visually unobtrusive as possible. Roof-mounted antennae shall be made visually unobtrusive by screening to match existing air conditioning units, stairs, elevator towers or other background.
c.
Where feasible, telecommunications facilities should be placed directly above, below or incorporated with vertical design elements of a building to help in camouflaging.
d.
Reserved.
e.
Telecommunications facilities shall not be placed in a direct line of sight with historic or scenic view corridors as designated by the governing body or by any state or federal law or agency.
f.
Any equipment shelter or cabinet that supports telecommunications facilities must be concealed from public view or made compatible with the architecture of the surrounding structures or placed underground. Equipment shelters or cabinets shall be screened from public view by using landscaping or materials and colors consistent with the surrounding backdrop. The shelter or cabinet must be regularly maintained.
7.
Landscaping.
a.
Landscaping shall be used to effectively screen the view of the telecommunications facility from adjacent public ways, public property and residential property.
b.
Native vegetation on the site shall be preserved to the greatest practical extent. The applicant shall provide a site plan showing existing significant vegetation to be removed, and vegetation to be replanted to replace that lost.
c.
The building official may waive or modify the landscaping requirement where lesser requirements are desirable for adequate visibility for security purposes, for continued operation of existing bona fide agricultural or forest uses such as farms, nurseries and tree farms or where an antenna is placed on an existing structure. In certain locations where the visual impact of the tower would be minimal, such as remote agricultural or rural locations or developed heavy industrial areas, the landscaping requirement may be modified or waived by the building official.
8.
Maintenance impacts. Equipment at a transmission facility shall be automated to the greatest extent possible to reduce traffic and congestion. Where the site abuts or has access to a collector or local street, access for maintenance vehicles shall be exclusively by means of the collector street.
9.
Principal, accessory and joint uses.
a.
Accessory structures used in direct support of a telecommunications facility shall be allowed but not be used for offices, vehicle storage or other outdoor storage. Mobile or immobile equipment not used in direct support of a telecommunications facility shall not be stored or parked on the site of the telecommunications facility.
b.
Telecommunications facilities may be located on sites containing another principal use in the same buildable area.
10.
Lot size and setbacks.
a.
The following setback requirements shall apply to all telecommunications facilities provided, however, that the building official may reduce the standard setback requirements of this section if the goals of this ordinance would be better served thereby.
i.
Telecommunications towers must be set back a distance equal to the height of the tower from any off-site residential structure.
ii.
Towers, guy wires and accessory facilities must satisfy the minimum zoning district setback requirements.
iii.
Telecommunications facilities must be setback from any property line a sufficient distance to protect adjoining property from the potential impact of telecommunications facility failure by being large enough to accommodate such failure on the site, based on the engineer's analysis required in article VII.
b.
For antennae attached to the roof or a supporting structure on a rooftop, a 1:1 setback ratio [example: Ten-foot high antenna and supporting structure requires ten-foot setback from edge of roof] shall be maintained unless an alternative placement is shown to reduce visual impact.
B.
Additional requirements for towers:
1.
Site location and development shall preserve the pre-existing character of the surrounding buildings and land uses and the zone district as much as possible. Personal wireless telecommunication towers shall be integrated through location and design to blend in with existing characteristics of the site to the extent practical.
2.
Existing on-site vegetation shall be preserved or improved, and disturbance of the existing topography shall be minimized, unless such disturbance would result in less visual impact of the site to the surrounding area.
3.
At a tower site the design of the buildings and related structures shall, to the extent possible, use materials, colors, textures, screening, and landscaping that will blend the tower and related facilities to the natural setting and built environment.
4.
Towers shall not be located any closer than fifteen hundred (1,500) feet from an existing tower unless technologically required or visually preferable.
5.
When a tower is adjacent to a residential use, it must be set back from the nearest residential lot line a distance at least equal to its total height.
6.
In no case shall a tower be located in the required front yard, back yard or side yard in a residential district.
7.
Towers shall not be sited where they will negatively affect historic or scenic view corridors as designated by the governing body or any state or federal law or agency or where they will create visual clutter.
8.
Towers shall be enclosed by decay-resistant security fencing not less than six (6) feet in height and shall be equipped with an appropriate anti-climbing device or other similar protective device designed to prevent tower access.
9.
Placement of more than one (1) tower on a lot shall be permitted, provided all setback, design and landscape requirements are met as to each tower. Structures may be located as close to each other as technically feasible, provided tower failure characteristics of the towers on the site will not lead to multiple failures in the event that one (1) fails.
Section 129. - Application procedures.
A.
General application requirements for all building and special use permits. Application for a building permit or special use permit for any telecommunications facility shall be made to the building official by the person, company or organization that will own and operate the telecommunications facility. An application will not be considered until it is complete. The following information shall be submitted when applying for any building permit, special use permit or other permit or variance included in this ordinance and must be submitted for an application to be considered complete:
1.
Basic information:
a.
Site plan or plans to scale specifying the location of telecommunications facilities, transmission building and/or other accessory uses, access, parking, fences, landscaped areas, and adjacent land uses. Applicants shall submit both a paper location map and a digitized location map in a format compatible with the GIS software currently utilized by the City of Warner Robins' city engineer's office.
b.
Landscape plan to scale indicating size, spacing and type of plantings required in section 128A.7.
c.
A full description of the environment surrounding the proposed telecommunications facility, including any adjacent residential structures and districts, structures and sites of historic significance, streetscapes or scenic view corridors.
d.
A description of anticipated maintenance needs for the telecommunications facility, including frequency of service, personnel needs, equipment needs, and traffic, noise or safety impacts of such maintenance.
e.
Report from a qualified, independent engineer licensed in the State of Georgia, documenting the following:
i.
Telecommunications facility height and design, including technical, engineering, economic, and other pertinent factors governing selection of the proposed design;
ii.
Total anticipated capacity of the telecommunications facility, including number and types of antennae which can be accommodated;
iii.
Evidence of structural integrity of the tower structure; and
iv.
Structural failure characteristics of the telecommunications facility and demonstration that site and setbacks are of adequate size to contain debris.
f.
A definition of the area of service to be served by the antenna or tower and whether such antenna or tower is needed for coverage or capacity.
g.
Information showing the proposed facility would provide the needed coverage or capacity.
h.
The identity of a community liaison officer appointed by the applicant to resolve issues of concern to neighbors and residents relating to the construction and operation of the facility. Include name, address, telephone number, facsimile number and electronic mail address, if applicable.
i.
Identification of the geographic service area for the subject installation, including a map showing the site and the nearest or associated telecommunications facility sites within the network. Describe the distance between the telecommunications facility sites. Describe how this service area fits into and is necessary for the service network.
j.
Designation of which location preference, identified in section 127 above, the proposed facility is meeting. If the proposed location is not a preferred location 1 through 4 or is a disfavored site, describe:
•
What publicly-used building, co-location site or other preferred location sites are located within the geographic service area. Provide a list (by address with lot and block number noted) and a map at 1:200 scale of all such buildings within the service area;
•
What good faith efforts and measures were taken to secure each of these preferred location sites;
•
Why each such site was not technologically, legally or economically feasible and why such efforts were unsuccessful; and
•
How and why the proposed site is essential to meet service demands for the geographic service area and citywide network.
2.
Five-year plan and site inventory. Each application shall include a five-year facilities plan and site inventory including the following:
a.
A list of all existing, existing to be upgraded or replaced, and proposed telecommunications facility sites within the city limits and within one (1) mile of the city limits and a map showing these sites. The list must include the following information for each site:
i.
Street address;
ii.
Assessor's block and lot or other applicable ad valorem tax identification number;
iii.
Zoning district;
iv.
Type of building (commercial, residential, mixed use) and number of stories;
v.
The number of antennae and base transceiver stations per site and the location and type of antenna installation (stand alone rooftop, building facade, etc.) and location of the base transceiver station installation(s);
vi.
The height from grade to the top of the antenna installation; and
vii.
The radio frequency range in megahertz, the wattage output of the equipment and effective radiated power.
b.
If the applicant does not know specific future tower and antenna site locations but does know of areas where telecommunications facilities will be needed within the next five (5) years to provide service, the applicant shall list the assessor's blocks contained within the anticipated geographic service area and identify each geographic service area with a number that will correspond to the future telecommunication facility site.
3.
Additional information requirements for towers:
a.
If the proposed site is zoned R-1 through R-MH or as a PDR, PDC, PDI or PDE, and there are alternative sites in M-1, M-2, C-1, C-2, or C-3, applicants must justify why those alternate sites have not been proposed. The building official will review with special care justifications that appeal only to undue expense and/or to undue difficulties in entering into a lease agreement. The building official shall carefully weigh such claims, and the evidence presented in favor of them, against a project's negative impacts at the proposed site.
b.
Applicants must identify all existing towers and all towers for which there are applications currently on file with the building official. Applicants must provide evidence of the lack of space on all suitable existing towers to locate the proposed antenna and of the lack of space on existing tower sites to construct a tower for the proposed antenna. If co-location on any such towers would result in less visual impact than the visual impact of the proposed tower, applicants must justify why such collocation is not being proposed. If co-location on any such tower would increase negative visual impact, then the applicant must so state and demonstrate. The building official will review with special care justifications that appeal only to undue expense and/or to undue difficulties in entering into a lease agreement. The building official shall carefully weigh such claims, and the evidence presented in favor of them, against a project's negative impacts at the proposed site.
c.
In all zones, applicants must demonstrate that they cannot provide personal wireless communication service without the use of a telecommunications tower.
d.
The applicant shall quantify the additional tower capacity anticipated, including the approximate number and types of antennae. The applicant shall provide a drawing for each tower showing existing and proposed antennae locations. The applicant shall also describe any limitations on the ability of the tower to accommodate other uses, e.g., radio frequency interference, mass height, frequency or other characteristics. The applicant shall describe the technical options available to overcome those limitations and reasons why the technical options considered were not chosen to be incorporated. The building official shall approve those limitations if they cannot be overcome by reasonable technical means.
e.
The applicant must provide a utilities inventory showing the locations of all water, sewage, drainage and power lines impacting the proposed tower site.
4.
The applicant must provide any other information which may be requested by the building official to fully evaluate and review the application and the potential impact of a proposed telecommunications facility.
B.
Special use permits.
1.
A request for a special use permit shall be initiated by application to the building official and handled in accordance with the special use permit provision of section 114 of the Municipal Code. The planning and zoning commission may issue a special use permit under this section provided it shall have determined that all of the requirements of section 128 have been satisfied and, further, that the benefits of and need for the proposed tower are greater than any possible depreciating effects and damage to the neighboring properties.
2.
In granting a special use permit, the planning and zoning commission may impose additional zoning conditions to the extent determined necessary to buffer or otherwise minimize adverse effects of the proposed tower or antenna on surrounding properties.
(Ord. No. 32-14, 11-3-14)
Section 130. - Co-location.
Applicant and owner shall allow other future personal wireless service companies, including public and quasi-public agencies, using functionally equivalent personal wireless technology to co-locate antennae, equipment and facilities on a telecommunications facility unless specific technical constraints prohibit said co-location. Applicant and other personal wireless carriers shall provide a mechanism for the construction and maintenance of shared facilities and infrastructure and shall provide for equitable sharing of cost in accordance with industry standards.
Section 131. - Appeals.
Appeals from any decision of the building official may be taken by any person aggrieved or any official of the city affected by the decision of the building official. Such appeal shall be to the planning and zoning commission pursuant to section 114 of the Municipal Code. Appeals from any decision of the planning and zoning commission may be taken by any person aggrieved or any official of the city affected by the decision of the planning and zoning commission and shall be to the governing body in accordance with section 114 of the Municipal Code. Appeals from any decision of the governing body shall be made to the superior court within thirty (30) days of the decision. Any decision by the building official or by the planning and zoning commission denying a request to place, construct or modify a telecommunications facility shall be in writing and supported by substantial evidence in a written record. Any decision by the governing body denying or approving a request to place, construct or modify a telecommunications facility shall be in writing and supported by substantial evidence in a written record.
(Ord. No. 32-14, 11-3-14)
Section 132. - Nuisances.
Telecommunications facilities, including, without limitation, power source, ventilation and cooling, shall be operated at all times within the limits of the City of Warner Robins Code of Ordinances, shall not be operated so as to cause the generation of heat that adversely affects a building occupant and shall not be maintained or operated in such a manner as to be a nuisance.
(Ord. No. 32-14, 11-3-14)
Section 133. - Removal of antennae and towers.
All telecommunications facilities shall be maintained in compliance with standards contained in applicable building and technical codes so as to ensure the structural integrity of such facilities. If upon inspection by the building official any such telecommunications facility is determined not to comply with the code standards or to constitute a danger to persons or property, then upon notice being provided to the owner of the facility and the owner of the property if such owner is different, such owners shall have thirty (30) days to bring such facility into compliance. In the event such telecommunications facility is not brought into compliance within thirty (30) days, the city may provide notice to the owners requiring the telecommunications facility to be removed. In the event such telecommunications facility is not removed within thirty (30) days of receipt of such notice, the city may remove such facility and place a lien upon the property for the costs of removal. Delay by the city in taking action shall not in any way waive the city's right to take action. The city may pursue all legal remedies available to it to insure that telecommunications facilities not in compliance with the code standards or which constitute a danger to persons or property are brought into compliance or removed. The city may seek to have the telecommunications facility removed regardless of the owner's or operator's intent to operate the tower or antenna and regardless of any permits, federal, state or otherwise, which may have been granted.
Section 134. - Abandoned towers.
A.
Any telecommunications facility that is not operated for a continuous period of twelve (12) months shall be considered abandoned, whether or not the owner or operator intends to make use of it or any part of it. The owner of a telecommunications facility and the owner of the property where the facility is located shall be under a duty to remove the abandoned telecommunications facility. If such antenna and/or tower is not removed within sixty (60) days of receipt of notice from the city notifying the owner(s) of such abandonment, the city may remove such tower and/or antenna and place a lien upon the property for the costs of removal. The city may pursue all legal remedies available to it to insure that abandoned telecommunications facilities are removed. Delay by the city in taking action shall not in any way waive the city's right to take action. The city may seek to have the telecommunications facility removed regardless of the owner's or operator's intent to operate the tower or antenna and regardless of any permits, federal, state or otherwise, which may have been granted.
B.
If the owner of an abandoned tower or antenna wishes to use such abandoned tower or antenna, the owner first must apply for and receive all applicable permits and meet all of the conditions of this ordinance as if such tower or antenna were a new tower or antenna.
(Ord. No. 32-14, 11-3-14)
Section 135. - Pre-existing towers/nonconforming uses.
A.
All telecommunications facilities operative on June 1, 2000 shall be allowed to continue their present usage as a nonconforming use and shall be treated as a nonconforming use in accordance with section 61 of the city zoning ordinance. Routine maintenance, including replacement with a new tower or antenna of like construction and height, shall be permitted on such existing telecommunications facilities. New construction other than routine maintenance shall comply with the requirements of this ordinance.
B.
A telecommunications facility that has received city approval as of June 1, 2000 in the form of either a building permit or special use exception, but has not yet been constructed or placed in operation shall be considered an existing telecommunications facility so long as such approval is current and not expired.
C.
Placement of an antenna on a nonconforming structure shall not be considered an expansion of the nonconforming structure.
(Ord. No. 32-14, 11-3-14)
Section 136. - Penalty for violation of ordinance.
A.
Any person who attempts to erect or erects a telecommunications facility covered by this ordinance without having first obtained the necessary building permit, special use permit or variance in the manner provided in this ordinance shall be deemed in violation of this ordinance. Any responsible party or other persons convicted by a court of competent jurisdiction of violating any provision of this ordinance shall be guilty of violating a duly adopted ordinance of the city and shall be punished either by a fine not to exceed one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) or by imprisonment not to exceed one (1) year or both. The court shall have the power and authority to place any person guilty of violation of this ordinance on probation and to suspend or modify any fine or sentence. As a condition of such suspension, the court may require payment of restitution or impose other punishment allowed by law.
B.
If any structure is erected, constructed, reconstructed, altered, repaired, converted or maintained in violation of this ordinance or without obtaining that required permits, or if any building, structure or land is used in violation of this article, the city attorney, in addition to any other remedies, may institute proceedings to prevent such unlawful erection, construction, reconstruction, alteration, conversion, maintenance or use or to correct or abate such violations. Each and every day such unlawful erection, construction, reconstruction, alteration, conversion, maintenance or use continues may be deemed a separate offense.
(Ord. No. 32-14, 11-3-14)
Section 137. - Coordination with federal law.
Whenever the governing authority finds that the application of this ordinance would unreasonably discriminate among providers of functionally equivalent personal wireless services or prohibit or have the effect of prohibiting the provision of personal wireless services, a conditional use permit waiving any or all of the provisions of this ordinance may be granted.
(Ord. No. 32-14, 11-3-14)
ARTICLE XVI. - RDA DEVELOPMENTAL GUIDELINES
Purpose and Intent
The development, redevelopment, or substantial improvements of structures and land uses within the defined area shall comply with the guidelines set-forth here-in, creating a pedestrian friendly, aesthetically pleasing downtown/community. The application of the guidelines shall not apply to single-family residential structures.
Boundaries of Redevelopment Area
Central Business District (see map)—CBD.
•
All properties fronting on Watson Boulevard, including Commercial Circle (CC), Market Street and Manor Court, GA Highway 247 to Pleasant Hill.
•
All properties fronting on the westerly boundary of the right-of-way of GA Highway 247 from Green Street to Martin Luther King Jr. Boulevard.
•
All properties fronting on Myrtle Street from Watson Boulevard to Young Avenue.
•
All properties fronting on Young Avenue.
•
All properties fronting on Davis Drive, North to Green Street and South to Martin Luther King Jr. Boulevard.
•
All properties fronting on the east side of McArthur Boulevard from Diggs Boulevard to Thomas Boulevard.
•
All properties zoned for commercial and industrial use immediately adjacent to the redevelopment area.
Planned Development Area (see map)—PDA, excluding CBD.
•
247 North to Green Street and South to Martin Luther King Jr. Boulevard.
•
Green Street East to 247 and West to Pleasant Hill.
•
Pleasant Hill North to Green Street and South to Shirley Drive.
•
Shirley Drive West to Pleasant Hill and East to Demon Valley Drive.
•
Demon Valley Drive, excluding property owned by the Board of Education and Board of Regents, Warner Robins High School and connecting to Martin Luther King Jr. Boulevard.
Definitions.
•
Access: Sidewalks along all streets in total district. From fifteen (15) feet to twelve (12) feet wide as directed by building official. Driveways for vehicles shall meet the requirements of Georgia DOT or City of Warner Robins zoning regulations.
•
Downtown: See description area indicated under central business district.
•
Applicability: Shall apply to all properties noted in boundaries, including but not limited to the replacement or alteration, of, or addition to existing buildings or the construction of any new building.
•
Billboards/outdoor display signs/off premise signs: Not permitted in RDA District.
•
Approval: As defined with-in guidelines.
•
Landscape: Planting at streets, buildings and property lines equivalent to ten (10) percent of the property area. Street planting to be located in order not to obstruct visibility and located along right-of-way. Planting on-site to be materials and vegetation as approved by building official.
•
Permitted use: See land uses encourage and as allowed in zoning regulations.
•
Parking: Off-street and on-street as defined in the City of Warner Robins Zoning Regulations with screening if possible by landscaping or decorative fences.
•
Substantial improvement: For the purpose of determining compliance with the provision of the guidelines, any repair, alteration, addition, or improvement of a building or structure, the cost of which equals or exceeds fifty (50) percent of the market value of the structure, or involves more than thirty-three (33) percent of the gross floor area, before the improvement or repair is started. If the structure has sustained substantial damage, any repairs are considered substantial improvement regardless of the actual repair work performed. The term does not, however, include either.
1.
Any project for improvement of a building required to correct existing health, sanitary, or safety code violations identified by the code official and that is the minimum necessary to insure safe conditions; or
2.
Any alteration of a historic structure, provided that the alteration will not preclude the structure's continued designation as a historic structure.
Land Uses Encouraged
CBD.
•
Mixed uses: Governmental offices, general offices, medical offices, retail sales (no outside storage), motel/conference center, restaurants, parks, off-street parking, educational facilities, student housing, municipal buildings, loft apartments, religious facilities, or uses allowed per district in the zoning regulations.
PDA.
•
Mixed uses: All uses in CBD, apartments (forty (40) units or less), student housing, personal care facilities, shopping centers (not to exceed one hundred fifty thousand (150,000) square feet), retail sales with repair facilities (screened), movie theaters, indoor sports and recreation facilities, or uses allowed per district in the zoning regulations.
Design Requirements
CBD.
•
Building style compatible with older downtown styles from the 1900s and earlier.
•
Exposed walls—Brick with natural stone accents, pattern brick.
•
Lengthy, featureless facades and building wall are not allowed to exceed seventy-five (75) linear feet.
•
Windows—Prefinished materials—Aluminum or vinyl.
•
Doors—Prefinished Materials—Aluminum or vinyl.
•
Awnings of period style in approved design. Fixed fabric awnings are encouraged to provide additional unity as well as provide visual interest colors should be compatible with the building colors and design.
•
Roof—Parapet or sloped (6:12 roof pitch) with prefinished metal.
•
Maximum height seventy (70) feet per zoning regulations.
•
Lot coverage, setbacks and parking per zoning regulations.
•
Roof top or ground mounted equipment to be screened.
•
Utility services to be screened from view or located at rear.
•
All site furnishings (benches, trash cans and other similar items) to compliment building design.
PDA.
•
Building styles as noted in CBD, and later contemporary styles.
•
Exterior walls—Brick, EIFS, decorative stone.
•
Windows—Prefinished materials—Aluminum or vinyl.
•
Doors—Prefinished materials—Aluminum or vinyl.
•
Roof—Sloped metal, asphalt shingles, parapet (all exposed sides).
•
Maximum height seventy (70) feet per zoning regulations.
•
Lot coverage, setbacks and parking per zoning regulations.
Site
CBD.
•
Setback—Minimum twelve (12) feet front setback, rear and side per zoning regulations.
•
Paved parking per zoning regulations.
•
Landscape front (street, building, and sides at corner lots or exposed lots).
•
Stamped or brick street sidewalks.
•
Decorative exterior lighting (C.C. Style)—Approved lighting list maintained by city engineer.
•
Signage per sign ordinance.
•
Privacy fencing (same as wall materials) to conceal dumpsters, detaining areas, and parking areas from front of building to rear property lines.
PDA.
•
Setback per zoning regulations.
•
Paved parking (same as CBD).
•
Landscaping (same as CBD).
•
Sidewalks (same as CBD).
•
Lighting—Match existing (no wood poles).
•
Signage per sign ordinance.
•
Privacy fencing, (same as wall materials) or compatible with existing (except chain link at rear property line) to screen dumpsters, detaining areas and storage areas.
Submittal Process
Provide a written request for approval of proposed project; include a narrative, drawings to include layout, setbacks, parking, proposed drainage areas, signage, fencing, landscape areas, exterior views, color palate, and other items indicated in the Guidelines. Submit five (5) copies to the building official by the first day of the month and allow fifteen (15) days for a written response.
Approval Process
The request will be reviewed by the building official and advisors selected by the building official and comments will be provided to the applicant. if necessary a conference will be held with the applicant to address and agree upon issues. Letter of plans approval will be provided. Provide an as-built survey and final construction plans (PDF format) to validate project is constructed as approved.
No development permit, land use permit, or building permit shall be issued unless the development, land use, building or structure is in compliance with this ordinance.
Appeal Process
The owner of a building, structure or service system, or his duly authorized agent, may appeal a decision of the building official to the mayor and council whenever any one (1) of the following conditions are claimed to exist:
1.
The building official rejected or refused to approve the mode or manner of construction proposed to be followed or materials to be used in the installation or alteration of a building, structure or service system.
2.
The provisions of the development guidelines do not apply to this specific case.
3.
That an equally good or more desirable form of installation can be employed in any specific case.
4.
The true intent and meaning of the development guidelines have been misconstrued or incorrectly interpreted.
5.
Notice of appeal shall be in writing and filed within thirty (30) calendar days after the decision is rendered by the building official.
(Ord. No. 04-15, § 1, 2-17-15)
[APPENDIX A.] - GUIDELINES FOR INTERPARCEL AND DRIVEWAY ACCESS[3]
modified
(Applies Also to the Urban Arterial and Collector Routes Described/Enumerated in the Warner Robins MPO Transportation Plan, current edition. Access is also subject to review by the Building and inspections Department's interpretation and application.)
In order to protect the safety, lives, and property of the general public who travel upon the state highways of Georgia, to maintain the capacity and operating efficiency of these state highways, and to provide reasonable access to these state highways from those contiguous properties or which access control is not vested in the City, the following guidelines and requirements on the permitting of driveway access are established. These guidelines and requirements shall not conflict with City interparcel access requirements.
Wherever potential for interparcel access and connectivity exists for commercial properties situated along state highways or arterial roads, including multi-family developments, interparcel access shall be established. The need for additional access points must be illustrated by the submittal of an access plan and justified by a traffic study signed and sealed by a Professional Traffic Operations Engineer registered in the State of Georgia; therefore, any additional proposed access points along a roadway in these instances shall be subject to review and approval through the submittal of said access plan and traffic study to the Engineering, Planning and Zoning Offices and, if applicable, Georgia Department of Transportation.
Plans for proposed developments shall include an adequate point of two-way access and private access road for future adjoining commercial and residential developments.
Where interparcel access does not already exist and where reasonable interparcel access potential does exist on commercial lots, the lot shall be considered nonconforming. Site improvements proposed for nonconforming lots, in accordance to section 61, must include interparcel access improvements. Interparcel access improvements may include the removal of access to roadway as deemed necessary by the City. Removal shall consist of restoration of curbing and demolition of driveways to the Building and Inspections Department's satisfaction. If undue hardship is placed on the property owner by the City's request, the property owner may appeal in accordance with section 114.3 of Appendix C. Zoning Ordinance of city code, by submitting a traffic study signed and sealed by a Professional Traffic Operations Engineer registered in the State of Georgia to prove the need of maintaining existing access points on a property.
Interparcel access will conform to driveway spacing requirements as defined by the Georgia Department of Transportation's Regulations for Driveway and Encroachment Control, current edition.
I.
COMMERCIAL AND RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY DRIVEWAYS AND STREETS:
Where interparcel access cannot be achieved, and upon the City deeming such plans to access a development safe and otherwise appropriate for the site, the following regulations apply:
A.
Single business enterprise on a single interior lot:
1.
Movements confined primarily to on-site employees totaling no more than 40; one 2-way drive.
2.
Movements consisting primarily of in and out customer activities where no more than 50 parking spaces are on the site or sites with less than 300' of frontage; one 2-way drive or two 1-way drives.
3.
Fast food operations, bank with drive-through service, medical offices and other facilities with more than 50 on-site parking spaces and a minimum of 300' of frontage; two 2-way drives.
4.
Automobile Service stations and Gas Station Minimarts which include gas and oil sales and which have a minimum frontage of 150'; two 2-way drives.
B.
Single businesses on corner lot:
1.
One 2-way driveway on mainline and one 2-way driveway on the cross road, totaling two 2-way driveways. Driveways are to be located as far as practical from the intersection. Two 1-way driveways may be substituted for one 2-way drive.
C.
Multiple businesses on commercial tracts:
1.
Up to 300 linear feet of frontage; one 2-way drive or two 1 -way drives.
2.
Frontages between 300 and 1,000 linear feet; two 2-way drives.
3.
Frontages from 1,000 linear feet to 2,000 linear feet; three 2-way drives.
4.
Frontages from 2,000 linear feet to 3,000 linear feet; three 2-way driveways or two 1-way driveways and 1 multi-lane driveway.
5.
Frontages of over 3,000 linear feet; driveways as determined on a case-by-case basis.
D.
Acceleration/deceleration lane requirements: Commercial and Residential driveways/streets, except those permitted under Item A1, will normally include appropriate acceleration/deceleration lanes. Such lanes shall be constructed by the developer at no cost to the City or GDOT, as applicable. The right-of-way for such lanes shall be dedicated to the City or GDOT, as applicable, by the developer. The pavement sections for acceleration/deceleration lanes shall match that of the mainline. Acceleration/deceleration lanes may be required under Item Al if they are considered necessary.
E.
Left turn lanes at commercial and residential driveways/streets for mainline sections without a divided median: The Building and Inspections Department may require the construction of left turn lanes at commercial driveways for roadways of two-, four-, or six-lane sections and no divided median. This requirement will be based upon analyses of the capacity constraints imposed upon the roadway by left turns out of through traffic lanes giving consideration to current and 20-year projected traffic volumes.
F.
Access conveyance: Once the number and configuration of driveways has been established, the developer of commercial property will be requested to deed access control rights along his frontage to the City. For this purpose, commercial property includes residential subdivisions discussed under Item II.
G.
Right-of-way conveyance: Developers of commercial property and residential property, as discussed under Item II., will be requested to deed right-of-way for future widening of the mainline highway where such is included in the Georgia Department of Transportation's construction work program.
H.
Phased construction requirements: Developers of commercial property and residential property shall not be allowed to lease a dead end of a driveway/street with limited access to a future phase of the development. A dead end will be accompanied by a temporary cul-de-sac or other approved measure to allow proper ingress/egress for emergency services vehicles until the next phase of development is complete. Such temporary measure may be constructed of graded aggregate base in accordance with Georgia Department of Transportation standards.
II.
RESIDENTIAL SUBDIVISIONS:
In no event will the state highway be used as a subdivision street with individual lot driveways. When possible, access to all residential lots shall be from interior subdivision streets or roads.
A.
For definition of subdivision and the provisions and requirements for review of subdivision plats by the department and the responsibilities of local Planning and Zoning commissions and individuals to submit subdivision plats to the department for review and comment, refer to Georgia Code Sections 32-6-150, 32-6-151, 32-6-152, 326-153 and 32-6-154.
B.
The District, with guidance from the state transportation traffic and safety engineer, shall review and comment upon the subdivision plat. Comments shall address access to the state highway. Possible solutions shall consider one, two, or three connections (depending upon frontage) to an interior road system upon which the residential lots front, a frontage road parallel and adjacent to the state highway upon which the lots will front which will also have connections to the state highway system, or in extreme cases a pairing of two lots per driveway. This latter circumstance is not desirable and should be a last resort settlement limited to frontage less than 1000 feet. Where a small number of large frontage lots are involved, individual driveways may be allowed.
C.
Subdivisions of property to accommodate the residential needs of family members of the owner of the tract shall be handled as private residences.
(Ord. No. 40-22, § 2, 10-17-22)
Footnotes:
--- (3) ---
Editor's note— Ord. No. 40-22, § 2, adopted October 17, 2022, repealed the former Appendix A, and enacted a new Appendix A as set out herein. The former Appendix A pertained to guidelines for driveway access from contiguous property onto state highways and derived from Ord. No. 32-14, 11-3-14.

[APPENDIX B.] - SHARED PARKING PROVISIONS AND MODEL SHARED USE AGREEMENT FOR PARKING FACILITIES
Weekday Parking Occupancy Rates
Percent of Basic Minimum Needed During Time Period
(Source: ITE, 1995)
EXPAND
Uses Weekday Night
Midnight—6:00 a.m. Weekday Day
8:00 a.m.—5:00 p.m. Weekday Evening
6:00 p.m.—Midnight
Office 5 100 100
Commercial—Retail 5 90 80
Hotel (CBD)+ 100 80 100
Hotel (non-CBD)+ 100 70 100
Restaurant 10 70 * 100
Movie Theater 10 40 80
Entertainment 10 40 100
Conference/Convention 5 100 100
* Fast-food, breakfast or lunch-oriented establishment = 100 percent.
+Excludes conference/convention facilities.
  Weekend Parking Occupancy Rates
Percent of Basic Minimum Needed During Time Period
(Source: ITE, 1995)
EXPAND
Uses Weekend Night Midnight—6:00 a.m. Weekend Day 8:00 a.m.—5:00 p.m. Weekend Evening 6:00 p.m.—Midnight
Office 5 5 5
Commercial-Retail 5 100 70
Hotel (CBD)+ 100 80 100
Hotel (non-CBD)+ 100 70 100
Restaurant 20 70 * 100
Movie Theater 10 80 100
Conference/Convention 5 100 100
* Fast-food, breakfast or lunch-oriented establishment = 100 percent
+Excludes conference/convention facilities
  Model Legal Agreement for Shared Parking
(Source: Wells, 1995)
Note: What follows is a shared parking easement which is offered as an example of an agreement which may be acceptable to the City of Warner Robins under the provisions of this ordinance. This is not to say that other methods and approaches would not be acceptable to the City of Warner Robins, however, such agreements need to be reviewed by the City Attorney's office.
EASEMENT FOR SHARED PARKING
Whereas, the parties to this easement wish to take advantage of the shared parking provisions of 62.1.3 of the City of Warner Robins Zoning Code.
1.
For consideration of Ten Dollars ($10.00) paid in hand, present and future benefits to be derived by Grontor and other good and valuable consideration, receipt of which is hereby acknowledged, Grantor, ___________, doing business as ___________, hereby conveys and warrants to Grantee, ___________, doing business as ___________, its successors, heirs and assigns, a nonexclusive, perpetual easement for motor vehicle parking on the following described real property:
[Legal Description of Servient Estate]
situated in the City of Warner Robins, Houston/Peach County, Georgia for the benefit of Grantee's property described as:
[Legal Description of Dominant Estate]
situated in the City of Warner Robins, Houston/Peach County, Georgia.
Such parking easement shall be applicable only to the following parking lot(s) located on the above-described servient estate. (Include a map or sketch of the lots or parking facilities applicable to this easement, should more than one exist upon the subject property.)
SUBJECT TO THE FOLLOWING:
1.
This easement shall not be altered or terminated without the express written permission of the City Engineer of the City of Warner Robins or his/her designee.
2.
Grantor covenants that there are ________ +(#) ________ of motor vehicle parking spaces on the above-described property and that the Grantor shall not decrease that number of parking spaces without express written permission of the City Engineer of the City of Warner Robins or his/her designee.
3.
Grantee shall post and maintain signage on the dominant and servient estates directing its customers and employees to parking.
4.
Grantor may temporarily close the subject parking lot(s) for maintenance and repair. Cost of repair and maintenance shall be paid by ___________.
5.
Neither Grantee nor Grantor shall change, alter or expand the use of their respective properties described above so as to require additional parking under the provisions of the City of Warner Robins Zoning Code in excess of existing parking spaces without the express written permission of the City Engineer of the City of Warner Robins or his/her designee.
DATED this ________ day of ___________, 20________.
GRANTOR
EXPAND
      (Signature)
    EXPAND
      (Print Name)
    GRANTEE
EXPAND
      (Signature)
    EXPAND
      (Print Name)
    (Ord. No. 03-17, § 1, 2-6-17)
