Chapter 3 - ALARM SYSTEMS[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Cross reference— Buildings and building regulations, ch. 6; licenses, taxation and miscellaneous business regulations, ch. 10.
State Law reference— Municipal home rule, Ga. Const. art. IX, § II; O.C.G.A. § 36-35-1 et seq.; false alarms, O.C.G.A. § 16-10-26 et seq.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Secs. 3-1—3-25. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - BURGLAR OR SECURITY ALARM SYSTEMS[2]

Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
Editor's note— Ord. No. 20-15, §§ 1—11, adopted July 20, 2015, repealed article II and enacted a new article II as set out herein. The former article II, §§ 3-26—3-29 pertained to similar subject matter and derived from Ord. No. 14-89, adopted February 6, 1989.

Sec. 3-26. - Purpose and intent.
Given the undue burden placed on law enforcement providers by excessive false alarms, this article is enacted to establish reasonable expectations for alarm users regarding the responsible use and operation of alarm systems. The article is not intended to create new or to expand existing legal obligations of the city, including specifically the Warner Robins Police Department, or to establish a special duty or special relationship between the city and alarm users, persons who own real or personal property where an alarm system is in place, and/or persons who are physically present at or in the vicinity of property monitored by an alarm system.
(Ord. No. 20-15, § 1, 7-20-15)
Sec. 3-27. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Alarm administrator means a sworn employee designated by the City to administer, control and review false alarm reduction efforts and to administer the provisions of this article.
Alarm contractor means an individual, company, and/or other entity engaged in selling, leasing, installing, servicing or monitoring alarm systems for profit; such individual, company, and/or entity shall be licensed in compliance with city, county and state laws.
Alarm permit means a registration number issued by the city or its designee allowing the operation of an alarm system.
Alarm signal means a detectable signal, audible or visual, generated by an alarm system, to which law enforcement is requested to respond.
Alarm system means any single device or assembly of equipment and devices, including a local alarm, that is designed to signal the occurrence of an illegal or unauthorized entry or other activity requiring immediate attention and to which law enforcement is requested to respond. Motor vehicle or boat alarms, fire alarms, panic alarms, or alarms designed to elicit a medical response are not considered to be alarm systems under this article.
Alarm user means any individual, sole proprietorship, partnership, company, corporation, governmental, educational, nonprofit, or any other entity or institution owning, leasing or operating an alarm system, or on whose premises an alarm system is maintained for the protection of such premises.
Alarm user awareness class means a class conducted for the purpose of educating alarm users about the responsible use, operation, and maintenance of alarm systems and the problems created by false alarms.
Automatic dial protection device means an automatic dialing device or an automatic telephone dialing alarm system and shall include any system which, upon being activated, automatically initiates to the emergency communications center a recorded message or code signal indicating a need for law enforcement response.
Cancellation means notice from an alarm contractor (designated by the alarm user) to the Houston County Emergency Services or Peach County 911 (as applicable) to terminate a law enforcement response to an alarm dispatch request under circumstances where there is no situation at the alarm site requiring a law enforcement response.
City means the City of Warner Robins.
Emergency communications center means Houston County Emergency Services and/or Peach County 911, as applicable.
False alarm means the activation of an alarm system to summon law enforcement personnel which occurs as a result of mechanical or electronic failure, malfunction, improper installation, or the negligence of the alarm user or his employees or agents, unless the law enforcement response was cancelled by the alarm user or his agent before law enforcement personnel arrive at the alarm location. An alarm is false when, upon determination by the responding officer, no unauthorized entry, robbery, or other crime was committed or attempted in or on the premises which would have activated a properly functioning alarm system.
Local alarm means an alarm system that emits a signal at an alarm site that is audible or visible from the exterior of a structure and that is not monitored by a remote monitoring facility, whether installed by an alarm contractor or user.
Monitoring services means an alarm contractor in the business of receiving signals from an alarm system that is responsible to contact the alarm user to verify the nature of the alarm and/or to contact the emergency communication center for a law enforcement response.
Permit year means the period between January 1 and December 31.
SIA Control Panel Standard CP-01 means the American National Standard Institute (ANSI) approved Security Industry Association (SIA) CP-01 Control Panel Standard, as may be updated from time to time, that details recommended design features for security system control panels and their associated arming and disarming devices to reduce false alarms. Control panels built and tested to this standard by a nationally recognized testing organization are to be marked to state: "Design evaluated in accordance with SIA CP-01 Control Panel Standard Features for False Alarm Reduction."
Verify means an action on the part of the entity providing monitoring services, prior to requesting law enforcement dispatch, to determine whether an alarm signal is valid and caused by criminal activity.
WRPD means the Warner Robins Police Department.
(Ord. No. 20-15, § 2, 7-20-15)
Sec. 3-28. - Alarm registration and permit requirements.
(a)
Registration and permit required. Effective August 1, 2015, no alarm system shall be used unless the alarm user first registers for such alarm system within seven (7) days of its installation with the city. For the purposes of complying with this section, an alarm contractor may register an alarm user and thereby obtain the permit for such alarm system; provided, however, that the alarm user shall ultimately remain responsible for alarm registration prior to use of the alarm system. Upon registration, each alarm permit shall be assigned a permit number. If the permit number is issued directly to the alarm user, the user shall provide the permit number to the alarm contractor to facilitate law enforcement dispatch.
(b)
Nontransferability; new registration required. Alarm registration is not transferable. Upon transfer of the possession of premises at which an alarm system is maintained, the new alarm user shall register his or her alarm system within seven (7) days of the acquisition of the property or installation of a new alarm system.
(c)
Multiple alarm systems. If an alarm user has one (1) or more alarm systems protecting two (2) or more separate structures with different addresses and/or tenants, a separate permit shall be required for each structure and/or tenant.
(Ord. No. 20-15, § 3, 7-20-15)
Sec. 3-29. - Duties of the alarm user.
An alarm user shall be required to:
(1)
Register the alarm system in accordance with section 3-28;
(2)
Maintain the premises and the alarm system in a manner that will reduce or eliminate false alarms;
(3)
Upon obtaining a permit number, provide that number to the alarm contractor;
(4)
Respond or cause a representative or other responsible party to respond to the alarm system's location within thirty (30) minutes upon notification from the emergency communications center of the need to deactivate a malfunctioning alarm system;
(5)
Ensure that an alarm is not manually activated by the alarm user or any other person for any reason other than an occurrence of an event that the alarm system was intended to report;
(6)
Obtain a new permit if there is a change in address or ownership of a business or residence.
(Ord. No. 20-15, § 4, 7-20-15)
Sec. 3-30. - Duties of the alarm contractor.
(a)
An alarm contractor shall be required to:
(1)
Obtain and maintain required state and local license(s) and/or permits;
(2)
Maintain current contact information, including user permit numbers, which shall be provided to the emergency communications center at the time of a request for law enforcement response; and
(3)
Upon request, provide to the emergency communications center the name, address, and telephone number of the license holder or a designee, who can be called in an emergency, twenty-four (24) hours a day and who shall be able to respond to an alarm call, when notified, within thirty (30) minutes.
(b)
For all installations on or after August 1, 2015, an alarm contractor shall use only alarm control panel(s) which meets SIA Control Panel Standard CP-01.
(c)
Prior to activation of any alarm system, the alarm contractor must (i) provide verbal and written instructions regarding the proper operation of the alarm system to the alarm user and (ii) provide written information on how to obtain service from the alarm contractor.
(d)
An alarm contractor performing monitoring services shall:
(1)
Attempt to verify, by calling the alarm site and/or alarm user by telephone, to determine whether an alarm signal is valid before requesting dispatch. Telephone verification shall require, at a minimum, that, if the first attempt fails to reach an alarm user, the alarm contractor must make a second call to a different number in an effort to reach an alarm user who can provide proper identification and assist in determining whether an alarm signal is valid.
a.
The failure of an alarm contractor, or any person or entity providing similar monitoring services, to attempt to verify the alarm signal will not negate the end user's responsibility for violations of Code section 3-31(2) and any penalty or fine associated therewith.
b.
Such second call for verification shall not be required in the event of a panic or robbery-in-progress alarm or in cases where a crime-in-progress has been verified by video and/or audible means.
(2)
Communicate any specific information that will assist law enforcement response and investigation to the emergency communications center at the time of a request for assistance.
(3)
Communicate a cancellation to the emergency communications center immediately upon determining that a response is unnecessary.
(Ord. No. 20-15, § 5, 7-20-15)
Sec. 3-31. - Prohibited acts.
Effective August 1, 2015, the following acts are prohibited:
(1)
The failure to obtain an alarm permit or to renew an alarm permit.
(2)
Activating or maintaining an alarm system that activates for the purpose of summoning law enforcement when no burglary, robbery, or other crime dangerous to life or property is being committed or attempted on the premises. This shall include both monitored alarm systems and unmonitored local alarms.
(3)
Installing, maintaining, or using an audible alarm system which can sound continually for more than ten (10) minutes.
(4)
Installing, maintaining, or using an automatic dial protection device that reports, or causes to be reported, any recorded message to the emergency communications center.
(Ord. No. 20-15, § 6, 7-20-15)
Sec. 3-32. - Enforcement.
Effective August 1, 2015, enforcement for violations of this article shall be carried out in accordance with this section.
(1)
Excessive false alarms/failure to register. Alarm users shall be fined for excessive false alarms and/or failure to register during the permit year in accordance with the following civil fine schedule:
EXPAND
First and second false alarm No charge
Third false alarm $50.00
Fourth false alarm  75.00
Fifth false alarm 100.00
Sixth false alarm 125.00
Seventh false alarm 150.00
Eighth false alarm 200.00
Ninth false alarm 250.00
Tenth false alarm 300.00
Failure to register 100.00
  (b)
Other civil fines. All other violations of this article, will be enforced through the assessment of civil fines in the amount of one hundred dollars ($100.00).
(c)
Payment of civil fines. All civil fines shall be paid within thirty (30) days from the date of the invoice.
(d)
Limitations on responses for excessive false alarms or nonpayment. When an alarm user has ten (10) or more false alarms during the permit year or when the alarm user is sixty (60) or more days delinquent on payment of any civil fine, a law enforcement response to the alarm user's permitted location will only be initiated in response to a 911 call to the emergency communications center or upon verification by the alarm contractor or user that the alarm was set off as a result of criminal activity. Normal alarm responses by WRPD will be restored under the following circumstances:
(1)
When a user files an appeal;
(2)
The alarm user who has had ten (10) or more false alarms during the permit year presents satisfactory proof to the alarm administrator that he has taken successful measures to correct the cause of the false alarms; and/or
(3)
The city receives full payment from the alarm user who is sixty (60) or more days delinquent on payment of any civil fine.
(e)
Nonresponse status after appeal granted. In the event the appeal is granted and service is restored, an additional false alarm shall cause the service to again enter nonresponse status. Additionally, the false alarm shall be penalized by a civil fine of three hundred dollars ($300.00).
(f)
Civil violation. A violation of any of the provisions of this article shall be a civil violation.
(Ord. No. 20-15, § 7, 7-20-15)
Sec. 3-33. - Alarm user awareness class.
The city may create and implement alarm user awareness classes and may request the assistance of alarm contractors to assist in developing and implementing such classes. The classes shall inform alarm users of the problems created by false alarms and instruct alarm users how to help reduce false alarms. The city may grant the option of attending a class in lieu of paying one (1) assessed fine.
(Ord. No. 20-15, § 8, 7-20-15)
Sec. 3-34. - Appeals.
Assessment of any civil penalty and other enforcement decisions may be appealed to the Warner Robins Municipal Court.
(Ord. No. 20-15, § 9, 7-20-15)
Sec. 3-35. - Confidentiality.
In the interest of public safety, all information contained in and gathered through the alarm registration applications, "no response" records, applications for appeals and any other alarm records shall be held in strict confidence by all employees and/or representatives of the city. Because all alarm registration information is considered sensitive public safety information, the same shall not be available to the public, unless otherwise required by law.
(Ord. No. 20-15, § 10, 7-20-15)
Sec. 3-36. - Immunity.
Alarm registration is not intended to, nor will it, create a contract, duty or obligation, either expressed or implied, of response. Any and all liability and consequential damage resulting from the failure to respond to a notification is hereby disclaimed and governmental immunity as provided by law is retained. By registering an alarm system, the alarm user acknowledges that the WRPD response may be influenced by factors such as: the availability of police units, priority of calls, weather conditions, traffic conditions, emergency conditions, staffing levels and prior response history.
(Ord. No. 20-15, § 1, 7-20-15)
