Chapter 22 - SPECIAL ASSESSMENTS[1]

Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Cross reference— Finance, § 2-111 et seq.; streets and sidewalks, ch. 23; utilities, ch. 24.
State Law reference— Municipal home rule, Ga. Const. art. IX, § II; O.C.G.A. § 36-35-1 et seq.

Sec. 22-1. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Frontage means that side or limit of the lot or parcel of land in question which abuts on the improvement.
Improve or improvement includes the grading, regrading, construction, reconstruction and altering of streets, avenues, alleys, sidewalks or other public places or ways, and the construction, reconstruction and altering of curbing, guttering, storm sewers, turnouts, water mains and water, gas or sewer connections therein.
Pave includes storm draining, paving, macadamizing and grading.
Streets includes streets, avenues, alleys, sidewalks and other public places or ways.
(Code 1977, § 4-1021)
Sec. 22-2. - Resolution of necessity required for improvement.
(a)
Adoption, publication, protest. Whenever the city shall deem it necessary to improve any street or any part thereof either in length or width, within the city limits, and shall by resolution declare this improvement necessary to be done, and publish this resolution once in the official organ of the city, if the owners of a majority of the lineal feet of frontage of the lands abutting on the improvements shall not within ten (10) days after the day of publication of this resolution file with the city clerk their protest in writing against this improvement, the city shall have power to cause the improvement to be made, to contract therefor and to make assessments and fix liens as provided for herein.
(b)
Contents. Any number of streets or any part or parts thereof to be so improved may be included in one (1) resolution, but any protest or objection shall be made as to each street separately.
(c)
Petition for improvement. If the owners of a majority of the lineal feet frontage of the land liable to assessment for improvement shall petition the mayor and council for this improvement, citing this chapter and designating by general description the improvement to be undertaken and the street or streets or part thereof to be improved, it shall thereupon be the duty of the mayor and council to proceed, as hereinafter provided, to cause the improvements to be made in accordance with the prayers of the petition and their own best judgment, and in these cases the resolution hereinbefore mentioned shall not be required. The petition shall be lodged with the city clerk, who shall investigate the sufficiency thereof, submit the petition to the mayor and council and certify the result of his investigation.
(Code 1977, § 4-1022)
Sec. 22-3. - Basis of assessment for street improvements.
Each lot or parcel of land abutting upon the improvement shall be charged on a basis of lineal-foot frontage at an equal rate per foot of this frontage with its just pro rata of the entire cost of the improvement; provided however, that the cost of the sidewalks, curbs and gutters shall be charged entirely to the lots or parcels of land abutting on that side of the street upon which they are constructed.
(Code 1977, § 4-1023)
Sec. 22-4. - Improvement by third parties, by city; resolutions; cost.
(a)
By third parties.
(1)
Required. After the expiration of the time for objection or protest on the part of the property owners, if no sufficient protest is filed, or on receipt of a petition for this improvement signed by the owners of a majority of the frontage of the land to be assessed, if this petition is found to be in proper form and properly executed, the mayor and council shall adopt a resolution reciting that no protest has been filed or the filing of the petition, as the case may be, expressing the determination of the mayor and council to proceed with the improvement, stating the kind of improvement and defining its extent and character, and other such matters as may be necessary to instruct the engineer employed by the city in the performance of his duties in preparing the necessary plans, plats, profiles, specifications and estimates.
(2)
Terms, conditions. The resolution shall set forth any and all reasonable terms and conditions that the city shall deem proper to impose with reference to the letting of the contract and the provisions thereof, and may require a bond in an amount to be stated in this resolution for the maintenance of good condition of these improvements for a period of not less than five (5) years from the time of its completion, in the discretion of the city. The resolution shall also direct the city clerk to advertise for sealed proposals for furnishing the materials and performing the work necessary in making these improvements.
(b)
By the city.
(1)
Authorized; resolution. As an alternative method, the city shall have the right, at its option and in its discretion, to provide that the work necessary in making the improvement shall be done by the city itself, in which event it shall procure all materials, provide the machinery and equipment and do all of the work necessary in making the improvement. The city may cause the work to be done under either of the methods herein provided. In the event the mayor and council shall determine that the city shall itself do the work necessary in making these improvements, the resolution expressing its determination to proceed with the improvement shall so state and shall fix a time and place at which the owners of the property affected by the proposed improvement shall have the right to file objections thereto.
(2)
Notice. Notice of the work to be done by the city shall be published once in the official organ of the city and shall set out the time and place at which objections may be filed, which time and place shall be not less than ten (10) days following the publication of the notice.
(3)
Right to protest. The owners of the lots or parcels of land fronting or abutting upon any street or portion thereof upon which this improvement is proposed to be made shall have the right, within the time prescribed, to file written objections to the performance of this work by the city.
(4)
Effect of protest. In the event the owners of a majority of the lineal frontage of the lots or parcels of land fronting or abutting upon this street or portion thereof shall object to the doing of this work by the city, this work shall be done under contract and the mayor and council shall proceed in the manner provided in this chapter for the letting of this work under contract.
(5)
Lack of protest. If no objections are filed within the time prescribed by the owners of a majority of the lineal frontage of the lots or parcels of land fronting or abutting on this street or portion thereof, the city itself shall proceed with the doing of the work necessary in making this improvement.
(6)
Cost. Where the work of making this improvement is done by the city, the cost thereof shall include the entire cost of all materials used and the labor done in the performance of the work, shall include a reasonable rental for the use of machinery, equipment and materials used in the doing of this work and shall also include all engineering, legal and other expenses incurred in connection with the doing of the work or the proceedings under which it is done. When the work of making this improvement is done by the city the provisions of this section relating to the letting of a contract and the provisions of subsection (a) shall not apply.
(Code 1977, § 4-1024)
Sec. 22-5. - Notice of proposals; publication, contents.
Notice of the proposals under this division shall be published twice in the official organ of the city and shall state the street or streets to be improved, the kinds of improvements proposed, and shall state the time when and the place where such sealed proposals shall be filed and when and where they will be considered by the city.
(Code 1977, § 4-1025)
Sec. 22-6. - Award of contract.
At the time and place specified in the notice prescribed in section 22-5 the mayor and council shall examine all bids received, and without unnecessary delay award the contract to the lowest and best bidder who will perform the work and furnish the materials which may be selected and perform all the conditions imposed by the city as prescribed in these resolutions and notice for proposals, and the mayor and council shall have the right to reject any and all bids and readvertise for other bids when the bids submitted are not, in its judgment, satisfactory.
(Code 1977, § 4-1026)
Sec. 22-7. - Determination, apportionment of cost.
After a contract shall have been let or an improvement shall have been made by the city in the event the mayor and council elects to have the work done by the city, as the case may be, and the cost for this improvement, which shall include all other expenses incurred by the city incident to the improvement in addition to the contract price for the work and materials or in addition to the cost of all materials, labor, machinery, equipment and services used in the making of this improvement in the event the work is done by the city shall have been ascertained, the mayor and council shall apportion the cost and expense to the several tracts of land abutting on the improvements and assess one-third of the total cost thereof against the real estate abutting on each side of the street upon which the improvement takes place, so that the abutting real property shall bear two-thirds of the entire cost and the city the additional one-third of the total cost.
(Code 1977, § 4-1027)
Sec. 22-8. - Objections to apportionment.
(a)
Hearing; notice. When an apportionment of cost shall have been made, the mayor and council shall appoint a time for the holding of a session, or shall designate a regular meeting for the hearing of any complaints or objections that may be made concerning the apportionment and assessment by any person interested, and notice of this session for the hearing shall be published by the city clerk once in the official organ of the city. The notice shall provide for an inspection of this return by any property owner or other party interested in the return.
(b)
Time for hearing. The time fixed for hearing shall not be less than five (5) nor more than ten (10) days from the date of the publication.
(c)
Power, duty of mayor and council. The mayor and council shall have power, and it shall be its duty, to review and correct the apportionment and assessment, to hear objections thereto and to confirm them either as made or as corrected. The mayor and council shall by ordinance fix the assessments in accordance with the apportionment as so confirmed, against the several tracts of land liable therefor.
(Code 1977, § 4-1028)
Sec. 22-9. - Assessments payable in cash.
Assessment in conformity to appraisement and apportionment as confirmed by the city shall be payable to the treasurer of the city, and if paid within thirty (30) days from the date of the passage of the ordinance without interest.
(Code 1977, § 4-1029)
Sec. 22-10. - Assessments payable in installments; interest rate.
In the event the owner of the land or of any street railway assessed shall, within thirty (30) days from the passage of the ordinance making the assessment final, file with the city clerk his or its written request asking that assessment be payable in installments in accordance with the provisions hereof; they shall thereupon be and become payable in equal annual installments over such period of years, not less than two (2) nor more than five (5), as shall be fixed and prescribed by the mayor and council, and the installments shall bear interest at a rate of not exceeding nine (9) percent per annum until paid and each installment together with the interest on the entire amount remaining unpaid shall be payable each year to the treasurer of the city.
(Code 1977, § 4-1030)
Sec. 22-11. - Additional assessments.
In the event any special assessment shall be found to be invalid or insufficient in whole or in part for any reason whatsoever, the mayor and council may at any time, in the manner provided for the making of an original assessment, proceed to cause a new assessment to be made and fixed, which shall have like force and effect as an original assessment.
(Code 1977, § 4-1031)
Sec. 22-12. - Lien of assessment.
A special assessment and each installment thereof, and the interest thereon and the expense of collection, are hereby declared to be a lien against the lots and tracts of land so assessed from the date of the ordinance levying them, coequal with the lien of other taxes and prior to and superior to all other liens against these lots or tracts, and this lien shall continue until this assessment and interest thereon shall be fully paid, and shall be enforced in the same manner as are liens for city taxes.
(Code 1977, § 4-1032)
Sec. 22-13. - Execution, levy and sale.
It shall be the duty of the treasurer, promptly within fifteen (15) days after the date of the maturity of any installment or assessment or interest, to issue an execution against the lot or tract of land assessed for this improvement, or against the party or person owing it, for the amount of this assessment or interest, and shall turn it over to the city marshal and/or the sheriff of the county or his deputies, who shall enforce the execution as provided by law.
(Code 1977, § 4-1033)
