Chapter 11 - MANUFACTURED HOMES AND MANUFACTURED HOME PARKS[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Cross reference— Buildings and building regulations, ch. 6; planning and development, ch. 19; zoning requirements for manufactured homes, campgrounds and travel trailer parks, app. C, § 91.
State Law reference— Municipal home rule, Ga. Const. art. IX, § II; O.C.G.A. § 36-35-1 et seq.; the Uniform Standards Code for Manufactured Homes Act, O.C.G.A. § 8-2-130 et seq.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 11-1. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Alter means and includes major changes, replacements or repairs to the manufactured home park layout and service facilities.
Authorized agent means any properly qualified person who is delegated to function within specified limits as the agent of the mayor and council.
Construct means and includes building, constructing, or installing a new manufactured home park or enlarging an existing manufactured home park or its facilities.
Garbage means animal and vegetable matter originating in houses, kitchens, restaurants and hotels, produce markets, etc.
Manufactured home means a living unit for transient or year-round occupancy which is designed or intended to be moveable, having no foundation other than wheels, jacks or skirting, and which is provided with a flush toilet and a bath or shower. Manufactured homes shall include park trailers, travel trailers and other similar vehicles placed on a site for greater than one hundred eighty (180) days.
Manufactured home park means premises where one (1) or more manufactured homes are parked for living or sleeping purposes, or where spaces are set aside or offered for sale or rent for use by manufactured homes for living or sleeping purposes, including any land, building, structure or facility used by occupants of manufactured homes on these premises.
Manufactured home space means a plot of ground within a manufactured home park designed for the accommodation of one (1) manufactured home.
Mayor and council means the mayor and council of the city as a body or any officer lawfully exercising any of the powers of the mayor and council delegated to this officer.
Refuse means garbage, rubbish and trade waste.
Road bed means the paved area for vehicular use plus curbs and gutters.
(Code 1977, § 9-1191)
Sec. 11-2. - Location of manufactured homes; tie down standards.
(a)
Manufactured homes shall henceforth be permitted only in an approved manufactured home park for which a certificate of occupancy has been issued as described in section 112 of the zoning ordinance of the city, unless the planning and zoning commission at a regular or special meeting specifically approves an exception to the application of this section for hardship cases for temporary use only in accordance with the planning and zoning regulations.
(b)
All manufactured homes must have footings and piers in accordance with the following:
(1)
All footings for piers will consist of two (2) four-inch by eight-inch by sixteen-inch cap blocks set side by side as a pad on pre-leveled firm dirt. All grass, leaves, trash and loose dirt will be removed before pad is set.
(2)
Eight-inch by eight-inch by sixteen-inch cement blocks are to be used for piers. All blocks will be stacked, level, holes down on footings. All piers will be no more than eight (8) feet apart.
(3)
All piers for double-wide mobile homes set on property other than an established manufactured home park will be double blocked.
(4)
All piers that exceed four (4) blocks high, excluding footings and top cap blocks, will be double blocked.
(5)
All piers that are double blocked will be double blocked from footings to frame, including top cap blocks.
(6)
No more than three (3) inches of wood shall be used as shimes, excluding wedges.
(7)
No manufactured home shall be blocked in a manner where front or rear piers exceed seven (7) blocks high, excluding footings and top cap blocks.
(8)
Requirement (7) above, in certain cases, may be waived by the city building official.
(c)
All manufactured homes must be anchored in accordance with the following:
(1)
Trailers forty (40) feet or less will have at least four (4) tie downs.
(2)
Trailers over forty (40) feet will have at least six (6) tie downs.
(3)
All manufactured homes to be placed within zone A on a community's FHBM or FIRM shall be installed using methods and practices which minimize flood damage. For the purposes of this requirement, manufactured homes must be elevated and anchored to resist flotation, collapse, or lateral movement. Methods of anchoring may include, but are not limited to, use of over-the-top or frame ties to ground anchors. This requirement is in addition to applicable state and local anchoring requirements for resisting wind forces. All manufactured homes shall be elevated above the base level and anchored to the elevated foundation.
(Code 1977, § 9-1192)
Cross reference— Zoning, app. C.
Sec. 11-3. - Existing manufactured homes.
(a)
Manufactured homes existing January 28, 1985 shall comply with the provisions of this section within a period of eighteen (18) months or be removed, except that the following requirements may be waived:
(1)
An existing manufactured home park may be less than five (5) acres in size.
(2)
Lot sizes may be less than three thousand (3,000) square feet, but in no case shall a manufactured home be allowed to remain on a lot of less than six thousand (6,000) square feet having another residential structure.
(3)
Common open space for recreational purposes may be less than that required except that four hundred (400) square feet of landscaped, unpaved common open space per manufactured home must be provided within the specified conformance period.
(b)
Existing manufactured homes not in conformance with the provisions at the time of the adoption of this article (except those waived requirements indicated above), shall be considered as nonconforming, and shall be governed by the provisions regulating these uses, as set forth in the zoning ordinance of the city.
(Code 1977, § 9-1193)
Secs. 11-4—11-20. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - MANUFACTURED HOME PARKS[2]
Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
Cross reference— Licenses, taxation and miscellaneous business regulations, ch. 10.

DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Sec. 11-21. - Scope.
The provisions of this article apply to manufactured home parks.
Sec. 11-22. - Exception to construction provisions of chapter.
Provisions of this article relating to construction shall not apply to manufactured home parks in existence on August 21, 1967, except that any alteration of any portion of these trailer courts shall be made in accordance with the applicable provision of this article.
(Code 1977, § 9-1205)
Sec. 11-23. - Inspection.
Manufactured home park buildings and premises shall be subject to inspection by the mayor and council.
(Code 1977, § 9-1194)
Sec. 11-24. - Registry of occupants.
Persons operating manufactured home parks shall maintain a registry of all occupants in manufactured home parks.
(Code 1977, § 9-1195)
Sec. 11-25. - Numbering of manufactured homes.
All manufactured homes shall be required to have building numbers in compliance with the provisions of section 6-1.
(Code 1977, § 9-1196)
Secs. 11-26—11-45. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - CONSTRUCTION OR ALTERATION PERMIT

Sec. 11-46. - Required.
Manufactured home parks shall not be constructed or altered by any person until the mayor and council has given formal approval therefor for issuance of a permit.
(Code 1977, § 9-1201)
Sec. 11-47. - Requisites for issuance.
Permits to construct shall not be issued until the mayor and council has inspected and approved the proposed manufactured home park site and has received and approved final plans, specifications and reports prepared by a licensed surveyor/and professional engineer or registered architect fully describing and setting forth all data as hereinafter required or as may otherwise be required by the mayor and council. Preliminary plans and reports may be submitted for review.
(Code 1977, § 9-1202)
Sec. 11-48. - Final plans; preparation; data required.
An applicant shall submit to the city planning and zoning commission for approval the final plans, specifications and reports prepared by a licensed professional engineer or registered architect which shall include the following data:
(1)
Plot plan showing:
a.
Area and dimensions of tract;
b.
Streams, watercourses and any proposed diversions;
c.
Contours or original grades and proposed grade changes;
d.
Service buildings or other proposed structures;
e.
Roads and walkways;
f.
Water and sewer lines;
g.
Fire hydrants and drinking fountains;
h.
Size and arrangement of trailer coach spaces;
i.
Playground and open space areas; and
j.
Refuse storage stations;
(2)
Detail plans and specifications of service buildings, roads, walks and other proposed construction; and
(3)
Detail plans and specifications for water supply, sewerage and electrical facilities.
(Code 1977, § 9-1203)
Sec. 11-49. - Alterations.
(a)
A permit to alter a manufactured home park shall not be issued until the mayor and council has received a letter of application therefor, together with such plans, specifications or reports as may be requested by the mayor and council to fully describe the proposed alteration.
(b)
Upon compliance with all applicable provisions of this article and approval of the requested alteration or proposal, a permit shall be issued for the alteration.
(Code 1977, § 9-1204)
Secs. 11-50—11-65. - Reserved.
DIVISION 3. - STANDARDS AND REQUIREMENTS

Sec. 11-66. - Minimum size, spacing and density.
(a)
The park under this division shall be no less than five (5) acres in size, and be located on a well-drained, properly graded site to insure rapid drainage and freedom from stagnant pools of water.
(b)
The manufactured home park shall not contain more than nine (9) manufactured home units per grass acre.
(c)
Manufactured home spaces shall be provided consisting of a minimum of forty-five hundred (4,500) square feet for each space, which shall be at least fifty (50) feet wide and clearly defined; provided, however, that manufactured home parks in existence on January 28, 1985 which provided manufactured home spaces having a width or area less than that hereinabove prescribed may continue to operate with spaces of the existing width and area, subject to the provisions of section 11-3.
(d)
Manufactured homes shall be so harbored on each space that there shall be at least twenty (20) feet clearance between manufactured homes; and all manufactured homes must be at least twenty (20) feet from any building within the park and ten (10) feet from any property line bounding the park.
(Code 1977, § 9-1211)
Sec. 11-67. - Recreation areas.
In addition to the minimum area of forty-five hundred (4,500) square feet required for each manufactured home space, each manufactured home park shall have a minimum area of five hundred (500) square feet per manufactured home space set aside for common open space, of which two hundred (200) square feet shall be restricted to playground, park and other recreation use and protected from main highways, parking areas and access roads, and the remainder of which shall be restricted to recreation and/or beautification landscaping.
(Code 1977, § 9-1212)
Sec. 11-68. - Screening.
An evergreen strip not less than five (5) feet in width and eight (8) feet in height shall be located along the lot lines of the manufactured home park.
(Code 1977, § 9-1213)
Sec. 11-69. - Road layout and road widths.
(a)
All roads in the manufactured home park shall be continuous, at least twenty-two (22) feet in bed width, and shall have an unobstructed access to a public street or highway. Where roadside parking of motor vehicles is proposed in place of off-street parking, the following roadbed widths are required:
(1)
Parallel parking, one side: twenty-eight (28) feet; and
(2)
Parallel parking, both sides: thirty-four (34) feet.
(b)
No diagonal or perpendicular parking shall be permitted. Areas required for roadside swales or gutters and public walks shall not be included in determining road widths and minimum manufactured home space.
(c)
All manufactured home spaces shall abut upon a road as described herein.
(Code 1977, § 9-1214)
Sec. 11-70. - Road construction.
Roads in parks under this division shall be constructed according to the construction requirements specified in the subdivision regulations of the city.
(Code 1977, § 9-1215)
Sec. 11-71. - Lighting of roads and walkways.
All roads and walkways within parks under this division shall be lighted at night with electric lamps of not less than fifty (50) watts each spaced at intervals of not more than one hundred (100) feet.
(Code 1977, § 9-1216)
Sec. 11-72. - Parking.
One (1) off-street automobile parking space shall be provided for each manufactured home space, plus one (1) additional car space for each four (4) manufactured home spaces.
(Code 1977, § 9-1217)
Sec. 11-73. - Height of manufactured homes off ground.
Manufactured homes shall not be set higher than three (3) feet from the ground at any point.
(Code 1977, § 9-1218)
Sec. 11-74. - Permanency of manufactured homes and additions.
No permanent additions of any kind shall be built onto or become a part of any manufactured home. Skirting is permitted but not to attach the manufactured home permanently to the ground, provide harborage for rodents or create a fire hazard.
(Code 1977, § 9-1219)
Sec. 11-75. - Number of manufactured homes.
The number of manufactured homes, vacant and occupied, permitted in the manufactured home park shall not exceed the number of manufactured home spaces. No commercial repair service facilities shall be permitted within the manufactured home park.
(Code 1977, § 9-1220)
Sec. 11-76. - Plumbing.
The plumbing of all buildings under this division shall be installed in accordance with the provisions of the plumbing code of the city.
(Code 1977, § 9-1221)
Sec. 11-77. - Water supply and distribution.
(a)
Each manufactured home park shall be supplied with water from an approved public potable water supply, if available. If an approved public potable water supply is not available, a water supply approved by the local board of health shall be developed.
(b)
Water systems shall be designed to meet fire protection requirements of the fire code of the city and shall include services to all buildings and all manufactured home spaces. The minimum capacity of the system shall be such as may be required by the code for fire protection and shall be not less than one hundred twenty-five (125) gallons per manufactured home space per day. Piping shall be so arranged as to provide six (6) g.p.m. at each manufactured home space outlet with a residual pressure of approximately twenty (20) p.s.i. with twenty (20) percent of the outlets flowing at the prescribed rate of six (6) g.p.m. The water system of each manufactured home park shall be piped to all buildings and all manufactured home spaces.
(c)
Individual water service connections provided for direct use by manufactured homes shall be so constructed that they will not be damaged by the parking of these manufactured homes. The connection shall consist of a riser terminating at least four (4) inches above the ground level, and/or enclosed underground to prevent freezing with two (2), three-fourths-inch valved outlets threaded so that a flexible metallic tubing with a screw connection may be attached between the riser and coach. The ground surface around the riser pipe shall be graded to divert surface drainage away from the connection.
(Code 1977, § 9-1222)
Sec. 11-78. - Sewerage and storm drainage facilities.
(a)
Each manufactured home space shall be provided with at least a four-inch building sewer, trapped below the frost line and extending at least four (4) inches above the surface of the ground. It shall be further protected by a concrete collar at least three (3) inches in depth and extending twelve (12) inches from the connection in all directions. The sewer outlet shall consist of a three-inch or larger quarter-bend or Y, capped with standard ferrules with three-inch screw plugs provided with keeper chains fastened to the concrete collar. The hose connecting the manufactured home to the sewer outlet shall be watertight, equipped with a threaded connection to connect to the sewer outlet and with either a threaded, fitted or clamped connection for the drain. The manufactured home park owner shall maintain in good repair several spare connecting hoses to be used when privately owned hoses do not meet the requirements of this provision.
(b)
Sewer lines shall be laid in trenches separated horizontally from any potable water line by at least five (5) feet of undisturbed or well-compacted earth or laid in a common trench with the potable water line placed on a firm foundation at the side of the trench at least twelve (12) inches above the top of the sewer line.
(c)
The minimum size of sewer lines shall be six (6) inches and shall be laid at the following minimum grades:
EXPAND
Pipe size
(inches) Vitrified tile, concrete
(percent) Cement asbestos
(percent)
6 0.65 0.40
8 0.40 0.24
10 0.29 0.18
12 0.22 0.14
  (d)
All sewer lines installed in accordance with existing regulations.
(e)
Manholes shall be located at every change in direction, at every junction of two (2) or more branch sewers and at intervals of not more than four hundred (400) feet. Cleanouts extending to grade and provided with cleanout plugs may be used in place of manholes on six-inch lines, and be at intervals of not more than one hundred (100) feet.
(f)
Where tight manhole covers and cleanouts are employed, each sewer lateral serving a row of manufactured home spaces shall be properly vented at its upper end. Where septic tanks are used the lines entering the tanks shall be vented between the tank and the first manufactured home connection.
(g)
Sewer lines of manufactured home parks shall be connected to the public sewer system of the city.
(h)
Drainage for storm water shall be provided at all manufactured home parks.
(i)
Storm drainage shall be separate and apart from the sanitary sewerage system of a manufactured home park.
(Code 1977, § 9-1223)
Sec. 11-79. - Electricity.
Electrical systems and equipment in manufactured home parks shall be of an approved type and installed in accordance with the provisions of the electrical code of the city. An electrical outlet supplying two hundred twenty (220) volts shall be provided for each manufactured home space.
(Code 1977, § 9-1224)
Sec. 11-80. - Reserved.
Sec. 11-81. - Reserved.
Sec. 11-82. - Mosquito prevention.
Manufactured home parks shall be kept free of receptacles and other articles which may hold water and provide temporary breeding places for mosquitoes. Permanent mosquito control measures such as draining or filling depressions in which water may collect shall be taken by the person licensed to operate a manufactured home park and supplemental larvicidal measures shall be provided by him when necessary.
(Code 1977, § 9-1225(c))
Sec. 11-83. - Ratproofing.
All food handling establishments under this division and service buildings shall be ratproofed.
(Code 1977, § 9-1225(d))
Sec. 11-84. - Storage restrictions; rodent harborage.
Storage areas shall be maintained in such a manner as to eliminate the possibility of rodent harborage. The space beneath manufactured homes shall not be used to store supplies. Lumber, pipe and other building material shall be stored at least eighteen (18) inches above the ground.
(Code 1977, § 9-1225(e))
Sec. 11-85. - Weed, etc., control.
(a)
The growth of brush, weeds and grass in manufactured home park areas shall be controlled. Insecticidal measures shall be applied if necessary or if requested for this reason by the administrative authority.
(b)
Manufactured home parks shall be maintained in such manner as to prevent the growth of ragweed, poison ivy and poison sumac.
(Code 1977, § 9-1225(f), (g))
Sec. 11-86. - Landscaping; maintenance.
All manufactured home spaces shall be landscaped and maintained by the manufactured home park license holder.
Sec. 11-87. - Fuel, flammable liquids and gases.
(a)
All handling and storage of gasoline, fuel oil or other flammable liquids or gases shall be consistent with nationally recognized standard good practice for the safeguarding of life and property.
(b)
Liquified petroleum gas containers shall be filled at a properly equipped container filling plant located in accordance with subsection (c) or from a tank truck subject to the restrictions set forth in subsection (d) provided that in either case the operations are in compliance with the applicable requirements of the standards prescribed in Pamphlet No. 58 for the storage and handling of liquified petroleum gases. During these operations no vapor or liquid shall be vented to the atmosphere and container filling in either instances shall be performed only by qualified personnel during daylight hours.
(c)
Containers installed at any trailer may be filled at that location by tank truck, except that this filling shall be limited to three (3) containers of one hundred (100) pounds at any one manufactured home location, provided that this filling operation is conducted not closer than five (5) feet to the manufactured home exit. Filling operations in excess of this limitation shall be conducted at a filling plant conforming to subsection (e).
(d)
Empty liquified petroleum gas containers for trailer coaches shall be replaced with filled containers or removed.
(Code 1977, § 9-1226(a)—(e))
Sec. 11-88. - Fire protection.
Fire protection and protection systems shall be provided in manufactured home parks in accordance with the provisions of the fire code and subdivision regulations of the city.
(Code 1977, § 9-1227)
Cross reference— Fire prevention and protection, ch. 8; subdivisions, app. B.
Secs. 11-89—11-100. - Reserved.
ARTICLE III. - MINIMUM HEALTH AND SAFETY STANDARDS FOR PRE-OWNED MANUFACTURED HOMES

Sec. 11-101. - Definitions.
The following words, terms, or phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section.
Applicant means any person seeking to install a pre-owned manufactured home in the city limits of the City of Warner Robins.
Building inspector means the person appointed, employed, or otherwise designated as the director of planning, permits and inspections; the municipal building official or any of his or her assistants.
Certificate of occupancy means a document issued by the building inspector certifying that a pre-owned manufactured home is in compliance with applicable requirements set forth by this article, and indicating it to be in a condition suitable for residential occupancy.
Guarantee of condition bond means a surety bond to guarantee that the affidavit and photographs required by subsections 11-103(a)(1) and (2) reasonably portray or represents the existing condition of the pre-owned manufactured home proposed for relocation. In lieu of the bond, a cash deposit may be deposited with the city.
Install means to construct a foundation system and to place or erect a manufactured home on such foundation system. Such term includes, without limitation, supporting, blocking, leveling, securing, or anchoring such manufactured home and connecting multiple or expandable sections of such manufactured home.
Jurisdiction means the areas within the city limits of the City of Warner Robins, Georgia.
Manufactured home means a structure, transportable in one or more sections, which, in the traveling mode, is eight (8) body feet or more in width or forty (40) body feet or more in length or, when erected on site, is three hundred twenty (320) or more square feet and which is built on a permanent chassis and designed to be used as a dwelling with or without a permanent foundation when connected to the required utilities and includes the plumbing, heating, air-conditioning, and electrical systems contained therein; except that such term shall include any structure which meets all the requirements of this paragraph except the size requirements and with respect to which the manufacturer voluntarily files a certification required by the secretary of housing and urban development and complies with the standards established under the National Manufactured Housing Construction and Safety Standards Act of 1974, 42 U.S.C. Section 5401, et seq.
Pre-owned manufactured home means any manufactured home that has been previously used as a residential dwelling and has been titled.
(Ord. No. 04-11, § 1, 2-7-11)
Sec. 11-102. - Conditions.
All pre-owned manufactured homes located in the jurisdiction shall bear a label certifying it was constructed in compliance with the National Manufactured Housing Construction and Safety Standards Act of 1974, 42 U.S.C. Section 5401, et seq. (the HUD Code) and shall be installed in accordance with O.C.G.A. 8-2-160, et seq.
(Ord. No. 04-11, § 2, 2-7-11)
Sec. 11-103. - Permitting, inspection, certificate of occupancy and fees.
A permit shall be required to locate a pre-owned manufactured home in the jurisdiction.
(1)
Permit. To obtain a permit, applicants shall provide to the building inspector:
a.
An affidavit signed by the applicant that the pre-owned manufactured home meets health and safety standards required by this Act;
b.
Photographs of the interior and exterior of the pre-owned manufactured home providing evidence that home meets the minimum health and safety standards of section 11-104; and
c.
The permit and inspection fee required by subsection (4) of this section.
(2)
Inspection. Upon receipt of a permit, applicants may relocate the manufactured home on a residential site for the purposes of inspection. Applicant shall arrange for an inspection to be held once the installation of the manufactured home is complete.
(3)
Certificate of occupancy. A certificate of occupancy shall be issued to the applicant at such time that the building inspector certifies that the requirements of this article have been met.
(4)
Fee. A permit and inspection fee of seventy dollars ($70.00) shall be charged to the applicant to cover the cost to the city to process the permit application and inspect the pre-owned manufactured home. Such fee shall cover the initial inspection and one (1) follow-up inspection. The applicant shall be charged fifty dollars ($50.00) for each additional follow-up inspection that may be necessary.
(5)
Alternative inspection. At the request of the applicant, the building inspector may, at his or her discretion, inspect a pre-owned manufactured home prior to its being relocated if the home is then located at another site within the city.
(Ord. No. 04-11, § 3, 2-7-11)
Sec. 11-104. - Minimum health and safety standards.
All pre-owned manufactured homes shall comply with the following before being issued a certificate of occupancy by the building inspector:
(1)
HUD Code: Every pre-owned manufactured home located in the jurisdiction shall be in compliance with the Federal Manufactured Housing Construction and Safety Standards Act, 42 U.S.C. 5401-5445 (the HUD Code) and shall not have been altered in such a way that the home no longer meets the HUD Code.
(2)
Interior condition. Every floor, interior wall, and ceiling of a pre-owned manufactured home shall be in sound condition. Doors and windows shall be operable, watertight and in good working condition. The floor system shall be in sound condition and free of warping, holes, water damage, or deterioration.
(3)
Exterior condition. The exterior of all pre-owned manufactured homes shall be free of loose or rotting boards or timbers and any other conditions that might admit rain or moisture to the interior portions of the walls or to occupied spaces. The exterior siding shall be free of rot and rust. Roofs shall be structurally sound and have no obvious defects that might admit rain or cause moisture to collect on the interior portion of the home.
(4)
Sanitary facilities. Every plumbing fixture, water, and waste pipe of a pre-owned manufactured home shall be in a sanitary working condition when properly connected, and shall be free from leaks and obstructions. Each home shall contain a kitchen sink. Each bathroom shall contain a lavatory and water closet. At least one (1) bathroom shall contain a tub and/or shower facilities. Each of these fixtures shall be checked upon being connected to ensure they are in good working condition.
(5)
Heating systems. Heating shall be safe and in working condition. Un-vented heaters shall be prohibited.
(6)
Electrical systems (switches, receptacles, fixtures, etc.) shall be properly installed and wired and shall be in working condition. Distribution panels shall be in compliance with the approved listing, complete with required breakers, with all unused openings covered with solid covers approved and listed for that purpose. The home shall be subject to an electrical continuity test to assure that all metallic parts are properly bonded. Each pre-owned manufactured home shall contain a water heater in safe and working order.
(7)
Hot water supply. Each home shall contain a water heater in safe and working condition.
(8)
Egress windows. Each bedroom of a manufactured home shall have at least one operable window of sufficient size to allow egress if necessary.
(9)
Ventilation. The kitchen in the home shall have at least one (1) operating window or other ventilation device.
(10)
Smoke detectors. Each pre-owned manufactured home shall contain one operable battery-powered smoke detector in each bedroom and in the kitchen, which must be installed in accordance with the manufacturer's recommendations.
(Ord. No. 04-11, § 4, 2-7-11)
Sec. 11-105. - Enforcement.
(a)
Permanent connection to utilities shall not be approved until the building inspector has issued a certificate of occupancy.
(b)
Owners of pre-owned manufactured homes that are not in compliance upon a third inspection shall have their permit revoked and shall be required to remove the home from the jurisdiction at their own expense.
(c)
The guarantee of condition bond or cash deposit will be forfeited after ninety (90) days from the date of inspection, unless all conditions and standards are met prior to the end of the ninety (90) days or an extension has been issued in writing by the building inspector.
(Ord. No. 04-11, § 5, 2-7-11)
Sec. 11-106. - Penalties
Failure to remove a pre-owned manufactured home from the jurisdiction upon failure to receive a certificate of occupancy shall be punishable as for any violation of the City Code. Each day any violation under this article continues shall be considered a separate offense.
(Ord. No. 04-11, § 6, 2-7-11)
