Chapter 8 - BUILDINGS AND BUILDING REGULATIONS
ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 8-1. - Manufactured and mobile homes.
(a)
Permit within city limits required. A permit must be obtained from the city clerk prior to a manufactured or mobile home or re-locatable home intended to be used as a residence being moved within the city limits.
(b)
Permit beyond city limits required. A permit shall be obtained from the city clerk prior to a manufactured or mobile home or re-locatable home presently located in the city being moved beyond the confines of the city limits.
(c)
Fee. There shall be no charge or fee for any permit required under this section.
(d)
Intent. It is the intent of this chapter to assist the city in accurately preparing and checking the returns of manufactured or mobile homes or re-locatable homes, for tax purposes.
(e)
Notice to tax commissioner for manufactured or mobile homes. Any person moving a manufactured or mobile home into the city limits or building a home in the city limits shall be required to notify the county tax commissioner in person before connection of city water/sewer services can be made.
(Ord. No. 98-01, 8-11-1998)
Secs. 8-2—8-20. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - PERMITS AND CERTIFICATES

Sec. 8-21. - Building permit required.
It shall be unlawful to commence the excavation or filling of any lot for the construction of any building or to commence construction of any building or to commence the moving or alteration of any building or to commence the development of land for a use not requiring a building permit until the building inspector has issued a building permit for such work.
(1)
Application for building permit.
a.
Application to the building inspector for a building permit shall be made in writing on a form provided for the purpose. The application must be accompanied by a plan or plat drawn to scale showing the following items in sufficient detail to enable the building inspector to ascertain whether the proposed excavation, construction, moving, or alteration is in conformance with this article:
1.
The shape, size, and location of the lot to be built upon;
2.
The shapes, heights, uses, and locations on the lot of buildings or structures to be erected or altered;
3.
The sizes, locations, and uses of all existing buildings or structures on the lot;
4.
The number of dwelling units that the building is designed to accommodate, if any;
5.
The setback lines of buildings on adjoining lots;
6.
The layout of off-street parking spaces;
7.
Such other information concerning the lot or adjoining lots as may be essential for determining whether the provisions of this article are being observed;
8.
Indicate the location and/or elevation of the 100-year floodplain as shown on the latest available FEMA flood maps. No proposed fill or permanent structure shall be permitted within the 100-year floodplain.
b.
If the proposed excavation, filling, construction, moving or alteration as set forth is in conformity with the provisions of this article and other ordinances of the city and there is determined that no fill or permanent structure will be constructed within the 100-year floodplain as shown on the latest available FEMA flood maps, then the in-force building inspector shall state in such refusal, in writing, the cause for disapproval.
c.
The building permit shall contain at least the following information:
1.
The name, address and the current telephone number of the applicant;
2.
The block or street number of the lot to which the permit applies;
3.
The zoning district in which the property is located;
4.
Whether the permit authorizes excavation, filling, construction, moving, or alteration and the type of structure being built;
5.
The date of the application;
6.
The signatures of the applicant and the building inspector;
7.
Square feet, heated and non-heated, and value.
d.
Before commencing excavation, filling, construction, moving, or alteration, the building permit or a copy thereof shall be placed in a conspicuous location on or near the front of the property for the duration of the excavation, filling, construction, moving, or alteration and in such a manner that it is protected from the weather.
(2)
Construction progress. Any building permit shall become invalid unless the work authorized by said permit has been commenced within six months of the date of issue of the permit, or if the work authorized by said permit is suspended or abandoned for a period of one year or more.
(Ord. No. 1993-02(1), 2-2-1993; Ord. No. 2009-06(2), 6-3-2009)
Sec. 8-22. - Certificate of occupancy.
(a)
Required. No land, building or other structure or part thereof hereafter erected, moved, or altered in its use shall be occupied or used until the building inspector has issued a certificate of occupancy.
(b)
Application. Within three days after the application for a certificate of occupancy is received on the form provided for the purpose, the building inspector shall sign and issue a certificate of occupancy if the building, structure, or land is found to conform to the applicable provisions of this article and other ordinances of the city then in force, and complies with the plans submitted for the building permit.
(c)
Denial. A certificate of occupancy shall not be issued unless the proposed use of the building, structure, or land is found to conform to the applicable provisions of this article and other ordinances of the city then in force, and complies with the plans submitted for the building permit. The building inspector shall state, in writing, the reasons for denying such certificate of occupancy.
(Ord. No. 1993-02(1), 2-2-1993)
Sec. 8-23. - Records of applications, permits, and certificates.
Records of applications for building permits, building permit approvals and denials, records of plats and plans in connection with said permits, records of applications for certificates of occupancy, and certificate of occupancy approvals and denials shall be kept on file in the office of the building inspector, and shall be furnished upon request to any person interested in the building, structure, or land involved.
(Ord. No. 1993-02(1), 2-2-1993)
