Chapter 6 - ANIMALS

Sec. 6-1. - Definitions.
For the purpose of this chapter, the following words and phrases shall have the meanings respectively ascribed to them by this section as follows:
Abandonment means placing or leaving an animal upon public property or within a public building unattended or uncared for, or upon or within the private property of another without the express permission of the owner, custodian or tenant of said private property, and unattended or uncared for. Abandonment also occurs when an animal has been placed or kept upon or within the property of the owner or custodian of the animal for a period of time in excess of 36 hours unattended or without proper food and water.
Animal control center means the facility designated by the city council, or its designee, for the detention of animals.
At large means an animal not under restraint.
Domesticated animal means any animal which is accustomed to live in or about the habitation of human beings, including, but not limited to, cats, cows, dogs, fowl, horses, swine, domesticated wild animals and/or exotic animals.
Guard dog means any dog which has been trained to attack persons or other animals independently or upon oral command or any dog which, while not so trained, is reasonably expected to perform as a guardian of the property upon and within which he is located.
Livestock means all animals of the bovine, equine, or fowl class, including, but not limited to, chickens, roosters, goats, sheep, mules, horses, cattle, llamas, and other grazing animals, and all ratites, including, but not limited to, ostriches, emus, and rheas.
Owner means any person owning, possessing, keeping, harboring or acting as custodian of a domesticated animal.
Under restraint means any animal either:
(1)
Enclosed by way of a fence or other enclosure;
(2)
Kept on a leash under the control of a responsible and competent person; or
(3)
Confined within a vehicle, parked or in motion.
Vicious animal means any animal which constitutes a physical threat to human beings or other domesticated animals by virtue of one or more attacks of such severity as to cause property damage or physical injury. An animal also is considered to be vicious and considered not under restraint if it makes an unprovoked attack on other domesticated animals who are under restraint, or on human beings, or on the physical property of another.
Sec. 6-2. - Public nuisance.
Any animal which:
(1)
Is found at large in violation of this chapter;
(2)
Is a vicious animal;
(3)
Produces, because of quantity, manner or method in which the animals are domesticated or maintained, unsanitary conditions in the city;
(4)
Attacks passersby or passing vehicles;
(5)
Makes or causes frequent or long continued noise which disturbs the comfort or repose of any person in the vicinity; or
(6)
Is detrimental to the public health, welfare or safety according to rules and regulations promulgated by a state or county public health agency;
is hereby declared to be a public nuisance, and any person who knowingly keeps, owns, harbors or acts as custodian of an animal constituting a nuisance; and such person may be placed on notice and provided an opportunity to abate any such nuisances as provided in this Code.
Sec. 6-3. - Violations.
Any person who violates this chapter may be cited for said violation by the police, or any other designee of the mayor and city council. Such violations are subject to the penalties provided in this Code; however, the city may take other measures as permitted by law to ensure compliance with this chapter.
Sec. 6-4. - Running at large prohibited.
It shall be unlawful for the owner of any animal, or anyone having an animal in his custody, to allow it to run at large on or about the streets and highways of the city, or on the property of another person without permission of the owner of that property or of the person in possession of that property.
Sec. 6-5. - Vaccinations for rabies; dogs.
All dogs within the incorporated limits of the city shall be inoculated for the prevention of rabies as required by state law.
Sec. 6-6. - Identification for dogs.
Any person owning, keeping or harboring any dog within the city limits shall at all times keep on the dog a collar or harness, and the rabies vaccination tag or some other identification tag shall at all times be affixed to the collar or harness. Proper identification shall be by rabies vaccination tag or some other appropriate tag so as to ascertain and identify the owner.
Sec. 6-7. - Animal control center; appointment of animal control superintendent.
The mayor and council may designate an area to be known as the city animal control center, to be located either within or without the city limits, and may authorize and designate city or county officials, in addition to the police, to enforce the provisions of this chapter.
Sec. 6-8. - Guard dogs.
It shall be the duty of each owner, tenant or custodian of property upon or within which a guard dog is located to conspicuously and prominently post the following notice on the outside of the property: "Warning—Guard Dog" in either red or black letters upon a white background, large enough to be easily read at a distance of 25 feet. In the case of a building, the notice shall be conspicuously posted on or about each and every entrance and exit. In the case of a general enclosure in which a guard dog is located, the notices shall be conspicuously posted upon the enclosure at a distance not greater than 50 feet apart, as well as upon each and every entrance and exit through the enclosure. In the case of apartments, condominiums or businesses located within a larger building where the guard dog is located within the apartment, condominium or business solely, the notice shall be conspicuously posted on or about each and every entrance and exit. Failure to comply with this section shall be unlawful and shall be punishable as hereinafter provided.
Sec. 6-9. - Teasing, molesting and poisoning.
It shall be unlawful for any person to tease, molest, bait, poison or in any way bother any animal not belonging to him or not legally under his control, and any person violating this section shall not be entitled to a warning for a first offense.
Sec. 6-10. - Abandonment of animals.
It shall be unlawful for anyone knowingly to abandon any animal within the city. Each person who does knowingly abandon, or willingly permits such abandonment, or aids in the abandonment of any animal, shall be in violation of this chapter and subject to the penalty hereinafter specified, and shall not be entitled to a warning for a first offense.
Sec. 6-11. - Fees.
The fees that apply to this chapter and shall be paid by the owner or custodian of any animal affected thereby are established by the city council from time to time.
Sec. 6-12. - Livestock.
(a)
Any housing or enclosures used by such animals or fowl shall be well-drained, free from accumulations of animal excrement and objectionable odors, and otherwise clean and sanitary. Animal excrement shall be disposed of in a manner approved by the health officer.
(b)
Such animals or fowl shall be kept at the following minimum distances from any occupied building other than the dwelling unit of the owner:
Minimum Distance Between Animals and Occupied Building
EXPAND
Animal Distance
Horses, mules, asses, or cows 75 feet
Sheep or goats 75 feet
Hogs 900 feet
Dogs 25 feet
Rabbits, guinea pigs, hamsters 25 feet
Chickens, turkeys, geese, ducks, pigeons, ostrich, emu, or similar fowl 25 feet
  (c)
In all incorporated areas, each such animal or fowl shall be provided with the following average minimum floor or ground area in the enclosure or housing in which it is kept:
Minimum Area Required per Animal
EXPAND
Animal Area per Animal
Horses, mules, asses, or cows 200 square feet
Sheep or goats 150 square feet
Hogs 150 square feet
Ostrich, emu 100 square feet
Dogs 100 square feet
Rabbits 4 square feet
Guinea pigs, hamsters 4 square feet
Chickens, turkey, geese, ducks, pigeons or similar fowl 4 square feet
