ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 90-1. - Title.
This chapter shall be known as the Comprehensive Zoning Ordinance of the City of Washington, Georgia.
(Ord. of 6-2-1997, § 19-1)
Sec. 90-2. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Accessory structure means a structure on the same lot with and of a size and nature customarily incidental and subordinate to the principal structure. Types of accessory structures include but not limited to the following:
(1)
Detached garages and carports.
(2)
Storage buildings and barns.
(3)
Freestanding greenhouses.
(4)
Pool houses.
(5)
Tennis courts.
(6)
Satellite dish antennas (see section 90-648).
(7)
Freestanding workshops.
(8)
Gazebos.
(9)
Radio and TV antenna structures not attached to the principal structure.
(10)
Paved areas other than driveways and walkways.
(11)
Property identification signs not associated with or attached to a mailbox.
Accessory use means a use customarily incidental, appropriate and subordinate to the principal use of land or buildings and located upon the same lot therewith.
Agricultural use includes all forms of agriculture production, growing of crops in the open, dairying, grazing, the raising and maintaining of livestock, horticulture, forest, and woods, provided all city health ordinances are complied with.
Area, building means the total area taken on a horizontal plane at the main grade level of the principal building and all accessory buildings, exclusive of uncovered porches, terraces, and steps.
Automobile wrecking means the dismantling, storage, sale or dumping of used motor vehicles, trailers, or parts thereof.
Bed and breakfast means a house or portion thereof, where shortterm lodging rooms and meals are provided. The operator of the inn shall live on the premises or adjacent premises.
Building area of a lot means that portion of a lot bounded by the required rear, side and front building setback lines.
Building height means the vertical distance from the established average sidewalk grade, street grade, or finished grade at the building lines, whichever is the highest, to the highest point of the building.
Building line means lines that are formed by the face of a building and used to establish the depth of a yard. The building line of a structure may vary according to the projection and recesses along each face, and may subsequently include segments that are not equivalent to the parcel's required build-to and building setback lines.
Building setback, front means the minimum allowable distance between the street right-of-way or an official future street right-of-way and the front of a building or structure on a lot. The front setback distance applies to the full width of the lot and is parallel to or concentric with the street right-of-way.
Building setback line means a line delineating the minimum allowable distance between the property line and a building on a lot, within which no building or other structure shall be placed except as otherwise provided.
Building setback, rear means the minimum allowable distance between the rear property line and a building or structure on a lot. The rear setback applies to and extends the full width of the lot.
Building setback, side means the minimum allowable distance between the side property line and a building or structure on a lot. The side setback applies to the full depth of a lot.
Build-to-line means a line that runs parallel to the street right-of-way and establishes the fixed depth at which the vertical plane of a building elevation, exclusive of porches, bay windows and other appurtenances, must be erected.
Corner lot means any lot bounding the intersection of two streets or upon the inside of a curve of a street where the corner interior angle is less than 135 degrees.
Historic site means any structure, place, building, site, or area having significant historical or architectural value and so identified by the Washington-Wilkes Historic Preservation Commission or the city historic preservation commission.
Junk condition includes but is not limited to any automobile, vehicle, trailer or any kind or type or contrivance or part thereof, the condition of which is one or more of the following:
(1)
Wrecked.
(2)
Dismantled.
(3)
Partially dismantled.
(4)
Inoperative.
(5)
Abandoned.
(6)
Discarded.
(7)
Scrapped.
Junkyard or salvage yard means a lot, land, or structure or part thereof used primarily for the collecting, storage, or sale of wastepaper, rags, scrap metal, or other discarded material; and for the collecting, dismantling, storage, salvage of machinery or vehicles in inoperative or junk condition or for the sale of parts thereof.
Loading space means a space within the main building or on the same lot therewith, providing for the standing, loading, or unloading of trucks, buses, or other vehicles.
Lot means a parcel or tract of land held in one ownership to which this chapter is to be applied, which may include one or more separately deeded or other platted parcels or other such lots of record.
Lot area means the total horizontal area included within lot lines.
Lot frontage means the length of a straight line drawn between the two points where the abutting property lot lines or other adjacent lot lines cut a given street line of a public street. A lot may have more than one frontage.
Lot lines means the boundary dividing a given lot from the street, an alley, or adjacent lots.
Lot of record means a lot which is part of a subdivision recorded in the office of the county register of deeds, or a lot described by metes and bounds, the description of which has been recorded in the office of the county register of deeds.
Manufactured home means a structure constructed by and in accordance with the National Manufactured Housing Construction and Safety Standards Act of 1974 as amended, 42 USC 5401 et seq. The definition on June 2, 1997 is as follows:
"Manufactured home means a structure, transportable in one or more sections, which, in the traveling mode, is eight body feet or more in width or 40 body feet or more in length, or when erected on site, is 320 or more square feet, and which is built on a permanent chassis and designed to be used as a dwelling with or without a permanent foundation when connected to the required utilities, and includes the plumbing, heating, air conditioning, and electrical systems contained therein; except that such term shall include any structure which meets all the requirements of this paragraph except the size requirements and with respect to which the manufacturer voluntarily files a certification required by the Secretary and complies with the standards established under this title."
Mobile home means a structure, transportable in one or more sections, which, in a traveling mode, is eight body feet or more in width or 40 body feet or more in length or, when erected on site, is 320 or more square feet and which is built on a permanent chassis and designed to be used as a dwelling with or without a permanent foundation when connected to the required utilities and includes the plumbing, heating, air conditioning, and electrical systems contained therein and manufactured prior to June 15, 1976.
Mobile home park means any plot or tract of land on which two or more mobile homes/manufactured homes are to be located or intended to be located.
Mobile office means a prefabricated structure designed to be transported on its own wheels, a flatbed, a trailer, or detachable wheels from the place of manufacture or sale and used or intended to be used or occupied for the transaction of business or the rendering of professional services.
Municipal building official means the office or person duly appointed or authorized by the mayor and council to inspect buildings and structures in accordance with this chapter or any other ordinance or municipal regulation. In addition the building official shall also serve as the zoning administrator.
Nonconforming use means any building, structure, or use of land which does not comply with or conform to the regulations of the zoning district in which it is located but which complied with applicable regulations at the time the building, structure or use of land was established.
Planning commission means the city planning commission as established under the General Planning Enabling Act of 1957 (now repealed) and any subsequent revisions thereto.
Principal building means a building in which is conducted the principal use of the lot or tract of land on which such building is located.
Principal use means the specific, primary purpose for which land or a building is used.
Radial lot means an irregular (pie-shaped) lot fronting on a curved street, and which is formed by its side lot lines being established along the course of a radius from the axis of the street curve (see the following figures).
Setback line means a line that runs parallel to a corresponding lot line and establishes the minimum distance within the lot at which a building must be placed from the property line.
Shipping container means any metal or primarily metal container designed and constructed to ship, store, or handle bulk goods or items, or which appears substantially similar to such containers in appearance. Such containers include reusable steel boxes, freight containers, and bulk shipping containers; originally, a standardized reusable vessel that was designed for and used in the parking, shipping, movement, transportation, or storage of freight, articles of goods, or commodities; generally capable of being mounted or moved on a rail car, truck/trailer or load on a ship.
Sign, billboard, or other outdoor advertising device means any structure or part thereof or device attached thereto or represented thereon, which shall display or include any letter, words, model, banner, flag, pennant, insignia, or representation used as or which is in the nature of an announcement, direction, or advertisement. The term "sign" includes the term "billboard" or any other type of advertising device, but does not include the flag, pennant or insignia of any nation, state, city or political unit.
Special C2* provisions: Permitted uses of both C-2 and C-3 districts are permitted. Building setback requirement for city streets is 45 feet setback from centerline of street to the principal buildings. (Excluded are service station pump islands and canopies.) One point of street access for each 100 feet of road frontage.
Structure means any combination of materials, including buildings, constructed or erected, the use of which requires location on the ground or attachment to anything having location on the ground and including, among other things, signs, billboards, and fences.
Travel trailer means a motorized camper, converted bus, tent-trailer, or other similar vehicular or portable structure used or designed for temporary portable housing or occupancy while on vacation, recreation, or other trip and provided with sleeping accommodations.
Travel trailer park means any plot or tract of land on which two or more travel trailers are located or intended to be located.
Use means the purpose for which land or a building or other structure is designed, arranged, or intended, or for which it is or may be occupied or maintained.
Used or occupied, as applied to any land or building, shall be construed to include the words "intended, arranged, or designed" to be used or occupied.
Zoning district, base means a zoning district that emphasizes the placement of prescribed land uses to specific parcels within the city and including a varying degree of supplemental dimensional and design requirements to applicable land uses. Base zoning districts are illustrated on the "Zoning Map of Washington, Georgia" and may alternatively be referred to throughout this chapter simply as a "base district."
Zoning district, character means an overlay zoning district that is established to promote the revitalization, renovation and preservation of active pedestrian-friendly residential and nonresidential areas through a focus on design elements related to streets, buildings and property. A character zoning district emphasizes development patterns where streets are multi-functional pathways linking rather than dividing neighborhoods; buildings are designed at a scale, and with features that encourage interaction among neighbors; and, property is configured in a manner that makes accessibility by non-motorized means efficient through a greater mix of land uses. Character zoning districts are illustrated on the "Zoning Map of Washington, Georgia" as an overlay to the underlying base districts; and, may alternatively be referred to throughout this chapter simply as a "character district."
(Ord. of 6-2-1997, § 19-6; Ord. of 3-8-1999; Ord. of 8-11-2008(4), § I; Ord. of 5-27-2009; Ord. of 8-10-2020)
Cross reference— Definitions generally, § 1-2.
Sec. 90-3. - Zoning map.
The location and boundaries of the zoning districts established by this chapter are bounded and defined as shown on the map entitled "Zoning Map of Washington, Georgia," adopted and certified by the city clerk. This map, as now or hereafter amended, with all explanatory matter thereon, is adopted and made part of this chapter.
(Ord. of 6-2-1997, § 19-2; Ord. of 5-27-2009)
Sec. 90-4. - Zoning districts established.
For the purposes of this chapter, the city is divided into 16 zoning districts and one character zoning district as follows:
EXPAND
Residential Districts
Base Zoning Districts
R-1 Agriculture-residential district
R-1A Small-lot single-family residential district
R-2 General residential district
R-3 High density residential district
Commercial Districts
Base Zoning Districts
C-1 Neighborhood commercial district
C-2 Highway commercial district
C-3 Primary commercial district
C-4 Heavy commercial district
Industrial Districts
Base Zoning Districts
M-1 Light industrial district
M-2 General industrial district
Special Districts
Base Zoning Districts
H-1 Historic district
P-1 Professional and civic district
UC-1 Unified commercial district
RMH Mobile home district
R-3A Redevelopment residential district
R-3B Special high density residential district
Character Zoning Districts
CD-1 Rusher Street revitalization district
  (Ord. of 6-2-1997, § 19-3; Ord. of 5-27-2009)
Sec. 90-5. - Interpretation of district boundaries.
(a)
Unless otherwise shown on the zoning map, the boundary lines of zoning districts are lot lines, the centerlines of streets or alleys or such lines extended, railroad right-of-way lines, the centerlines of creeks and streams, or the corporate limit line as it existed on June 2, 1997.
(b)
Zoning district boundary lines not coinciding with lot lines, the centerlines of streets or alleys or such lines extended, railroad right-of-way lines, the centerlines of creeks and streams, or the corporate limit line as it existed on June 2, 1997 shall be determined by use of the scale on the zoning map unless actual dimensions are noted. The board of zoning appeals shall resolve any questions or controversy arising over the exact location of district boundary lines.
(Ord. of 6-2-1997, § 19-4; Ord. of 5-27-2009)
Sec. 90-6. - Historic buildings, places and structures.
It is recognized that the preservation and maintenance of buildings, sites, structures, places, and areas of significant historical value is an essential part of the comprehensive development of the city. It is further recognized that the locations of such historic places and structures are not limited to or totally included in any single zoning district established by this chapter and should not be prohibited from any district.
(Ord. of 6-2-1997, § 19-5; Ord. of 5-27-2009)
Cross reference— Historical preservation, ch. 42.
Sec. 90-7. - Storage and parking of recreation vehicles, trailers, other vehicles and shipping containers.
Commercial vehicles and trailers of all types, including travel, boat, camping and hauling, shall not be parked or stored on any lot or parcel in any residential zoning district except in accordance with the following requirements:
(1)
No commercial vehicle used for hauling explosives, gasoline or liquefied petroleum products is permitted in any residential district.
(2)
Recreational vehicles, hauling trailers, or boat trailers are permitted if parked or stored behind the front yard building line in residential districts.
(3)
Recreational vehicles, campers, and travel trailers shall not be occupied either temporarily or permanently while parked or stored in any zoning district except as otherwise authorized under this chapter.
(4)
No automobile, recreation vehicle, trailer, or other vehicle for sale shall be parked in the right-of-way.
(5)
SJ Shipping containers, box trucks, semi-trailers, and similar vehicles shall not be placed in residential areas for use as accessory structures. Any such container in place at the time of the adoption of this ordinance (August 10, 2020) will be grandfathered in, but once removed, may not be replaced at any future time.
(Ord. of 12-12-2016(1); Ord. of 8-10-2020)
Secs. 90-8—90-35. - Reserved.
