PART I - SELECTED LOCAL ACTS[1]
modified
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Editor's note— This is not an exhaustive publication of all legislative acts and resolutions pertaining to Washington County. However, the provisions concerning the board of commissioners are comprehensive and current. This information is presented unofficially, strictly for information; the official published acts of the Georgia legislature are definitive and controlling.

ARTICLE I. - BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS[2]
modified

Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
Editor's note— Printed herein is 1913 Ga. Laws (Law No. 271), page 452, establishing the county board of commissioners, as later amended. The absence of a subsequent history note indicates that the provision remains unchanged from the original Act. Obvious misspellings have been corrected without notation. For stylistic purposes, a uniform system of headings, catchlines and citations to state statutes has been used. Enactment, severability, repealer, transitional, ratification, publication and effective date provisions have been omitted, and where a section has been amended or repealed by a later provision, only the current effective language has been printed. Additions made for clarity are indicated by brackets.

Sec. 1. - [Board as governing authority.]
The governing authority of Washington County shall be the board of commissioners of Washington County, sometimes referred to in this Act as the "board." From January 1, 1986, until December 31, 1986, that board shall consist of three members elected pursuant to the prior provisions of this Act. On and after January 1, 1987, that board shall consist of a chairman and four additional members, which four members shall be elected from commissioner districts described in section 2 of this Act.
(1985 Ga. Laws (No. 489), page 4882)
Sec. 2. - [Commission districts.]
(a)
For purposes of electing the members of the board, other than the chairman, Washington County is divided into four commissioner districts which shall be and correspond to those four numbered districts described in and attached to and made a part of this Act and further identified as Plan Name: washccsb2 Plan Type: Local User: Gina Administrator: Washington Co[unty].
(b)
When used in such attachment, the terms "tract" and "BG" (block group) shall mean and describe the same geographical boundaries as provided in the report of the Bureau of the Census for the United States decennial census of 2000 for the State of Georgia. The separate numeric designations in a tract description which are underneath a BG heading shall mean and describe individual blocks within a block group as provided in the report of the Bureau of the Census for the United States decennial census of 2000 for the State of Georgia. Any part of Washington County which is not included in any such district described in that attachment shall be included within that district contiguous to such part which contains the least population according to the United States decennial census of 2000 for the State of Georgia. Any part of Washington County which is described in that attachment as being in a particular district shall nevertheless not be included within such district if such part is not contiguous to such district. Such noncontiguous part shall instead be included within that district contiguous to such part which contains the least population according to the United States decennial census of 2000 for the State of Georgia. Except as otherwise provided in the description of any district, whenever the description of such district refers to a named city, it shall mean the geographical boundaries of that city as shown on the census map for the United States decennial census of 2000 for the State of Georgia.
(2001 Ga. Laws, page 4454; HB 1517)
Sec. 3. - Commissioner districts and terms of office.
(a)
Commissioner Districts 1, 2, 3, and 4 as they existed on January 1, 2002 [at the time of this codification], shall continue to be designated as Commissioner Districts 1, 2, 3, and 4, respectively, but as newly described under this section, and, on and after the effective date of this section, such members of the board serving from those former commissioner districts shall be deemed to be serving from and representing their respective districts as newly described under this section.
(b)
Those persons serving as members of the board of commissioners of Washington County on January 1, 2002, and any persons selected to fill vacancies in such offices, shall continue to serve out their terms of office which shall expire on December 31, 2002, and upon the election and qualification of their respective successors. Those successors shall be elected at the November general election in 2002 and shall take office on January 1, 2003, and serve for terms of office of four years. Thereafter, successors to members of the board whose terms of office are to expire shall be elected at the November general election immediately preceding the expiration of such terms, shall take office on the first day of January immediately following such election, and shall serve for terms of office of four years each. Members of the board shall serve the terms specified therefor in this Act and until their respective successors are elected and qualified. The members of the board shall be nominated and elected in accordance with the provisions of chapter 2 of title 21 of the O.C.G.A. the "Georgia Election Code."
(2001 Ga. Laws, page 4454; HB 1517)
Sec. 4. - [Residency and age conditions for board members.]
(a)
The chairman of the board may reside anywhere within Washington County and shall be elected by a majority of the qualified voters of Washington County voting at the election for that office. Any person offering as a candidate for that office shall be at least 21 years of age, shall have been a resident of Washington County at least 12 months prior to that person's election, and shall be a qualified and registered voter of Washington County. In the event the chairman ceases, during that person's term of office, to be a resident of Washington County, that office shall thereupon become vacant.
(b)
Each member of the board, other than the chairman, shall reside within the commissioner district from which that person was elected and shall be elected by a majority of the qualified voters voting in that district and not at large. At the time of qualifying for the election to the office of member of the board, other than the chairman, each candidate shall specify the commissioner district for which that person is a candidate. Any person offering as a candidate for member of the board, other than the chairman, shall be at least 21 years of age, shall have been a resident of Washington County at least 12 months prior to that person's election, shall be qualified and registered voter of Washington County, and shall have been a resident of the district for which that person is a candidate for at least 12 months prior to that person's election thereto. In the event any member of the board, other than the chairman, ceases, during that person's term of office, to be a resident of the commissioner district from which that person was elected, that respective office shall thereupon become vacant.
(1993 Ga. Laws (No. 372), page 5083)
Sec. 5. - [Selection of board officers; quorum.]
(a)
At the first regular meeting of the board in January of each year, the members other than the chairman shall elect from their number a vice-chairman and a treasurer. No person shall be eligible during that person's term of office to be elected as vice-chairman except for one term of one year or as treasurer except for one term of one year.
(b)
A majority of the board shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business of the board.
(1985 Ga. Laws (No. 489), page 4882)
Sec. 6. - Oath.
Be it further enacted by the authority aforesaid, that the members of the board of commissioners provided for under this Act shall always, before entering upon their duties, take and subscribe the following oath, which is to be kept permanently on file in the office of said board, to-wit: "I do solemnly swear that I will faithfully discharge the duties of Commissioner of Roads and Revenues of Washington County and will to the utmost of my knowledge, skill and ability, endeavor to promote the welfare and prosperity of the entire country, and will do so without fear, favor or affection."
Sec. 7. - Commissioners amenable to grand jury.
Be it further enacted by the authority aforesaid, that said Commissioners of Roads and Revenues shall be amenable to the Grand Jury of Washington County, and said grand jury is hereby given power and authority to remove or reprimand any of said commissioners for inefficiency or neglect of duty, or for any other conduct which, in the opinion of such grand jury, warrants such action; provided, however, that before any commissioner is removed he shall be given an opportunity to be heard by said grand jury in his own behalf.
Sec. 8. - [Procedure in event of board vacancy during term of office.]
(a)
In the event a vacancy occurs in the office of chairman or any member of the board with more than 180 days remaining in the term of that office, the election superintendent of Washington County shall call a special election to fill that vacancy to be held within 60 days after the vacancy occurs. Any person elected to fill such vacant office shall meet the qualifications of that office and shall serve out the unexpired term of that office and until a successor is regularly elected and qualified.
(b)
In the event a vacancy occurs in the office of chairman or any member of the board with 180 days or fewer remaining in the term of that office, no special election shall be conducted to fill that vacancy. In the event that vacancy occurs in the office of chairman, the remaining members of the board shall select from their number a person to serve as chairman for the unexpired term of that office and until a successor is regularly elected and qualified. In the event that vacancy occurs in the office of any member other than the chairman, the remaining members of the board shall select any person meeting the qualifications of that vacant office to serve out the unexpired term of that office and until a successor is regularly elected and qualified.
(1985 Ga. Laws (No. 489), page 4882)
Sec. 9. - Exemptions.
Be it further enacted by the authority aforesaid, that said Commissioners, during their term of office are exempt from militia, road and jury duty.
Sec. 10. - Compensation.
(a)
The chairman of the board shall receive an annual salary for the performance of the duties of such office in an amount not less than $7,200.00 nor more than $12,000.00, which amount shall be established by the board. Each member of the board, other than the chairman, shall receive an annual salary for the performance of the duties of such office in an amount not less than $3,600.00 nor more than $8,400.00, which amount shall be established by the board. The salaries provided for by this section shall be paid in equal monthly installments from the general funds of Washington County. In addition to such salaries, the chairman and each other member of the board shall be entitled to receive from the general funds of Washington County their actual and necessary expenses incurred in the performance of their duties of office.
(b)
Before entering upon the performance of that person's duties, the chairman and each member of the board shall give bond in the sum of $1,500.00, payable to the judge of the probate court of Washington County and that judge's successors in office, conditioned for the faithful performance of that chairman or member's respective duties in office, which bond shall be approved by that judge of the probate court.
(1985 Ga. Laws (No. 489), page 4882)
Sec. 11. - Duties and compensation of secretary [County Administrator/Clerk].
Be it further enacted by the authority aforesaid, that said board shall have the power and authority to employ a secretary [County Administrator/County Administrator/Clerk], whose duties shall be such as are prescribed by said board and who shall receive such compensation as said board in its discretion may fix.
Sec. 11A. - Purchasing agent.
The board is authorized by this Act to require centralized purchasing for all departments and agencies of county government, so as to effect the utmost economy, consistent with efficiency and quality. They shall prescribe procedure for requisitioning, require inventories of property, materials, supplies, and equipment and adopt the necessary rules and requirements that will provide for the orderly purchasing of county materials, supplies, and equipment. The clerk [County Administrator/Clerk] of the board shall act as purchasing agent for the county.
(1965 Ga. Laws (No. 113), page 2388)
Sec. 12. - Clerk [County Administrator/Clerk]; letting of contracts.
Be it further enacted by the authority aforesaid, that it shall be unlawful for the board to employ any person as clerk who is related to any member of the board by blood or marriage within the third degree. All purchases of supplies and other materials in an amount in excess of $500.00 shall be by competitive bids with advertisement of said purchases to be published in the official organ of Washington County for two consecutive weeks within a period of thirty days prior to the date of such purchases. Provided, however, that soil pits and repairs of machinery, bridges, roads, and buildings shall not be subject to the provisions of competitive bidding. It shall be unlawful for any member of the board, secretary or clerk of the board [County Administrator/Clerk] to have any financial interest in the transaction of any business in connection with the purchase or sale of any goods or supplies for Washington County. Any person serving as a member of the board, secretary or clerk [County Administrator/Clerk] of the board who violates any provision of this section shall be guilty of a misdemeanor [an ordinance violation] and, upon conviction thereof, shall be punished as for a misdemeanor [an ordinance violation], and the office of such person or persons shall immediately be declared vacant.
(1965 Ga. Laws (No. 113), page 2388)
Sec. 13. - Board session times; rules and regulations.
Be it further enacted by the authority aforesaid, that said board shall meet at the court house of said county and hold their sessions at such times as may be agreed upon and advertised by them; said board shall make such rules and regulations not inconsistent with this Act or contrary to law for its own government as it may deem best.
(1985 Ga. Laws (No. 489), page 4882)
Sec. 14. - Audit.
The board of commissioners of roads and revenues of Washington County shall on or before January 31st annually [at the end of the fiscal year] employ a certified public accountant for the making of an annual audit of finances and financial records of the county. [Said audit shall be filled with the Department of Audits by December 31 of each year.] The accountant so employed shall be paid out of county funds and shall perform a complete audit of the finances and financial records of the county for the preceding year and shall point out any irregularities found to exist. Each annual audit submitted to the board shall be filed with the secretary or clerk [County Administrator/Clerk] of the board and shall be available for public inspection as other records in such office. The board shall cause to be published in the official organ of Washington County and posted at the courthouse door a summary of each such annual audit. Said accountant shall transmit to the grand jury of the superior court of Washington County a copy of each annual audit prepared by him and furnished to the board of commissioners of roads and revenues of Washington County.
(1965 Ga. Laws (No. 113), page 2388)
Sec. 15. - Jurisdiction.
Be it further enacted by the authority aforesaid, that said commissioners shall have exclusive jurisdiction and control over the following matters, to-wit: In directing and controlling all the property of the county as they may deem expedient, according to law; in levying taxes according to law; in establishing, altering or abolishing roads, bridges and ferries, according to law; establishing, abolishing or changing election precincts and militia districts; in supervising the tax collector's and tax receiver's books and allowing the insolvent lists for said county; in settling all claims against the county; examining and auditing all claims or accounts of officers having the care of, management, keeping, collecting or disbursing of any money belonging to the county or appropriated for its use or benefit, and bringing them to settlement; in making rules and regulations for the support of the poor of said county; in making of rules and regulations for the promotion of health, and electing and appointing all minor officials of said county, where election is not otherwise provided for by law or the provisions of this Act; in regulating peddling, and to have and to exercise control and management over the convicts of said county according to law, and to have and to exercise all the powers as would be vested by law in the ordinary of said county when sitting for county purposes in the absence of this Act, and to exercise such other powers as are granted by law or as are indispensable to their jurisdiction over county matters and county finances.
Sec. 16. - [Reserved.]
Editor's note— Section 16 has been omitted from this publication pursuant to instructions from the county.
Sec. 17. - Auditing of accounts.
Be it further enacted by the authority aforesaid, that said board within twelve months after assuming the duties of their office shall have all books and accounts of the tax collector, treasurer, sheriff and of the board herein created audited by some certified public accountant, and a like audit shall be had at least once every two years thereafter; and said board is hereby empowered to make such contracts as may be necessary in order to carry out the purpose of this section. [Side note: Auditing of accounts.]
Sec. 18. - Road and bridge work; contracting.
Be it further enacted by the authority aforesaid, that the said board shall have the right to lease, hire or use convicts from other counties whenever said board deems it necessary and to the best interest of the county; said board shall have the right to employ free labor for the purpose of working the roads and bridges of said county whenever they shall deem it for the best interest of the county; said board shall have authority to let out by contract to the lowest bidder any part of the roads of said county after the publication of a sufficient notice of said work, by inserting said notice in at least two issues of the official organ of the county before the letting of said contract, in which advertisement the time, place and a sufficient description of the road and the work to be done to put bidders on notice of what would be expected of them, and when necessary make out detailed specifications for the benefit of the bidder as well as the county; any contract for work which amounts to more than fifty dollars, the bidder shall be required to give a bond for the faithful performance of the same; which contract and bid shall be always filed in the office of said board and become the permanent record of the same.
ARTICLE II. - AIRPORT AUTHORITY[3]
modified

Footnotes:
--- (3) ---
Editor's note— Printed herein is 1968 Ga. Laws (Law No. 888), page 2748, establishing the county airport authority. The absence of a subsequent history note indicates that the provision remains unchanged from the original Act. Obvious misspellings have been corrected without notation. For stylistic purposes, a uniform system of headings, catchlines and citations to state statutes has been used. Enactment, severability, repealer, transitional, ratification, publication and effective date provisions have been omitted, and where a section has been amended or repealed by a later provision, only the current language has been printed. Additions made for clarity are indicated by brackets.

Sec. 1. - Short title.
This Act may be cited as the "Washington County Airport Authority Act."
Sec. 2. - Washington County Airport Authority.
There is hereby created a body corporate and politic to be known as the Washington County Airport Authority, which shall be deemed to be a political subdivision of the State of Georgia and a public corporation by the name, style and title and said body may contract and be contracted with, sue and be sued, implead and be impleaded, complain and defend in all courts of law and equity, except that the authority shall in no event be liable for any torts committed by any of the officers, agents and employees of the authority. The authority shall have perpetual existence.
Sec. 3. - Membership.
The Washington County Airport Authority shall be composed of three members, one of whom shall be appointed by the Board of Roads and Revenue of Washington County, one by the Mayor and Council of the City of Sandersville and one by the Mayor and Council of the City of Tennille. Within 30 days after the approval of this Act, it shall be the duty of said appointing authorities to appoint the members of the authority. The member appointed by the county commissioners shall be appointed for a term of three years ending December 31, 1970; the member appointed by the Mayor and Council of the City of Sandersville shall be appointed for a term of two years ending December 31, 1969; the member to be appointed by the Mayor and Council of the City of Tennille shall be appointed for a term of one year ending December 31, 1968. All subsequent appointments shall be for a term of three years, and until their successors shall have been duly appointed. No person shall be appointed to membership on the authority unless he or she is a freeholder in Washington County and has the same qualifications as are required for a person to vote in Washington County, Georgia.
Sec. 4. - Meetings.
The authority shall hold their first meeting within 45 days after the approval of this Act at which time the authority shall elect one of its members as its chairman and one member as secretary-treasurer [County Administrator/County Administrator/Clerk-Treasurer]. The authority shall meet at such times as may be necessary to transact the business coming before it, but not less than quarterly. At its first meeting in January of each year thereafter, the authority shall elect one of its members as its chairman and another member as secretary-treasurer [County Administrator/Clerk]. Only one person shall hold the office of secretary-treasurer [County Administrator/Clerk]. These officers shall be elected for a term ending on December 31 of the year in which they were elected or until their successors are elected and qualified. Two members of the authority shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of all business coming before it. The members of the authority shall serve without pay except that they shall be reimbursed for actual expenses incurred in the performance of their duties.
Sec. 5. - Vacancies in office.
In the event of a vacancy on the authority by reason of death, resignation or otherwise, the vacancy shall be filled by the appointing authority and the person so appointed shall serve for the remainder of the unexpired term.
Sec. 6. - Definitions.
As used in this Act the following words and terms have the following meanings:
(a)
The word "authority" shall mean the Washington County Airport Authority as created by the provisions of this Act.
(b)
The word "project" shall be deemed to mean and include the acquisition, construction, equipping, maintenance, improving and operation of public airports and landing fields for the use of aircraft, and related buildings and the usual and convenient facilities appertaining to such undertakings and extensions and improvements of such facilities, acquiring the necessary property, both real and personal, and the lease and sale of any part or all such facilities, including real and personal property so as to insure the efficient and proper development, maintenance, and operation of such airports and landing fields for the use of aircraft deemed by the authority to be necessary, convenient or desirable.
Sec. 7. - Powers.
The authority shall have powers:
(a)
To have a seal and alter the same at pleasure;
(b)
To acquire by purchase, lease or otherwise, and to hold, lease, dispose of real and personal property of every kind and character for its corporate purposes;
(c)
To acquire in its own name by purchase, on such terms and conditions and in such manner as it may deem proper, real property or rights of easements therein or franchise necessary or convenient for its corporate purposes, and to use the same so long as its corporate existence shall continue and to lease or make contract with respect to the use of or disposition of the same in any manner it deems to the best advantage of the authority;
(d)
To appoint, select and employ, officers, agents and employees including engineering, architectural and construction experts, fiscal agents and attorneys, and fix their respective compensations;
(e)
To make contracts, leases and to execute all instruments necessary or convenient including contracts for construction of projects or leases of projects or contracts with respect to the use of projects which it causes to be erected or acquired, and any and all persons, firms and corporations and any and all political subdivisions, departments, institutions or agencies of the state are hereby authorized to enter into contracts, leases or agreements with the authority upon such terms and for such purposes as they may deem advisable; the said authority is further granted the authority to make contracts, leases and to execute all instruments necessary or convenient with the United States Government or any agency or department thereof concerning the projects of the authority;
(f)
With the consent of the appointed authority to construct, erect, acquire, own, repair, remodel, maintain, add to, extend, improve, equip, operate and manage projects, as hereinabove defined, the cost of any such project to be paid in whole or in part from funds provided by the appointing authority or other funds of the authority or from such proceeds or other funds and any grant from the United States of America or any agency or instrumentality thereof;
(g)
To accept loans and grants, or to accept loans or grants of money or material or property of any kind from the United States of America or any agency or instrumentality or political subdivision thereof or from any other source, upon such terms and conditions as the United States of America or such agency or instrumentality or other source may impose:
(h)
To accept loans and grants, or to accept loans or grants of money or materials or property of any kind from the State of Georgia or any agency or instrumentality or political subdivision thereof or from any other source upon such terms and conditions as the State of Georgia or such agency or instrumentality or political subdivision or any other source, may impose;
(j)
To exercise any power usually possessed by private corporations performing similar functions, which is not in conflict with the constitution and laws of this state;
(k)
With the consent of the appointing authorities, the authority is specifically authorized from time to time to sell, lease, grant, exchange or otherwise dispose of any surplus property, both real or personal, or any interest therein not required in the normal operation of and usable in the furtherance of the purpose for which the authority was created, except as such right and power may be limited as provided in section 2 hereof;
(l)
To do all things necessary or convenient to carry out the powers especially given in this Act.
Sec. 8. - Monies received considered trust funds.
All monies received pursuant to the authority of this Act, whether as grants or other contributions, or as revenues, income, fees and earnings, shall be deemed to be trust funds to be held and applied solely as provided in this Act.
Sec. 9. - Purpose of the authority.
Without limiting the generality of any provisions of the Act the general purpose of the authority is declared to be that of acquiring, constructing, equipping, maintaining, improving and operating airports and landing fields for the use of aircraft, including any related building and the usual and convenient facilities appertaining to such undertakings and extensions and improvements of such facilities, acquiring the necessary property therefor, both real and personal, and to lease or sell any or all of such facilities including real property and to do any and all things deemed by the authority necessary, convenient or desirable for and incident to the efficient and proper development and operation of such types of undertakings.
Sec. 10. - Rates, charges and revenues: use.
The authority is hereby authorized to prescribe and fix and collect rates, fees, tolls and charges and to revise from time to time and collect such rates, fees, tolls and charges for the services, facilities or commodities furnished, including leases, concession or sub-leased of its lands or facilities.
Sec. 11. - Rules and regulations for operation of projects.
It shall be the duty of the authority to prescribe rules and regulations for the operation of the project or projects constructed or operated under the provisions of this Act, including the basis on which airports and landing fields for the use of aircraft shall be furnished.
Sec. 12. - Powers declared supplemental and additional.
The foregoing sections of this Act shall be deemed to provide an additional and alternative method for the doing of the things authorized thereby and shall be regarded as supplemental and additional to powers conferred by other laws, and shall not be regarded as in derogation of any powers now existing.
Sec. 13. - Transfer of title.
After the passage of this Act, the Board of Roads and Revenue of Washington County with the concurrence of the governing Authorities of the Cities of Sandersville and Tennille may transfer title of the land comprising the Washington County Airport to the authority or said board may elect to vest control of the airport property to said authority for the purpose of operating, managing and regulating the same. Said board shall signify its choice by a proper resolution duly entered on its minutes.
Sec. 14. - Liberal construction of Act.
This Act being for the purpose of promoting the health, morals, and general welfare of the citizens of the United States, of the State of Georgia and of Washington County, shall be liberally construed to effect the purpose hereof.
Sec. 15. - Effect of partial invalidity of act.
The provisions of this Act are severable, and if any of its provisions shall be held unconstitutional by any court of competent jurisdiction, the decision of such court shall not affect or impair any or the remaining provisions.
Sec. 16. - Effective date.
The effective date of this law shall be upon approval of same by the Governor.
[Side note: Effective date.]
Sec. 17. - [Repeal of conflicting laws.]
All laws and parts of laws in conflict with this Act are hereby repealed.
ARTICLE III. - HOMESTEAD TAX EXEMPTION[4]
modified

Footnotes:
--- (4) ---
Editor's note— Printed herein is 1986 Ga. Laws (Law No. 1078), page 4485, establishing a homestead exemption for persons 65 or over, subject to referendum. The absence of a subsequent history note indicates that the provision remains unchanged from the original Act. Obvious misspellings have been corrected without notation. For stylistic purposes, a uniform system of headings, catchlines and citations to state statutes has been used. Enactment, severability, repealer, transitional, ratification, publication and effective date provisions have been omitted, and where a section has been amended or repealed by a later provision, only the current language has been printed. Additions made for clarity are indicated by brackets.

Sec. 1. - [Definitions.]
For purposes of this Act, the term:
(1)
"General law exemption" means that homestead exemption from state and county ad valorem taxes granted by Code Section 48-5-47 of the O.C.G.A. [O.C.G.A. § 48-5-47] to persons 65 years of age or over.
(2)
"Homestead" means homestead as defined and qualified in Code Section 48-5-40 of the O.C.G.A. [O.C.G.A. § 48-5-40] but shall not include more than the residence and five acres of land.
(3)
"Net income" means net income for purposes of computing net taxable income under chapter 7 of title 48 of the O.C.G.A., [O.C.G.A. title 48, ch. 7] relating to income taxes, but does not include income received as retirement, survivor, or disability benefits under the federal Social Security Act or under any other public or private retirement, disability, or pension system, except such income which is in excess of the maximum amount authorized to be paid to a person and that person's spouse under the federal Social Security Act shall be so included as net income.
Sec. 2. - [Homestead exemption.]
Each resident of Washington County who is 65 years of age or over is granted an exemption on that person's homestead from all Washington County ad valorem taxes in an amount which is the greater of $10,000.00 or the exemption amount granted by the general law exemption, if that person's net income, together with the net income of that person's spouse who occupies and resides at such homestead, does not exceed for the immediately preceding year for income tax purposes an amount which is the greater of $10,000.00 or the income amount specified by the general law exemption. The value of the homestead in excess of the exempted amount shall remain subject to taxation.
Sec. 3. - [Application; information.]
The tax commissioner of Washington County shall provide application forms for the exemption granted by this Act and shall require with the initial application an affidavit by the owner as to the age of the owner, the net income of the owner and that person's spouse who occupies and resides on the homestead, and such other information as may be necessary to determine eligibility of the owner for the exemption.
Sec. 4. - [Further application after initial grant of homestead exemption not required; exception.]
Any person who has applied for and been granted for 1986 the general law exemption from Washington County ad valorem taxes shall be eligible for the exemption granted by this Act without further application, except that it shall be the duty of any such person to notify the tax commissioner of Washington County in the event that person for any reason becomes ineligible for the exemption granted by this Act. Otherwise, the exemption shall be claimed and returned as provided in Code Section 48-5-50.1 of the O.C.G.A. [O.C.G.A. § 48-5-50.1].
Sec. 5. - [Exemption does not apply to other taxes.]
The exemption granted by this Act shall not apply to or affect any county school taxes, state taxes, or municipal taxes.
Sec. 6. - [Exemption shall be in lieu of other taxes not in addition to said taxes.]
The exemption granted by this Act shall be in lieu of and not in addition to any other homestead exemption from Washington County ad valorem taxes levied for county, but not school, purposes.
Sec. 7. - [Effective date.]
The exemption granted by this Act shall apply to all taxable years beginning after December 31, 1986.
Sec. 8. - [Administration of exemption.]
The exemption granted by this Act shall be administered and granted in the same manner as the general law exemption; and, unless otherwise expressly provided in this Act, all provisions of general law which apply to the general law exemption shall apply to the exemption granted by this Act.
Sec. 9. - [Voting procedure.]
Not less than 30 nor more than 90 days prior to the date of the August, 1986, primary, it shall be the duty of the election superintendent of Washington County to issue the call for an election for the purpose of submitting this Act to the electors of Washington County for approval or rejection. The superintendent shall set the date of such election for the date of the August, 1986, primary. The superintendent shall cause the date and purpose of the election to be published once a week for two weeks immediately preceding the date thereof in the official organ of Washington County. The ballot shall have written or printed thereon the following:
EXPAND
( ) YES
( ) NO
  Shall the Act providing a $10,000.00 homestead exemption for certain property from Washington County ad valorem taxes for certain residents of that county who have certain annual incomes not exceeding $10,000.00 and who are 65 years of age or over be approved?
All persons desiring to vote for approval of the Act shall vote "Yes," and those persons desiring to vote for rejection of the Act shall vote "No." If more than one-half of the votes cast on such question are for approval of the Act, Sections 1 through 8 shall become of full force and effect immediately; otherwise they shall be void and of no force and effect.
The expense of such election shall be borne by Washington County. It shall be the duty of the superintendent to hold and conduct such election. It shall be the superintendent's further duty to certify the result thereof to the Secretary of State.
Sec. 10. - [Repeal of conflicting laws.]
All laws and parts of laws in conflict with this Act are repealed.
