Chapter 14 - BUILDINGS AND BUILDING REGULATIONS[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Charter reference— Urban redevelopment law, § 46; authority to regulate building construction and establish fire districts, § 59; issuance of building permits, § 60.
Cross reference— Environment, ch. 26; fire prevention and protection, ch. 30; floods, ch. 34; health and sanitation, ch. 38; historical preservation, ch. 42; planning, ch. 54; signs, ch. 58; solid waste, ch. 62; streets, sidewalks and other public places, ch. 66; property numbering, § 66-36 et seq.; subdivisions, ch. 70; utilities, ch. 82; vegetation, ch. 86; zoning, ch. 90.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Secs. 14-1—14-30. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - ADMINISTRATION[2]

Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
Cross reference— Administration, ch. 2.

Sec. 14-31. - Building official—Head of department; enforcement authority.
There is established a department to be called the building department which shall be in the charge of a building official. The building official shall enforce the provisions of the building, electrical, plumbing, mechanical, gas, housing, and such other construction codes as may be adopted; the provisions of chapter 70 of this Code pertaining to subdivisions and chapter 90 of this Code pertaining to zoning; and related ordinances. The building official shall assume such titles as are used in the several codes and chapters and ordinances to designate the enforcing officer.
(Code 1989, § 5-1)
Cross reference— Officers and employees, § 2-36 et seq.
Sec. 14-32. - Same—Duties.
The building official shall enforce the provisions of the several codes and chapters and ordinances pertaining to buildings and structures and their appurtenances. The building official or such official's duly authorized representative may enter any building, structure or premises at reasonable times to perform any duty imposed on such official by such codes and chapters and ordinances. The building official shall have the authority to issue and enforce, subject to the provisions as set forth fully in the codes and chapters and ordinances pertaining to buildings and structures, orders to stop work, to revoke permits, to abate unsafe conditions, to vacate hazardous premises, and to effect all requirements as set forth in such codes and chapters and ordinances.
(Code 1989, § 5-2)
Secs. 14-33—14-60. - Reserved.
ARTICLE III. - TECHNICAL CODES

Sec. 14-61. - Adopted.
(a)
The latest edition of the following codes, as adopted and amended by the state department of community affairs, shall be enforced by the city:
(1)
International Building Code, published by the International Code Council, Inc.
(2)
International Mechanical Code, published by the International Code Council, Inc.
(3)
International Fuel Gas Code, published by the International Code Council, Inc.
(4)
International Plumbing Code, published by the International Code Council, Inc.
(5)
National Electrical Code, published by the National Fire Protection Association.
(6)
International Fire Code, published by the International Code Council, Inc.
(7)
International Residential Code, published by the International Code Council Inc., omitting the plumbing and electrical requirements of this code, using the plumbing requirements of the International Plumbing Code and the electrical requirements of the National Electrical Code.
(8)
International Energy Conservation Code, published by the International Code Council, Inc.
(9)
National Green Building Standards Code.
(10)
International Property Maintenance Code, published by the International Code Council, Inc.
(11)
NFPA 1124: Code for the Manufacture, Transportation and Storage of Fireworks and Pyrotechnic Articles, published by the National Fire Protection Association.
(b)
If any matter in such codes is contrary to city ordinances, the more stringent shall prevail.
(c)
Within any of such codes, when reference is made to the duties of certain officials named therein, that designated official in the city who has duties corresponding to those of the named official in such code shall be deemed to be the responsible official insofar as enforcing the provisions of such code.
(d)
In addition to the height and area limitation restrictions as per the International Building Code, new building construction or addition to buildings shall be limited in size and construction type so as the needed fire flow, as calculated using the guidelines set forth by the insurance services offices, shall be less than 3,500 gallons per minute. Any such construction plans having a needed fire flow of greater than 3,500 gallons per minute must be altered by improving the construction type, reducing the size, or by installing an automatic fire sprinkler system meeting the National Fire Protection Association Standard No. 13 for business and National Fire Protection Association Standard No. 13D or 13R for residential application.
(e)
The following appendixes of the code listed in subsection (a) of this section, as adopted and amended by the state department of community affairs, are adopted by reference as though they were copied fully in this section:
(1)
International Mechanical Code Appendix; Appendix B, Permit Fee Schedule.
(2)
International Plumbing Code Appendixes:
a.
Appendix A, Permit Fees.
b.
Appendix E, Sizing of Water Piping System.
(3)
International Fire Code Appendix.
(4)
National Electrical Code Appendix.
(5)
International Residential Code for One and Two Family Dwellings, Appendix.
(6)
International Residential Code Appendix R Disaster Resilient Construction.
(7)
International Building Code Appendix N Disaster Resilient Construction.
(f)
The following codes, the latest edition as adopted and amended by the state department of community affairs, are adopted by reference as though they were copied fully in this section:
(1)
Standard Excavation and Grading Code, published by the Southern Building Code Congress International, Inc., including Chapter 1, Administration.
(2)
Standard Unsafe Building Abatement Code, published by the Southern Building Code Congress International, Inc., including Chapter 1, Administration.
(3)
Standard Housing Code, published by the Southern Building Code Congress International, Inc., including Chapter 1, Administrative and Appendix.*
(4)
International Swimming Pool and Spa Code, published by the International Code Council, Inc.
(5)
International Existing Building Code, published by the International Code Council, Inc.
(6)
Standard Amusement Device Code, published by the Southern Building Code Congress International, Inc., including Chapter 1, Administrative and Appendix.*
*Appendixes if they are to be enforced are to be listed.
(g)
The procedures set out in chapter 1, Administration, as amended in "Attachment A," which is kept on file at the city clerk's office and referred to in this section by reference, shall be the procedures that govern the administration and enforcement process for the building code, gas code, mechanical code, plumbing code, fire prevention code and one and two family dwelling code adopted in this section.
(Code 1989, § 5-3; Ord. of 1-9-2006; Ord. of 12-11-2006; Ord. of 12-13-2010; Ord. of 12-10-2012; Ord. of 12-9-2013; Ord. of 12-8-2014; Ord. of 5-14-2018)
State Law reference— State minimum standards codes, O.C.G.A. § 8-2-21 et seq.; state energy code, O.C.G.A. § 8-2-22.
