ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 2-1. - Administrative policy and procedures.
(a)
Officers. Each officer shall perform all duties required of such person's office by state law, the Charter, and this Code, and such other duties not in conflict therewith as may be required by the mayor.
(b)
Department heads. All department heads shall:
(1)
Be immediately responsible to the mayor for the effective administration of such department heads' respective departments and all activities assigned thereto;
(2)
Keep informed as to the latest practices in such department heads' particular fields and inaugurate, with the approval of the mayor, such new practices as appear to be of benefit to the service and to the public;
(3)
Submit quarterly and annual reports of the activities of such department heads' respective departments to the mayor and at such other times as requested;
(4)
Establish and maintain a system of filing and indexing records and reports in sufficient detail to furnish all information necessary for proper control of departmental activities and to form a basis for the periodic reports to the mayor;
(5)
Have power, when authorized by the mayor, to appoint and remove, subject to personnel regulations, all subordinates under such department heads; and
(6)
Be responsible for the proper maintenance of all city property and equipment used in such department heads' respective departments.
(c)
Departments. Each department shall cooperate with every other department and shall furnish, upon the direction of the mayor, any other department such service, labor, and materials as may be requisitioned by the head of each department, as its own facilities permit.
(d)
Records. All municipal records, except those which by order of a state court or by law are prohibited from being open to public inspection, shall be open for personal inspection by any citizen of the state during the hours of operation of the administrative service prescribed in subsection (e) of this section.
(e)
Hours of operation. The hours of operation for all units of the municipality shall be established by resolution and posted in the city hall.
(Code 1982, § 3-103; Code 1994, § 2-2)
State Law reference— Inspection of public records, O.C.G.A. § 50-18-70 et seq.
Sec. 2-2. - Organization.
The administrative services of the city shall be divided into the following departments and heads thereof:
Table 2-1. City Department Heads
EXPAND
Public works department Public works supervisor
Municipal court Municipal court clerk
Code compliance department Code compliance officer
Police department Chief of police
Administration department City manager
Parks department Superintendent of parks
  (Code 1982, § 3-504; Code 1994, § 2-3)
Sec. 2-3. - Administrative and service departments; employee reviews.
(a)
The city council shall prescribe the functions or duties, and establish, alter, consolidate or leave vacant all non-elective offices, positions of employment, departments, and agencies.
(b)
Directors of departments and other appointed officers and employees shall, with the general oversight of the city council, be appointed by the manager, and solely on the basis of such department directors' qualifications.
(c)
All officers, directors and employees shall receive compensation per ordinance or resolution.
(d)
There shall be a director of each department or agency who shall be its principal officer. Each director shall, subject to the day-to-day management, control, direction and supervision of the manager with the general oversight of city council, be responsible for administration and operations of that director's department or agency.
(e)
All appointive non-elected officers, and directors and employees, shall be employees at will and subject to removal or suspension at any time by the manager as provided in this section.
(f)
All appointive officers, directors and employees shall have consistent performance reviews by the manager in line with the position classification and pay plan. Salary changes should reflect performance, not just tenure.
(Ord. of 12-18-2019(2))
Secs. 2-4—2-22. - Reserved.
