Chapter 6 - ANIMALS[1]

Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
State Law reference— Livestock running at large or straying, O.C.G.A. § 4-3-1 et seq.; permitting dogs in heat to roam or run free, O.C.G.A. § 4-8-6; Responsible Dog Ownership Law, O.C.G.A. § 4-8-20 et seq.; Georgia Animal Protection Act, O.C.G.A. § 4-11-1 et seq.; control of rabies, O.C.G.A. § 31-19-1 et seq.; cruelty to animals, O.C.G.A. § 16-12-4; liability of owner or keeper of dog for injuries to livestock caused by dog, O.C.G.A. § 51-2-6.

Sec. 6-1. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Animal means any and all types of animals both domesticated and wild, male and female, singular and plural.
Animal control officer means an individual selected by the local governing authority pursuant to the provisions of O.C.G.A. § 4-8-22 to aid in the administration and enforcement of the provisions of this chapter.
Animal establishment means any pet shop, grooming shop, animal auction, kennel, performing animal exhibition, or animal shelter, except the term "animal establishment" shall not include veterinary medical facilities, licensed research facilities, facilities operated by government agencies, or licensed animal dealers regulated by the USDA under the provisions of P.L. 89-544 and 91-579.
Animal shelter means a facility designated or recognized by the governing authority for the purpose of impounding or caring for animals.
At large means off the premises of the owner or custodian of the animal or fowl, and not under the immediate control of the owner or custodian.
Board means the animal control board.
Dog control officer. See Animal control officer.
Fowl means any and all fowl, domesticated and wild, male and female, singular and plural.
Governing authority means the county board of commissioners and/or the city council, as the context requires or permits.
Humane manner means care of an animal to include, but not limited to, adequate heat, ventilation and sanitary shelter, wholesome food and water, consistent with the normal requirements and feeding habits of the animal's size, species, and breed.
Kennel means an establishment kept for the purpose of breeding, selling, or boarding dogs or cats or engaging in training of dogs or cats.
Licensing authority means the city or county agency or designated representative thereof charged with administering the issuance and/or revocation of permits and licenses under the provisions of this chapter.
Neutered means rendered permanently incapable of reproduction.
Nuisance. A dog or cat shall be considered a nuisance if it:
(1)
Damages, soils, or defecates on private property other than the owner's or on public walks and recreation areas unless such waste is immediately removed and properly disposed of by the owner;
(2)
Causes a disturbance by excessive barking or other noisemaking;
(3)
Chases vehicles or molests, attacks, or interferes with persons or other domestic animals on public or private property.
Owner means any natural person or any legal entity, including, but not limited to, a corporation, a partnership, firm, or trust owning, possessing, harboring, keeping, or having custody or control of a dangerous dog or potentially dangerous dog within this city, or who knowingly permits a dog or other animal to be harbored or kept, or has a dog or other animal in such person's care, or who permits a dog to remain on or about the premises.
(Code 1994, § 6-1)
Sec. 6-2. - Penalties for violation.
(a)
Any person violating section 6-5 shall be subject to the imposition of a fine not to exceed $50.00. Each day a violation continues shall constitute a separate offense.
(b)
Any person violating section 6-6 shall be subject to the imposition of a fine not to exceed $100.00. Each day a violation continues shall constitute a separate offense.
(c)
Penalties provided for in this section are in addition to those provided for under state law.
(Code 1994, § 6-3)
Sec. 6-3. - Animal control officer; appointment.
The city council shall appoint or contract for the services an animal control officer who shall serve as the dog control officer. The animal control officer shall serve at the pleasure of the city council. The animal control officer's compensation shall be established from time to time by the city council.
(Code 1994, § 6-5)
Sec. 6-4. - Rabies vaccinations required.
(a)
No person shall own, keep or harbor any dog or cat over four months of age within the city unless such dog or cat is vaccinated for rabies.
(b)
All dogs and cats shall be vaccinated for rabies by a licensed veterinarian.
(c)
A certificate of vaccination for rabies shall be issued to the owner of each animal vaccinated, along with a vaccination tag indicating the year in which it was issued.
(d)
The rabies tag shall be secured to a collar on the animal in a manner that it cannot be easily removed or lost by the animal.
(Code 1994, § 6-6)
State Law reference— Control of rabies, O.C.G.A. § 31-19-1 et seq.
Sec. 6-5. - Animals and fowl not to be permitted at large to cause injury or annoyance.
A person owning or having animals or fowl in such person's custody and control shall at all times control such animal so as to prevent animals or fowl to go at large to the injury or annoyance of others. Failure to do so shall constitute the action of the animal or fowl to be a nuisance and dangerous to the public health and safety.
(Code 1994, § 6-7)
Sec. 6-6. - Property owner or injured party may impound.
Any person finding any animal or fowl upon such person's property to the injury or annoyance of such person may take up such animal or fowl and remove it to any private or other animal shelter that will take possession of it. If no such shelter is available, such person may hold the animal or fowl in such person's own possession, and as soon as possible notify the animal control officer of this custody, giving a description of the animal or fowl and the name of the owner, if known.
(Code 1994, § 6-8)
Sec. 6-7. - Animal control officer authorization to impound.
The animal control officer shall be authorized but not required to impound animals or fowl not on the owner's or custodian's property. The animal control officer can, in lieu of impoundment, issue a citation for violations of this chapter.
(Code 1994, § 6-9)
Sec. 6-8. - Owner liable for costs of impoundment.
The owner of an animal impounded under the authority of this chapter shall be liable for the cost of maintenance of the animal during such impoundment. The currently required costs shall be payable upon redemption of the animal.
(Code 1994, § 6-10)
Sec. 6-9. - Disposition of unredeemed animals.
Any animal or fowl not redeemed within 72 hours after the owner is notified may be disposed of by euthanasia or adoption. The owner of the hospital or shelter is made an agent of the city for this purpose, and such agent's actions in this regard are declared to be for a governmental purpose.
(Code 1994, § 6-11)
