DIVISION 7. - CLASSIFICATION PLAN

Sec. 2-453. - Definition.
The classification plan is a grouping of positions into classes on the basis of duties performed, level of responsibility and qualifications required, and includes guidelines for administering the plan.
(1)
Position, commonly referred to as a job, is a group of currently assigned duties or tasks requiring the full-time or part-time employment of one person. A position exists separate from the individual and may be filled or vacant.
(2)
Class is one or more positions sufficiently similar in duties and responsibilities to be given the same title, education and experience requirements, selection and promotional tests, and salary range.
(3)
Title is the designation or name for all positions in a class.
(4)
Series is two or more classes which are similar in nature of the work performed but differ in level of responsibility and degree of difficulty (example: clerk 1, 2, and 3).
(Ord. of 3-6-2020, ch. 7(A))
Sec. 2-454. - Administration and maintenance of the classification plan.
Human resources, with council, are responsible for administration and maintenance of the classification plan.
(1)
When a new class is to be established, human resources and the appropriate supervisor shall complete a position description covering the duties and responsibilities for all positions in the class. Human resources shall submit the proposed position classification to the council for incorporation into the classification plan.
(2)
Position descriptions are descriptive, not restrictive. Use of a particular description of duties, qualifications or other function shall not exclude others of a similar kind or quality.
(3)
If there is reason to believe that there has been a substantial change in the duties and responsibilities of a position, human resources shall review the position description and recommend any appropriate changes to the council.
(Ord. of 3-6-2020, ch. 7(B))
Sec. 2-455. - Classification appeals.
An employee who considers the employee's position improperly classified shall submit a reclassification request, in writing, to human resources, who shall review such request. Human resources shall, within 30 days, evaluate the request and submit it to the council recommending that:
(1)
The job is properly classified; or
(2)
The job is to be reclassified at a new pay grade.
The decision of the council shall be rendered within 30 days and shall be final.
(Ord. of 3-6-2020, ch. 7(C))
Sec. 2-456. - Official copy of classification plan.
Human resources shall maintain an official copy of the classification plan. The copy shall include a schematic of class titles and class specifications plus all amendments. A copy of the plan shall be available for inspection by the public as per section 2-395. Not less than every two years, human resources shall conduct a review of the personnel policies and classification plan.
(Ord. of 3-6-2020, ch. 7(D))
Secs. 2-457—2-475. - Reserved.
