DIVISION 10. - ATTENDANCE AND LEAVE

Sec. 2-531. - Normal hours of operation; attendance and punctuality.
(a)
The normal hours of operation of administration are 8:30 a.m. to 4:30 p.m. Monday through Friday. The normal hours of operation of street department are 7:00 a.m. to 4:00 p.m., Monday through Friday. Each department director shall schedule their full-time personnel for a 30-hour to 40-hour work week (exceptions: law enforcement/public safety).
(b)
Law enforcement/public safety exception. Law enforcement/public safety employees shall work seven 12-hour shifts (84 hours) per standard two-week pay period for 26 pay periods per year, 2,184 annual hours.
(c)
Meal time. Employees will be provided 60 unpaid minutes for a meal between 11:00 a.m. and 2:00 p.m. Approving the scheduling of this time is by the clerk and department director.
(d)
We serve as a team and this requires each person be in the right place at the right time. If employees are going to be late or absent, notify the department director and clerk as far in advance as is feasible, before the start of your work day. Personal issues requiring time away, such as doctor appointments, should be during nonworking hours if possible. If employees are absent three days without notice, they have voluntarily abandoned their position, and will be removed.
(Ord. of 3-6-2020, ch. 10(A))
Sec. 2-532. - Holidays.
(a)
The following are official holidays for city employees, unless required to be on regular duty:
New Year's Day (January 1).
M. L. King's Birthday (Third Monday in January).
Memorial Day (Last Monday in May).
Independence Day (July 4).
Labor Day (First Monday in September).
Thanksgiving Day (Fourth Thursday in November).
Day after Thanksgiving (Fourth Friday in November).
Christmas Eve (December 24).
Christmas Day (December 25).
(b)
Other holidays, such as religious holidays, may be declared by the council. When a holiday falls on a Saturday, the preceding Friday shall be a substitute holiday and observed as the official holiday. When the holiday falls on a Sunday, the following Monday shall be the official holiday. In unusual instances, exceptions may be granted by council. An employee not on approved leave who fails to report on scheduled work day before or after a holiday shall not be paid for the holiday. Holidays during personal leave shall not be charged against personal leave. Regular employees (full- and part-time) shall be paid for holidays based on number of hours they normally work day. Temporary employees will not be paid for holidays not worked.
(c)
A police officer or other employee who is required to work on a designated holiday may either:
(1)
Receive a day off at a later date agreed upon by the employee's supervisor; or
(2)
Be paid for the holiday worked at a rate 1½ times regular pay.
(Ord. of 3-6-2020, ch. 10(B))
Sec. 2-533. - Personal leave.
(a)
Definition. Paid leave earned and used for vacations, personal business activities, illness, death and other personal activities requiring the employee to be absent.
(b)
Eligibility. All full- and part-time employees shall be entitled to earn and accrue personal leave. An employee must complete six months of continuous service before eligible for accrued personal paid leave, although the council has the discretion to waive this requirement for department director positions and/or appointed employees. Personal leave accrual will be retroactive to the individual's employment date. Part-time employees shall earn leave determined by number of hours worked on a regular basis, calculated as below. Temporary/seasonal employees are not eligible for accrual of leave.
(c)
Approval. All leave requests shall be submitted to human resources on the form designated by human resources and after written approval of the employee's supervisor. Personal leave will be scheduled by a supervisor to meet the requirements of the city with reasonable regard to wishes of the employee. An employee absent from work because of illness, is responsible for reporting to the appropriate supervisor, by telephone or personal message, at least one hour before shift begins. If personal leave is requested and denied, should such person call in sick or not show up for work-the employee shall provide a written doctor's note before returning to work. A person requesting personal leave for reasons other than illness, emergency, or death shall request leave five business days in advance.
(d)
Accumulation rate. Accrual of personal leave begins immediately upon employment; however, a full time employee must complete six months of continuous service before eligible for personal leave, although the council has the discretion to waive this requirement for department director positions and/or appointed employees. An employee in pay status for 15 calendar days or more during a calendar month earns personal leave for that month. Personal leave for full-time employees is accrued on the following schedule:
EXPAND
Years of Service Days Accrued Annually
0—1 1 day per month (12 days = 96 hours maximum)
1+ 2 days per month (24 days =192 hours maximum)
  (Examples: All full-time employees will earn one day (eight hours)/month for the first year of employment and two days (16 hours) per month for each year of service after. Part-time employees working a 20- to 24-hour week will earn four hours per month for the first year of employment and eight hours per month for each year of service after that. Part-time employees working over 24 hours but less than 30 hours per week will earn six hours per month for the first year of employment and 12 hours per month for each year of service after that.) The council has the discretion to assign personal leave for department director positions and/or appointed employees regardless of years of service.
(e)
Maximum accumulation. Personal leave may be accrued up to 45 days/360 hours. Personal leave must be earned before it is used. Anticipated leave may not be taken under this plan.
(f)
Payment for unused personal leave. Personal leave in excess of 45 days/360 hours on or after December 15 of each year will be paid to the employee by December 31 of each year. A full-time, salaried or part-time employee who leaves service in good standing shall be paid for unused personal leave. The accrued personal leave of an employee, who dies in the service of the city, shall be paid to the living spouse or estate of said employee.
(Ord. of 3-6-2020, ch. 10(C))
Sec. 2-534. - Maternity leave.
Unpaid maternity leave will be granted up to a maximum of 90 days by the department director as applied for by a city employee. Personal leave and leave without pay may be taken for maternity leave.
(Ord. of 3-6-2020, ch. 10(D))
Sec. 2-535. - Military leave.
Any employee who leaves the city to join the military forces of the U.S., or is inducted by selective service may, upon written request, and with the approval of human resources, prior to the employee's induction, be placed on military leave without pay, such leave to extend through a 90-day period after the employee is released from the military. Such employee shall be entitled to be restored to the vacated position, if the employee makes application within 90 days of honorable discharge, or discharge under honorable conditions, and if mentally and physically capable of performing the required work. An employee who is a member of the National Guard or an organized military reserve unit of the U.S. which is called to active duty or which requires its members to train yearly, will be allowed leave of absence with pay not to exceed 18 days during any calendar year to satisfy that obligation. If the National Guard or organized military reserve unit remains on active duty beyond 18 days and the employee's services are required, the employee may be placed on military leave without pay for the duration of the active duty.
(Ord. of 3-6-2020, ch. 10(E))
Sec. 2-536. - Court leave.
An employee subpoenaed as a witness or is called to serve on a jury will be granted time off with pay for that time of actual service. Should the employee have to serve in another jurisdiction and proceedings are dismissed after 3:00 p.m., the employee will not be expected to return to work. If the employee has to serve in Oconee County Courthouse or county boundaries, the employee will be expected to return to work. Employees must present proof of all subpoenaed court appearances to their supervisor prior to the scheduled appearance. Disclaimer: This doesn't apply to lawfully sworn police officers who are in the lawful discharge of their duty.
(Ord. of 3-6-2020, ch. 10(F))
Sec. 2-537. - Leave without pay.
A full-time employee (hourly or salaried) who has at least one year of continuous service with the city may, in the discretion of council, be granted leave without pay not to exceed one year for sickness, disability, education, maternity, military service, or other reasons deemed sufficient by council. Such leave may be extended for more than one year if such a request receives the written approval of council, and is deemed in the best interest of the city. Employees shall not accrue additional personal leave while on a leave of absence; however, health, life and disability benefits may be continued. An employee returning from leave of absence without pay shall be entitled to employment in the same department in the same or equivalent class/grade wherein the employee worked when the leave commenced, only if such position is available. If the same position is not available, the employee may apply for other job vacancies that are open with the city. The needs of the city will be the controlling factor in all considerations relating to approval or disapproval of leave without pay.
(Ord. of 3-6-2020, ch. 10(G))
Sec. 2-538. - Family and Medical Leave (FMLA).
An eligible employee may take up to 12 weeks of unpaid leave during the 12-month calendar year under the Family and Medical Leave Act of 1993 when any of the following events occur: the birth or adoption of a child, or placement of a foster child with the employee; the serious health condition of a child, spouse or parent of the employee; a serious health condition of the employee that prevents the employee from performing the functions of the employee's position.
(1)
Definitions. The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this section, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this subsection, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Child means a biological, legally adopted, foster, legal ward or stepchild. Additionally, the term "child" shall include any person under 18 years of age to whom the employee stands in "loco parentis" or a person 18 years of age or older who is incapable of self-care because of a mental or physical disability to whom the employee stands in "loco parentis."
Eligible employee means one who has worked for the city for at least one year and worked 1,250 hours (minimum required by FMLA) over the previous 12 months.
Parent includes only a biological parent or an individual who stands "in loco parentis" to the employee.
Serious health condition of an employee, child, spouse or parent of the employee means an illness, injury, impairment or physical or mental condition that involves inpatient care or continuing medical treatment.
Spouse means a husband or wife.
(2)
Certification. A medical certificate supporting a request for FMLA leave and signed by a licensed physician will be required by human resources. Employees who have used FMLA for their own serious illness may be referred for a second opinion by a health care provider designated or approved and paid for by the city. Failure to provide required certification may result in the FMLA leave not being approved, or result in the approval of the leave being delayed.
(3)
Continuation of benefits. The employee's health, life and other city provided benefits will continue during the leave, not to exceed 12 weeks, under the same conditions applicable to active employees. If the employee fails to return to work after the leave, the employee must reimburse the city for the premiums paid in the employee's behalf during this absence unless return to work is prevented by continued serious health condition of the employee or family member.
(4)
Return to work. Upon expiration of leave, the employee will be returned to the original position if available, or equivalent position with equivalent benefits, pay, and terms and conditions of employment as were in force at the time leave commenced. If the employee is unable to return to work and does not qualify for additional leave under this section, the employee may be terminated. Employees who have used FMLA for their own serious health condition may be required to submit a "fitness-for-duty" report before they can return to work.
(5)
Relationship to other leave. An employee is required to apply other accrued paid leave (personal leave, comp time, holiday) toward the 12 weeks of family leave. Following exhaustion of paid leave, the employee will be placed on an unpaid leave for the remainder of the 12 weeks.
(6)
Application for FMLA. An employee shall request FMLA leave by notifying the employee's department director and human resources. An employee shall request leave at least 30 days before a leave is to begin. If a 30-day notice is not possible, then as much prior notice as is practicable must be provided. Written notice of FMLA request will be provided by human resources to the employee.
(Ord. of 3-6-2020, ch. 10(H))
Sec. 2-539. - Worker's compensation.
(a)
Employees are covered under the Worker's Compensation Act of Georgia. If an employee is injured on the job, such must be reported to the supervisor immediately. Per law, failure to report timely could jeopardize your claim. The supervisor must report the injury to human resources on the day of the occurrence. A supervisor accident/incident investigation report must be turned in to human resources as soon as possible. The employee shall be drug tested, as the city is a drug-free workplace.
(b)
The city will seek return to work opportunities through the use of transitional employment for employees who are temporarily disabled due to an on-the-job injury as quickly as medically possible. Transitional employment opportunities will be considered in all departments, not just the department in which the injured employee was working before the injury or illness occurred.
(c)
If an employee injured on the job is unable to perform any work and this is substantiated by a doctor's report, the employee may draw worker's comp, up to the limit stipulated by law, starting on the eighth day of disability. The city will pay the full salary for any loss time during the first 40 hours of a worker's comp disability, then worker's comp benefits will begin on the eighth day of disability. An employee may use any accumulated leave to cover the time between the first 40 hours and the eighth day of disability. An employee may also opt to receive only the worker's comp authorized by law, which most often will be monetarily less than an individual's normal salary. In any case, no employee may be drawing full pay (provided by the city of accumulated leave) and worker's comp at the same time.
(Ord. of 3-6-2020, ch. 10(I))
Sec. 2-540. - Voting/elections.
Every employee should have the opportunity to vote. Any employee whose service schedule does not provide four consecutive hours to vote while polls are open will be granted up to two paid hours off to vote. We select the hours employees are excused to vote. Exempt employees may be provided additional time off with pay to comply with wage and hour laws. Notify the clerk of voting leave two to ten days before the election. Present voter's receipt to clerk.
(Ord. of 3-6-2020, ch. 10(J))
Sec. 2-541. - Volunteer emergency responders leave.
During an emergency following a declaration of emergency under law, upon receipt of written documentation from the head of a fire department or volunteer ambulance service documenting your status as a volunteer firefighter or member of a volunteer ambulance service, the city will grant "volunteer emergency responder" paid leave while engaged in actual performance of duties as a volunteer firefighter or an enrolled member of a volunteer ambulance service, unless the city determines absence would impose an undue hardship on the city. Provide a notarized statement from the head of the department/service certifying time you responded to emergency.
(Ord. of 3-6-2020, ch. 10(K))
Sec. 2-542. - Bereavement leave.
Full-time employees who have completed 12 months of employment are eligible for one paid day for the death of a spouse, domestic partner, parent, sibling, child, grandchild, grandparent, parent-in-law; and immediate family member of spouse. Exempt employees may be provided paid time off to comply with wage and hour laws. Requests should be made to the clerk as soon as possible. Provide verification of family relationship and attendance at funeral.
(Ord. of 3-6-2020, ch. 10(L))
Sec. 2-543. - Victims of crime leave.
The city will grant reasonable and necessary leave without pay if employees are victim of a crime, to attend or participate in legal proceedings. Give the city reasonable notice of leave. Exempt employees may be provided time off with pay to comply with wage and hour laws.
(Ord. of 3-6-2020, ch. 10(M))
Secs. 2-544—2-562. - Reserved.
