Sec. 15. - (Restatement) Election of mayor; powers and duties.
(a)
Notwithstanding any other provision of this Charter or amendatory acts thereto, there shall be a mayor of the City of Waycross elected by the qualified electors of the city at large, by a plurality of the votes cast, as provided in this section.
(b)
The election superintendent of the City of Waycross shall call and conduct as provided by law a special election for mayor to be held in conjunction with the November 1988 general election. The person elected shall take office upon certification of the results of the election for a term to expire on December 31, 1991, and until a successor is elected and qualified. Thereafter, the mayor shall be elected by plurality vote at the city election next preceding the expiration of a term of office and shall take office on January 1 following the election for a term of four years and until a successor is elected and qualified.
(c)
Qualifications.
(1)
The qualifications for the office of mayor shall be the same as for members of the commission, provided that the mayor must be a resident of the City of Waycross and provided that no person shall be eligible to succeed himself or herself in the office of mayor more than once.
(2)
All persons residing in the city who are qualified and registered to vote for members of the commission shall be eligible to vote for the mayor.
(d)
The mayor shall be the official head of the city government and chief representative of the city, and it shall be the mayor's duty:
(1)
To preside at meetings of the commission, and he shall have all the rights, powers, and duties and responsibilities as a commission member except that the mayor shall be entitled to vote on matters before the mayor and commission only where there is an equal division on the question, and then the mayor shall determine the matter by his vote. The mayor shall also be entitled to vote on the election of the following officers and employees of the commission: mayor pro tempore, city manager, city attorney, and judge of municipal court;
(2)
As provided by law or by action of the commission, to sign contracts on behalf of the city in the absence of the city manager;
(3)
To keep informed about the financial and other affairs of the city and, from time to time, to present information about the affairs of the city and to recommend such measures as deemed best for the city, including statements and reports to the citizens concerning the affairs of the city;
(4)
To serve as a member of boards, commissions, and committees required by law or by action of the commission;
(5)
To be recognized as the official head of the city by the courts for the purpose of serving civil process, by the governor for the purpose of military law, and for all ceremonial purposes. In time of danger or emergency, the mayor may, with the consent of the commission, take command of the police and govern the city by proclamation and maintain order and enforce laws; and
(6)
To perform such other duties consistent with this Charter and as may be required by the commission.
(e)
Effect on quorum; vacancy; mayor pro tempore; salary.
(1)
The presence of the mayor at a meeting of the commission shall not be utilized in determining a quorum.
(2)
A vacancy in the office of mayor shall be filled as a vacancy in the office of a member of the commission except that an election to fill a vacancy in the office of mayor shall be by plurality vote.
(3)
In the absence of the mayor, the members of the commission shall designate one of their number to act as mayor pro tempore. Such member shall possess the authority of the mayor during the absence of mayor.
(4)
The salary of the mayor shall be as provided in section 13 of this Charter. Such salary shall not be decreased during a term of office.
(f)
Unless enumerated in this section or otherwise in this Charter, the mayor shall have no other administrative or judicial powers. The mayor shall not possess the veto power over acts of the commission.
(1988 Ga. Laws (Act No. 982), p. 4178, ยง 1; 2015 Ga. Laws (Act No. 129), HB 254, ยง 1)
