Sec. 28. - (Restatement) Municipal departments.
The business affairs of the City of Waycross and the administration of the same are hereby divided into the following departments:
(a)
Police department, which shall have control of the patrolmen, policemen, watchmen and other officers and employees constituting the police force of the city.
(b)
Fire department, which shall have control of the firemen and other officers, and employees constituting the fire force of the city.
(c)
Department of public works, which shall have control of the streets, lanes, culverts, bridges, trash and sanitary carts, and the public property of the city, and of all public works, and of the officers and employees engaged and employed in said department.
(d)
Waterworks department, which shall have charge of the waterworks of the said city, and of the water mains, sewers and drains and other property in connection therewith, and of the officers and employees engaged and employed by said department.
(e)
Health department, which shall have control of the sanitary inspection of the city, isolation and quarantine matters, abatement and suppression of nuisance, inspection of meats and slaughter pens, butter shops, dairies, dairy products, foods, food stuffs, fruits, vegetables, etc., as well as stores, shops and other places where foods, meats, provisions, etc., are stored, and also of other sanitary matters and vital statistics, as well as of the officers and employees engaged and employed in said department.
(f)
Department of finance, which shall include the office of city clerk and which shall have control of the keeping and supervision of the books, records and accounts of the city, the preparation and keeping of the tax digest of the city, and the collection of taxes and other monies due the city, the issuing of license and the collection of license fees, the collection of assessments and other financial matters and affairs of the city and also of the officers and employees engaged and employed in said departments.
(1966 Ga. Laws (Act No. 242), p. 2759, ยง 2)
