Sec. 321. - (Restatement) Sanitary sewer system.
(First) The mayor and commission of the City of Waycross are authorized and empowered to construct along any of the streets of said city, and over any private property, a sewer system to be known as a sanitary sewer system, and this authority may be exercised at different times and in different sections of said city, in streets where sewers are now laid or in new streets, in the manner and to the extent deemed best by said mayor and commission. In all cases where a sewer is laid along any street, an amount equivalent to the actual cost of laying such sewer of a sufficient size to meet the needs of the property abutting on such street shall be assessed pro rata upon the real estate abutting on each side of such street; and in consideration of the payment of such assessment, the owners of such real estate shall have the right to connect their property with said sewer. The remaining cost of such sewers shall be paid by the city out of any funds available for the purpose.
(Second) Said mayor and commission shall also have authority to assess against abutting property the cost of extending house connections to the property line at the time such sewers are laid. The cost of such connections shall be added to the cost of the construction of the sewers, and the total cost shall be assessed against such abutting property. In case any sewer is constructed through or over any private property along the course of any natural drain or otherwise, a like assessment shall be made against such property abutting on each side of such sewer, and in consideration of the payment of such assessments the owners of such property on each side of such sewer shall have the right to connect their property with the sewer. Real estate situated on street corners having a frontage on two streets, shall be assessed for the frontage on the street on which a sewer is first laid and when a sewer is laid on the other street, 75 feet of frontage shall be exempt from assessment.
(Third) The mayor and commission are authorized to levy and construct sewers for said city of whatever form or material in their judgment may be proper, without the limits of the City of Waycross, to as full an extent as is now authorized within the limits of the city, to construct and operate plants, means and methods for the disposal of sewage without the City of Waycross, as well as within the limits of said city, and to condemn lands and interests in real estate for the construction of sewers, plants, means and methods, for the disposal of sewage without the limits of the city, in whatever direction and to whatever extent they may deem necessary and proper.
(Fourth) The mayor and commission shall have authority to regulate and control the time and manner in which sewer connection shall be made, the terms and conditions upon which, and the persons by whom the work shall be done, the replacing of paving and other adjacent structures in good condition, the inspection of sewer connections and plumbing, the licensing of competent persons as plumbers, and all other matters relating to sewers, sewer connections and plumbing, and to require compliance by individuals with the regulations thus adopted.
(Fifth) All provisions of the act of August 22, 1905, and the new Charter of the City of Waycross, approved August 17, 1909, and acts amendatory thereof, and other laws relating to assessments for street improvements, regulating the manner and time of making such assessments and the collection thereof in cash or installments, and the issuance and levy of executions therefor and the issuance of notes payable therefrom, shall be applicable to assessments for sewer construction provided for in this statement.
(1913 Ga. Laws (Act No. 118), p. 1218, ยง 1)
