Sec. 71. - (Restatement) Recall procedure.
Any or all members of the city commission may be removed from office by the qualified voters by the following procedure:
(a)
A petition for the recall of the commissioner, or commissioners, designated, signed by at least five percent of the qualified voters of the city, as shown by the official registration list filed for the general election last held, and containing a statement in not more than 200 words of the grounds of the recall, shall be filed with the city clerk, who shall forthwith notify the commissioner or commissioners sought to be removed, and he or they within five days after such notice may file with the clerk a defensive statement of not more than 200 words. The clerk shall at once upon the expiration of said five days cause three printed or typewritten copies of such petition, without the signatures, to be made, and to each of them shall attach a printed or typewritten copy of such defensive statement, if one be furnished him in the time provided. He shall cause the copies of such petition to be placed on file in his office, and provide facilities for signing same by voters who may desire to sign. The city clerk shall then immediately cause notice to be published in the newspaper in said city in which the legal advertisements of the city are placed of the placing of such copies of such petition in his office. Such copies of such petition shall remain on file in the office of the city clerk for a period of 30 days, during which time any of them may be signed by a qualified voter. Each signer of such petition shall sign his name thereto in ink or indelible pencil, and shall sign his name in person, and not by agent or attorney, and in the presence of the city clerk, and shall place thereafter his residence by street and number.
(b)
At the expiration of said period of 30 days, the city clerk shall assemble the three copies in his office as one instrument, and shall certify thereon that the signatures appearing on said petitions were signed in person by the voters whose names appear thereon at his office and in his presence. He shall examine the same and ascertain and certify whether the signatures thereon amount to at least 25 percent of the registered voters as shown by the official registration list for the general election last held. If such signatures amount to such percent he shall at once serve notice of the fact upon the commissioner or commissioners designated in the petition and also deliver to the commission a copy of the original petition with his certificate as to the percentage of qualified voters who signed same, and a certificate as to the date of his last mentioned notice to the commissioner or commissioners designated in the petition.
(c)
If the commissioner or commissioners designated in said petition or any of them, file with the city clerk within five days after the last mentioned notice from the city clerk, a written resignation from office, the clerk shall at once notify the commission of that fact, and such resignation shall be irrevocable. In the absence of any such resignation, the commission shall forthwith order and fix a day for holding a recall election for the removal of those not resigning. In the event that the recall petition requires at the same time a recall election for more than two of the commissioners, then such recall election shall be ordered by the city clerk and he shall fix a day for holding such election and shall have and exercise all authority and power relative to holding and conducting such election as would otherwise be possessed by the commission. Any such election shall be held not less than 30 or more than 60 days after the expiration of the period of five days last mentioned, and shall be a special election called for the purpose unless there be some general or special election during said period, when said recall may be voted upon.
(d)
The ballots at such election shall conform to the following requirements, with respect to each person whose removal is sought, the question shall be submitted:
"Shall ___________ (name of person) be removed from the office of City Commissioner by recall?"
Immediately following such question there shall be reprinted on the ballots the two propositions in the order here set forth:
"For the recall of .... (name of person)."
"Against the recall of .... (name of person)."
(e)
In any such election, if a majority of the votes cast on the question of removal of any Commissioner is affirmative, the person whose removal is sought shall thereupon be deemed removed from office upon the announcement of the official return of that election, a special election shall thereupon be called by the commission, if not more than two commissioners are removed and by the city clerk if more than two commissioners are removed, to fill the existing vacancies in the commission. Said election shall be held under the same rules and regulations for the holding of special elections, until such time as the commission shall by proper ordinance provide a method for holding such elections. The candidate or candidates receiving highest number of votes shall be declared elected to fill the existing vacancies. The successful candidates shall fill out the unexpired terms of the commissioners whom they succeed.
(f)
Reserved.
(g)
No proceedings for the recall of all of the city commissioners at the same election shall be defeated in whole or in part by the resignation of any or all of them, but upon the resignation of any or all of them, after a recall petition shall have been filed against the person or persons resigning, an election shall be held to elect the successors to the person who resigned. The recall election shall proceed as to the other commissioners against whom it is directed if all do not resign, and in the event that they are recalled, an election shall be held as hereinbefore provided to select their successors. In all cases where a commissioner is recalled by the method herein provided, or shall resign after a recall petition has been filed against him, his successor shall be elected by the voters of the city, and not by the commission.
(h)
No petition to recall any commissioner shall be filed within three months after he takes office. No person removed by recall, or who resigns after a recall petition is filed against him, shall be eligible to be elected or appointed upon the commission until after the expiration of the term for which he was originally elected, and from which he was removed by recall or resignation after recall petition.
The method of removal herein provided is cumulative of such other methods as will, are, or may be provided by law.
(i)
No person shall falsely impersonate another or purposely write his name or residence falsely in the signing of any petition for recall, or forge any name thereto, or sign any such paper with the knowledge that he is not a qualified voter of the city, qualified at the time of signing to vote, nothing to the contrary thereafter intervening, at the next and ensuing general election for commission. No person shall sign, or knowingly permit to be signed, any petition for recall at any place other than the place hereinbefore designated for the signing of such petitions; nor shall any person employ or pay another, or accept employment or payment, for circulating any recall petition upon the basis of the number of signatures procured thereto. Any person violating any of the provisions of this paragraph of this Act shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, and shall upon conviction therefor be punished as provided in section 1065 of the Criminal Code of the State of Georgia.
(1922 Ga. Laws (Act No. 471), p. 1087, ยง 36)
