ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 2-1. - Corporate seal.
There is hereby adopted for the city a common seal with the following devices thereon, and as described hereafter:
The city seal shall consist of two circles. The top half of the outer circle shall consist of the lettering "Seal of Waycross, Georgia." The bottom half of this outer circle shall consist of the words "Transportation, Agriculture, Industry." The inner circle of this seal shall be divided into three parts with each part having an appropriate design to illustrate the words "Transportation, Agriculture and Industry." The section representing transportation shall consist of a drawing of a train, railroad track and automotive wheel. The section representing agriculture shall consist of a drawing of a tobacco leaf and a pine cone. The section representing industry shall consist of a drawing of several mechanical wheels intermeshed one with another. At the very center of this inner circle, the date 1874 is printed which represents the date of original incorporation of the Town of Waycross. This seal shall be set against a circular sunburst design.
(Code 1977, § 2-1; Ord. of 3-17-1964, § 1)
Sec. 2-2. - Official flower.
The azalea be, and it is hereby, named as the official flower of the city.
(Code 1977, § 2-2; Res. of 3-17-1964)
Sec. 2-3. - Official tree.
The red bud tree be, and it is hereby, named as the official tree of the city.
(Code 1977, § 2-3; Res. of 3-17-1964)
Sec. 2-4. - Resisting, obstructing officers, employees.
It shall be unlawful for any person to resist or obstruct any officer or employee of the city while in the discharge of his official duties.
(Code 1977, § 2-4)
Sec. 2-5. - Fee for returned checks.
Any person, firm or corporation issuing any check in payment of any bill due the city that is dishonored and "returned" by the drawee bank for any reason shall be assessed a penalty fee thereon, such penalty fee to be in such amount as determined by the city commission by resolution from time to time on file in the office of the city clerk.
(Code 1977, § 2-5; Ord. No. 78-8, § 1, 3-21-1978)
Sec. 2-6. - Records management plan.
(a)
Purpose. The city commission hereby ordains, in accordance with O.C.G.A. § 50-18-99, that all records created or received in the performance of a public duty or paid for by public funds by the city are deemed to be public property and shall constitute a record of public acts. Except as otherwise provided by law, ordinance, or policy adopted by the city commission, all records shall be open to the public or the state or any agency thereof.
(b)
Appointment of records management clerk. The city clerk is hereby designated to coordinate and perform the responsibilities of records management. The city clerk shall work with each department to develop and administer a records management program for all records.
(c)
Adoption of statewide records retention schedules. The city commission officially recognizes and adopts the records retention schedules approved by the Georgia Division of Archives and set forth by the Georgia Records Act in O.C.G.A. § 50-18-90 et seq.
(d)
No public records shall be disposed of, destroyed or given away except in accordance with this schedule.
(e)
Records retention schedule. Those local government records retention schedules as promulgated by the University System of Georgia Division of Archives and History of the State of Georgia, as amended from time to time, and found on the following website: https://www.georgiaarchives.org/records/local government/ are hereby approved and adopted as the records retention schedules for the city.
(Ord. No. O18-02 , § 1, 3-6-2018)
Secs. 2-7—2-28. - Reserved.
