Sec. 46. - (Restatement) Municipal bonds.
Be it further enacted, that said city commission be, and it is hereby, authorized and empowered to issue bonds for and in the name of said city for any of the following purposes, to-wit: For building and equipping public school buildings; extending and improving the water works and sewerage and drainage systems of the city, and laying water mains and sewers; paving, macadamizing, repairing, repaving and improving the public streets, highways, and lanes and alleys and crossings of the city; building and installing one or more crematories within or without the city; constructing and installing and improving or extending an electric light and power plant, or a gas plant, either or both, for the purpose of furnishing said city and its inhabitants with light and power; and also a street railway system; and also for providing said city with any other public utility that the city council may consider desirable or expedient; and further, for the purpose of building a city hall, a public auditorium, an armory, and any other public buildings and works and making any other public improvements that may be needed for the city; and for any and all other governmental, municipal and public purposes. Before any bonds of said city shall be issued for any of the foregoing purposes, said city commission shall, by appropriate resolution or ordinance, direct and provide that such bonds shall be issued and shall specify the purpose and amount thereof, the rate of interest they are to bear, how much principal and interest to be paid annually, when to be fully paid off, the place of payment, and other terms and details thereof (all of which provisions said city commission shall have the right to fix and determine according to its best discretion); and shall also in said ordinance or resolution call and provide for the holding of an election on the subject and for published notice thereof as provided by the constitution and laws of the state. Such an election or elections may be called at any time or times, or from time to time, for issuing bonds for any one or more or all of the before stated purposes, as deemed expedient by said city commission; provided, always, that the limit of the total bonded indebtedness of said city, as fixed by the constitution of the state, shall never be exceeded. Should two-thirds of the qualified voters of the city vote in favor of issuing bonds at any election called by such city commission, as hereinbefore provided, then and in such event said city commission shall at and before the time of issuing the bonds authorized by such election, provide for the assessment, levy and collection during the life of said bonds of an annual tax upon all the property in said city, subject to taxation, sufficient in amount to pay the principal and interest of such bonds. Any and all of the bonds and series of bonds issued by the city under the provisions of this Charter shall become obligatory and binding upon said city and its taxpayers, with all the qualities of commercial paper; and all bonds heretofore issued by said municipal corporation shall likewise be binding upon the City of Waycross. Said city commission is hereby authorized to negotiate and sell any of the bonds or series of bonds issued by said city, and the proceeds of such bonds when sold, shall only be applied for the purpose or purposes for which they are respectively issued.
(1909 Ga. Laws (Act No. 287), p. 1456, ยง 30; 1915 Ga. Laws (Act No. 179), p. 964, ยง 7)
