Chapter 28 - ROADS AND BRIDGES[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
State Law reference— Probate court's jurisdiction involving the removal of obstructions from roads, O.C.G.A. § 15-9-30.1; Georgia Code of Public Transportation, O.C.G.A. § 32-1-1 et seq.; obstructing, encroaching on, or injuring public roads, O.C.G.A. § 32-6-1; grants to counties for construction and maintenance of county roads, O.C.G.A. § 36-17-20 et seq.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 28-1. - Ditches.
Ditches are required for proper drainage of county roads. Wherever drainage is indicated, the road department is instructed to open and maintain ditches.
(Code 1992, § 26-2; Res. of 4-8-1977)
Sec. 28-2. - Farm equipment; forest operations.
(a)
Farm equipment must not be used on the road in such a manner as to fill ditches or upset the surface of the road.
(b)
Forest operations are prohibited from dragging timber across roads or ditches or down the length of the ditch. Operators must remove pulpwood blocks and limbs from the public right-of-way, whenever they have an operation joining county roads.
(Code 1992, § 26-3; Res. of 4-8-1977)
Sec. 28-3. - Liability for damage to water lines, electric cables, etc.
The county will not be responsible for damage to water lines, electric cables or other installations put on the public right-of-way.
(Code 1992, § 26-4; Res. of 4-8-1977)
Sec. 28-4. - Cutting surfaces prohibited; boring under road surfaces permitted with a proper permit.
Paved roadway surfaces shall not be cut for the purpose of installing water lines, electric cables or other installations which traverse a paved roadway surface. Paved roadway surfaces may be traversed for the purpose of installing water lines, electric cables, or other utility installations or for any other purpose by boring underneath the paved surface. Before a boring can be made under a paved roadway surface, an application must be made to the county administrator, approval granted and a written permit given for the bore and the proper requirements for such bore.
(Code 1992, § 26-5; Res. of 4-8-1977; Ord. of 2-3-1997, § 1)
Sec. 28-5. - Requests for work.
Any request for work by road department workers should be directed to the road superintendent or the county administrator.
(Code 1992, § 26-7; Res. of 4-8-1977)
Sec. 28-6. - Acceptance of roads and streets for public dedication and for other purposes.
(a)
Purpose. This section is enacted for the purpose of establishing standard procedures and criteria by which roads will be accepted as public roads by the county.
(b)
General requirements. The governing authority shall not, from this date forward, accept for improvement any road which is located within a wetland area or which would impact a wetland area as defined by federal and/or state law.
(Code 1992, § 26-8; Ord. of 6-1-1998, §§ I, II)
Secs. 28-7—28-30. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - NON-PUBLIC ROADWAYS, RAMPS AND DRIVEWAYS

Sec. 28-31. - No improvements by county.
The county shall not cut, grade, build or improve any roadways, ramps or driveways across non-public property.
(Code 1992, § 26-36; Ord. of 12-5-1989, § 1)
Sec. 28-32. - Use of county property, equipment, etc.
The county shall neither furnish free of charge nor sell, lease or rent any county property, including dirt, pipe, labor, equipment or machinery, for the construction, repair, maintenance or improvement of roadways, ramps, or driveways on or across non-public property.
(Code 1992, § 26-37; Ord. of 12-5-1989, § 2)
Sec. 28-33. - Connection to public road—Permission required.
Any person desiring to build a private roadway, ramp or drive which is to join or connect with a public road in the county shall first obtain written permission from the board of commissioners prior to joining or connecting the non-public roadway or drive to a public road.
(Code 1992, § 26-38; Ord. of 12-5-1989, § 3)
Sec. 28-34. - Same—Application for permission.
Any person desiring to join or connect a non-public roadway, ramp or drive to or with a public road in the county shall first apply in writing to the board of commissioners on a form, as prescribed from time to time by the board, setting forth the following information and any other information which may be required by the board from time to time:
(1)
Name.
(2)
Street.
(3)
Mailing address.
(4)
Telephone number, both home and business.
(5)
Name or location of the public road or street with which the applicant desires to join or connect.
(6)
Description of the non-public roadway, ramp or drive that the applicant desires to build, including construction materials, length, width and drainage measures.
(7)
The type, size and total length of pipe to be used in the ramp.
(Code 1992, § 26-39; Ord. of 12-5-1989, § 4)
Sec. 28-35. - Specifications; requirements.
Each non-public roadway, drive and ramp in this county must be constructed in a workmanship-like manner, taking into consideration the terrain, soil type and anticipated usage. In addition, each non-public roadway, drive and ramp must meet, as a minimum, the following specifications and requirements:
(1)
Roadbeds must be graded a minimum of 30 feet in width.
(2)
All ramps constructed to join or connect a non-public driveway with a public or non-public roadway must be at least 24 feet wide if the non-public roadway or drive is a private driveway for a private single-family residence, and 30 feet wide if the non-public roadway is for any other purpose other than a driveway for a private single-family residence.
(3)
All new driveways installed adjacent to and joining or connecting a county road, are required to have reinforced concrete pipe installed for drainage. Any exceptions to this requirement must be approved by the county streets and drainage engineer.
(4)
Ditches, pipe and other water drainage and runoff measures will be provided and installed by the applicant for each such roadway, ramp and drive, as required to adequately drain and protect such roadway, ramp or drive, as well as the adjoining public and private roadways which will be affected by the water runoff from such non-public roadway, ramp, or drive. The final resolution of such drainage measures must also provide for the protection from any potential runoff damage to any then-proposed streets or roadways which may be subsequently affected by the water runoff from such non-public roadway, ramp or drive.
(5)
Construction of the roadway, driveway or ramp shall not interfere with, impede or create a hazard to existing drainage or traffic.
(6)
All work will be required to be performed in such a manner as not to present the county with an inferior or substandard roadway which would result in additional expenditures or undue future maintenance by the county.
(7)
Paving is not mandatory. However, if paving is to be done, the roadway, drive and/or ramp must comply with all requirements of the state department of transportation standard specifications relating to paved county roads.
(8)
Upon the request of an applicant, and if the board of commissioners determines it to be in the best interests of the public, the county may construct a ramp from a public right-of-way to the edge of the applicant's private property, providing the applicant pays in advance for one-half of the cost of the pipe to be used. The county will not construct ramps from on or across non-public property or from non-public roadways.
(9)
All pipe and other materials used by a landowner or applicant in the construction of a ramp, drive or roadway which is on, or subsequently becomes a part of, a public right-of-way, become the property of the county and may not be removed by the applicant or landowner, regardless of whether the pipe or other materials were furnished by the landowner or the county.
(10)
The location of the point of connection or joining with a public road must be first approved by the board of commissioners or its authorized representative.
(Code 1992, § 26-40; Ord. of 12-5-1989, § 5; Ord. of 12-3-2007, § 1)
Sec. 28-36. - Consultation with county during construction.
The landowner, applicant or contractor under this article should consult with the board of commissioners or its authorized representative, as needed, during the construction of any roadway, drive or ramp, if there is any question regarding compliance with this article.
(Code 1992, § 26-41; Ord. of 12-5-1989, § 6)
Sec. 28-37. - Conformance required for acceptance by county.
No non-public ramp, drive or roadway will be accepted by the county if it fails to conform with the specifications provided by this article, as it now exists or is hereafter amended.
(Code 1992, § 26-42; Ord. of 12-5-1989, § 7)
Sec. 28-38. - Inspection; approval.
All non-public ramps, drives and roadways must be inspected by the road superintendent or some other official designated by the board of commissioners prior to final approval. Approval will not be unreasonably withheld.
(Code 1992, § 26-43; Ord. of 12-5-1989, § 8)
Sec. 28-39. - Conveyance to county.
Once the non-public ramp, drive and/or roadway has been completed by the applicant and accepted by the board of commissioners, the applicant or owner may convey the ramp, drive and/or road to the county. The county shall refuse to accept such ramp, drive and/or roadway if it does not comply with the requirements of this article.
(Code 1992, § 26-44; Ord. of 12-5-1989, § 9)
Sec. 28-40. - No liens or encumbrances at time of conveyance; proof required.
Any ramp, drive and/or roadway conveyed to the county pursuant to this article must be free of all liens and encumbrances at the time of conveyance to the county, and proof of such must be furnished to the county prior to its acceptance of such ramp, drive and/or roadway.
(Code 1992, § 26-45; Ord. of 12-5-1989, § 10)
Sec. 28-41. - Unlawful connection to public road.
It shall be unlawful for any person to join or connect any non-public ramp, roadway or drive to or with a public road or street in this county without first complying with the foregoing provisions of this article.
(Code 1992, § 26-46; Ord. of 12-5-1989, § 11)
Sec. 28-42. - Violations.
Violators of this article shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction of any such violation, shall be punished as provided in section 1-11.
(Code 1992, § 26-47; Ord. of 12-5-1989, § 12)
Sec. 28-43. - Projects not intended for connection to public road exempted from article.
This article does not apply to the construction or improvement of non-public roadways and drives which are not to become, to be joined to, or connected with, a public road or street.
(Code 1992, § 26-48; Ord. of 12-5-1989, § 13)
Sec. 28-44. - Applicability to temporary and permanent projects.
This article shall apply to the construction of both temporary and permanent non-public ramps, drives and roadways if they are to be joined or connected with a public road.
(Code 1992, § 26-49; Ord. of 12-5-1989, § 14)
Secs. 28-45—28-61. - Reserved.
ARTICLE III. - TIMBER AND PULPWOOD HARVESTING AND TRANSPORT

Sec. 28-62. - Title.
This article shall be known as the Wayne County Timber and Pulpwood Harvesting and Transport Ordinance.
(Code 1992, § 26-71; Ord. of 3-7-2016, § I)
Sec. 28-63. - Purpose.
The purpose and intent of this article is to ensure that operators engaging in timber or pulpwood harvesting are responsible for any damages inflicted on the county road system or rights-of-way as a result of their operations.
(Code 1992, § 26-72; Ord. of 3-7-2016, § II)
Sec. 28-64. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Applicant means any operator who files a notification to use paved county roads of the county in the harvesting and transport of timber and pulpwood.
Bond means a property bond which must be in the form specified by the county governing authority.
County road means any and all roads, paved or dirt, which are a part of the county road system, delineated in accordance with O.C.G.A. title 32, ch. 4, and intended or used for the passage of motor vehicles by the public.
Damage. The term "damage" means:
(1)
Any and all injury to the road surface or rights-of-way of a paved road that is part of the county road system of the county, including, but not limited to, the following:
a.
Diversion of or the filling of any drainage ditch, culvert, or pipe parallel to or underneath a paved county road, so as to restrain or redirect the flow of water.
b.
The operation of any vehicle, machinery, or equipment that will gouge, rip, break, depress, or otherwise deface a paved county road.
c.
The continued ingress or egress, to and from a paved county road at a particular location, that results in a buildup of rock, gravel, mud, dirt, chemicals, or other materials, which present potential hazard to other persons using the paved county road, and the transport of timber onto a paved county road.
d.
The creation of any dam, berm, ditch, or wall that restrains the natural flow of waters and results in the redirection of said waters onto the paved road surface or right-of-way of any county road.
(2)
The term "damage" does not include normal wear and tear to paved county roads resulting from the use of such roads by an operator in the course of timber or pulpwood harvesting.
Enforcement officer means the county sheriff, the county road superintendent, or their deputies, constables, or designees.
Governing authority means the county board of commissioners.
Operator means any person, entity, individual, partnership, corporation, association, or other organization, including the officers, agents, and employees thereof, carrying out the activities described in this article.
Repair means the repair of a county road to its condition prior to the occurrence of damage caused by harvesting of timber or pulpwood.
Rights-of-way means the shoulder, front slope, ditch, drain, and back slope of a paved county road, whether owned by title or otherwise.
(Code 1992, § 26-73; Ord. of 3-7-2016, § III)
Sec. 28-65. - Damage to county roads.
It shall be unlawful for any operator engaged in the harvesting or transport of timber or pulpwood to damage any paved or dirt county road or county right-of-way in the county.
(Code 1992, § 26-74; Ord. of 3-7-2016, § IV)
Sec. 28-66. - Notification required.
(a)
All persons or firms harvesting standing timber in any unincorporated area of the county for delivery as pulpwood, logs, poles, posts, or wood chips to any wood yard or processing plant located inside or outside the state shall provide notice of such harvesting operations to the board of commissioners or the designated agent thereof, prior to entering onto the property if possible, but in no event later than 24 hours after entering onto the property. Further, such persons shall give notice of cessation of cutting within 24 hours after the job is completed.
(b)
Prior written notice shall be required of any person or firm harvesting such timber for each separate tract to be harvested thereby, and shall be made only in such form as prescribed by rule or regulation of the state, and shall be limited to the following:
(1)
A map of the area which identifies the location of the tract to be harvested and, as to those trucks which will be traveling to and from such tract for purposes of picking up and hauling loads of cut forest products, the main point of ingress to such tract from a public road and, if different, the main point of egress from such tract to a public road;
(2)
A statement as to whether the timber will be removed pursuant to a lump sum sale, per unit sale, or owner harvest for purposes of ad valorem taxation under O.C.G.A. § 48-5-7.5;
(3)
The name, address, and daytime telephone number of the timber seller if the harvest is pursuant to a lump sum or per-unit sale, or of the timber owner if the harvest is an owner harvest; and
(4)
The name, business address, business telephone number, and nighttime or emergency telephone number of the person or firm harvesting such timber;
(c)
Notice may be submitted in person, by transmission of an electronic record via tele-facsimile, e-mail, or such other means as approved by the governing authority, or by mail;
(Code 1992, § 26-75; Ord. of 3-7-2016, § V)
State Law reference— Similar provisions, O.C.G.A. § 12-6-24(a)(1), (b)(1), and (b)(2).
Sec. 28-67. - Bond requirements.
(a)
In addition to other requirements imposed under this article, no operator shall harvest or transport timber or pulpwood on or to a paved county road in the county without first providing a valid surety bond, executed by a surety corporation authorized to transact business in the state, or an irrevocable letter of credit issued by a bank or savings and loan association, as defined in O.C.G.A. § 7-1-4, in the amount of $5,000.00.
(b)
Only one bond shall be required by an operator to satisfy the requirements of this section, regardless of the number of sites to be harvested. Said bond shall remain in effect so long as timber or pulpwood harvesting operations are being conducted in the county. A valid replacement bond must be obtained and delivered to the board of commissioners or its designated agent no later than the close of business on the fifth business day following the day that the board of commissioners filed a claim to recover damages against the then-existing bond. Upon filing such claim, such governing authority shall immediately provide notice thereof, including the date such claim was filed, to the person or firm causing the damage. Such notice may be given in person, by transmission of an electronic record via tele-facsimile, or by e-mail. For purposes of this section, any such surety bond or letter of credit shall be valid only for the calendar year in which delivered.
(Code 1992, § 26-76; Ord. of 3-7-2016, § VI)
State Law reference— Similar provisions, O.C.G.A. § 12-6-24(b)(3).
Sec. 28-68. - Operational requirements.
(a)
Roads; general requirements. The use of the county roads by operators transporting timber or pulpwood must not endanger the traveling public. Where damage does occur, the paved or dirt county roads so damaged shall be restored to their previous condition, including, but not limited to, removal of debris and mud and replacement of gravel. Trucks or other equipment used in the harvesting operation shall not be allowed to park on the public right-of-way. If timber is to be transported from the harvesting site onto a county road, the operator must provide the necessary materials and equipment to protect county property by means that meet forestry best management practices. The county will provide soil to the operator to improve entrances to county roads, when available. This material must be removed and the property restored to its original condition following the completion of the harvesting activities.
(b)
Signs. To alert motorists, an operator harvesting and transporting timber or pulpwood on a county road shall post at least one sign in each direction at the site entrance. Unless otherwise designated by the county road superintendent, these signs shall be placed in locations visible to oncoming traffic, between 500 and 1,000 feet on either side of the road entrance. Each sign shall be triangular in shape, orange in color, with minimum dimensions of 18 inches by 24 inches, with four-inch lettering, and shall read "Caution: Log Trucks Entering Highway." The operator must furnish these signs at his own expense.
(c)
Inspection by county road superintendent. Upon completion of harvesting activities at a site, the operator shall immediately notify the county road superintendent, who shall make an inspection of the site and the county road system affected by the harvesting-related activities. This inspection shall take place within three business days of receipt of said notice. The county emergency management director shall have the authority to close the county road or right-of-way, in the event it is determined necessary after the inspection by the county road superintendent.
(d)
Inspection finding no damage. If the inspection required by subsection (c) of this section results in a finding that no damage occurred, the county road superintendent shall immediately so notify the operator. The bond shall be released if the operator is ceasing all harvesting operations in the county.
(e)
Inspection finding damage. If the inspection required by subsection (c) of this section results in a finding that damage has occurred, the operator having caused the damage shall immediately undertake the repairs necessary to return the county road or right-of-way to its original condition. If there is disagreement with the county road superintendent's assessment that damage has occurred, the operator may appeal the decision of the county road superintendent to the county administrator. An adverse decision of the county administrator may subsequently be appealed by the operator to the county governing authority.
(f)
Repairs by county. In the event no appeal is filed and the responsible operator has not effectuated the repairs, the county road superintendent shall be authorized to use county labor, equipment, and materials to complete the necessary repairs to the county road system. In such event, the county shall be authorized to forfeit the operator's bond in an amount necessary to reimburse the county for all expenses incurred.
(g)
Operation after damages. The operator will not be allowed to operate in the county after the inspection finding damages as outlined in subsection (c) of this section is completed, until the operator has made and completed the required repairs to the satisfaction of the county road superintendent.
(Code 1992, § 26-78; Ord. of 3-7-2016, § VIII)
Sec. 28-69. - Enforcement.
(a)
The county sheriff, county road superintendent, or other enforcement officer duly appointed by the county governing authority shall enforce this article.
(b)
Each day that an operator continues timber or pulpwood harvesting operations without a permit constitutes a separate violation.
(c)
Any operator violating this article shall be tried before the magistrate court of the county. Upon conviction, a violation of this article shall result in punishment by a fine of not less than $50.00 nor more than $$500.00.
(d)
The director of the state forestry commission shall be notified as to any violations of this article.
(Code 1992, § 26-79; Ord. of 3-7-2016, § IX)
State Law reference— Authorized penalty, O.C.G.A. § 12-6-24(b)(6).
