Chapter 27 - PUBLIC HEALTH, SAFETY, AND WELFARE
ARTICLE I. - RESERVED

Secs. 27-1—27-20. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - BOARD OF HEALTH REGULATIONS ENFORCEMENT

Sec. 27-21. - Rules and regulations.
There are currently in existence certain rules and regulations adopted by the county board of health with the purpose of preserving the public health, safety and welfare of citizens of the county. This article specifically incorporates by reference the provision of the following rules and regulations which are in force at the time of the adoption of the ordinance from which this article is derived:
(a)
Rules and regulations pertaining to food service (adopted by the department of public health and the county board of health and being chapter 511-6-1 as subsequently amended and updated), and policies of the county board of health pertaining to food service;
(b)
Rules and regulations for on-site sewage management systems (adopted by the department of public health and the the county board of health and being chapter 511-3-1 as subsequently amended and updated), and policies of the county board of health pertaining to on-site sewage management systems;
(c)
Rules and regulations for mass gatherings (adopted by the department of public [health] and the county board of health and being chapter 511-3-2 as subsequently amended and updated) and policies of the county board of health pertaining to mass gatherings;
(d)
Rules and regulations pertaining to drinking water supply (adopted by the department of public health and the county board of health and being chapter 511-3-3 as subsequently amended and updated) and policies of the county board of health pertaining to drinking water supply.
(e)
Rules and regulations pertaining to solid waste (adopted by the department of public health and the county board of health and being chapter 511-3-4 as subsequently amended and updated) and policies of the county board of health pertaining to solid waste;
(f)
Rules and regulations pertaining to public swimming pools, spas and recreational water parks (adopted by the department of public health and the county board of health and being chapter 511-3-5 as subsequently amended and updated) and policies of the county board of health pertaining to public swimming pools, spas and recreational water parks;
(g)
Rules and regulations pertaining to portable sanitation contractors (adopted by the department of public health and the county board of health and being chapter 511-3-6 as subsequently amended and updated) and policies of the county board of health pertaining to portable sanitation.
(h)
Rules and regulations pertaining to Georgia Smoke Free Air Act of 2005 (adopted by the department of public health and the county board of health and being chapter 511-3-7 as subsequently amended and updated) and policies of the county board of health pertaining to smoke free air;
(i)
Rules and regulations pertaining to rabies control (adopted by the department of public health and the county board of health and being chapter 511-4-2 and the "Rabies Control Ordinance" of the county as subsequently amended and updated) and policies of the county board of health pertaining to rabies control;
(j)
Rules and regulations pertaining to tourist accommodations (adopted by the department of public health and the county board of health and being chapter 511-6-2 as subsequently amended and updated) and policies of the county board of health pertaining to tourist accommodations;
(k)
Rules and regulations pertaining to body art and/or tattooing (adopted by the department of public health and the county board of health and being rules and regulations for body art studios and artists as subsequently amended and updated) and policies of the county board of health pertaining to body art and/or tattooing.
A copy of all these rules and regulations are attached to the ordinance from which this section is derived and can be accessed through the following link: https://dph.georgia.gov/environmental-health .
( Ord. No. O-694 , § I, 1-7-2019)
Sec. 27-22. - Implementation and enforcement.
The duty of implementation and enforcement of these regulations rest with the county board of commissioners, and by virtue of this article is hereby expressly delegated to the county board of health who is hereby expressly delegated to the county board of health who is hereby charged with promulgation of sufficient procedures for insuring compliance with these rules and regulations by the citizens of the county or those individuals found within the boundaries of the county. The county board of health is directed to implement procedures which will insure that the citizens of the county or those individuals found within the boundaries of the county will receive all procedural rights to which they are entitled under the laws of the state.
( Ord. No. O-694 , § II, 1-7-2019)
Sec. 27-23. - Violations.
Any violation of the rules and regulations hereby referenced shall be a violation of this article and shall be a misdemeanor offense. Any violator shall be subject to the imposition of a fine not to exceed $1,000.00 and/or imprisonment for a period not to exceed 60 days. Any failure of payment for inspection fees listed within the fee schedule adopted by the county board of health and approved by the county board of commissioners within 60 days of first notice, may result in suspension of permit.
( Ord. No. O-694 , § III, 1-7-2019)
Sec. 27-24. - Jurisdiction.
The magistrates court of the county shall have jurisdiction over violators of this article and all procedures for enforcement of this article shall be as provided in article 4, chapter 10 of title 15, Official Code of Georgia. Complaints of violation of any provision of this article shall be brought before the magistrates court by a designated representative of the county board of health and shall be prosecuted through that court.
( Ord. No. O-694 , § IV, 1-7-2019)
