Chapter 14 - AMUSEMENTS AND ENTERTAINMENTS[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
State Law reference— Standard Amusement Device Code, O.C.G.A. §§ 8-2-20, 8-2-25; Sunday motion picture shows and athletic events, O.C.G.A. § 10-1-550 et seq.; bingo, O.C.G.A. § 16-12-50 et seq.; Amusement Ride Safety Act, O.C.G.A. § 34-12-1 et seq.; Carnival Ride Safety Act, O.C.G.A. § 34-13-1 et seq.; operators of billiard rooms, O.C.G.A. § 43-8-1 et seq.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Secs. 14-1—14-25. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - BILLIARD ROOMS

Sec. 14-26. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Billiard room means any public place where a person is permitted to play the game of billiards and for which a charge is made for use of equipment.
Billiards means any of the several games played on a table surrounded by an elastic ledge of cushions with balls which are impelled by a cue and shall include all forms of the game known as "pool," "pocket billiards," and "English billiards."
(Code 1995, § 14-26)
State Law reference— Similar provisions, O.C.G.A. § 43-8-1.
Sec. 14-27. - Billiard rooms.
(a)
No billiard room shall permit any screens, curtains, blinds, partitions or other obstructions to be used to prevent a clear view of the interior, which clear view must be maintained at all times. No partitions forming rooms, stalls or other enclosures shall be permitted. This provision, however, shall not be construed to prohibit the maintenance of washrooms and toilet rooms for proper purposes, nor the maintenance of closets for storage purposes exclusively. All billiard tables shall be maintained and located on the ground floor of the business establishment.
(b)
It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a billiard room in the city between the hours of 1:00 a.m. and 6:00 a.m., or to permit any person to remain in such billiard room between such prohibited hours, except regular employees performing necessary labor on the premises. It shall be unlawful for any billiard room to operate billiard tables on Sunday.
(c)
It shall be unlawful for any person who has not reached the age of 18 years to play billiards, or be permitted to remain in a billiard room for any purpose, unless accompanied by a parent or guardian or with written permission from a parent or guardian witnessed by a notary public. If the proprietor of a billiard room is of the opinion that any person desiring admission thereto is under the age of 18 years, he shall require such person to certify his age in writing or to produce legal documentation.
(d)
The provisions of subsection (b) of this section pertaining to hours of operation shall not apply to a business that includes a billiard room if the billiard room is not operated during the prohibited hours.
(Code 1974, § 15-20.1; Code 1995, § 14-27)
Sec. 14-28. - Exemption.
This article shall not apply to billiard tables or billiard rooms operated by private industrial concerns, Young Men's Christian Associations, religious orders, charitable institutions, state, county, or city institutions, fraternal orders, or bona fide clubs using such tables for members or employees only.
State Law reference— Similar provisions, O.C.G.A. § 43-8-3.
