ARTICLE IV. - TAX COMMISSIONER
DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY[5]

Footnotes:
--- (5) ---
Editor's note— Printed in this article is 1931 Ga. Laws page 594. Amendments are indicated by parenthetical history notes following amended provisions. The absence of a history note indicates that the provision remains unchanged from the original. Obvious misspellings have been corrected without notation. For stylistic purposes, the same style of expression of numbers in text as appears in the Code of Ordinances has been used. The title of the Act has been omitted. A consistent scheme of capitalization has also been used.

Sec. 1. - Tax commissioner in lieu of receiver and collector.
Be it enacted by the General Assembly of Georgia, and it is hereby enacted by authority of the same, that the offices of tax receiver and tax collector of Wayne County, Georgia, are hereby abolished, and the duties of the two said offices are hereby consolidated into one office.
Sec. 2. - Tax commissioner created.
Be it further enacted by the authority aforesaid, that the office of county tax commissioner of Wayne County, Georgia, is hereby created in lieu of said abolished offices, and the rights, duties, and liabilities of said office of county tax commissioner of Wayne County, Georgia, shall be the same as the rights, duties, and liabilities of the tax receiver and tax collector of said county insofar as the same are applicable. The qualifications of said tax commissioner shall be the same as that prescribed for tax collector.
Sec. 3. - Collection of taxes due when Act becomes effective.
Be it further enacted by the authority aforesaid, that all taxes that are due and payable at the time the provisions of this Act become effective, and all tax fi. fas. theretofore issued by the tax collector of Wayne County, shall have full force and effect, and be collectible as issued.
Sec. 4. - Fees paid into county treasury.
Be it further enacted by the authority aforesaid, that all fees, commissions, and all other compensations allowed to the tax receiver and tax collector of Wayne County at the time this Act becomes effective, or that might thereafter be legally allowed such officers were it not for the provisions of this Act, shall be collected by said county tax commissioner, and he shall retain all the fees, commissions, and other compensations for making record of defaulters and voting records, and for issuing and settling tax executions, and receiving state tax returns, and for collecting of all state taxes, both ad valorem and special, and corporate taxes returned to the comptroller-general's office; also, he shall retain 50 percent of all fees, commissions, and other compensations for the receiving of returns and collecting of taxes for Wayne County and schools, paying over to the county and each of the other local taxing units, direct, their pro rata part of the remaining 50 percent.
(1937 Ga. Laws, page 1447, § 1)
Sec. 5. - Tax returns; office hours.
The tax commissioner shall discontinue the visits to the several militia districts of said Wayne County for the purpose of receiving returns and collecting taxes, and shall keep his office in the courthouse open for said purposes on all days, excepting local, state and national holidays.
(1937 Ga. Laws, page 1447, § 3)
Sec. 6. - Oath and bond.
Be it further enacted by the authority aforesaid, that before entering upon the duties of his office, the said county tax commissioner shall take the same oath and give the same bonds as are now or may hereafter be required of tax collectors.
Sec. 7. - Election.
Be it further enacted by the authority aforesaid, that the first election of county tax commissioner of Wayne County, Georgia, shall be held at the same time and under the same laws as other county officers are now elected at the general election to be held for county officers in 1932, and quadrennially thereafter, and the person so elected shall enter upon his duties hereby created for January 1, 1933, and shall serve for a term of four years. Vacancies shall be filled in the same manner as vacancies are filled in office of clerk of the superior court.
Sec. 8. - Severability.
Be it further enacted by the authority aforesaid, that if for any reason any portion of this Act shall be held by the court of last resort of this state to be unconstitutional, the whole of this Act shall not thereby become void, but only so much of the same as may be so held unconstitutional; the purpose of this Act being to put into effect the constitution of this state as contained in article XI, section III, paragraph I, and amendments thereto.
Sec. 9. - Repealer.
Be it further enacted by the authority aforesaid, that all laws and parts of laws in conflict with this Act be and the same are hereby repealed.
DIVISION 2. - COMPENSATION AND RELATED ISSUES[6]

Footnotes:
--- (6) ---
Editor's note— Printed in this article is 1966 Ga. Laws page 2582. Amendments are indicated by parenthetical history notes following amended provisions. The absence of a history note indicates that the provision remains unchanged from the original. Obvious misspellings have been corrected without notation. For stylistic purposes, the same style of expression of numbers in text as appears in the Code of Ordinances has been used. The title of the Act has been omitted. A consistent scheme of capitalization has also been used.

Sec. 1. - Compensation to be on salary basis.
After the effective date of this Act, the tax commissioner of Wayne County shall be compensated by an annual salary, to be fixed as provided for hereinafter, in lieu of a fee system of compensation for said officer.
Sec. 2. - Salary fixed.
The annual salary of the tax commissioner of Wayne County shall be $32,500.00, payable in equal semi-monthly installments from the general funds of Wayne County. The annual amount of that salary shall be automatically increased, effective July 1 of each year after 1986, by the percentage amount of any general law salary increase for the immediately preceding calendar year. For purposes of this section, [the term] "general law salary increase" means the increase in the minimum salary for tax commissioners for one calendar year over that salary for the immediately preceding calendar year as that minimum salary is specified by general law for the population brackets applicable to Wayne County.
(1986 Ga. Laws, page 4858, § 1)
Sec. 3. - Appointment of deputies, assistants, clerks, etc.
The tax commissioner shall have the authority to appoint such deputies, clerks, assistants and other personnel as he shall deem necessary to discharge efficiently and effectively the official duties of his office. The tax commissioner shall at least ninety days before the first day of January each year, beginning with January, 1967, recommend to the governing authority of Wayne County the number of such personnel needed by his office, together with the suggested compensation to be paid each employee, and a proposed budget covering the costs of operating said office for the next ensuing year. It shall be within the sole power and authority of the tax commissioner, during his respective term of office, to designate and name the person or persons who shall be employed as deputies, clerks, assistants or other employees, and to prescribe their duties and assignments, and to remove or replace any of such employees at will and within his sole discretion.
(1986 Ga. Laws, page 4858, § 2)
Sec. 4. - Budget.
In the event the governing authority of Wayne County shall refuse or fail to approve the budget, or in case a disagreement arises between said officer and the governing authority over the salaries, the tax commissioner shall be authorized to appeal to an arbitration committee composed of the judge of the superior court of Wayne County, the solicitor general, and the chairman of the governing authority of the county. Said committee shall then fix the disputed salary or salaries and all other matters included in said appeal. The determination made by said committee shall be final.
Sec. 5. - Fees.
All fees, fines, forfeitures, costs, commissions, emoluments, and perquisites of whatever nature provided by law for services rendered by the tax commissioner, except as hereinafter provided, shall be charged and collected by said officer and shall be held by him as county funds. On or before the 10th day of each month, the tax commissioner shall pay over to the fiscal authority of Wayne County all such funds as shall have been collected by him for the county during the immediately preceding calendar month. The tax commissioner shall keep such books and records as shall be prescribed by the governing authority of Wayne County and all such records shall be open to the inspection of the public, the governing authority of Wayne County and [its] auditors, at all times during the hours for which said office is open for business.
Sec. 6. - Salary to be in lieu of fees.
It is specifically provided that the salary provided in this Act for the tax commissioner shall be in lieu of all fees, commissions, costs, fines, emoluments, and perquisites of whatever kind, except that the tax commissioner shall receive the commission permitted as compensation to tag agents pursuant to subsection (b) of Code section 40-2-30 of the O.C.G.A. [(O.C.G.A. § 40-2-30(b))].
(1986 Ga. Laws, page 4858, § 3)
Sec. 7. - Current fees.
It is specifically provided that the tax commissioner shall be entitled to receive and retain all of those fees, costs, fines, forfeitures, commissions, allowances, penalties, funds, moneys, and all other emoluments which have accrued to the tax commissioner at the time this Act becomes effective and to which said officer is entitled, and which remain uncollected at the time Act becomes effective shall, when collected, be paid to said officer. He shall, however, report the collection of any such fees to the governing authority of the county.
Sec. 8. - Effective date.
The salary system provided herein shall become effective beginning January 1, 1967, but the provision of this Act relative to the submission of the budget shall be carried out as provided herein prior to that date.
