Chapter 24 - OFFENSES AND MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS[1]

Sec. 24-1. - Disorderly conduct.
It shall be unlawful for any person within the unincorporated area of the county to engage in any of the following activities:
(1)
Act in a violent or tumultuous manner toward another whereby any person is placed in fear of the safety of his life, limb, or health.
(2)
Act in a violent or tumultuous manner toward another whereby the property of any person is placed in danger of being damaged or destroyed.
(3)
Cause, provoke or engage in any fight, brawl or riotous conduct so as to endanger the life, limb, health, or property of another.
(4)
Assemble or congregate with another or others for the purpose of or with the intent to engage in gaming.
(5)
Be in or about any place, along or with another or others with the purpose of or intent to engage in any fraudulent scheme, trick or device to obtain any money or valuable thing; or to aid or abet any person or in doing so.
(6)
Be in or about any place where gaming or the illegal sale or possession of alcoholic beverages or narcotics or dangerous drugs (controlled substances) is practiced, allowed or tolerated, for the purpose of or intent to engage in gaming or the purchase, use, possession or consumption of such illegal drugs, narcotics or alcoholic beverages.
(7)
Direct fighting words toward another, that is, words which by their very nature tend to incite a breach of the peace.
(8)
Interfere, by acts of physical obstruction, with another's pursuit of a lawful occupation.
(9)
Congregate with another or others in or on any public way or grounds so as to halt the flow of vehicular or pedestrian traffic, and to fail to clear that public way or grounds after being ordered to do so by a county law enforcement officer or other lawful authority.
(10)
Disrupt, by actions which tend to incite a breach of peace, the activities of any house of worship, hospital, home for the elderly or any lawful meeting, gathering, or procession.
(11)
Throw bottles, paper, cans, glass, sticks, stones, missiles, or any other debris on public property.
(12)
Be and appear in an intoxicated condition in any public place or within the curtilage of any private residence not their own other than by invitation of the owner or lawful occupant, which condition is made manifest by boisterousness, by indecent condition or act, or by vulgar, profane, or loud unbecoming language.
(Code 2003, § 34-1)
State Law reference— Fighting in a public place, O.C.G.A. § 16-11-32; use of "fighting words," obscene and vulgar or profane language, etc., O.C.G.A. § 16-11-39.
Sec. 24-2. - Theft and diversion of county and public utility services.
(a)
It shall be unlawful for any person, intentionally and without authority, to destroy, damage or tamper with any meter, pipe, conduit, wire, line, post, lamp or other apparatus owned by the county or by any company engaged in the manufacture or sale of electricity, gas, water, telephone, cable television or other public service, herein "utility services."
(b)
It shall be unlawful for any person, intentionally and without authority, to prevent a meter from properly registering the quantity of such service supplied or in any way to interfere with the proper action of the county or of a company engaged in the manufacture or sale of utility services, or to intentionally divert any of the services of the county or such company, or otherwise intentionally and without authority to use or cause to be used, without consent of the county or such company, any service manufactured, sold or distributed by the county or such company.
(c)
No person shall knowingly receive the benefits of acts of diversion or of tampering with utility services without the proper charge.
(d)
Proof that any of the acts specified in this section were done on premises in possession of an accused, or that the accused received the benefit of any such act, shall be prima facie evidence that the accused committed such act or aided and abetted in the commission thereof.
(Code 2003, § 34-2)
Sec. 24-3. - Loitering or prowling.
(a)
A person commits the offense of loitering or prowling when that person is in a place, at a time or in a manner not usual for law-abiding individuals, under circumstances that warrant a justifiable and reasonable alarm or immediate concern for the safety of persons or property in the vicinity or under circumstances which cause a justifiable and reasonable alarm or immediate concern that such person is involved in unlawful activity.
(b)
The circumstances which may be considered in determining whether alarm or concern is warranted include, but are not limited to, the following: taking flight upon the appearance of a law enforcement officer; refusing to identify oneself; or manifestly endeavoring to conceal oneself or any object. Unless flight by the person or other circumstances makes it impractical, a law enforcement officer shall, prior to arrest for an offense under this section, afford the person an opportunity to dispel any alarm or immediate concern which would otherwise be warranted by allowing the person to produce satisfactory identification and an explanation of that person's presence and conduct.
(Code 2003, § 34-3)
Sec. 24-4. - Fee for impounded vehicles.
(a)
The county sheriff may impound any vehicle and charge a minimum $100.00 impound fee for any vehicle lawfully towed and impounded for violations of O.C.G.A. § 16-13-30, 16-13-31, 16-30-32, 40-2-20, 40-5-20, 40-5-121, 40-6-10, 40-6-15, or 40-6-391.
(b)
Whenever a person has been arrested for a violation of O.C.G.A. § 16-13-30, 16-13-31, 16-30-32, 40-2-20, 40-5-20, 40-5-121, 40-6-10, 40-6-15, or 40-6-391 committed while driving, moving, or operating a vehicle, the arresting agency may impound the vehicle that the person was driving, moving, or operating at the time of arrest until such time as the arrestee or owner claiming the vehicle meets the conditions for release in compliance with this section.
(c)
A vehicle impounded pursuant to this section shall not be released unless:
(1)
The person claiming the vehicle presents a valid driver's license, proof of ownership, or lawful authority to operate the motor vehicle, and proof of valid motor vehicle insurance for that vehicle.
(2)
The vehicle is owned or leased by the arrestee, the arrestee gives written permission to another person to operate the vehicle, and the conditions for release in subsection (c)(1) of this section are met.
(3)
The person claiming the vehicle pays the mandatory $100.00 impound fee attached to each vehicle towed and impounded by the county sheriff's office for violation. The impound fee must be paid in cash, by a cashier's check or money order made payable to the sheriff's office to be disbursed by the general fund in a monthly report.
(d)
This section requires that all fees collected for impounded vehicles under this resolution be placed in the general fund and restricted to law enforcement use by the sheriff's office.
(e)
The county board of commissioners does hereby authorize the sheriff to charge an impound fee on all such violations of O.C.G.A. § 16-13-30, 16-13-31, 16-30-32, 40-5-20, 40-6-10, 40-6-15, or 40-6-391 in the county.
(Res. of 4-14-2009)
Sec. 24-5. - Bonfires.
It shall be unlawful for any person, during a holiday or at any other time, toe build a bonfire of any description within the city limits, except at places approved and designated by the board of commissioners.
(Ord. of 4-9-2013(3))
Sec. 24-6. - Damaging, interfering with poles, wires, other fixtures.
It shall be unlawful to cut, break, or in any other manner molest or interfere with any telegraph, telephone, electric light or other pole used for the support of electric wires, or to throw at, break, injure, or in any other manner molest or interfere with any fixture, wire, lamp, or other thing placed thereon, or to tie any horse, mule or other animal of any sort to any such pole.
(Ord. of 4-9-2013(3))
Sec. 24-7. - Discharging firearms, air guns, etc.
It shall be unlawful for any person in the city to discharge any gun, pistol, air gun or other such weapon projecting lead or any other missile within the city limits.
This section shall not be construed to prohibit any officer of the law from discharging a firearm in the performance of his duty; nor to any citizens from discharging a firearm when lawfully defending person or property.
(Ord. of 4-9-2013(3))
Sec. 24-8. - Drinking in public.
It shall be unlawful for any person to consume any alcoholic beverage in or upon any street, alley, sidewalk or other public way in the city.
(Ord. of 4-9-2013(3))
Sec. 24-9. - Posting signs on posts, trees, poles.
It shall be unlawful to tack, nail, or otherwise place any signs on posts, trees, or poles of the city without permission of the board of commissioners.
(Ord. of 4-9-2013(3))
Sec. 24-10. - Public address systems; permission required.
It shall be unlawful to operate or use a public address system upon the streets of the city, or within the corporate limits of the city, upon either public or private property, without the written permission of the mayor and council.
(Ord. of 4-9-2013(3))
Sec. 24-11. - Throwing of missiles.
It shall be unlawful for any person in the city to throw any stone, rock or other missile upon or at any vehicle, building, or other public or private property, or upon or at any person in any public or private way or place.
(Ord. of 4-9-2013(3))
Sec. 24-12. - Issuance of licenses, permits, or provision of other county services when initial or renewal applicant or any resident relative is indebted to the county.
new
(a)
When an application is made for the granting or renewal of any license, permit or any service offered to the general public by the consolidated government to include utility services, the clerk shall cause an inquiry to be made to determine if the applicant (or any relative residing in the same household) has any outstanding monetary obligations or past due indebtedness due the county. Such outstanding monetary obligations or past due indebtedness as referenced herein shall not be deemed to include delinquent property taxes, as the collection of taxes is governed by other applicable state law.
(b)
No license or permit shall be issued, renewed or considered for approval, nor shall any such other service be provided to the applicant, until the outstanding monetary obligation or past due indebtedness is satisfied and brought current.
(Res. Of 8-11-2015(1))
