Chapter 17 - STREETS, SIDEWALKS, RIGHTS-OF-WAY[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Editor's note— Ord. No. 18-3, § 1, adopted May 14, 2018 changed the title of ch. 17 to read as herein set out. Formerly, ch. 17 was entitled 'streets and sidewalks'.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 17-1. - Reflective barriers required on obstruction; liability for failure to comply.
It shall be unlawful to obstruct any street of the city, whether with permission or without, unless reflective barriers are placed in such positions as to give full and adequate warning at night of said obstruction.
(Ord. No. 18-3, § 2, 5-14-18)
Editor's note— Ord. No. 18-3, § 2, adopted May 14, 2018, amended § 17-1 in its entirety to read as herein set out. Former § 17-1 pertained to red warning light required on obstruction; liability for failure to comply, and derived from Code 1967, § 20-1.
Cross reference— Obstructing sidewalks or other public passages, O.C.G.A. § 16-11-43.
Sec. 17-2. - Leaving excavation open.
It shall be unlawful for any person, who having secured permission from the city council, and having made an excavation in the street, to leave such excavation open after completing his work, or to leave such excavation unguarded or without a railing of some kind around the excavation.
(Code 1967, § 20-2)
State Law reference— Abatement of hazard from abandoned well or hole, O.C.G.A. § 44-1-14.
Sec. 17-3. - Encumbering streets and sidewalks.
No person shall block or encumber any street or sidewalk in the city without first securing the permission from the city manager to block or encumber such street or sidewalk, and then only for good and just cause, and only for such time as is absolutely necessary. A minor sidewalk encroachment in the downtown central business district for existing storefront property may be granted. The city manager may grant permission for minor sidewalk encroachments for such things as steps, stairways and handicap accessible ramps. Permission shall only be granted in situations that will not restrict the safety, convenience and comfort of the public use of sidewalks. A minor sidewalk encroachment application shall be submitted to the planning department and approved by the city manager prior to any work being initiated.
(Code 1967, § 20-3; Ord. No. 2009-27, § 1, 9-9-09)
Sec. 17-4. - Blocking streets with building material; removal.
(a)
Owners or lessees or others occupying buildings on the sidewalks and streets of the city may place on sidewalks or streets, under the supervision of the code enforcement officer, material to be used in erecting new buildings or repairing the buildings or such sidewalks or streets.
(b)
When, in the code enforcement officer's opinion, any person shall use more of such sidewalk or street than is necessary or for a longer time than it is necessary for the purposes mentioned in this section, the code enforcement officer shall notify such person to appear before the judge of the municipal court and show cause why such obstruction should not be moved, and, if it should appear that the same has remained upon the sidewalk or street for longer time than necessary or that more space is being occupied than necessary, then such person shall be deemed guilty of violating this section and shall be punished in accordance with the provisions of section 1-14. In addition to the punishment above provided for, the person so offending shall be required to remove such obstruction within twenty-four (24) hours, and, upon failure to comply with such requirements, he shall be punished as provided in section 1-14.
(Code 1967, § 20-4)
Sec. 17-5. - Burning of trash, leaves, etc., on streets prohibited.
It shall be unlawful for any person to burn leaves, trash, or any other matter upon the streets, sidewalks or alleys of the city.
(Code 1967, § 20-5)
Sec. 17-6. - Numbering of houses.
It shall be the duty of the owner of every house abutting on any street within the city limits that is not already properly numbered with an approved number to place thereon a conspicuous house number to be approved by the fire chief. When an old or incorrect number appears on any building it shall be the duty of the owner thereof to remove the same and replace it with the correct number approved by the fire chief.
(Code 1967, § 20-9; Ord. No. 18-3, § 3, 5-14-18)
Sec. 17-7. - Railroad crossing to be constructed, maintained.
It shall be unlawful for any railroad company whose road crosses any of the streets in the city to fail, or neglect, or refuse, on being notified, to have a suitable crossing made and kept in good repair at the different points where such roads cross the streets, alleys, ways, and public roads in the city; or for any railroad company to refuse or neglect or fail to put in good traveling order all roads in the city turned or changed for the benefit of such railroad.
(Code 1967, § 20-12)
Secs. 17-8—17-30. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - MAINTENANCE AND REPAIR

Sec. 17-31. - Public works director.
The public works director shall be responsible for proper construction and maintenance of city streets and rights-of-way to include sidewalks, stormwater structures, ditches and pavement.
(Ord. No. 18-3, § 4, 5-14-18)
Editor's note— Ord. No. 18-3, § 4, adopted May 14, 2018, amended § 17-31 in its entirety to read as herein set out. Former § 17-31 pertained to superintendent of streets and sewers; liability for failure to comply, and derived from Code 1967, § 20-23.
Sec. 17-32. - Street cuts.
Any person engaged in the plumbing business, or any other person who shall desire to install any pipe, water connection or gas pipe in or under the public streets in the city, and who shall desire to make any excavation in or under such streets for such purpose, or who shall desire to make any excavation in or under said streets for any other purpose, shall be required before commencing such excavation obtain permission from the Public Works Director.
(Code 1967, § 20-24; Ord. No. 18-3, § 5, 5-14-18)
Sec. 17-33. - Unauthorized excavations; removal of earth.
It shall be unlawful for any person not authorized by the public works director to make any excavation of any kind in the streets of the city.
(Code 1967, § 20-25; Ord. No. 18-3, § 6, 5-14-18)
Sec. 17-34. - Penalty for making excavation without complying with chapter.
Any person, except employees of the city, who shall make any excavation in or under the public street without first complying with the provisions of this article shall be guilty of an offense and upon conviction shall be punished according to the provisions of section 1-14.
(Code 1967, § 20-26)
Sec. 17-35. - Responsibility of plumbers for damage to sewers and streets.
Any plumber who makes any house connection with the public sewer shall be held responsible for any damage he may do to the sewer or street; and he shall restore the street to as good condition as it was at the beginning of his work. Should any person fail to make such repairs to the streets and sidewalks as are necessary to restore them to as good condition as they were at the beginning of his work, then the public works director shall make such repairs, and for such work there shall be made by the city a reasonable charge against such person.
(Code 1967, § 20-27; Ord. No. 18-3, § 7, 5-14-18)
Secs. 17-36—17-50. - Reserved.
ARTICLE III. - PUBLIC TREES

Sec. 17-51. - Purpose.
It is the purpose of this ordinance to promote and protect the public health, safety and general welfare by providing for the regulation of the planting, maintenance and removal of trees, shrubs and other plants within the rights-of-way and other public property of the City of West Point.
(Ord. No. 18-2, § 1, 5-14-18)
Sec. 17-52. - Applicability.
This ordinance provides full power and authority over all trees, plants and shrubs within street rights-of-way, parks and public places of the city.
(Ord. No. 18-2, § 1, 5-14-18)
Sec. 17-53. - Definitions.
(a)
City tree. Any tree that is located on an easement, right-of-way, street median, public park, public space or sidewalk of the City of West Point.
(b)
Right-of-way. The area on, below, or above a public roadway, highway, street, public sidewalk, alley, waterway, or utility easement in which the municipality has an interest.
(c)
Topping. The severe cutting back of limbs to stubs within the tree's crown to such a degree as to remove the normal canopy and disfigure the tree.
(Ord. No. 18-2, § 1, 5-14-18)
Sec. 17-54. - Authority and enforcement; tree board.
(a)
The City of West Point Public Works Director, City Manager or designee are authorized to administer the provisions of the ordinance.
(b)
Code enforcement officers of the City are hereby authorized to issue notices and citations for violations of this ordinance.
(c)
There is established for the City of West Point a City of West Point Tree Board which shall consist of three (3) members who shall each be a resident of Troup or Harris County. The board members shall be appointed by the Mayor and Council and serve three (3) year terms. The initial board members shall be appointed to a one (1) year, two (2) year and three (3) year term. The board shall meet at a minimum once per quarter.
(d)
The City of West Point Tree Board shall develop a plan for the care, conservation, pruning, planting and replanting of publicly owned trees and shrubs in parks, along streets, and in other public areas. The board will work with the City Manager and his designee(s) to consider, investigate, make findings and make recommendations regarding any tree related issue. The Tree City Board shall be responsible for an annual Arbor Day program to include planting trees and educating the public about the importance of the community forest.
(Ord. No. 18-2, § 1, 5-14-18)
Sec. 17-55. - Certain activities prohibited.
It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in the activity of planting, cutting, trimming, pruning, removing, spraying or otherwise treating city trees, shrubs or vines within street rights-of-way, parks and public places of the city without permission of the city.
(Ord. No. 18-2, § 1, 5-14-18)
Sec. 17-56. - Guidelines; pruning, removal, signs, reporting of problems.
(a)
The city will undertake reasonable efforts to prevent city trees from being in contract with store fronts, awnings or arm signs. Where prudent, pruning shall be undertaken by crown lifting, a technique used by arborists to remove a tree's lower limbs over several years.
(b)
Topping of city trees is a disfavored practice, although under certain conditions where other pruning practices are impractical topping may be necessary.
(c)
If a city tree is determined to be diseased, dying or dead the city will remove the tree and replace with the same variety, a comparable variety or if conditions have changed a variety that is suitable for the location.
(d)
Trees blocking existing signs may be pruned if the city determines that the pruning, within normal maintenance practices, will not harm the tree or its aesthetic quality, or is otherwise in the best interests of the city.
(e)
New sign locations should be selected to avoid conflict with city trees.
(f)
Any person wishing to report a city tree issue may contact West Point City Hall.
(Ord. No. 18-2, § 1, 5-14-18)
Sec. 17-57. - Penalties, claims, & appeals.
Any person who violates any provision of this ordinance or who fails to comply with any notice issued pursuant to provision of the ordinance, upon being found guilty of violation, shall be subject to a fine not to exceed $500.00 for each separate offense. Each day during which any violation of the provisions of this ordinance shall occur or continue shall be a separate offense.
(Ord. No. 18-2, § 1, 5-14-18)
