ARTICLE X. - TRANSIENT MERCHANTS[11]

Footnotes:
--- (11) ---
State Law reference— Peddlers and itinerant traders, O.C.G.A. § 43-32-1 et seq.; Transient Merchants Act of Georgia, O.C.G.A. § 43-46-1 et seq.

Sec. 6-251. - Definitions.
For the purpose of this article, a transient merchant, itinerant merchant or itinerant vendor is defined as any person, whether as owner, agent, consignee, or employee, and whether a resident of the city or not, who temporarily engages in any business of selling and delivering goods, wares and merchandise within the corporate limits of the city, and who, in furtherance of such purpose hires, leases, uses or occupies any building, structure, motor vehicle, tent, railroad boxcar, boat, public room in hotels, lodging places, apartments, shops, premises, or any street, alley or other place within the city for the exhibition and sale of such goods, wares and merchandise, either privately or at public auction. There is excepted from and not included in this definition:
(1)
Any person who while occupying any such temporary location, does not sell or offer to sell from stock but merely exhibits samples only for the purpose of securing orders for future delivery;
(2)
Any person selling or undertaking to sell agricultural products produced or grown by such person; or
(3)
Yard sales, garage sales, attic sales, rummage sales, or sales commonly known by similar names.
(Code 1967, § 15-153)
Sec. 6-252. - Findings of fact.
The city council hereby finds, determines and declares that the unregulated and uncontrolled operation of businesses in the city by transient merchants, itinerant merchants or itinerant vendors is subject to and is being abused and it is necessary for such business or businesses to be appropriately defined, licensed and regulated by the city.
(Code 1967, § 15-151)
Sec. 6-253. - License required.
It shall be unlawful for a transient merchant, itinerant merchant or itinerant vendor to engage in or operate such business within the city without first obtaining and maintaining in force a license therefor in compliance with the provisions of this article.
(Code 1967, § 15-152)
Sec. 6-254. - Exceptions.
The license provided for by this article shall not be required for such activity when:
(1)
The sale is to be conducted by the applicant and members of his immediate household only.
(2)
Items to be offered for sale are the legal property of the applicant and/or members of his immediate household, surplus to his or their needs, and do not include any items purchased by or consigned to the applicant or members of his immediate household for resale.
(3)
The proposed sale shall be conducted for not more than three (3) consecutive days.
(4)
No other such sale has been conducted by the applicant or any members of his immediate family during the six-month period immediately preceding.
(5)
A "neighborhood garage sale" is conducted by two (2) or more families at the same location, provided that the applicant and all other participants meet the conditions set forth in paragraphs (1) through (4) above.
(6)
A rummage sale is conducted by a religious, charitable, civic or service organization for the sale of goods donated to the organization for such sale, when the sale shall be conducted for not more than three (3) consecutive days, and when no other such sale has been conducted by the organization during the six-month period immediately preceding.
(Code 1967, § 15-153)
Sec. 6-255. - Compliance generally.
No transient merchant, itinerant merchant or itinerant vendor shall be relieved from complying with the provisions of this article by reason of any temporary association with any licensed local dealer, trader, merchant, or auctioneer, or by conducting such transient business on the premises of, in conjunction with, or as a part of, or in the name of such local dealer, trader, merchant or auctioneer.
(Code 1967, § 15-153)
Sec. 6-256. - Application—Generally.
Applicants for license required by this article shall file a written application signed by the applicant with the city clerk, which application shall contain and show:
(1)
The name or names of the person or persons having management or supervision of applicant's business during the time the same is proposed to be conducted or carried on in the city; the local address of such person so engaged in the city; the local address of such person; the capacity in which such person will act (that is, whether as proprietor, agent or otherwise); and, if a corporation, the state in which the same is incorporated, whether the corporation is domesticated or licensed to do business in this state, the registered agent of the corporation in the state and the designated agent for the service of process in the state.
(2)
The place or places in the city where applicant proposes to carry on the business described in its application; the hours in which applicant proposes to keep said business open to the public; and the length of time during which applicant proposes to conduct any such business.
(3)
The place or places, other than the permanent place of business of the applicant where applicant within the six-month period next preceding the date of such application conducted a transient business, stating the nature of such business and giving the post office and street address of the location in which such business was conducted.
(4)
A statement as to the nature, character and quality of goods, wares and merchandise to be sold; whether the same proposed to be sold from stock in possession or by sample; and whether the same are to be sold by direct sale or by taking orders for future delivery only.
(5)
Credentials or other necessary written authorization from the person for which the applicant proposes to do business, authorizing the applicant to act for and on behalf of such person as their representative.
(6)
Such other reasonable information pertaining to the identity or character of the person or persons having the management or supervision of applicant's business or the method or plan of doing such business that the city clerk may deem necessary or proper to fulfill the purpose of this article in the protection of the public good.
(Code 1967, § 15-154)
Sec. 6-257. - Same—Investigation; issuance of license.
Upon receipt of the application required hereby, the city clerk-treasurer shall cause such investigation into the application and the purposes thereof as he may deem necessary for the protection of the public good and welfare. If the application shall be found to comply with the provisions of this article, a license shall be issued in accordance with the provisions hereof but a complete record of the application, the license and the issuance thereof shall be maintained by the city clerk-treasurer as a part of the permanent records of the city.
(Code 1967, § 15-155)
Sec. 6-258. - License—Exhibition.
The license issued pursuant to this article shall be posted conspicuously in the place where the business so licensed is located and conducted. In the event that such person or persons applying for such license shall desire to do business in more than one (1) location within the city, separate licenses shall be required for each place of business and a license shall be posted conspicuously in each place of business.
(Code 1967, § 15-156)
Sec. 6-259. - Same—Fee.
The business license fee for a transient merchant, itinerant merchant or itinerant vendor licensed under the provisions of this article shall be in an amount determined by the city council from time to time and listed in the schedule of fees and charges maintained in the clerk-treasurer's office.
(Code 1967, § 15-157)
Sec. 6-260. - Same—Transferability.
The license issued pursuant to the provisions hereof shall not be transferred or assigned except as authorized by the ordinances of the city.
(Code 1967, § 15-158)
Sec. 6-261. - Same—Records.
The city clerk-treasurer together with the police department and any other law enforcement agencies located herein shall keep and maintain a record of all complaints received against any person licensed under the provisions of this article and of any records for convictions or violation of this article.
(Code 1967, § 15-159)
Sec. 6-262. - Same—Revocation.
(a)
The license issued pursuant to this article may be revoked by the city council after reasonable notice to the applicant and an opportunity for a hearing thereon for any one (1) or more of the following reasons:
(1)
Fraud, misrepresentation or false statements contained in the application for license.
(2)
Fraud, misrepresentation or false statements made in conjunction with the sale of goods, wares or merchandise.
(3)
Violation of any of the provisions of this article.
(4)
Conviction of the licensee of any felony or of any misdemeanor or crime involving moral turpitude.
(5)
Conducting the business licensed pursuant to the provisions of this article in an unlawful manner, in a manner to constitute a public nuisance, or in a manner to constitute a breach of peace or to constitute a menace to health, safety or general welfare of the public.
(b)
Notice of hearing for revocation of a license shall be given in writing to the applicant, setting forth specifically the grounds of the complaint and the time, date and place of the hearing thereon. Such notice shall be served on the licensee by handing the same to the person in charge of the licensed business or by mailing the same postage prepaid to the licensee at his last known address or to the designated agent for the service of process or the registered agent of the licensee, at least five (5) days prior to the date set for the hearing.
(c)
Service of the notice shall suspend the license pending outcome of the hearing and any business operation conducted pursuant to the provisions of the license shall promptly cease and terminate.
(Code 1967, § 15-160)
Sec. 6-263. - Violation; penalty.
Any person failing to comply with the terms of this article or who shall violate any of the provisions thereof shall upon conviction be fined and punished as provided in section 1-14 of this Code.
(Code 1967, § 15-161)
Secs. 6-264—6-285. - Reserved.
