ARTICLE IX. - AMUSEMENT CENTERS[10]

Footnotes:
--- (10) ---
State Law reference— Exchange of free replay for anything of value unlawful, O.C.G.A. § 16-12-35(c).

Sec. 6-221. - Definitions.
As used in this article, unless the context otherwise indicates:
Amusement center means any establishment operated for profit which houses more than three (3) mechanical/electronic amusement devices.
Mechanical/electronic device means any machine which, upon the insertion of a coin, slug or token or upon payment of a charge, is operated to register a score or tally of any kind or permits a certain amount of "play" for entertainment or score. It shall include such devices as pinball or pingame machines, shuffleboard devices and TV-like devices, but shall not be strictly limited to same.
Operator means any person in whose place of business any such machine or device is placed for use by the public.
(Code 1967, § 15-121)
Sec. 6-222. - License required.
Every operator of an amusement center shall be required, before commencing such operation, to obtain an amusement center license for amusement devices from the clerk-treasurer.
(Code 1967, § 15-122)
Sec. 6-223. - Applications.
(a)
Applications for the licenses required by this article shall be made to the clerk-treasurer upon forms supplied by the clerk-treasurer for that purpose. Each application shall contain the following information under oath.
(1)
Name of applicant; if a partnership, names of all partners; if a corporation, club or association, names of all officers.
(2)
Residence of applicant.
(3)
Age of applicant; if a corporation, club or association, organized under the laws of what state.
(4)
Type of business or activity.
(5)
Whether applicant (or if a corporation, club or association, its officers) has ever been convicted of a crime.
(6)
Place where machines or devices are to be displayed or operated and scale sketch of premises.
(7)
Description of types of machines to be placed on premises.
(b)
Each applicant for or holder of a license shall notify the clerk-treasurer promptly, within seven (7) days, of any change in the information set forth in the application.
(Code 1967, § 15-123)
Sec. 6-224. - Investigation of applicants.
The clerk-treasurer may request that the chief of police shall cause such background investigation to be made as he deems advisable of any applicant for a license and shall within thirty (30) days of filing of an application approve the same except that he may refuse the license if he determines that:
(1)
The operator has been convicted of a crime involving moral turpitude.
(2)
The business proposed for such location is not bona fide.
(3)
The operator is not at least eighteen (18) years of age.
(4)
The location does not have a certificate of zoning compliance or approval by the local or state fire marshal and any other official having jurisdiction.
(Code 1967, § 15-124)
Sec. 6-225. - Fee.
The business license fee for an amusement center licensed under the provisions of this article shall be in an amount determined by the city council from time to time and listed in the schedule of fees and charges maintained in the clerk-treasurer's office.
(Code 1967, § 15-125)
Sec. 6-226. - Term of license.
The license shall be valid for so long a period of time as the licensee shall be the operator of the establishment which is licensed. When the licensee is no longer the operator of the premises licensed, any new operator shall be required to obtain a license as provided in this article.
(Code 1967, § 15-126)
Sec. 6-227. - Conduct of operator's place of business.
(a)
Each operator shall maintain a good order in his place of business and shall not permit any mechanical/electronic amusement device to be used for gambling.
(b)
Each operator shall have at all times, during his hours of business, a responsible employee on duty for the purpose of supervising activities within and said employee shall be at least eighteen (18) years of age and shall not have been convicted of a crime involving moral turpitude.
(c)
Nothing in this section shall be construed to authorize, license or permit any gambling device whatsoever, or any mechanism judicially determined to be a gambling device, or declared contrary to law.
(d)
Supervision of such amusement center must be provided in the same room as the mechanical/electronic devices used for entertainment.
(e)
There shall be no restriction regarding licensing or business hours, or other restriction on premises where less than four (4) mechanical/electronic devices are placed.
(Code 1967, § 15-127)
Secs. 6-228—6-250. - Reserved.
