ARTICLE 4. - GENERAL PROVISIONS

Section 401. - Delegation of authority to administrative officer.
The county board of commissioners hereby delegates to the administrative officer the authority to approve, conditionally approve, or disapprove final plats, lot combination plats, and boundary line adjustments, provided, however, such delegation does not authorize the administrative officer to accept public improvements for the county board of commissioners. The administrative officer is vested with the authority to review, approve, conditionally approve, or disapprove development plans. No person shall refuse entry or access to the administrative officer upon request to enter onto property for purposes of inspection, upon the presentation of appropriate credentials, nor shall any person obstruct, hamper or interfere with any such administrative officer while in the process of carrying out his or her official duties.
Section 402. - Delegation of authority to director of public works.
The director of public works is vested with the authority to require and approve, conditionally approve, or deny approval of development applications and subdivision and land development improvements. The director of public works shall require improvement guarantees for public improvements as specified in this resolution. The director of public works is further authorized to promulgate additional technical standards and construction specifications for land development improvements not already specified by this resolution, including but not limited to water systems, sanitary sewer systems, streets, storm drainage systems, utilities, driveways, curb cuts, and parking lots. No person shall refuse entry or access to the director of public works upon request to enter onto property for purposes of inspection, upon the presentation of appropriate credentials, nor shall any person obstruct, hamper or interfere with any the director of public works while in the process of carrying out his or her official duties.
Section 403. - Planning commission authority.
The planning commission shall be the official platting authority for the county. To this end, it shall be authorized and have the duty to review and act on applications for preliminary plat approval.
Section 404. - Jurisdiction.
This resolution shall apply to all unincorporated lands within the county boundaries of the county.
Section 405. - Land is one tract until subdivided.
Until property proposed for subdivision has received final plat approval and been properly recorded, the land involving the subdivision shall be considered as one tract, or as otherwise legally recorded.
Section 406. - Subdivision of land.
No person shall subdivide land except in conformance with this resolution. It shall hereafter be unlawful for any person, firm, corporation, owner, agent or subdivider, by deed or map, to sell, transfer, agree to sell, offer at public auction, negotiate to sell or subdivide any land until a preliminary plat, if required, and final plat have been approved and final plat recorded in accordance with this resolution. Said restriction applies to lands subdivided for nonresidential as well as residential uses. The description by metes and bounds in the instrument of transfer or other document used in the process of selling or transfer shall not exempt the transaction from this resolution or from the penalties established herein. The county through its attorney or other designated official may enjoin such transfer of, sale, or agreement by appropriate action.
Section 407. - Development of land.
No person shall disturb or develop land or engage in development except in accordance with this resolution. It shall hereafter be unlawful for any person, firm, corporation, owner, agent, developer or subdivider to disturb or develop any land until a development plan, if required, has been approved by the administrative officer in accordance with this resolution. No person shall begin construction of any improvements on any lot, prior to the approval of a preliminary plat if required by this resolution, nor prior to approval of development plans for said improvements as required by this resolution.
The administrative officer shall not authorize or permit the clearance of trees and vegetative materials, except for grubbing, outside approved construction limits.
Section 408. - Building and other permits.
No building permit shall be issued for any lot in any subdivision for which there is no approved and recorded final plat. As a single exception, builders, who are also the developer/sub-divider may be granted permit for one model per subdivision after preliminary plat approval.
Section 409. - Public streets and lands.
No land dedicated as a public street or other public purpose shall be opened, extended or accepted as a public street or for any other purpose improvements unless such dedication is constructed in accordance with the specifications of this resolution and accepted by the county board of commissioners.
Section 410. - Preliminary plat, development plans and development permit required.
No person shall begin development, land-disturbing activity, or construction of any improvements on any lot or land except in compliance with this resolution. No development permit shall be issued for land disturbance or the installation of improvements, prior to the approval of a preliminary plat of such land, if required by this resolution, and the approval of a development permit nor prior to approval by the administrative officer of engineered plans for land disturbance and installation of improvements.
Section 411. - Recording of subdivision plats.
No subdivision plat, nor part thereof, shall be recorded with the clerk of superior court of the county unless such plat has been approved for recording by the administrative officer. The clerk of the superior court of the county shall not record a plat of a subdivision, whether evidenced as a plat or as an attachment to a deed, unless such plat is a final plat approved by the administrative officer and contains the administrative officer's signature thereon.
Section 412. - Exemption from plat approval.
The following types of land subdivision, transfer, and sale are specifically exempted from the plat approval requirements of this resolution; provided, however, that such exemptions shall not apply to land development requirements and improvement requirements of this resolution: any division of land to heirs through a judicial estate proceeding, or any division of land pursuant to a judicial partition, or any division of land occurring from the foreclosure of a deed of trust; provided, however, that such exemption shall not require the county to issue permits if the resulting lots or parcels fail to meet any applicable resolution provisions regarding lot size, lot width, and other dimensional requirements.
Section 413. - Exemption from plan approval.
The land development plan requirements specified in this resolution shall not apply to any individual lot which was platted in accordance with the requirements of this resolution or which lawfully existed (see definition of lot of record) that is developed or is proposed to be developed for a detached, single-family dwelling or manufactured home. A development permit, and the submission of development plans pursuant to this resolution, shall not be required for detached, single-family dwellings including manufactured homes; provided, however, such development of individual lots for a detached, single-family dwelling or manufactured home shall comply as required with building codes and other resolutions as applicable (see article 2 of this resolution).
