ARTICLE XIV. - EMPLOYEE DEVELOPMENT AND TRAINING

Sec. 46-271. - Policy.
It shall be the responsibility of the county manager in cooperation with the supervising elected officials, board of commissioners, department managers, employees and others to foster and promote programs of training for county employees in the classified service for improving the quality of services rendered and aiding employees to equip them for advancement.
(Res. No. 2004-16, 5-4-04)
Sec. 46-272. - Administration.
The director of human resources shall:
(1)
Recommend training programs;
(2)
Assure that training is carried out as approved and prepare certificates or other forms of recognition for persons who satisfactorily complete approved courses and programs;
(3)
Assist department managers in developing and conducting training to meet the specific needs of their departments and in developing and utilizing other techniques for increasing employee efficiency;
(4)
Develop supervisory and management training and other types of training and employee development programs;
(5)
Assist department managers in establishing standards of performance and procedures for evaluating employee efficiency;
(6)
Make available information concerning job requirements and training opportunities in order to assist employees in increasing their efficiency in their present positions, and in preparing themselves for promotion to higher positions in the county service;
(7)
Keep a record of all approved training programs and courses and a record of employees who successfully complete such courses and programs;
(8)
Cooperate with department managers, employees, and others to promote measures directed toward more sanitary, safe, and healthful working conditions; toward affording better facilities for recreation; toward greater security and economic advantage; and improving the morale of county employees.
(Res. No. 2004-16, 5-4-04)
Sec. 46-273. - Training/conferences/travel.
The supervising elected official, department manager, and/or county manager must approve all training courses, conferences, or meetings regardless of whether the item has been included in the approved budget.
(Res. No. 2004-16, 5-4-04)
Secs. 46-274—46-280. - Reserved.
