PART I - CHARTER[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Editor's note— Printed herein is the Charter of the city, 1977 Ga. Laws (Act No. 612), page 4173. Amendments are indicated by parenthetical history notes following amended provisions. The absence of a history note indicates that the provision remains unchanged from the original. Obvious misspellings and punctuation errors have been corrected without notation. The style used for headings and catchlines has been made uniform, and the same system of capitalization and expression of numbers in text as appears in the Code of Ordinances has been used. Additions made for clarity such as consistent state statute citations and catchline modifications are indicated by brackets.

ARTICLE I. - CREATION; INCORPORATION; POWERS

Section 1.11. - Incorporation.
The mayor and council of the Town of Whitesburg, Georgia, hereinafter referred to as [the] City of Whitesburg, Georgia, or as [the] City in Carroll County, and the inhabitants thereof shall continue to be a body politic and corporate under the same name and style of the City of Whitesburg, Georgia. Under that name, said city shall continue to be vested with all of the property which now belongs to the corporation; shall have perpetual succession; may sue and be sued; may contract and be contracted with; may acquire and hold such property, real and personal, as may be devised, bequeathed, sold, or in any manner conveyed or dedicated to or otherwise acquired by it, and from time to time may hold or invest, sell or dispose of the same; may have a common seal and alter and renew the same at will; and may exercise in conformity with this Charter all municipal powers, functions, rights, privileges, and immunities of every name and nature whatsoever.
Section 1.12. - Corporate boundaries.
(a)
The boundaries of the City of Whitesburg, Georgia, shall be those existing on the effective date of the adoption of this Charter with such alterations as may be made from time to time in the manner provided by law. The current boundaries of the City of Whitesburg, Georgia, at all times, shall be shown on a map, a written description or any combination thereof, to be retained permanently in the office of the city clerk and to be designated, as the case may be: "Map (or description) of the corporate limits of the City of Whitesburg, Georgia." Alterations in these boundaries shall be indicated by appropriate entries upon or additions to such map or description. Such entries or additions shall be made by and under the direction of the mayor and city council. Photographic, typed, or other copies of such map or description certified by the city clerk shall be admitted in evidence in all courts and shall have the same force and effect as with the original map or description.
(b)
The city council and mayor may provide for the redrawing of any such map. A redrawn map shall supersede for all purposes the earlier map or maps which it is designated to replace.
Section 1.13. - Specific powers.
The corporate powers of the government of the City of Whitesburg, to be exercised by the governing authority, may include the following:
(1)
To levy and to provide for the assessment, valuation, revaluation, and collection of taxes on all property subject to taxation;
(2)
To levy and to provide for the collection of license fees and taxes on privileges, occupations, trades and professions, and to license and regulate such privileges, occupations, trades and professions, and to provide for the manner and method of payment of such licenses and taxes;
(3)
To make appropriations for the support of the government of the city, to authorize the expenditure of money for any purposes authorized by this Charter and for any purpose for which a municipality is authorized by the laws of the State of Georgia, and to provide for the payment of expenses of the city;
(4)
To appropriate and borrow money for the payment of debts of the city and to issue bonds for the purpose of raising revenue to carry out any project, program or venture authorized by this Charter or the laws of the State of Georgia;
(5)
To acquire, dispose of, and hold in trust or otherwise, any real, personal, or mixed property, in fee simple or lesser interest, inside or outside the property limits of the city;
(6)
To accept or refuse gifts, donations, bequests or grants from any source for any purpose related to the powers and duties of the city and the general welfare of its citizens, on such terms and conditions as the donor or grantor may impose;
(7)
To condemn property, inside or outside the corporate limits of the city for present or future use, and any corporate purpose deemed necessary by the governing authority, under section 36-202 of the Georgia Code or under other applicable public acts as are or may be enacted; such power to be exercised only within Carroll County;
(8)
To acquire, lease, construct, operate, maintain, sell and dispose of public utilities, including, but not limited to, a system of waterworks, sewers and drains, sewerage disposal, gas works, electric light plants, transportation facilities, public airports, and any other public utility; to fix the taxes, charges, rates, fares, fees, assessments, regulations and penalties and withdrawal of service for refusal or failure to pay same and the manner in which such remedies shall be enforced;
(9)
To grant franchises or make contracts for public utilities and public services; to prescribe the rates, fares, regulations and standards and conditions of service applicable to the service to be provided by the franchise grantee or contractor, insofar as not in conflict with such regulations by the public service commission;
(10)
To lay out, open, extend, widen, narrow, establish or change the grade of, abandon, or close, construct, pave, curb, gutter, adorn with shade trees, otherwise improve, maintain, repair, clean, prevent erosion of roads, alleys, and walkways within the corporate limits of the city;
(11)
To grant franchises and rights-of-way throughout the streets and roads, public rights-of-way over the bridges and viaducts, for the use public utilities;
(12)
To provide for the acquisition, construction, building, operation, and maintenance of public ways, parks and playgrounds, recreational facilities, cemeteries, water plants and fixtures, markets and market houses, public auditoriums, buildings, libraries, sewers, drains, sewerage treatment plants, airports, hospitals, and charitable, cultural, educational, penal and medical institutions, agencies, and facilities; and any other public improvements, inside or outside the corporate limits of the city; and to regulate the use thereof, and for such purposes, property may be acquired by condemnation under section 36-202 of the Georgia Code, or other applicable public acts, as are or may be enacted;
(13)
To require real estate owners to repair and maintain in a safe condition the sidewalks adjoining their lots or lands; and to enact ordinances establishing the terms and conditions under which such repairs and maintenance shall be effected, including the penalties to be imposed for failure to do so;
(14)
To regulate the erection and construction of buildings and all other structures; to adopt building, housing, plumbing, electrical, gas, and heating and air-conditioning codes and to regulate all housing, building, and building trades; to license all building trades, and to license the construction and erection of buildings and all other structures, and to adopt zoning ordinances;
(15)
To provide for the prevention and punishment of drunkenness, riots, and public disturbances;
(16)
To regulate or prohibit junk dealers, pawn shops; the manufacture, sale or transportation of intoxicating liquors; the use and sale of firearms; and to regulate the transportation, storage and use of combustible, explosive and inflammable materials, the use of lighting and heating equipment, and any other business or situation which may be dangerous to persons or property;
(17)
To regulate and control the conduct of peddlers, and itinerant trades, theatrical performances, exhibitions, shows of any kind, whatever, by taxation or otherwise;
(18)
To prohibit or regulate and control the erection, removal, and maintenance of signs, billboards, trees, shrubs, fences, buildings and any and all other structures or obstructions upon or adjacent to the rights-of-way of streets and roads or within view thereof, within or abutting the corporate limits of the city, and to prescribe the penalties and punishment for violation of such ordinances;
(19)
To prescribe standards of health and sanitation and to provide for the enforcement or such standards;
(20)
To regulate the emission of smoke or other exhaust which pollutes the air, to prevent the pollution of natural streams which flow within the corporate limits of the city and to regulate noise and sound volumes and emissions or pollutions;
(21)
To fix and establish fire limits and from time to time to extend, enlarge or restrict same; to prescribe fire safety regulations not inconsistent with general law, relating to both fire prevention and detection and to firefighting, and to prescribe penalties and punishment for violation thereof;
(22)
To provide for the destruction and removal of any building or other structure which may or might become dangerous or detrimental to the public; to provide for removal of junk, garbage, refuse or abandoned or wrecked vehicles from public or private property and in the event such removal is carried out by the city, that the city shall assess fees against the property owner for the removal or clearing of the same;
(23)
To provide for the collection, method of collection, and disposal of garbage, rubbish and refuse and to regulate the collection and disposal of garbage, rubbish and refuse by others; and to provide for the separate collection of glass, tin, aluminum, cardboard, paper, and other recyclable materials and to provide for the sale of such items;
(24)
To levy, fix, assess, and collect a garbage, refuse and trash collection and disposal and other sanitary service charge, tax, or fee, for such services as may be necessary in the operation of the city from all individuals, firms, and corporations residing in or doing business therein benefiting from such services; to enforce the payment of such charges, taxes, [and] fees, and to provide for the manner and method of collecting such service charges;
(25)
To levy a fee, charge, or sewer assessment or tax as necessary to assure the acquiring, constructing, equipping, operating, maintaining, and extending of a sewage disposal plant and sewerage system, and to levy on the users of sewers and the sewerage system a sewer service fee or sewer tax for the use of the sewers; and to provide for the manner and method of collecting such service charges and for enforcing payment of same; to levy a fee, charge or water assessment fee or tax for water connection;
(26)
To own, maintain, operate, to charge, impose and collect a sewer connection fee or fees, and to change the same from time to time; such fees to be levied on the users connecting with the sewerage system, to charge a water connection fee or fees to be levied on users connecting with the water system;
(27)
To define, regulate and prohibit any act, practice, conduct or use of property which is detrimental, or likely to be detrimental, to the health, sanitation, cleanliness, welfare, and safety of the inhabitants of the city and to provide for the enforcement of such standards;
(28)
To define a nuisance and provide for its abatement whether on public or private property;
(29)
To provide for the preservation and protection of property and equipment of the city and administration and use of same by the public, and to prescribe penalties and punishment for violations thereof;
(30)
To establish minimum standards for and to regulate building construction and repair, electrical wiring and equipment, gas installation and equipment, plumbing, and housing, for the health, sanitation, cleanliness, welfare, and safety of inhabitants of the city and to provide for the enforcement of such standards;
(31)
To provide that persons given jail sentences in the municipal court shall work out such sentences in any public works or on the streets, roads, drains and squares in the city; or to provide for the commitment of such persons to any county work camp or jail by agreement with the appropriate county officials;
(32)
To adopt ordinances and regulations for the prevention of disorderly conduct and disturbing the peace in the corporate limits of the city and to prohibit the playing of lotteries therein, unless otherwise provided by state law, and to prohibit or regulate by ordinance such other conduct and activities within said city which, while not constituting an offense against the laws of this state, are deemed by the governing authority to be detrimental and offensive to the peace and good order of the city or to the welfare of the citizens thereof;
(33)
To regulate and license, or prohibit the keeping or running at large of animals and fowl and to provide for the impoundment of same, if in violation of any ordinance or lawful order; also to provide for their disposition by sale, gift, or humane destruction, when not redeemed as provided by ordinance enacted hereunder;
(34)
To regulate the operation of motor vehicles and exercise control over all traffic, including parking, upon or across the streets, roads, alley and walkways of the city;
(35)
To regulate and license vehicles operated for hire in the city; to limit the number of such vehicles; to require the operators thereof to be licensed; to require public liability insurance of such vehicles in the amounts to be prescribed by ordinance; and to regulate and rent parking spaces in public ways for the use of such vehicles;
(36)
To provide and maintain a system of pensions and retirement for officers, officials and employees of the city; to provide health, accident, and life insurance policies for officers, officials and employees of the city;
(37)
To levy and provide for the collection of special assessments to cover the costs for any public improvements;
(38)
To enter into contracts and agreements with other governmental entities and with private persons, firms and corporations providing for services to be furnished and payments to be made therefor;
(39)
To create, alter or abolish departments, boards, offices, commissions, and agencies of the city, and to confer upon such agencies the necessary and appropriate authority for carrying out all the powers conferred upon or delegated to same;
(40)
To make, ordain and establish such bylaws, ordinances, rules and regulations as shall appear necessary for the security, welfare, convenience and interest of the city and the inhabitants thereof, and for preserving the health, peace, order and good government of the city;
(41)
To provide penalties for violations of any ordinance adopted pursuant to the authority of this Charter and the laws of the State of Georgia;
(42)
To exercise the power of arrest through duly appointed policemen;
(43)
To establish procedures for determining and proclaiming that an emergency situation exists within or without the city, and to make and carry out all reasonable provisions deemed necessary to deal with or meet such an emergency for the protection, safety, health or well-being of the citizens of the city;
(44)
To establish a municipal court to have jurisdiction and authority to try offenses against the laws and ordinances of said city and state and to punish and fine individuals in violation of the same;
(45)
To levy and charge a fee, charge or water assessment tax as necessary to assure the acquiring, construction, equipping, operating, maintaining and extending of a water collection or treatment plant and water system to levy on the users of water and water system, a water fee or water tax for the use of water to provide for collecting such charges or fees and provide for a method of collecting such service charges and provide for payment of the same, such method to include, but not be limited to, the disconnection of services for failure to pay for such services; to charge, impose, and collect a water connection or disconnection fee or fees, such fees to be levied on the users connecting or disconnecting from such water system and to manner and method of collecting such fees and penalties for collecting and enforcing the same;
(46)
To exercise and enjoy all other powers, functions, rights, privileges and immunities necessary or desirable to promote or protect the safety, health, peace, security, good order, comfort, convenience, or general welfare of the city and its inhabitants; and to exercise all implied powers necessary to carry into execution all powers granted in this Charter as fully and completely as if such powers were fully enumerated herein; and to exercise all powers now or in the future authorized to be exercised by other municipal governments under other laws of the State of Georgia. No enumeration of particular powers in this Charter shall be held to be exclusive of others, nor restrictive of general words and phrases granting powers; but shall be held to be in addition to such powers unless expressly prohibited to municipalities under the Constitution or applicable laws of the State of Georgia.
Section 1.14. - General powers.
In addition to all other powers herein granted, the city shall be vested with any and all powers which municipal corporations are, or may hereafter be, authorized or required to exercise under the constitution and laws of the State of Georgia, as fully and completely as though such powers were specifically enumerated herein; and any and all powers which the city was heretofore authorized to exercise upon the effective date of this Charter.
Section 1.15. - Construction.
The powers of the city shall be construed liberally and in favor of the city. The specific mention or failure to mention particular powers in this Charter shall not be construed as limiting in any way the general power of the city as stated in this Charter. It is the intention hereof to grant the city full power and right to exercise all governmental authority necessary for the effective operation and conduct of the city and all of its affairs.
Section 1.16. - Exercise of powers.
All powers, functions, rights, privileges, and immunities of the city, its officers, agencies, or employees shall be carried into execution as provided by this Charter. If this Charter makes no provision such powers, functions, rights, privileges, and immunities shall be carried into execution as provided by ordinance of the governing authority and as provided by pertinent laws of the State of Georgia.
Section 1.17. - Ordinances.
All ordinances, bylaws, rules and regulations now in force in the city not inconsistent with this Charter are hereby declared valid and of full effect and force until amended or repealed by the governing authority.
ARTICLE II. - GOVERNING AUTHORITY

Section 2.10. - Creation; composition; number; election.
The legislative authority of the government of the City of Whitesburg, Georgia, except as otherwise specifically provided for in this Charter, shall be vested in a city council to be composed of a mayor and four city councilpersons. The mayor and councilpersons shall be elected in the manner prescribed by article V of this Charter.
Section 2.11. - Terms and qualifications of office.
The members of the council shall serve for terms of two years and until their respective successors are elected and qualified. No person shall be eligible to serve as mayor or councilperson unless he shall have been a resident of the city for a period of not less than six months immediately prior to the date of the election of mayor or members of the council and shall continue to reside therein during his period of service, and shall be registered and qualified to vote in municipal elections of the City of Whitesburg, Georgia.
Section 2.12. - Vacancy; forfeiture of office; filling of vacancies.
(a)
Vacancies. The office of mayor or councilperson shall become vacant upon the incumbent's death, resignation, forfeiture of office or removal from office in any manner authorized by this Charter or the laws of the State of Georgia.
(b)
The mayor or any councilperson shall forfeit his or her office if she or he be absent from the city's regular council meetings more than three meetings in any six-month period of time while the mayor or councilperson holds office unless said absences from said council meetings are medically excused due to illness or accident and is so certified by a licensed medical doctor duly certified to practice medicine in the State of Georgia.
(c)
Filling of vacancies. A vacancy in the office of mayor or councilperson shall be filled for the remainder of the unexpired term, if any, as provided for in article V [of this Charter].
(Ord. of 11-1-1982(1), § 1)
Section 2.13. - Compensation and expenses.
The mayor and councilpersons shall receive as compensation for their services the amount of $100.00 per year per councilperson and the mayor shall receive payment of $200.00 per year, or such other sums as are from time to time set by ordinance passed by the council in conformity with the laws of the State of Georgia. The mayor and councilpersons shall be entitled to receive their actual and necessary expenses included in the performance of their duties.
Section 2.14. - Prohibitions.
(a)
Holding other office. Except as authorized by law, no member of the council or the mayor shall hold any other elective city office or city employment during the term for which he was elected. No mayor or councilperson shall hold voting membership on any board, authority, or commission created by city ordinance while holding office as councilperson or as mayor.
(b)
Voting when personally interested. Neither the mayor nor any other member of the council shall vote upon any question in which he is personally interested.
Section 2.15. - Inquiries and Investigations.
The council may make inquiries and investigations into the affairs of the city and the conduct of any department, board, commission or authority created by act of said council thereof and for this purpose may subpoena witnesses, administer oaths, take testimony, and require the production of evidence. Any person who fails or refuses to obey a lawful order issued in the exercise of these powers by the council shall be punished as provided by ordinance.
Section 2.16. - General power and authority of the council.
(a)
Except as otherwise provided by law or by this Charter, the council shall be vested with all the powers of government of the City of Whitesburg, Georgia, as provided by article I [of this Charter].
(b)
In addition to all other powers conferred upon it by law, the council shall have authority to adopt and provide for the execution of such ordinances, resolutions, rules and regulations not inconsistent with this Charter, the Constitution of the United States of America, and the Georgia Constitution and the laws of the State of Georgia, which it shall deem necessary, expedient, or helpful for the peace, good order, protection of life and property, health, welfare, sanitation, comfort, convenience, prosperity, or well-being of the inhabitants of the mayor and council of the City of Whitesburg, Georgia, and may enforce such ordinance by imposing penalties for violation thereof.
(c)
The council may be ordinance create, change, alter, abolish, or consolidate offices, agencies, and departments of the city and may assign additional functions to any of the offices, agencies, and departments expressly provided for by this Charter.
Section 2.17. - Powers and duties of mayor.
The mayor shall be the official spokesman for the city and chief advocate of policy. He shall preside over all meetings of the city council and shall sign ordinances and resolutions except as otherwise provided by this Charter. He shall sign deeds, bonds, contracts, and other documents or instruments when authorized by the council to do so. The mayor shall vote only in case of a tie. The mayor shall have the power to administer oaths and to take affidavits. The mayor shall be the official head of the city for the service of process and for ceremonial duties. The mayor shall perform such other duties as may be empowered by this Charter or by order of the council not inconsistent therewith.
Section 2.18. - Election of mayor.
The mayor shall be elected for a term of two years and until his successor is elected and qualified. He shall be a qualified elector of the City of Whitesburg.
Section 2.19. - Limitation terms of service.
There shall be no limit on terms of service of either the mayor or city councilpersons.
Section 2.20. - [Mayor pro tem; clerk.]
(a)
Mayor pro tem. During his absence or disability of the mayor for any cause, the mayor pro tem, or in his absence or disability for any reason, any one of the councilpersons chosen by the council, shall be clothed with all the rights and privileges of the mayor and shall perform the duties of the office of mayor so long as such absence or disability shall continue.
(b)
Clerk. Following the swearing in of all councilpersons, the council, by majority vote, shall elect one of their members to be city clerk who shall record and keep records of all proceedings at regular or special called meetings of said council.
Section 2.21. - Organization of council.
[(a)]
The new councilpersons shall be sworn in by a justice of the peace or the city attorney and the oaths of office shall be administered to the newly elected members as follows: "I do solemnly swear that I will well and truly perform the duties of my office of the mayor and council of the City of Whitesburg, Georgia, and that I will support and defend the Charter thereof as well as the Constitution and laws of the State of Georgia and the United States of America."
[(b)]
Following the induction ceremonies of the new members, the council, by majority vote of all the members thereof, shall elect one of their members to be mayor pro tem. Said mayor pro tem shall serve for a term to coincide with the term for which the mayor and city council were elected or until his successor is elected and qualified.
Section 2.22. - Regular and special meetings.
(a)
The council shall hold regular meetings at such time and places as prescribed by ordinance. The council may recess any regular meeting and continue such meeting on any weekday or hour it may fix, and may transact any business at such continued meeting as may be transacted at any regular meeting.
(b)
Special meetings of the council may be held on call of at least two members of the council. Notice of such special meetings shall be served on all other members personally, or by telephone personally, or shall be left at their residence at least 12 hours in advance of the meeting. Such notice shall not be required if the mayor and all councilpersons are present when the special meeting is called.
(c)
All meetings of the council shall be public unless such sessions can be privately held in accordance with the laws of the State of Georgia.
Section 2.23. - Rules of procedure.
[(a)]
The council shall adopt its rules of procedure and order of business consistent with the provisions of this Charter and shall provide for keeping a journal of its proceedings, which shall be a public record.
[(b)]
General rules of parliamentary procedure shall be followed as in accordance with "Roberts' Rules of Order" unless otherwise adopted by the council.
Section 2.24. - Quorum; voting.
The mayor (or mayor pro tem when presiding) and three councilpersons shall constitute a quorum and shall be authorized to transact business of the council. Voting on the adoption of ordinances shall be taken by hand vote and the votes shall be recorded in the journal. When a quorum is present, the affirmative vote of a majority of these councilpersons present shall be required for the adoption of any ordinance, resolution, or motion except as otherwise provided in this Charter.
Section 2.25. - Action requiring an ordinance.
(a)
Except as herein provided, every official action of the council which is to become law shall be by ordinance. Each proposed ordinance or resolution shall be introduced in writing and in the form required for final adoption. No ordinance shall contain a subject which is not expressed in its title. The enacting clause shall be "The mayor and council of the City of Whitesburg, Georgia, hereby ordains...."
(b)
An ordinance may be introduced by any member of the council and read at a regular or special meeting of the council. Ordinances shall be considered and adopted or rejected by the council in accordance with the rules which it shall establish. Upon introduction of any ordinance, the clerk shall distribute a copy to the mayor, and to each councilperson, and shall file a reasonable number of copies in the office of the clerk and at such other public places as the council may designate. All ordinances must be passed by majority vote of the members of the council with a quorum being present at the time of such vote.
Section 2.26. - Emergency ordinances.
To meet a public emergency affecting life, health, property, or public peace, the council may adopt one or more emergency ordinances, but such ordinances may not levy taxes, grant, renew or extend a franchise, regulate the rate charged by any public utility for its services, or authorize the borrowing of money except as provided by law. An emergency ordinance shall be introduced in the form and manner prescribed for ordinances generally except that it shall plainly be designated as an emergency ordinance and shall contain, after the enacting clause, a declaration stating that an emergency exists and describing it in clear and specific terms. An emergency ordinance may be adopted with or without amendment or rejected at the meeting at which it is introduced, but the affirmative vote of at least three councilpersons shall be required for adoption. It shall become effective upon adoption or at such later time as it may specify. An emergency ordinance may be repealed by adoption of a repealing ordinance in the same manner specified in this section for adoption of emergency ordinances.
Section 2.27. - Codes of technical regulations.
(a)
The council may adopt any standard code of technical regulations by reference thereto in an adopting ordinance. The procedure and requirements governing such adopting ordinance shall be as prescribed for ordinances generally, except that:
(1)
The requirements of section 2.25(b) for distribution and filing of copies of the ordinance shall be construed to include copies of any code of technical regulation, as well as the adopting ordinance; and
(2)
A copy of each adopted code of technical regulations, as well as the adopting ordinance, shall be authenticated and recorded by the clerk pursuant to section 2.28.
(b)
Copies of any adopted code of technical regulations shall be made available by the clerk for distribution or for purchase at a reasonable price.
Section 2.28. - Signing, authenticating, recording, codification, printing.
(a)
The clerk or city manager shall authenticate by his signature and record in full in a properly indexed book kept for the purpose of recording all ordinances adopted by the council. Every ordinance adopted by the council shall be presented promptly by the clerk to the mayor.
(b)
The council may provide for the preparation of a general codification of all of the ordinances of the city having the force and effect of law. The general codification may be adopted by the council by ordinance and shall be published promptly, together with all amendments thereto, with this Charter any amendment thereto, and such codes of technical regulations and other rules and regulations as the city council may specify. This compilation may be known and cited officially as "The Code of the City of Whitesburg, Georgia." Copies of the code may be furnished to all officers, departments, and agencies of the city and may be made available for purchase by the public at a reasonable price as fixed by the council.
(c)
The council shall cause each ordinance and each amendment to this Charter to be typed or printed promptly following its adoption and the typed or printed ordinance and Charter amendments may be made available for purchase by the public at reasonable prices to be fixed by the council. If the council adopts an ordinance requiring a codification of city ordinances and following publication of the first code of the City of Whitesburg, Georgia, and at all times thereafter, the ordinances and Charter amendments shall be printed in substantially the same style as the code currently in effect and shall be suitable in form for incorporation therein. The council shall make such further arrangements as deemed desirable with respect to reproduction and distribution of any current changes in or additions to codes of technical regulations and other rules and regulations included in the Code.
ARTICLE III. - EXECUTIVE BRANCH

Section 3.10. - Administrative and service departments.
(a)
The council, by ordinance, may establish, abolish, merge, or consolidate offices, positions of employment departments and agencies of the city, as it shall deem necessary for the proper administration of the affairs and government of the city. The council shall prescribe the functions and duties of existing departments, offices, and agencies or of any departments, offices and agencies hereinafter created or established; may provide that the same person shall fill any number of offices and positions of employment; and may transfer or change the function or duties of offices, positions of employment, departments and agencies of the city. The council may appoint one of its members to supervise one or more departments of the city.
(b)
The operations and responsibilities of each department now or hereafter established in the city shall be distributed among such divisions or bureaus as may be provided by ordinance of the council. Each department shall consist of such officers, employees, and positions as may be provided by this Charter or by ordinance, and shall be subject to the direct supervision and guidance of one councilperson and to the general supervision and guidance of the mayor and council, or in the event the council creates the office of city manager, to the direct supervision and guidance of the city manager.
(c)
Except as otherwise provided by this Charter, the directors of departments and other appointed officers of the city shall serve at the pleasure of the appointing authority.
[(d)]
Vacancies occurring in an appointive office shall be filled in the same manner as prescribed by this Charter for an original appointment.
[(e)]
Except as otherwise provided by law, the directors of departments and other appointed officers of the city shall be appointed solely on the basis of their respective administrative and professional qualifications.
[(f)]
All appointive officers and directors of departments shall receive such compensation as prescribed by ordinance of the city council.
Section 3.11. - Boards, commissions, and authorities.
(a)
All members of boards, commissions and authorities of the city shall be appointed by the council for such terms of office and such manner of appointment as provided by ordinance, except where other appointing authority, term of office or manner of appointment is prescribed by this Charter or by applicable state law.
(b)
No voting member of any board, commission or authority shall hold an elective office in the city.
(c)
Any vacancy in office of any member of a board, commission, or authority of the city shall be filled for the unexpired term in the manner prescribed herein for original appointment, except as otherwise provided by this Charter or any applicable state law.
(d)
No member of any board, commission or authority shall assume office until he shall have executed and filed with the clerk of the city an oath obligating himself to faithfully and impartially perform the duties of his office. Such oath to be prescribed by ordinance of the council and administered by the city attorney.
(e)
Any member of a board, commission, or authority may be removed from office for cause by a vote of a majority of the members of the city council.
(f)
Members of boards, commissions, and authorities may receive such compensation and expenses in the performance of their official duties as prescribed by ordinance.
(g)
The qualifications required of members of boards, commissions, and authorities shall be prescribed by ordinance.
(h)
Except as otherwise provided by this Chapter or by applicable state law, each board, commission, or authority of the city government shall elect one of its members as chairman and one member as vice-chairman for terms of one year and may elect as its secretary an employee of the city. Each board, commission, or authority of the city government may establish such bylaws, rules and regulations, not inconsistent with this Charter, ordinances of the city, or applicable state law, as it deems appropriate and necessary for the conduct of its affairs, copies of which shall be filed with the clerk of the city after approval by the mayor and city council.
Section 3.12. - City attorney.
The council shall appoint a city attorney and shall provide for the payment for such attorney for service rendered to the city including an amount set out as a retainer. The city attorney shall be the magistrate in the recorder's court. The city attorney shall advise and counsel the city council, mayor and other officers and employees of the city concerning legal aspects of the city's affairs. The city attorney shall perform such other duties as may be required by virtue of his position as city attorney. He shall be responsible for representing and defending the city in all litigation in which the city is a party unless said attorney be presented therein with a conflict of interest. He shall be removed by vote of three members of the council for neglect of duty. He shall be appointed by the council and serve at the discretion of the council.
Section 3.13. - City clerk.
(a)
The city council may appoint one of its members as city clerk to keep a journal of the proceedings of the city council and to maintain in a safe place all records and documents pertaining to the affairs of the city and to perform such other duties as may be required by law or that the city council may direct.
(b)
The city council may appoint a person to assist the city clerk in keeping and maintaining the journal of the proceedings of the city council, all other records, including those records kept and maintained for the water department, voting records, files and documents of the city. The assistant city clerk may perform such other duties as the council requires. Such person may receive such salary and compensation as the city council may fix by ordinance.
Section 3.14. - Tax collector.
The city council may, by ordinance, appoint a tax collector to collect all taxes, license fees and other monies belonging to the city subject to the provisions of this Charter and ordinances of the city and the tax collector shall diligently comply with and enforce all general laws of Georgia relating to the collection, sale or foreclosure of taxes by municipality. Said tax collector may be the same individual as appointed by the city clerk.
Section 3.20. - City Manager; appointment, qualification and compensation.
The council may appoint by enacting ordinance for an indefinite term, an office whose title shall be city manager. The manager may be appointed solely on the basis of his or her executive and administrative qualifications with special reference to his or her educational background and actual experience in and knowledge of the duties hereinafter prescribed. The manager shall serve at the pleasure of the council. The compensation of the manager shall be fixed by the council by ordinance. At the time of appointment, the city manager need not be a resident of the city and neither shall be required to reside therein during his or her tenure of office.
Section 3.21. - Chief administrative officer.
In the event of establishment of the office of city manager by proper enacting ordinance, the city manager shall be the chief administrative officer of the government of "the mayor and council of the City of Whitesburg, Georgia." In the event of the creation of said office of the city manager, he or she shall be responsible to the council for the proper and efficient administration of the affairs of the city.
Section 3.22. - Powers and duties.
As chief administrative officer, the manager shall in the event of the creation of said office have the power to appoint all city officers and department directors with the approval of the city council. He shall have such other powers and duties as are vested in him or her by this Charter and by ordinance.
Section 3.23. - Grounds for removal.
The manager shall be subject to removal from office for any one of the following causes:
(a)
Conviction of a crime involving moral turpitude;
(b)
Incompetence, misfeasance, or malfeasance in office;
(c)
Willful violation of this Charter;
(d)
Abandonment of office or neglect to perform the duties thereof;
(e)
Failure for any other cause to perform the duties of office as required by this Charter or law.
Section 3.24. - Procedure for removal.
The removal of the city manager from office shall be accomplished by vote and action of three affirmative votes of the membership of the council. Such removal being sought shall be preceded by written notice specifying the ground or grounds for removal at least 14 days prior to the council's vote to remove said city manager.
ARTICLE IV. - JUDICIAL BRANCH

Section 4.10. - Municipal court; creation.
There is hereby established a court to be known as the municipal court of the mayor and council of the City of Whitesburg, Georgia, which shall have jurisdiction and authority to try offenses against the laws and ordinances of said city and state as allowed by state law and to punish for a violation of the same. Such court shall have the power and authority to enforce its judgments by the imposition of such penalties as may be provided by law; to punish witnesses for non-attendance, and to punish also any person who may counsel or advise, aid, encourage or persuade another whose testimony is desired or material in any proceeding before said court to go or move beyond the reach of the process of the court; to try all offenses within the territorial limits of the city constituting traffic cases which under the laws of Georgia are placed within the jurisdiction of municipal or police courts to the extent of and in accordance with the provisions of such laws and all laws subsequently enacted amendatory thereof. Said court shall be presided over by the judge of said court.
Section 4.11. - Judge.
(a)
No person shall be qualified or eligible to serve as judge unless he shall have attained the age of 21 years and shall be a member of the state bar of Georgia. The judge shall be appointed by the council and shall serve at the discretion of the council. The compensation of the judge shall be fixed by the council.
(b)
Before entering on the duties of his office, the judge shall take an oath before an officer duly authorized to administer oaths in this state, that he will truly, honestly and faithfully discharge, the duties of his office to the best of his ability without fear, favor, or partiality. The oath shall be entered upon the minutes of the council.
Section 4.12. - Convening.
Said court shall be convened at such times as designated by ordinances or at such times as deemed necessary by the judge to keep current the dockets thereof.
Section 4.13. - Jurisdiction; powers.
(a)
The municipal court shall try and punish for crimes against the City of Whitesburg and for violation of its ordinances. The municipal court shall have authority to punish those in its presence for contempt, provided that such punishment shall not exceed $1,000.00 or six months in jail. The municipal court may fix punishment for offenses within its jurisdiction not exceeding a fine of $1,000.00 or imprisonment for six months or both and, as alternative to fine or imprisonment, to sentence any offender upon conviction to labor in a city work gang or on the streets, sidewalks, squares or other public works for a period not exceeding six months, or make provision with the county to have sentences imposed by said court to be served in the county jail or county prison farm or camp.
(b)
The municipal court shall have authority to establish a schedule of fees to defray the cost of operation and shall be entitled to reimbursement of the cost of meals, transportation and caretaking of prisoners bound over to the state or superior courts for violations of state law.
(c)
The municipal court shall have authority to establish bail and recognizances to ensure the presence of those charged with violations before said court and shall have discretionary authority to accept cash or personal or real property as surety for appearance of persons charged with violations. Whenever any person shall give bail for his appearance and shall fail to appear at the time fixed for trial, his bond shall be forfeited by the judge presiding at such time, and an execution issued thereon by serving the defendant and his sureties with a rule nisi, at least two days before a hearing on the rule nisi. In the event that cash or property is accepted in lieu of bond for security for the appearance of a defendant at trial and if such defendant fails to appear at the time and place fixed for trial the cash so deposited shall be on order of the judge declared forfeited to the City of Whitesburg, or the property so deposited shall have a lien against it for the value forfeited, which lien shall be enforceable in the same manner and to the same extent as a lien for city property taxes.
[(d)]
The court shall thereafter issue a rule absolute which shall be entered on the public records of the court. The court shall have the authority through the clerk of superior court to issue fi. fas. and to levy on any property which is subject to bond.
[(e)]
The municipal court shall have the authority to bind prisoners over to the appropriate court when it appears by probable cause that a state law has been violated.
[(f)]
The municipal court shall have the authority to administer oaths and to perform all other acts necessary or proper to the conduct of said court.
[(g)]
The municipal court may compel the presence of all parties necessary to a proper disposal of each case by the issuance of summons, subpoena, and warrants which may be served as executed by any officer as authorized by this Charter or by state law.
[(h)]
The municipal court is specifically vested with all of the jurisdiction and powers throughout the entire area of the City of Whitesburg granted by state laws generally to mayor's, recorder's, and police courts, and particularly by such laws as authorize the abatement of nuisances.
(Ord. of 9-8-2020(1) , § 1)
Section 4.14. - Appeal.
The right of appeal and any bond as may be required to secure the costs of appeal to the superior court of Carroll County from the municipal court shall lie in the same manner and under the same procedure as generally prescribed for appeals and appeal bonds from the probate court. Provided that any person who fails to file his appeal within ten days of the date of his conviction shall be deemed to have waived any such right. An appeal to the superior court shall be a de novo proceeding.
Section 4.15. - Rules for court.
With the approval of the council, the judge shall have full power and authority to make reasonable rules and regulations necessary and proper to secure the efficient and successful administration of the municipal court; provided, however, that the council may adopt in part or in toto the rules and regulations relative to the procedure of the operation of the superior court under the general laws of the State of Georgia. The rules and regulations made or adopted for said court may be filed with the city clerk, may be available for public inspection, and upon request, a copy may be furnished to all defendants in municipal court proceedings at least 48 hours prior to said proceedings.
ARTICLE V. - ELECTIONS

Section 5.10. - Regular elections, time for holding.
The mayor and council shall serve and be elected at large. On the first Saturday in December 1978, and the first Saturday in December thereafter, there shall be an election for four councilmen and mayor. Each person qualifying for city council shall qualify by posts which shall be designated Post 1, 2, 3 and 4, respectively. Each candidate, in order to be elected, must receive a majority of the total votes each in such election.
Section 5.11. - Qualifying; nomination of candidates; absentee ballots.
The council may, by ordinance, prescribe rules and regulations governing qualifying fees, nomination of candidates, absentee ballots, write-in votes, challenge of votes, and such other rules and regulations as may be necessary for the conduct of elections in the City of Whitesburg.
Section 5.20. - Applicability of general laws.
The procedures and requirements for election of all elected officials of the mayor and council of the City of Whitesburg, Georgia, as to primary, special, or general elections shall be in conformity with the provisions of the Georgia Municipal Election Code, approved April 4, 1968 (1968 Ga. Laws (Act No. 998), page 885), as now or hereafter amended.
Section 5.21. - Special Elections; vacancies.
In the event that the office of mayor or councilman shall become vacant for any cause whatsoever, the council or those remaining shall order a special election to fill the balance of the unexpired term of such office; provided, however, if such vacancy occurs within 90 days of the expiration of the term of office of the mayor or councilmen, said vacancy in office shall be filled by appointment by remaining members of the council. Both special elections and qualifications of candidates therefor shall conform to the applicable provisions of this Charter and the Georgia Municipal Election Code and Title 34A of the Georgia Code, as now or hereafter amended.
Section 5.30. - Grounds for removal of elected officers.
[(a)]
The mayor or any councilman shall be subject to removal from office of any one or more of the following causes:
(a)
Incompetence, misfeasance, or malfeasance in office;
(b)
Conviction of a crime involving moral turpitude;
(c)
Failure at any time to possess any of the qualifications of office as provided by this Charter or by law;
(d)
Willful violation of any express prohibition of this Charter;
(e)
Abandonment of office or neglect to perform the duties of office shall include, but not be limited to, the mayor or councilperson being absent from the regular council meeting three times during any six-month period of time while the mayor or councilperson is holding office;
(f)
Failure for any other cause to perform the duties of office as required by this Charter or by law.
[(b)]
In the event that the mayor or councilperson misses three meetings during any six-month period without proper medical excuse as set forth above in this ordinance a vacancy in said office shall be declared by the mayor and council at the next council meeting following the required number of absences from the regular meetings of the mayor and council of Whitesburg as set forth above and a special election or appointment shall be made to fill said vacancy as set forth in section 5.21 of the Charter of the City of Whitesburg, Georgia, said ordinance being incorporated herein.
(Ord. of 11-1-1982(1), §§ 2, 3)
Section 5.31. - Procedure for removal.
Removal of an elected officer from office may be accomplished by one of the following methods:
(a)
By action of three-fourths vote of the entire membership of the council. In the event an elected officer is sought to be removed by the action of the council, such officer shall be entitled to a written notice specifying the ground for removal and to a public hearing which shall be held not less than ten days after the service of such written notice. Any election officer sought to be removed from office herein provided shall have the right of appeal from the decision of the council to the superior court of Carroll County. Such appeal shall be governed by the same rules as govern appeals to the superior court from the probate court.
(b)
By information filed in the superior court of Carroll County as provided by law.
ARTICLE VI. - FINANCE AND FISCAL

Section 6.10. - Property taxes.
All property subject to the taxation for county or state purposes, assessed as of January 1 in each year, shall be subject to the property tax levied by the mayor and council of the City of Whitesburg. The city will use the county assessment for the year in which the city taxes are to be levied and the county is to furnish appropriate information for such purposes.
Section 6.12. - Tax levy.
The council shall be authorized to levy an ad valorem tax on all real and personal property within the corporate limits of the city for the purpose of raising revenues to defray the costs of operating the city government, providing governmental services, and for any other public purposes as determined by the council in its discretion. The council is also authorized to provide for sufficient levy to pay principal and interest on general obligations. The city is hereby exempted from the provisions of Georgia Code section 92-4101 through 92-4104, inclusive.
Section 6.13. - Tax due dates and tax bills.
The council shall provide by ordinance when the taxes of the city shall fall due and in what length of time said taxes may be paid and shall provide by ordinance for the payment of taxes due to the city in installments, or in one lump sum, and when and how and upon what terms such taxes shall be due and payable, as well as to authorize the voluntary payments of taxes prior to the time when due.
Section 6.14. - Collection of delinquent taxes.
The council may provide by ordinance for the collection of delinquent taxes by fi. fa. issued by the city clerk and executed by any police officer of the city under the same procedure provided by the laws governing execution of such process from the superior court, or by use of any other available legal processes and remedies. The council shall be authorized to impose an interest penalty upon delinquent taxes and payments to the city in an amount not to exceed 11 percent. A lien shall exist against all property upon which city property taxes are levied as of the assessment date of each year, which lien shall be superior to all other liens, except for equal dignity with those of county, state or federal taxes. In cases of hardship, the council shall have the discretionary authority to waive any and all penalties imposed by this Charter on delinquent taxes, fees, assessments, or on other amounts due the city.
Section 6.15. - Licenses; occupational taxes; excise taxes.
The council, by ordinance, shall have full power to levy such license and specific or occupational taxes upon the residences of the city, both individually or corporate, and on all those who transact or offer to transact business therein, as the council may deem expedient for the public health, safety, benefit, convenience, or advantage of the city, to classify businesses, occupations, professions or callings for such purpose of taxation in any way which may be lawful; to require such persons to procure such licenses; to compel the payment of such licenses by execution or any other lawful manner; and to make laws and regulations necessary or proper to carry out the powers herein conferred and to prescribe penalties for the violation thereof. The council shall have full power and authority to levy an excise tax not prohibited by general laws of the state.
Section 6.16. - Sewer Service Charges.
The council may, after enacting enabling ordinances, have the right, power and authority to assess and collect fees, charges, and tolls for sewer services rendered both within and without the corporate limits of the city, to provide costs and expense of providing collection and disposal of sewerage through sewerage facilities of said city. If unpaid, said sewer charge shall constitute a lien against any property or persons served, which lien shall be second in priority only to liens for city, county, state and federal taxes and shall be enforceable in the same manner and under the same remedies as a lien for city property taxes.
Section 6.17. - Sanitary and health service charge.
The council may have authority by ordinance to provide for, to enforce, to levy and to collect the costs of sanitary and health services necessary in the operation of the city from all individuals, firms, and corporations residing in or doing business in said city benefiting from such service. Such authority will include the power to levy, assess, and collect annual or monthly sanitary taxes or fees in such amount or amounts and based upon and in accordance with such classifications of property and sanitary service or services provided, as may be fixed by ordinance. Said sanitary taxes and assessment thereof shall be a charge and lien against the real estate in respect to which said taxes are so assessed, and the owner or owners thereof, superior to all other liens except for county and city property taxes and shall be enforceable in the same manner and under the same remedies as a lien for city property taxes.
Section 6.18. - Special assessments.
The council shall have power and authority to assess all or part of the costs of constructing, reconstructing, widening, or improving any public way, street, sidewalk, curbing, gutters, sewers, water systems, gas systems, power systems, or other utility mains and appurtenances, against the abutting property owners, under such terms and conditions as may be prescribed by ordinance. Such special assessments shall become delinquent 30 days after their due dates, shall be thereupon subject, in addition to fi. fa. charges, to a penalty of ten percent and shall be thereafter subject to interest at a rate of eight percent per annum from date due until paid. A lien shall exist against the abutting property superior to all other liens, except that it shall be of equal dignity with liens for county and city property taxes and shall be enforceable in the same manner and under the same remedies as a lien for city property taxes.
Section 6.19. - Transfer of execution.
The city clerk shall be authorized to assign or transfer any fi. fa. or execution issued for any tax or for any street, sewer, or other assessment in the same manner and the same extent as provided by Georgia law regarding sales and transfers of tax fi. fa. Such transfer or assignment, when made, shall vest the purchaser or transferee with all right, title and interest as provided by Georgia law governing sales and transfers of tax fi. fa., provided that upon levy of execution and sale of property pursuant to such tax fi. fa. whether assigned, transferred or executed by the city, the owner of such property, in fee simple or lesser interest, shall not lose his right to redeem the property in accordance with the requirements of redemption of property sold under state or county ad valorem tax fi. fa., as said requirements now exist or as may be hereinafter provided by law.
Section 6.20. - General obligation bonds.
The council shall have the right to issue general obligation bonds for the purpose of raising revenue to carry out any project, program or venture authorized under this Charter or the general laws of the state. Such bonding authority shall be exercised in accordance with the laws governing bond issuances by municipalities in effect at the time said issue is undertaken.
Section 6.21. - Revenue bonds.
Revenue bonds may be issued by the council as provided by an Act of the General Assembly of Georgia, approved March 31, 1937, known as the Revenue Bond Law (1937 Ga. Laws (Act No. 513), page 761), as now or may be amended or by any other Georgia law as now or may be hereafter provided.
Section 6.22. - Short-term notes.
Pursuant to applicable state law, the city may obtain temporary loans between January 1 and December 31 of each year.
Section 6.30. - Fiscal year.
The council shall set the fiscal year by ordinance. Said fiscal year shall constitute the budget year and the year for financing, accounting and reporting of each and every office, department, institution, agency, and activity of city government, unless otherwise provided by state or federal law.
Section 6.31. - Preparation of budget.
The council shall provide by ordinance the procedure and requirements for the preparation and execution of an annual budget, including requirements as to scope, content, and form of such budget.
Section 6.32. - Submission of the budget to council.
On or before the date fixed by the council, the city clerk or city manager, if such office is later adopted by ordinance, shall submit to the council a proposed budget for the ensuing year. The budget shall be accompanied by a statement of the general fiscal policies of the city, a general summary of the budget prepared by a certified public accountant. The budget and all supporting documents shall be filed in the office of the city clerk and shall be open to public inspection.
Section 6.33. - Action by council on budget.
(a)
The council may amend the budget proposed by the city clerk; except that the budget as finally amended and adopted must provide for all expenditure required by law or by other provisions of this Charter and for all debt service requirements for the ensuing fiscal year and the total appropriations from any funds shall not exceed the estimated fund balance, reserves and revenues, constituting a fund availability of such fund.
(b)
The council shall adopt the final budget for the ensuing year not later than the last day of the old fiscal year. If the council fails to adopt the budget by this date, the amounts appropriated for operation for the current fiscal year shall be deemed adopted for the ensuing fiscal year on a month-to-month basis, with all items prorated accordingly until such time as the council adopts a budget for the ensuing fiscal year. Such adoption shall take the form of an appropriation ordinance setting out the estimated revenues in detail by sources and making appropriations according to fund and by organizational unit, purpose or activity as set out in the budget document.
(c)
The amount set out in the adopted budget for each organizational unit shall constitute the annual appropriation for such item, and no expenditure shall be made or encumbrance created in excess of the otherwise unencumbered balance of the appropriations, or allotment thereof, to which it is chargeable unless authorized by the council.
(d)
The council shall be authorized to establish a tax millage rate each year after the submission of the budget to the council to ensure that the necessary revenue will be available to meet the appropriations provided for in the budget. The tax millage rate levied by the council shall not exceed the millage set by the General Assembly of Georgia to cover general operating expenses. An additional millage rate may be levied for the retirement of bonded indebtedness.
Section 6.34. - Property tax levies.
As the next order of business following adoption of the budget, the council shall levy by ordinance an annual tax on all real and personal property within the city. The tax rate set by such ordinance shall be such that reasonable estimates of revenues from such levy shall at least be sufficient, together with other anticipated revenues, funds balances, and applicable reserves, to equal the total amount appropriated for each of the several funds set forth in the annual budget for defraying the expenses of the general government of the city.
Section 6.35. - Additional appropriations.
The council may make appropriations in addition to those contained in the current budget, at any regular or special meeting called for such purpose, but any such additional appropriations may be made only from an existing unappropriated surplus in the fund to which it applies.
Section 6.40. - Procurement and property management; contracting procedures.
All contracts shall be made or authorized by the council, and no contracts shall bind the city unless reduced to writing and approved by the council. All contracts, and all ordinances or resolutions making contracts or authorizing the same, shall be drawn by the city attorney or shall be submitted to him before authorization by the council.
Section 6.41. - Centralized purchasing.
(a)
The council shall, by ordinance, prescribe procedures for a system of centralized purchasing for the city.
(b)
The council may sell and convey any real or personal property owned or held by the city for governmental or other purposes, at a public or private sale, with or without advertisement, for such consideration as it shall deem equitable and just for the city.
(c)
The council may quitclaim any rights it may have in property not needed for public purposes upon report by the city manager and adoption of a resolution, both finding that the property is not needed for public or other purposes and that the interest of the city has no readily ascertainable monetary value.
(d)
Whenever in opening, extending, or widening any street, avenue, alley or public place of the city, a small parcel or tract of land is cut off or separated by such work from a larger tract or boundary of land owned by the city, the council may authorize the city manager to execute and deliver in the name of the city a deed conveying said cut-off or separated parcel or tract of land to an abutting or adjoining property owner or owners in exchange for rights-of-way of said street, avenue, alley or public place or in settlement of any alleged damages sustained by said abutting or adjoining property owner. All deeds and conveyances heretofore and hereafter so executed and delivered shall convey all title and interest the city has in such property, notwithstanding the fact that no public sale after advertisement was or is hereafter made.
ARTICLE VII. - MUNICIPAL SERVICES AND REGULATORY FUNCTIONS

Section 7.10. - Municipal services; streets.
The council is hereby vested with the power to lay out, open, widen, change, straighten, alter, improve, vacate, abandon, and otherwise to exercise complete control over the streets, alleys, squares and sidewalks of the city. The council shall provide for the removal of any and all obstacles and nuisances in regard to the streets, alleys, or sidewalks or other public places within the city and shall adopt appropriate ordinances to accomplish this purpose.
Section 7.11. - Municipal utilities.
The council shall have the power and authority to acquire, own, hold, build, maintain, and operate a system of waterworks, electric lights, sewerage, and gas distribution; to establish rates and charge fees for services rendered in any of said systems; to finance any of said systems through appropriate bond issues in accordance with the laws of Georgia; to exercise the power of eminent domain in regard to any of said systems, both within and without the corporate limits; and to contract to furnish the services of any of said systems to consumers outside the corporate limits of the city.
Section 7.12. - Sewers and drains.
The council shall have the power and authority to provide for the establishment, extension, and maintenance of a system of sewers and drains, together with a sewerage disposal system. This power includes the authority to extend said system beyond the corporate limits. For these purposes, the city is granted the power of eminent domain both within and without its corporate limits. The council may provide by ordinances for reasonable connection fees for tapping on to the water and sewer lines of said city, and may compel citizens to tap into the same when such services are made available. They may cause said connection to be made when the owners refuse, and issue executions to be made for the amount so expended, which execution shall create a lien on the property connected with said water and sewerage systems from the date of the order or connection.
Section 7.13. - Rights-of-way.
The city shall have the right, easement and franchise of laying the necessary mains, pipes, conduits and drains for waterworks and sewerage system purposes along the highways in the County of Carroll without cost; it shall have full power and authority to enact and enforce such rules, regulations and ordinances as may be necessary to protect the water basin and watershed, from which the water supply is taken, from contamination and to protect said waterworks and sewerage system, including the mains, pipes, and conduits whether the same be situated within or without the corporate limits of said city.
Section 7.14. - Eminent domain.
The council is hereby empowered to acquire, construct, build, operate and maintain public ways, parks, public grounds, cemeteries, markets, market houses, public buildings, libraries, sewers, drains, sewerage treatment, waterworks, electrical systems, gas systems, airports, hospitals, and charitable, educational, recreational, sport, curative, corrective, detentional, penal and medical institutions, agencies and facilities, and any other public improvements inside or outside the city, and to regulate the use thereof, and for such purposes, property may be taken under Chapter 36-202 of the Georgia Code, subject to such amendments as shall be enacted, or any other applicable Georgia law.
Section 7.20. - Power to regulate and license.
The council shall have the power and authority to provide by ordinance for the registration and licensing of any trade, business, occupation, vocation, profession or any and every other undertaking pursued for the purpose of personal gain or profit of whatever nature, engaged in or carried on within the limits of the city regardless whether or not the subject has an office or establishment within said city. The council shall have authorized to fix the amount, terms, and manner of issuing and revoking licenses, provided that this authority is subject to the Constitutions and laws of the United States and the State of Georgia. This power is conferred for the purpose of regulation under the police powers of the city and for the purpose of raising revenue for the operation of the city government through the imposition of a tax or fee on the privilege of operating within the city. This authority extends over individuals, partnerships, associations, corporations, and their agents, and any other legal entity capable of transacting business.
Section 7.21. - Franchises.
[(a)]
The council shall have authority to exercise control over the use of streets of the city. The power is hereby conferred upon the council to grant franchises for the use of said city's streets and alleys, for the purposes of railroads, street railways, telephone companies, electric companies, gas companies, and transportation companies. This franchise right extends to, but is not limited to, the erection of poles, stringing of wires, laying of pipes, lines or conduits both above and below the ground surface. The council shall determine the duration, provisions, terms, whether the same shall be exclusive or nonexclusive, and the consideration of such franchises. The council shall provide for the registration of all franchises with the city clerk in the registration book to be kept by him.
[(b)]
The council may provide, by ordinance, for the registration within a reasonable time of all franchises previously granted.
Section 7.22. - Building, housing, electrical, and plumbing regulations.
The council shall have the power and authority to enact such reasonable rules and regulations as it may deem necessary or expedient regarding the construction and maintenance of buildings, remodeling of buildings, plumbing and electrical wiring and equipping of buildings, in order to promote the safety and welfare of its citizens and to guard against fire or other property damage. This power may, in the discretion of the council, be exercised by adoption of any such standard building, housing, gas, heating and air-conditioning, electrical and plumbing codes as may be deemed appropriate. The council shall be empowered to engage the necessary personnel to enforce such rules and regulations as adopted, and to charge reasonable fees of inspections and permits; and may require the obtaining of a permit as a condition precedent to any construction, building, electrical or plumbing work. The council may enact all ordinances necessary to enforce such rules and regulations.
ARTICLE VIII. - GENERAL PROVISIONS

Section 8.10. - Official bonds.
The officers and employees of the city, both elective and appointive, shall execute such official bonds in such amounts and upon such terms and conditions as the city council may from time to time require.
Section 8.11. - Existing ordinances and regulations.
Existing ordinances and resolutions of the city not inconsistent with the provisions of this Charter shall continue in effect until they have been repealed, modified, or amended by the council. Existing rules and regulations of departments or agencies of the City of Whitesburg not inconsistent with the provisions of this Charter shall continue in effect until they have been repealed, modified, or amended.
Section 8.12. - Section captions.
The captions to the several sections of this Charter are informative only and are not to be considered as a part thereof.
Section 8.13. - Gender.
The use of masculine nouns in this Charter are for uniformity only and in no way are to be interpreted as discrimination against the feminine sex.
Section 8.14. - Penalties.
The violation of any provisions of this Charter, for which penalty is not specifically provided for herein, is hereby declared to be a misdemeanor and shall be punishable by a fine of not more than $1,000.00 or by imprisonment not to exceed 30 days or both such fine and imprisonment.
Section 8.15. - Existing governing authority.
The provisions of this Act shall not affect the terms of office of the mayor and councilmen who are in office on the effective date of this Act, and such mayor and councilmen shall continue in office until the expiration of their respective terms of office and until the election of their successors as provided for herein.
Section 8.16. - Specific repealer.
An Act incorporating the mayor and council of the Town [City] of Whitesburg in the County of Carroll, approved December 15, 1894 (1894 Ga. Laws (Act No. 75), page 196), as amended, is hereby repealed in its entirety and all amendatory acts thereto are likewise repealed in their entirety.
Section 8.17. - Severability.
If any article, section, subsection, paragraph, sentence, or part thereof of this Charter shall be held to be invalid or unconstitutional, such invalidity or unconstitutionality shall not affect or impair other parts of this Charter, unless it clearly appears that such other parts of this Charter are wholly and necessarily dependent upon the part or parts held to be invalid or unconstitutional, it being the legislative intent in enacting this Charter, that each article, section, subsection, paragraph, sentence or part thereof be enacted separately and independent of each other.
Section 8.18. - Effective date.
This Act shall become effective immediately upon its approval by the governor or upon its becoming law without his approval.
Section 8.19. - Repealer.
All laws and parts of laws in conflict with this Act are hereby repealed.
Notice of Intention to Introduce Local Legislation.
Notice is hereby given that there will be introduced at the regular 1977 session of the General Assembly of Georgia, a bill to provide for a new charter for the mayor and City Council of the Town of Whitesburg, Georgia and for other purposes.
This 5th day of January, 1977.
Gerald L. Johnson Representative District 66, Post 1 Tom Glanton Representative District 66, Post 2 J. Ebb Duncan Senate District 30 Charles Henry Lumpkin, Jr. City Attorney Town of Whitesburg, Georgia 106 S. White Street Carrollton, Georgia 30117
Georgia, Carroll County.
To Whom It May Concern:
This is to certify that the legal notice attached hereto has been published in the Carroll County Georgian legal organ for Carroll County. The following dates, to-wit: January 13, 20, 27, 1977.
Sworn to on the 31st day of January, 1977.
/s/ Stanley Parkman Publisher
Sworn to and subscribed before me, on the 31st day of January, 1977.
/s/ Carolyn Sullivan
Notary Public
(Seal).
Approval Date: Approved March 23, 1977.
