Chapter 14 - EMERGENCY SERVICES[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
State Law reference— Emergency medical services, O.C.G.A. § 31-11-1 et seq.; authority to provide ambulance and emergency rescue services, Ga. Const. art. IX, § II, para. III(a)(3).

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 14-1. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Emergency management means the preparation for and the carrying out of all emergency and disaster functions other than those functions for which military forces or state and federal agencies are primarily responsible, to prevent, minimize, and repair injury and damage resulting from emergencies or disasters, or the imminent threat thereof, of manmade or natural origin. These functions include, without limitation, firefighting services, police services, medical and health services, rescue, engineering, warning services, communications, protection against the effects of radiological, chemical and other special weapons, evacuation of persons from stricken areas, emergency welfare services, emergency transportation, plant protection, shelter, temporary restoration of public utility services, and other functions related to civilian population, together with all other activities necessary or incidental to total emergency and disaster preparedness for carrying out the foregoing functions.
(Res. of 5-13-1993, § I)
Secs. 14-2—14-20. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - ADMINISTRATION

Sec. 14-21. - Office of the county emergency management director.
In agreement with the governing officials of the cities within the county, there is hereby established the Washington-Wilkes County Emergency Management Agency. The chairman of the board of county commissioners, with concurrence of the mayors of cities within the county, shall nominate, for appointment by the governor, a director of emergency management for the entire county. When appointed, the emergency management director is charged with the following duties:
(1)
Represent the governing officials of the county and cities therein on matters pertaining to emergency management.
(2)
Assist county and city officials in organizing county and city departments for emergency operations.
(3)
Develop, in conjunction with county and city departments the county plan for emergency functions set forth in section 14-1. Such plan will be in consonance with the state natural disaster operations plan and nuclear emergency operations plan, and shall be submitted to the governing officials of the county and the cities therein for approval, and thence to the state emergency management agency for approval.
(4)
Maintain the emergency management agency and carry out the day-to-day administration of the county emergency management program, including the submission of required reports to the state emergency management agency.
(5)
Submit reports as required by governing officials in keeping with good management practices, e.g., financial, daily activity, etc.
(6)
Obtain, with the authority of governing officials, a facility to be used as the Washington-Wilkes County Emergency Operating Center.
(7)
Coordinate the activities of the county emergency operating center staff during periods of an emergency, and under the supervision of county governing officials.
(Res. of 5-13-1993, § II)
Sec. 14-22. - County emergency management agency.
(a)
The county emergency management agency shall be established around existing county and city departments and the emergency functions listed in section 14-1 are assigned as follows:
EXPAND
Department/Agency Functions*
1. Chairman, county commissioners,
mayors of cities Direction and control
2. Sheriff's office Communications and warning; law enforcement services; evacuation services
3. Emergency management agency Emergency public information damage assessment services; specific impact hazards
4. Fire department Search rescue services; fire services; radiological protection hazardous materials (specific impact hazard)
5. Public works Public works services
6. School superintendent Transportation services; food services
7. Health department Medical and deceased identification services
8. Clerk's office Resources management
9. Department of family and children
services Human services; emergency shelter services
  (*As appropriate to the local organization, these functions can be assigned to existing departments or may be separate. Functions should be assigned consistent with the local emergency operations plan.)
(b)
Heads of departments listed above are responsible for developing appropriate annexes to the local emergency operations plan (EOP) for their assigned emergency functions. Such annexes will be submitted to the emergency management director for inclusion in the local EOP for submission to appropriate local officials for approval.
(Res. of 5-13-1993, § III)
Sec. 14-23. - Powers during an emergency or disaster.
In the event of manmade or natural disaster, actual enemy attack upon the United States, or any other emergency which may affect the lives and property of the citizens of the county, the chairman, county commissioners, jointly with the mayors of the affected cities, or in their absences their legally appointed successors, may determine that an emergency or disaster exists and thereafter shall have and may exercise for such period as such emergency or disaster exists or continues, the following powers:
(1)
Enforce all rules, laws and regulations relating to emergency management, and to assume direct operational control over all emergency management resources;
(2)
Seize or take for temporary use any private property for the protection of the public;
(3)
Sell, lend, give, or distribute all or any such property or supplies among the inhabitants of the county and to maintain a strict accounting of property or supplies distributed and for funds received for such property or supplies; and
(4)
Perform and exercise such other functions and duties, and take such emergency actions as may be necessary to promote and secure the safety, protection and well-being of the inhabitants of the county.
(Res. of 5-13-1993, § IV)
Sec. 14-24. - Volunteers.
All persons, other than officers and employees of the county and cities therein, performing emergency functions pursuant to this article, shall serve with or without compensation. While engaged in such emergency functions, duly assigned volunteers shall have the same immunities as county and city officers and employees.
(Res. of 5-13-1993, § V)
Sec. 14-25. - Penalties.
Any person violating any provision of this article, or any rule, order, or regulation made pursuant to this article, shall, upon conviction thereof, be punishable for committing a misdemeanor.
(Res. of 5-13-1993, § VI)
Secs. 14-26—14-53. - Reserved.
ARTICLE III. - AMBULANCE SERVICES

Sec. 14-54. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Advanced life support means the provision of care and procedures included in the paramedic courses and scope of practice, as approved by the state office of EMS/trauma.
Advanced life support ambulance means an ambulance with adequate equipment, supplies, and pharmaceuticals to provide advanced life support care as outlined in the paramedic curriculum and the paramedic scope of practice, as approved by the state office of EMS/trauma. An advanced life support ambulance must be staffed by a minimum staff of one state-licensed advanced EMT and one state-licensed paramedic at all times.
Critical care paramedic means a person currently licensed as a paramedic by the state office of EMS/trauma as a paramedic and has attended, completed, and passed a University of Maryland Baltimore Campus-approved critical care emergency medical transport program and maintains certification as such.
Paramedic means a person currently licensed by the state office of EMS/trauma as a paramedic.
Scheduled non-emergency medical transport means a transport of a person with no immediate life threatening or health emergency that has a schedules appointment with a physician's office, for routine treatments such as dialysis, return trip after hospitalization, etc.
(Ord. No. 09132013EMS, § 1, 9-13-2012)
Sec. 14-55. - Administration, inspection, and compliance.
(a)
The county director of emergency services shall serve as administrator of this article for the purposes of inspection and approving compliance.
(b)
Any ambulance service covered by this article must provide a letter outlining compliance with said article prior to engaging in serviced covered by this article.
(c)
Any ambulance service covered by this article must submit to a request, made either in person or writing, to an inspection of ambulance, equipment, supplies, credentials of personnel, and response statistics to the county director of emergency services for the purpose of enforcing compliance.
(Ord. No. 09132013EMS, § 2, 9-13-2012)
Sec. 14-56. - Affected services.
This article shall apply to any ambulance service being offered or furnished to any point of origin within the boundaries of the county.
(Ord. No. 09132013EMS, § 3, 9-13-2012)
Sec. 14-57. - Exempt services.
(a)
Any ambulance service being operated by an agency of the United States Government or ambulance service being provided under a direct contract with the United States Government and the request for service is made by the United States Government is exempt from this article.
(b)
Any ambulance service temporarily rendering assistance in the case of a catastrophe or emergency in which the capabilities of local services operating in the county are exceeded or an ambulance service being provided under a valid mutual aid agreement is exempt from this article.
(Ord. No. 09132013EMS, § 4, 9-13-2012)
Sec. 14-58. - General operational regulations.
(a)
All ambulance services, ambulances, and personnel shall at all times be operated in compliance with all laws, rules, regulations, ordinances, and decrees of the United States, this state, and this county.
(b)
All ambulance services including those providing scheduled non-emergency medical transports being offered to a point of origin within the county shall register with the county director of emergency services for the purpose of enforcing compliance.
(c)
All ambulance services being offered to a point of origin within the county, other than those providing scheduled nonemergency medical transports only shall be capable of providing advanced life support ambulance.
(d)
All ambulance services being offered to a point of origin within the county, other than those providing scheduled nonemergency medical transports only, in addition to providing advanced life support, all primary duty and back up ambulances shall be equipped and personnel trained, certified and or credentialed to provide the following services:
(1)
Perform and transmit a 12-lead EKG to the emergency departments of all hospitals with receiving capabilities within a 100-mile radius of the county.
(2)
Provide immediate critical care transport of patients needing specialty care (STEMI, stroke, trauma, etc.) to specialty care facilities within a 70-mile radius of the county.
(3)
Wave form capnography capable of continuous monitoring of intubated and non-intubated patients.
(4)
Perform critical care paramedic airway management and hemodynamic monitoring procedures.
(5)
Provide mechanical ventilation and oxygenation via fully functional ventilators.
(6)
Adult and pediatric intraosseous IV access.
(e)
Any ambulance service offering services other than scheduled nonemergency medical transports for points of origin within the county shall staff a primary duty ambulance and be available 24 hours a day, seven days a week.
(f)
If the primary emergency response duty ambulance engages in transports destinations outside of the county, then the provider must provide a second backup ambulance staffed and within the limits of the county with no more than a 30-minute time frame of not being capable to respond to a local request for ambulance service. Back up ambulances are required to provide advanced life support utilizing an advanced life support ambulance with additional requirements as outlined in subsection (d) of this section.
(g)
Any ambulance service offering service other than scheduled non-emergency medical transports for points of origin within the county must have a permanent base of operation located within the county and a local or toll-free number for service requests.
(h)
Any ambulance services offering services for points of origin within the count must not advertise or encourage the use of any other telephone number other than 911 for emergency calls.
(i)
Any ambulances services offering services other than scheduled non-emergency medical transports for points of origin within the county must have radio communication with and notify the county 911 at time call is received of an emergency response being made to points of origin within the county.
(Ord. No. 09132013EMS, § 5, 9-13-2012)
Sec. 14-59. - Indemnification.
Any person, firm, or corporation owning or operating an ambulance service within the county shall indemnify and hold harmless the county and any resident of the county for any loss or damage resulting from the operations of the ambulance service.
(Ord. No. 09132013EMS, § 6, 9-13-2012)
Sec. 14-60. - Penalty.
(a)
Any ambulance found in violation of this article shall be fined $1,000.00 per occurrence.
(b)
Any individual person found to be in violation of this article shall be fined $250.00 per occurrence.
(Ord. No. 09132013EMS, § 7, 9-13-2012)
Secs. 14-61—14-78. - Reserved.
ARTICLE IV. - SUSPENSION OF CERTAIN FORMALITIES AND PROCEDURES

Sec. 14-79. - Authority to waive procedures and fee structures.
(a)
Meetings. Upon proclamation by the appropriate state official of an emergency or disaster of manmade or natural causes or enemy attack impending on or affecting this state or the United States, the affairs and business of the county may be conducted at places other than the regular or usual place thereof, within or outside of the county, when it is not prudent, expedient or possible to conduct business at the regular location. When such meetings occur outside of the county, all actions taken by the local governing body shall be as valid and binding as if performed within the county. Such meetings may be called by the presiding officer or any two members of the governing body without regard to or compliance procedures and formalities otherwise required by law.
(b)
Purchasing and public works contracts. Upon the declaration of a state of emergency by the governor, or upon the determination by the county governing authority, or its designee or the emergency interim successor, may contract for public works without letting such contract out to the lowest, responsible bidder and without advertising and posting notification of such contract for four weeks; provided, however, that any public works contract entered into pursuant to this subsection shall be entered on the minutes of the county as soon as practical and the nature of the emergency described therein.
(c)
Code enforcement. Upon the declaration of a state of emergency by the governor, or upon the determination by the county governing authority or its designee, of the existence of an emergency or disaster, the county governing authority, its designee or the emergency interim successor may temporarily suspend the enforcement of any ordinances of the county, or any portion thereof, where:
(1)
The emergency or disaster is of such nature that immediate action outside this Code is required;
(2)
Such suspension is consistent with the protection of the public health, safety and welfare; and
(3)
Such suspension is not inconsistent with any federal or state statutes or regulations.
(d)
Fees. Upon the declaration of a state of emergency by the governor, or upon the determination by the county governing authority, or its designee, of the existence of an emergency or disaster, the county governing authority, its designee or the emergency interim successor may temporarily reduce or suspend any permit fees, application fees or other rate structures as necessary to encourage the rebuilding of the area impacted by the disaster or emergency.
(e)
Temporary dwellings. Upon the declaration of a state of emergency by the governor, or upon the determination by the county governing authority, or its designee or the emergency interim successor may issue temporary mobile home, trailer, recreational vehicle or other temporary dwelling structures or parks in any zoning district while the primary dwelling is being repaired, provided that such temporary dwellings or parks are designed by an engineer and the plans are approved by the county health department and the county building inspector or their designee. The temporary permits shall not exceed six months in duration. In the case of continuing hardship and in the discretion of the governing authority or his designee, the permit may be extended for a period for an additional six months. Upon expiration of the temporary permits or an extension, the temporary dwelling shall be removed.
(Ord. No. 02082001EMA1, § 1, 2-8-2001)
Sec. 14-80. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
(1)
Fees. Any fee or rate charged by the county for building permits, land disturbance permits, zoning applications, special land use permits, variances, temporary land use permits, and other fees relating to the reconstruction, repair and cleanup of areas impacted by the disaster or emergency. The term "fees" shall not include those fees collected by the county on behalf of the federal or state government or those fees charged by the county, pursuant to a federal or state statute or regulation.
(2)
State of emergency. As defined by O.C.G.A. § 38-3-3(5), a condition declared by the governor when, in his judgment, the threat or actual occurrence of a disaster, emergency, or energy emergency is of sufficient severity and magnitude as to warrant extraordinary efforts in preventing or alleviating the damage, loss, hardship, or suffering threatened or caused thereby.
(3)
Subsequent recovery period. The period of time that the disaster or emergency continues to cause disruptions in the area impacted by the disaster or emergency. The "subsequent recovery period" shall not exceed six months after the state of emergency declaration by the governor is terminated unless extended by official action of the governing authority of the county.
(4)
Temporary dwelling. Any mobile or easily movable home, trailer, recreational vehicle, manufactured home, industrialized building or structure not otherwise permitted by the county ordinance in a particular county district.
(Ord. No. 02082001EMA1, § 2, 2-8-2001)
Secs. 14-81—14-103. - Reserved.
ARTICLE V. - REGISTRATION OF BUILDING AND REPAIR SERVICES DURING A STATE OF EMERGENCY

Sec. 14-104. - Building contractor registration required.
No person, firm, partnership, corporation or other entity shall engage in, undertake or carry on any business in whole or in part within the unincorporated areas of the county, consisting of or relating to building, constructing, repairing, renovating or making improvements to real property including dwellings, homes, buildings, structures, or fixtures attached thereto without having registered the name of the business with the governing authority of the county and having paid fees as provided by this article.
(Ord. No. 02082001EMA3, § 1, 2-8-2001)
Sec. 14-105. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Building contractor means any person, firm, partnership, corporation or other entity engaging in, undertaking or carrying on any business consisting of or relating to building construction, repair, renovation or making improvements to real property including dwellings, homes, buildings, structures, or fixtures attached thereto.
Doing business means any building contractor shall be deemed to be "doing business" subject to the requirements of this article if:
(1)
He has or operates an office, agency, project site or place of business located in the unincorporated areas of the county, whether permanently, temporarily, periodically, or otherwise, that provides the following activities in the unincorporated areas of the county, expressly including, but not limited to, the construction, renovation or repair of dwellings or buildings or the making of improvements to real property or any fixtures attached thereto; or
(2)
He performs the following activities or services in the unincorporated areas of the county, expressly including, but not limited to, the construction, renovation or repair of dwellings or buildings or the making of improvements to real property or any fixtures attached thereto regardless of the location of the principal office.
State of emergency, pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 38-3-3(5), means a condition declared by the governor when, in his judgment, the threat or actual occurrence of a disaster or is of sufficient severity and magnitude as to warrant extraordinary efforts in preventing or alleviating the damage, loss, hardship, or suffering threatened or caused thereby.
Subsequent recovery period means that period during which the disaster continues to cause disruptions in the disaster area, but shall not exceed six months after the emergency declaration has been terminated by the governor.
(Ord. No. 02082001EMA3, § 2, 2-8-2001)
Sec. 14-106. - Application registration; certification requirement.
All building contractors doing business or proposing to do business in the unincorporated areas of the county during a state of emergency or the subsequent recovery period shall register and file applications with the clerk of the governing authority of the county or such other person designated by the governing authority at the county courthouse or such other place designated by the county. The building contractor shall, under oath, provide the county governing authority with a statement describing the general nature of the business to be conducted and give true and correct information as may be called for on the registration form, application or certificate provided by the county.
(Ord. No. 02082001EMA3, § 3, 2-8-2001)
Sec. 14-107. - Registration fees.
Building contractor registration fees are hereby fixed. Registration fees shall be paid in full at the time of issuance of the registration certification.
(Ord. No. 02082001EMA3, § 4, 2-8-2001)
Sec. 14-108. - Penalties.
Any building contractor required by this article to pay a registration fee who engages in business without first registering and receiving a registration certification from the county as required shall be in violation of this article. Violation of this article, upon conviction, shall be punished according to section 1-9, general penalty. Each day a building contractor does business in the unincorporated areas of the county without complying with this article shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. No. 02082001EMA3, § 5, 2-8-2001)
Sec. 14-109. - General enforcement.
(a)
The magistrate's court of the county shall have jurisdiction over violations of this article and all procedures for enforcement of this section shall be as provided in O.C.G.A. article 4, chapter 10, title 15 (O.C.G.A. § 15-10-60 et seq.). Complaints of violations of any provision contained herein shall be brought before the magistrate's court on a citation issued by the code enforcement officer or by a law enforcement officer. Citations shall meet all the official requirements as specified in O.C.G.A. § 15-10-63, as amended.
(b)
Any person who violates the provisions contained herein shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be punished according to section 1-9, general penalty.
(Ord. No. 02082001EMA3, § 6, 2-8-2001)
Sec. 14-110. - Transferability.
Each certification issued under this article is granted to, and shall be accepted by, the building contractor under the condition that the same is not transferable and after issuance no such certification shall be transferred by the county or the building contractor to another individual or entity.
(Ord. No. 02082001EMA3, § 7, 2-8-2001)
Sec. 14-111. - Display of registration certification.
Each certification issued hereunder shall be posted conspicuously by the building contractor in the place of business of the building contractor or shall be carried on his person or vehicle used in such business. Such certification shall be exhibited to any authorized enforcement officer when so requested.
(Ord. No. 02082001EMA3, § 8, 2-8-2001)
Sec. 14-112. - Revocation; suspension.
Each certification granted under this article is a mere permit to engage in the business only so long as said business is conducted in a lawful manner. The county governing authority hereby reserves the right to revoke or suspend any certification granted hereunder if the building contractor, or the building contractor's agent or employee acting within the scope of his employment, violates this article or any other county, state or federal law. If after issuance of a certification, the county desires to revoke such certification, written notice thereof shall be given to the building contractor, which notice shall specify the violation with which the building contractor is charged and a date, time and place at which a hearing shall be held with regard to the violation. The building contractor shall have the right to introduce and submit evidence in opposition to such revocation.
(Ord. No. 02082001EMA3, § 9, 2-8-2001)
Secs. 14-113—14-137. - Reserved.
ARTICLE VI. - USER FEES

Sec. 14-138. - Initiation of fees for delivery of fire, rescue, etc., services, personnel and equipment.
The county fire, rescue and sheriff's departments shall initiate user fees for the delivery of fire, rescue and sheriff's department services, personnel, supplies and equipment to the scene of motor vehicle accidents and structure fires. The rate of the user fees shall be that which is the usual, customary and reasonable costs (UCR), which includes any services, personnel, supplies and equipment and may fluctuate based on the needs of the accident or fire.
(Ord. No. 08092007FD, § 1, 8-9-2007)
Sec. 14-139. - Claim costs.
The user fees shall be filed to the motor vehicle insurance, commercial or homeowner's insurance, representing an add-on-cost of the claim for damages of the vehicles, property and/or injuries. The claim costs shall be filed to the insurance coverage of the owner of a vehicle, owner of the property, or responsible party.
(Ord. No. 08092007FD, § 2, 8-9-2007)
Sec. 14-140. - Rules or regulations.
The county chairman and/or county administrator may make rules or regulations, and from time to time may amend, revoke or add rules and regulations, not consistent with this section as they deem necessary or expedient in respect to billing for these fees or the collection thereof.
(Ord. No. 08092007FD, § 3, 8-9-2007)
Sec. 14-141. - Fund.
All amounts collected as a result of this article shall be placed into a fund as established by the county administrator to be used exclusively for personnel, supplies and equipment for the fire, rescue and sheriff's departments.
(Ord. No. 08092007FD, § 4, 8-9-2007)
