DIVISION 11. - JUDICIAL ENFORCEMENT REMEDIES

Sec. 23-111. - Injunctive relief.
When the utilities director finds that a user has violated, or continues to violate, any provision of this article, a wastewater discharge permit, or order issued hereunder, or any other pretreatment standard or requirement, the utilities director may petition the Superior Court for Barrow County, Georgia, through the city's attorney, for the issuance of a temporary or permanent injunction, as appropriate, which restrains or compels the specific performance of the wastewater discharge permit, order or other requirement imposed by this article on activities of the user. The utilities director may also seek such other action as is appropriate for legal and/or equitable relief, including a requirement for the user to conduct environmental remediation. A petition for injunctive relief shall not be a bar against, or a prerequisite for, taking any other action against a user.
(Ord. (7-W-96) of 6-13-96; Ord. ( (W-5-20) ) of 12-8-20, § I)
Sec. 23-112. - Civil penalties.
(a)
A user who has violated, or continues to violate, any provision of this article, an individual wastewater discharge permit, or order issued hereunder, or any other pretreatment standard or requirement shall be liable to the city for a maximum civil penalty of one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) per violation per day. In the case of a monthly or other long-term average discharge limit, penalties shall accrue for each day during the period of the violation.
(b)
The utilities director may recover reasonable attorneys' fees, court costs, and other expenses associated with enforcement activities, including sampling and monitoring expenses, and the cost of any actual damages incurred by the city.
(c)
In determining the amount of civil liability, the court shall take into account all relevant circumstances, including, but not limited to, the extent of harm caused by the violation, the magnitude and duration of the violation, any economic benefit gained through the user's violation, corrective actions by the user, the compliance history of the user, and any other factor as justice requires.
(d)
Filing a suit for civil penalties shall not be a bar against, or a prerequisite for, taking any other action against a user.
(Ord. (7-W-96) of 6-13-96; Ord. ( (W-5-20) ) of 12-8-20, §§ I, XXIII)
Sec. 23-113. - Criminal prosecution.
(a)
A violation of or failure to comply with any of the provisions of this article, a wastewater discharge permit, or order issued hereunder, or any other pretreatment standard or requirement, including the willful furnishing of false information relative to same for the use of the sewerage system, shall be and hereby is declared to be a misdemeanor. Upon trial in municipal court of the city, and conviction, any person or user in violation of or failing to comply with any of the provisions of this article or the use of any of the POTW in violation of this article, shall be punished by a fine of not less than one hundred dollars ($100.00) nor more than one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) per violation per day, or by imprisonment of not more than the maximum length of time as provided by the City Charter, or both, for each violation. Each day a violation occurs or continues shall constitute a separate violation hereunder. Every person concerned in the violation of the provisions of this article or failure to comply with the same, or who furnishes false information relative to his use of the POTW aforesaid whether he directly commits the acts or aids and abets same and whether present or absent, may be proceeded against and held as a principal.
(b)
A user who willfully or negligently introduces any substance into the POTW which causes personal injury or property damage shall, upon conviction, be guilty of a misdemeanor and be subject to a penalty of at least one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) per violation per day, or be subject to imprisonment for not more than the maximum length of time provided by the City Charter, or both. This penalty shall be in addition to any other cause of action for personal injury or property damage available under state law.
(c)
A user who knowingly makes any false statements, representations or certifications in any application, record, report, plan or other documentation filed, or required to be maintained, pursuant to this article, wastewater discharge permit, or order issued hereunder, or who falsifies, tampers with, or knowingly renders inaccurate any monitoring device or method required under this article shall, upon conviction, be punished by a fine of not more than one thousand dollars ($1,000.00), per violation, per day, or imprisonment for not more than the maximum length of time as provided by the City Charter, or both.
(Ord. (7-W-96) of 6-13-96)
Sec. 23-114. - Remedies nonexclusive.
The remedies provided for in this article are not exclusive. The utilities director may take any, all, or any combination of these actions against a noncompliant user. Enforcement of pretreatment violations will generally be in accordance with the city's enforcement response plan. However, the utilities director may take other action against any user when the circumstances warrant. Further, the utilities director is empowered to take more than one enforcement action against any noncompliant user.
(Ord. (7-W-96) of 6-13-96; Ord. ( (W-5-20) ) of 12-8-20, § I)
Secs. 23-115—23-120. - Reserved.
