Chapter 1 - GENERAL PROVISIONS

Sec. 1-1. - How Code designated and cited.
The ordinances embraced in the following chapters and sections shall constitute and be designated as the "Code of Ordinances, City of Winder, Georgia," and may be so cited.
(Code 1968, § 1-1)
Charter reference— Codification of ordinances, § 2-13.
State Law reference— Exemplification of municipal records, etc., Ga. Code Ann., § 24-7-21.
Sec. 1-2. - Catchlines of sections.
The catchlines of the several sections of this Code printed in boldface type are intended as mere catchwords to indicate the contents of the section and shall not be deemed or taken to be titles of such sections nor as any part of the section, nor unless expressly so provided, shall they be so deemed when any of such sections, including the catchlines, are amended or reenacted.
(Code 1968, § 1-3)
Sec. 1-3. - Construction of ordinances—Generally.
The same rules shall be applied in construing ordinances of this city as are applied in construing the statutes of this state, which rules are found in section 102-102, Georgia Code Annotated, and the same meanings are to be given words found in the ordinances as are given similar words found in the statutes of this state. The words "board" and "council," respectively, shall be construed to mean the mayor and council in session.
(Code 1968, § 1-4)
Sec. 1-4. - Same—Definitions.
In the construction of this Code, and of all ordinances, the following rules shall be observed, unless such construction would be inconsistent with the manifest intent of the mayor and council:
City. The words "the city" or "this city" shall be construed as if the words "of Winder" followed it.
Computation of time. Whenever a notice is required to be given or an act to be done, a certain length of time before any proceeding shall be had, the day on which such notice is given, or such act is done, shall be counted in computing the time, but the day on which such proceeding is to be had shall not be counted.
Councilman. The word "councilman" shall mean and refer to any person elected or appointed to that office.
County. The words "the county" or "this county" shall mean the County of Barrow.
Delegation of authority. Whenever a provision appears requiring the head of a department of the city to do some act or make certain inspections it is to be construed to authorize the head of the department to designate, delegate and authorize subordinates to perform the required act or make the required inspection unless the terms of the provision or section designate otherwise.
Ga. Code Ann. The term "Ga. Code Ann." or words of like effect shall mean the Code of Georgia of 1933, as amended, either specifically or by implication.
Gender. A word importing the masculine gender only shall extend and be applied to females and to firms, partnerships and corporations as well as to males.
Interpretation. In the interpretation and application of any provision of this Code, it shall be held to be the minimum requirement adopted for the promotion of the public health, safety, comfort, convenience and general welfare. [1] Where any provision of the Code imposes greater restrictions upon the subject matter than the general provision imposed by the Code, the provision imposing the greater restriction or regulation shall be deemed to be controlling.
Joint authority. All words giving a joint authority to three (3) or more persons or officers shall be construed as giving such authority to a majority of such persons or officers.
Keepers and proprietors. The words "keepers" and "proprietors" shall mean and include the persons, firms, associations, corporations, clubs and partnerships, whether acting by themselves or through a servant, agent or employee.
Limits, corporation, city. The word "limits," "corporation" or "city" shall mean the corporate limits of the city, i.e., the legal boundary of the City of Winder.
May. The word "may" is permissive.
Mayor and council. Whenever the words "mayor and council" or "council" are used, they shall mean the mayor and council of the City of Winder.
Month. The word "month" shall mean a calendar month.
Nontechnical and technical words. Words and phrases shall be construed according to the common and approved usage of the language; but technical words and phrases and such others as may have acquired a peculiar and appropriate meaning in law shall be construed and understood according to such meaning.
Number. A word importing the singular number only may extend and be applied to several persons and things as well as to one person and thing, and a word importing the plural may also extend and be applied to one person or thing.
Oath. The word "oath" shall be construed to include an affirmation in all cases in which, by law, an affirmation may be substituted for an oath, and in such cases the words "swear" and "sworn" shall be equivalent to the words "affirm" and "affirmed."
Or, and. "Or" may be read "and," and "and" may be read "or," if the sense requires it.
Owner. The word "owner," applied to a building or land, shall include any part owner, joint owner, tenant in common, tenant in partnership, joint tenant or tenant by the entirety, of the whole or of a part of such building or land.
Person. The word "person" shall extend and be applied to associations, clubs, societies, firms, partnerships and bodies politic and corporate as well as to individuals.
Personal property shall include every species of property except real property, as herein described.
Preceding, following. The words "preceding" and "following" shall mean next before and next after, respectively.
Premises. Whenever the word "premises" is used it shall mean place or places.
Property. The word "property" shall include real and personal property.
Public place. The term "public place" shall mean any park, cemetery, school yard or open space adjacent thereto, or any area available and/or accessible to the public.
Real property. The term "real property" shall include lands, tenements and hereditaments.
Residence. The term "residence" shall be construed to mean the place adopted by a person as his place of habitation, and to which, whenever he is absent, he has the intention of returning. When a person eats at one place and sleeps at another, the place where such person sleeps shall be deemed his residence.
Seal. The word "seal" shall mean the city seal, i.e., the seal of this municipal corporation.
Shall. The word "shall" is mandatory.
Sidewalk. The word "sidewalk" shall mean any portion of a street between the curbline and the adjacent property line, intended for the use of pedestrians, excluding parkways.
Signature or subscription. The "signature" or "subscription" of a person shall include a mark when the person cannot write.
State. The words "the state" shall be construed to mean the State of Georgia.
Street. The word "street" shall be construed to embrace streets, avenues, boulevards, roads, alleys, lanes, viaducts and all other public highways in the city.
Tenant, occupant. The word "tenant" or "occupant," applied to a building or land, shall include any person holding a written or oral lease or who occupies the whole or a part of such building or land, either alone or with others.
Time. Words used in the past or present tense include the future as well as the past and present.
Title of officer. Whenever the title of an officer is given, it shall be construed as though the words "of the City of Winder" were added.
Week. The word "week" shall be construed to mean seven (7) days.
Written or in writing. The term "written" or "in writing" shall be construed to include any representation of words, letters or figures, whether by printing or otherwise.
Year. The word "year" shall mean a calendar year.
(Code 1968, § 1-2)
State Law reference— Construction of statutes, Ga. Code Ann., § 1-3-1 et seq.
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Charter reference— General welfare powers, § 1-3(33), (37).

Sec. 1-5. - Effective date of ordinances.
Ordinances which do not provide for their taking effect at a different time shall take effect immediately after their passage, without reference to their publication.
(Code 1968, § 1-5)
Sec. 1-6. - Parenthetical and reference matter.
The matter in parentheses at the ends of sections is for information only and is not a part of the Code. Citations to the 1968 Code of the city (Code 1968) and to later ordinances indicate only the source, and the text may or may not be changed by this Code. Reference matter not in parentheses is for information only and is not a part of this Code.
Sec. 1-7. - Responsibility for violations of ordinances.
All persons who participate either directly or indirectly in a violation of the ordinances of the city shall be treated as principals and upon conviction shall be punished as principals under the penalties that are provided in this Code of Ordinances.
(Code 1968, § 1-11)
State Law reference— Parties to crime, Ga. Code Ann., § 16-2-20 et seq.
Sec. 1-8. - General penalty; continuing violations.
Whenever in this Code or in any ordinance of the city any act is prohibited or is made or declared to be unlawful or an offense, or whenever in such Code or ordinance the doing of any act is required or the failure to do any act is declared to be unlawful, where no specific penalty is provided therefor, the violation of such provision of this Code or any such ordinance shall be punished by a fine not to exceed one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) or imprisonment in the city jail for not more than six (6) months, or work on the public streets or on such public works as the authorities may direct for not more than six (6) months, or by any one or more of these punishments, subject to all limitations contained in the Charter of the city. Each day any violation of this Code or of any ordinance shall continue shall constitute a separate offense.
(Code 1968, § 1-10; Ord. (6-W-83) of 8-2-83)
Charter reference— Penalties for violations of ordinances, § 1-3(31), (32).
State Law reference— Confinement of persons violating ordinances, Ga. Code Ann., § 36-30-8.
Sec. 1-9. - Nuisances.
In addition to the penalties provided in the preceding section, any condition caused or permitted to exist in violation of any of the provisions of this Code or any ordinance shall be deemed to be a public nuisance, and may be abated by the city as provided by law, and each day that such condition continues shall be regarded as a new and separate offense.
(Code 1968, § 1-10)
Charter reference— Power of city to prohibit nuisances, § 1-10.
State Law reference— Nuisances, Ga. Code Ann., title 41; nuisances in cities, § 41-2-5.
Sec. 1-10. - Severability of parts of Code.
It is hereby declared to be the intention of the mayor and council that the sections, paragraphs, sentences, clauses and phrases of this Code are severable, and if any phrase, clause, sentence, paragraph or section of this Code shall be declared unconstitutional by the valid judgment or decree of any court of competent jurisdiction, such unconstitutionality shall not affect any of the remaining phrases, clauses, sentences, paragraphs and sections of this Code, since the same would have been enacted by the mayor and council without the incorporation in this Code of any such unconstitutional phrase, clause, sentence, paragraph or section.
(Code 1968, § 1-7)
Sec. 1-11. - Amendments to Code; effect of new ordinances; amendatory language.
(a)
All ordinances passed subsequent to this Code which amend, repeal or in any way affect this Code may be numbered in accordance with the numbering system of this Code and printed for inclusion herein. In the case of repealed chapters, sections and subsections or any part thereof, by subsequent ordinances, such repealed portions may be excluded from the Code by omission from reprinted pages affected thereby. The subsequent ordinances as numbered and printed, or omitted in the case of repeal, shall be prima facie evidence of such subsequent ordinances until such time that this Code and subsequent ordinances numbered or omitted are readopted as a new Code by the mayor and council.
(b)
Amendments to any of the provisions of this Code may be made by amending such provisions by specific reference to the section number of this Code in the following language: "That section _______ of the Code of Ordinances, City of Winder, Georgia, is hereby amended to read as follows: …" The new provisions may then be set out in full as desired.
(c)
In the event a new section not heretofore existing in the Code is to be added, the following language may be used: "That the Code of Ordinances, City of Winder, Georgia, is hereby amended by adding a section (or article or chapter) to be numbered _______, which said section reads as follows: …" The new section may then be set out in full as desired.
(d)
In lieu of the foregoing paragraph, when new material is to be added to the Code, the following language may be used: "It is the intention of the mayor and council that the provisions of this ordinance be incorporated into the Code of Ordinances of the City of Winder, and said provisions may be renumbered to accomplish such intention.
(e)
All sections, articles, chapters or provisions desired to be repealed should be specifically repealed by section, article or chapter number, as the case may be.
(Code 1968, § 1-8)
Cross reference— Records of ordinances, §§ 2-1, 2-2.
Sec. 1-12. - Supplementation of Code.
(a)
By contract or by city personnel, supplements to this Code shall be prepared and printed whenever authorized or directed by the mayor and council. A supplement to the Code shall include all substantive permanent and general parts of ordinances passed by the mayor and council or adopted by initiative and referendum during the period covered by the supplement and all changes made thereby in the Code. The pages of a supplement shall be so numbered that they will fit properly into the Code and will, where necessary, replace pages which have become obsolete or partially obsolete, and the new pages shall be so prepared that, when they have been inserted, the Code will be current through the date of the adoption of the latest ordinance included in the supplement.
(b)
In preparing a supplement to this Code, all portions of the Code which have been repealed shall be excluded from the Code by the omission thereof from reprinted pages.
(c)
When preparing a supplement to this Code, the codifier (meaning the person, agency or organization authorized to prepare the supplement) may make formal, nonsubstantive changes in ordinances and parts of ordinances included in the supplement, insofar as it is necessary to do so to embody them into a unified code. For example, the codifier may:
(1)
Organize the ordinance material into appropriate subdivisions;
(2)
Provide appropriate catchlines, headings and titles for sections and other subdivisions of the Code printed in the supplement, and make changes in such catchlines, headings and titles;
(3)
Assign appropriate numbers to sections and other subdivisions to be inserted in the Code and, where necessary to accommodate new material, change existing section or other subdivision numbers;
(4)
Change the words "this ordinance" or words of the same meaning to "this chapter," "this article," "this division," etc., as the case may be, or to "sections _______ to _______" (inserting section numbers to indicate the sections of the Code which embody the substantive sections of the ordinance incorporated into the Code); and
(5)
Make other nonsubstantive changes necessary to preserve the original meanings of ordinance sections inserted into the Code; but in no case shall the codifier make any change in the meaning or effect of ordinance material included in the supplement or already embodied in the Code.
Sec. 1-13. - Effect of repeal of ordinances.
(a)
The repeal of an ordinance shall not revive any ordinances in force before or at the time the ordinance repealed took effect.
(b)
The repeal of an ordinance shall not affect any punishment or penalty incurred before the repeal took effect, nor any suit, prosecution or proceeding pending at the time of the repeal, for an offense committed or cause of action arising under the ordinance repealed.
(Code 1968, § 1-6)
Sec. 1-14. - Altering code.
It shall be unlawful for any person in the city to change or amend, by additions or deletions, any part or portion of this Code, or to insert or delete pages, or portions thereof, or to alter or tamper with such Code in any manner whatsoever except by ordinance or resolution or other official act of the mayor and council, which will cause the law of the city to be misrepresented thereby.
(Code 1968, § 1-9)
Sec. 1-15. - Extension of police jurisdiction.
All of the valid and existing ordinances and resolutions of the city shall extend and apply to all city-owned property located beyond the corporate limits, and to all of that territory adjacent to the said city limits and within a radius of one-half mile therefrom, being within a radius of one and one-half (1½) miles from the center of the city, provided that such territory is not within the corporate limits of another municipality.
(Code 1968, § 2-5)
Charter reference— Power of city to acquire property outside the corporate limits, § 1-3(25).
Sec. 1-16. - Official city time.
Time referred to in ordinances, resolutions, rules and regulations of the city shall mean eastern standard time (or eastern daylight saving time, when applicable), and acts and deeds of commission prohibited after a named hour or before a named hour shall be held and understood to mean such hour by eastern standard time, and wherever any reference to time is made in any of the ordinances and regulations of the city, such rules, ordinances and regulations are hereby amended to provide that the time provided therein shall be and is hereby made eastern standard time in accordance with the laws of this state.
(Code 1968, § 2-2)
Editor's note— The Interstate Commerce Commission has provided that the official time of the State of Georgia is eastern standard time.
