ARTICLE IV. - WINES
DIVISION 1. - EXCISE TAX

Sec. 3-116. - Excise tax—Amounts.
In addition to the charges levied in this article for a retail license, an excise tax is hereby levied on the sale of wines in the following amounts:
(1)
On wines produced within the state, wholly from fruits and berries grown within the state, having an alcoholic strength of not more than fourteen (14) percent alcohol by volume, eighty cents ($0.80) per gallon and a proportionate tax at like rates on all fractional parts of a gallon.
(2)
On wines produced from fruits and berries grown without the state, whether produced within or without the state, having an alcoholic strength of not more than fourteen (14) percent alcohol by volume, eighty cents ($0.80) per gallon and a proportionate tax at like rates on all fractional parts of a gallon.
(3)
On wines produced within the state, wholly from fruits and berries grown within the state, having an alcoholic strength of more than fourteen (14) percent alcohol by volume, eighty cents ($0.80) per gallon and a proportionate tax at like rates on all fractional parts of a gallon.
(4)
On wines produced within the state, wholly from fruits and berries grown within the state, to which wine spirits produced from without the state have been added, having an alcoholic strength of more than fourteen (14) percent alcohol by volume, eighty cents ($0.80) per gallon and a proportionate tax at like rates on all fractional parts of a gallon.
(5)
On wines produced from fruits and berries grown without the state, whether produced within or without the state, having an alcoholic strength of more than fourteen (14) percent alcohol by volume, eighty cents ($0.80) per gallon and a proportionate tax at like rates on all fractional parts of a gallon.
(Ord. (W-10-12) of 9-11-12)
Sec. 3-117. - Same—Payment.
The excise tax levied in the preceding section shall be paid by persons selling wines to retail licensees by the tenth day of each month following the month in which deliveries were made. Copies of the summary of sales showing deliveries by each supplier to retailers shall be furnished to the city finance director with each monthly payment.
(Ord. (W-10-12) of 9-11-12)
Secs. 3-118, 3-119. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - LICENSE

Sec. 3-120. - Types of wine licenses.
Licenses for the sale of wines shall be of four (4) kinds, to wit:
(1)
Manufacturer;
(2)
Wholesaler;
(3)
Retail by the package; and
(4)
Retail for consumption on premises.
(Ord. (W-10-12) of 9-11-12)
Sec. 3-121. - Required.
It shall be unlawful for any person to manufacture or sell or offer for sale at wholesale or retail in the city any wine beverages without having obtained the license required in this chapter.
(Ord. (W-10-12) of 9-11-12)
Sec. 3-122. - Effect of license—Manufacturer.
A manufacturer's license under this division will entitle the licensee to manufacture only wines, at one (1) location only.
(Ord. (W-10-12) of 9-11-12)
Sec. 3-123. - Same—Wholesale dealer.
A wholesale dealer's license under this division will entitle the licensee to sell only wines, and only in the original unbroken container, to persons holding a retail license for the sale of wines for the purpose of resale only.
(Ord. (W-10-12) of 9-11-12)
Sec. 3-124. - Effect of retail dealer's license—Generally.
A retail dealer license for sale by the package under this article will entitle the licensee to sell only wines, at one (1) location only, and only in the original and unopened container, and shall not permit the opening of containers in the package store where sold, and shall not permit the drinking of the contents of said containers in the package store where sold. All wines possessed by a licensee shall be kept on the premises.
(Ord. (W-10-12) of 9-11-12)
Sec. 3-125. - Effect of consumption license—Generally.
A consumption license under this article will entitle the licensee to sell only wine, having an alcoholic strength of no greater than twenty (20) percent alcohol by volume, at only one (1) location, and only by the drink for consumption on the premises. Such sale is authorized in restaurants and private clubs, and in bars, pubs, taverns, brew pubs and public entertainment facilities in the downtown overlay district. A partially consumed bottle of wine purchased with a meal from a restaurant and resealed may be removed from the restaurant by a patron as permitted by O.C.G.A. section 3-6-4 and Ga. Reg. 40-6-253(2).
(Ord. (W-10-12) of 9-11-12)
Sec. 3-126. - Same—Unopened containers.
A consumption license under this division does not permit the sale of wine in unopened containers. The sale of wine in unopened containers shall require the additional licenses otherwise provided by law, and the license holder must otherwise comply with the laws pertaining thereto. It shall be unlawful for the holder of a consumption license to sell or permit the sale of unopened bottles or packages of wine at the same location where he operates his consumption license.
(Ord. (W-10-12) of 9-11-12)
Sec. 3-127. - Ancillary wine tasting license.
(a)
The holder of a wine package license shall be eligible for an ancillary wine tasting license to provide samples of wine offered for sale to customers under the conditions set forth in this section.
(b)
Samples shall not exceed two (2) ounces per sample, and no customer shall consume more than ten (10) ounces per day.
(c)
Wine bottles shall be opened only by the licensee or his employees and samples shall only be poured by the licensee or his employees.
(d)
No open containers of wine shall be removed from the licensed premises.
(e)
Wine sampling and tasting is only permitted within the enclosed interior portion of the premises. The premises shall not be used for the sale of distilled spirits.
(f)
Minors under the age of twenty-one (21) are not allowed in the tasting portion of the premises
(g)
Holders of an ancillary wine tasting permit shall not charge for samples or tastings.
(h)
The annual fee for an ancillary wine tasting license fee shall be set and may be revised from time to time by the mayor and council.
( Ord. (W-3-15) of 6-2-15 )
Secs. 3-128—3-129. - Reserved.
