DIVISION 3. - PRETREATMENT OF WASTEWATER

Sec. 23-31. - Pretreatment facilities.
Users shall provide wastewater treatment as necessary to comply with this article and shall achieve compliance with all categorical pretreatment standards, local limits, and the prohibitions set out in section 23-21 of this article within the time limitations specified by EPA, the state or the utilities director, whichever is more stringent. Any facilities necessary for compliance and for compliance monitoring shall be provided, operated and maintained at the user's expense. Detailed plans describing such facilities and operating procedures shall be submitted to the utilities director for review, and shall be acceptable to the utilities director before such facilities are constructed. The review of such plans and operating procedures shall in no way relieve the user from the responsibility of modifying such facilities as necessary to produce a discharge acceptable to the city under the provisions of this article.
(Ord. (7-W-96) of 6-13-96; Ord. ( (W-5-20) ) of 12-8-20, § I)
Sec. 23-32. - Additional pretreatment measures.
(a)
Whenever deemed necessary, the utilities director may require users to restrict their discharge during peak flow periods, designate that certain wastewater be discharged only into specific sewers, relocate and/or consolidate points of discharge, separate sewage wastestreams from industrial wastestreams, and such other conditions as may be necessary to protect the POTW and determine the user's compliance with the requirements of this article.
(b)
The utilities director may require any person discharging into the POTW to install and maintain, on their property and at their expense, a suitable storage and flow-control facility to ensure equalization of flow. A wastewater discharge permit may be issued solely for flow equalization.
(c)
The utilities director may require any person discharging to the POTW to install and maintain, on their property and at their expense, one or more sampling structures, equipped as necessary for manual or automatic sampling, and readily accessible at all times by city monitoring personnel.
(d)
Grease, oil and sand interceptors shall be provided when, in the opinion of the utilities director, they are necessary for the proper handling of wastewater containing excessive amounts of grease and oil or sand; except that such interceptors shall not be required for residential users. All interception units shall be of type and capacity approved by the utilities director and shall be so located to be easily accessible for cleaning and inspection. Such interceptors shall be inspected, cleaned and repaired regularly, as needed, by the user at their expense.
(e)
Users with the potential to discharge flammable substances may be required to install and maintain an approved combustible gas detection meter.
(Ord. (7-W-96) of 6-13-96; Ord. ( (W-5-20) ) of 12-8-20, § I)
Sec. 23-33. - Accidental discharge/slug control plans.
The utilities director shall evaluate whether each significant industrial user needs an accidental discharge/slug control plan or other action to control slug discharges. The utilities director may require any user to develop, submit for approval, and implement such a plan or take such other action that may be necessary to control slug discharges. An accidental discharge/slug control plan shall address, at a minimum, the following:
(1)
Description of discharge practices, including nonroutine batch discharges;
(2)
Description of stored chemicals;
(3)
Procedures for immediately notifying the utilities director of any accidental or slug discharge, as required by section 23-66 of this article; and
(4)
Procedures to prevent adverse impact from any accidental or slug discharge. Such procedures include, but are not limited to, inspection and maintenance of storage areas, handling and transfer of materials, loading and unloading operations, control of plant site runoff, worker training, building of containment structures or equipment, measures for containing toxic organic pollutants, including solvents, and/or measures and equipment for emergency response.
(Ord. (7-W-96) of 6-13-96; Ord. ( (W-5-20) ) of 12-8-20, § V)
Sec. 23-34. - Hauled wastewater.
(a)
Septic tank waste may be introduced into the POTW only at locations designated by the utilities director, and at such times as are established by the utilities director. Such waste shall not violate division 2 of this article or any other requirements established by the city. The utilities director may require septic tank waste haulers to obtain wastewater discharge permits.
(b)
The utilities director shall require haulers of industrial waste to obtain wastewater discharge permits. The utilities director may require generators of hauled industrial waste to obtain wastewater discharge permits. The utilities director also may prohibit the disposal of hauled industrial waste. The discharge of hauled industrial waste is subject to all other requirements of this article.
(c)
Industrial waste haulers may discharge loads only at locations designated by the utilities director. No load may be discharged without prior consent of the utilities director. The utilities director may collect samples of each hauled load to ensure compliance with applicable standards. The utilities director may require the industrial waste hauler to provide a waste analysis of any load prior to discharge.
(d)
Industrial waste haulers must provide a waste-tracking form for every load. This form shall include, at a minimum, the name and address of the industrial waste hauler, permit number, truck identification, names and addresses of sources of waste, and volume and characteristics of waste. The form shall identify the type of industry, known or suspected waste constituents, and whether any wastes are RCRA hazardous wastes.
(Ord. (7-W-96) of 6-13-96; Ord. ( (W-5-20) ) of 12-8-20, § I)
Secs. 23-35—23-40. - Reserved.
