DIVISION 14. - WASTEWATER TREATMENT RATES

Sec. 23-141. - User charges.
(a)
It is the intent of the city to distribute the cost of operation and maintenance of treatment works owned or controlled by the city to each user in proportion to such user's contribution to the total waste loading of the treatment works.
(b)
The approving authority shall grant no quantity discounts to large volume users.
(c)
User charges under this article shall be fixed from time to time by the mayor and council.
(d)
Bills under this article will be sent by mail to all customers on a monthly basis, stating the amount and date due. Each customer is responsible for remitting payment at the billing interval. Payment shall be made to the city.
(e)
Persons not having paid their bills under this article within fifteen (15) days of the date of billing will be delinquent. A notice shall be sent to them through the United States mail. If the customer responds before the final termination date, the person(s) designated by the mayor or utilities director is authorized to set up a schedule of acceptable payment arrangements with the customer. If such bill is not paid within fifteen (15) days, the potable public water connection serving the premises will be turned off and will not be turned on again until said bill is paid.
(f)
In case a person discharging wastes into the city sanitary sewer system does not procure his water supply from the city, and becomes delinquent in his payment of the surcharge under this division, his connection with the city sewer system will be severed and will only be reconnected at his expense.
(g)
When sewer service has been disconnected for nonpayment of charges therefor, or for nonpayment of any other charges lawfully imposed, upon payment of such charges and upon payment of an additional fee fixed from time to time by the mayor and council, sewer service shall be resumed to the affected premises.
(h)
In the event sewer charges remain unpaid under this article for fifteen (15) days after the bill or account for such service has been rendered to the customer, execution shall be issued in favor of the city against such delinquent user for the amount of such unpaid charges, which execution shall be issued and enforced, levied and collected in the same manner as other executions running in favor of the city.
(i)
The approving authority shall review user charges annually and shall revise them as necessary in order to reflect actual costs incurred in the operation and maintenance of treatment works owned or controlled by the city.
(j)
In addition to all other rates, charges, penalties, fees, expenses and cost otherwise provided for in this chapter, the city may also collect all costs incurred for the collection of delinquent utility accounts, including, but not limited to, postage expenses, late fees as established by resolution or ordinance of the council from time to time, court filing fees, attorney's fees incurred by the city, and fees paid to third-party collection agencies. The city is authorized to use third-party collection agencies to collect delinquent utility accounts and all cost, fees and expenses of such third-party agencies shall be the responsibility of the delinquent customer.
(Ord. (7-W-96) of 6-13-96; Ord. (W-13-06) 8-8-06; Ord. (W-18-07) of 2-6-07; Ord. ( (W-5-20) ) of 12-8-20, § I)
State Law reference— Executions and proceedings thereunder, Ga. Code Ann., title 9.
Sec. 23-142. - Surcharges.
No commercial or industrial user shall discharge conventional pollutants in excess of the limits given in section 23-24 unless authorized under an industrial user permit issued by the utilities director.
All commercial or industrial users who discharge conventional pollutants in excess of the limits given in section 23-24, under an industrial user permit are subject to a surcharge, in addition to the normally required wastewater use charges, in an amount to be calculated as shown in this section. Conventional pollutants include five-day biochemical oxygen demand (BOD), total suspended solids (TSS), ammonia as nitrogen (NH3-N) and total phosphorus (Total P)
The surcharge shall be determined by the following formula:
C × Q × 8.34 × SR = $/month
Where:
C is the concentration of the BOD, TSS, NH3-N or Total P that is in excess of the limits given in section 23-24. The concentration shall be the average of all composite samples collected and analyzed in accordance with the procedures outlined in 40 CFR 136 during a calendar year and.
Q is the total flow, in million gallons, metered in the industrial discharge as provided in section 23-143 during each billing cycle.
8.34 is a conversion factor.
SR is the surcharge rate in dollars per pound for treatment of the conventional pollutant as determined by the utility director.
The surcharge rate will be in effect for twelve (12) months following the end of the calendar year in which it is calculated. The industrial user may petition the utility director to adjust the duration or concentration of the surcharge rate based on changing environmental conditions.
The sum of all surcharges calculated will be added to the sewer bill for the industrial user for the 12-month period until a new surcharge rate is calculated and will be added to the user's utility bill.
(Ord. (7-W-96) of 6-13-96; Ord. ( (W-5-20) ) of 12-8-20, § XXV)
Sec. 23-143. - Computing industrial cost recovery.
The volume of flow used in computing the industrial cost recovery (user charges) shall be based upon metered water consumption records except where the industrial waste has been segregated from the wastewater discharged from sanitary conveniences located on the premises; in which case the cost recovery will be computed from the flow recorded by an approved measuring device located at the point where all the industrial wastewater being discharged by the industry can be measured.
(Ord. (7-W-96) of 6-13-96)
Secs. 23-144—23-150. - Reserved.
