DIVISION 14. - VARIANCE HEARINGS BOARD

Sec. 38-602. - Appointment.
The variance hearing board of the city (hereinafter called the "board") is hereby established in accordance with the provisions of this division. Said board shall consist of five members appointed by the city. The five members shall serve for overlapping terms of three years or until succeeded. The initial individual appointments shall be two members for terms one year one member for two years, and two members for the regular term. No member shall hold any other public office or to be a member of the planning commission. Any vacancy in the membership shall be filled for the unexpired term in the same manner as the initial appointments. Members shall be removed for cause by the appointment authority upon written charges and after a public hearing.
(Ord. of 5-2016(2), app. II)
Sec. 38-603. - Officers and meetings.
(a)
Appointment. The planning and zoning commission is hereby established as the variance hearings board (hereinafter the "board") of the city. Any vacancy in the membership shall be filled for the unexpired term in the same manner as the initial appointments to the planning and zoning commission. Members shall be removed for cause by the appointment authority upon written charges and after a public hearing.
(b)
Officers and meetings. The chairman, secretary, and any other officers of the planning and zoning commission shall serve in the same capacity on the board.
(d)
Meetings of the board shall be held at the call of the chairperson and at such other times as the board may determine. The chairperson, or in his absence, the acting v, may administer oaths and compel the attendance of witnesses by subpoena. All meeting of the board shall be open to the public.
(e)
No member of the board shall participate in a hearing in which he has any pecuniary or special interest.
(f)
The board shall keep minutes of its proceedings, showing the vote of each member upon each question, or if absent or falling to vote indicating such fact, and shall keep records of examination and other officials actions, all of which shall immediately filed at city hall and shall be a public record.
(Ord. of 5-2016(2), app. II; Ord. of 11-10-2020, app. II)
Sec. 38-604. - Powers.
The board shall have the following powers: to hear a request variance and to recommend approval, approval with conditions, or denial to the governing authority of such variance from the terms of this division as will not to contrary to the public interest where, owing to special conditions, a literal enforcements of the provisions of this article will, in an individual case, result in unnecessary hardship, so that the spirit of this division shall be observed, public safety and welfare secured and substantial justice done. Such variance may be granted only upon a finding by the governing authority that the conditions necessary for a variance under this ordinance exist.
(Ord. of 5-2016(2), app. II; Ord. of 11-10-2020, app. II)
Sec. 38-605. - Variance application.
The application for variance shall be filed with the city clerk. The application shall be submitted in compliance with the following:
(1)
A survey of the property prepared by a licensed surveyor showing existing and proposed structures and uses, access drives, easements, utilities, buffers, existing zoning and any other supporting documentation as required by the hearings board to assist the board in rendering a decision;
(2)
A list of adjoining property owners as shown on the tax rolls;
(3)
Any additional information the applicant believes to be pertinent:
a.
The required application fee, if the applicant is other than the local government, as determined by the mayor and council, to cover the administrative and adverting costs of the application and the posting of the sign;
b.
A signed statement by the owner of at least 51 percent of the subject property authorizing the filling of the application variance.
(Ord. of 5-2016(2), app. II)
Secs. 38-606—38-628. - Reserved.
