Chapter 4 - AIR AND NOISE POLLUTION CONTROL
ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Secs. 4-1—4-18. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - AIR POLLUTION CONTROL

Sec. 4-19. - Emissions of gases, vapors and odors.
No person shall cause, suffer, or allow any emissions of gases, vapors, or odors beyond the property line from which such emissions occur to be in sufficient quantities and of such characteristics and duration as is or is likely to be injurious to the public welfare; to the health of human, plant, or animal life; or to property; or which interfere with the enjoyment of life or property.
(Code 1991, § 13-101)
Secs. 4-20—4-41. - Reserved.
ARTICLE III. - NOISE POLLUTION CONTROL

Sec. 4-42. - Loud, unnecessary or excessive noise.
(a)
General prohibition. It shall be unlawful to make or continue, or cause to be made or continued, any loud, unnecessary or excessive noise which unreasonably interferes with the comfort and repose of others within the jurisdiction of the city.
(b)
Specific acts, sounds declared as violations. In addition to the general prohibition set out in subsection (a) of this section, the following specific acts are declared to be in violation of this section:
(1)
Horns, signaling devices. The sounding of any horn or signaling device on any motor vehicle or any street or public place in the city continuously and/or incessantly for a period in excess of 60 seconds, except as a danger warning.
(2)
Radios, televisions, musical instruments and similar devices.
a.
The operating or playing of any radio, musical instrument or similar device which produces or reproduces sound on the public rights-of-way in such a manner as to be plainly audible to any person other than the operator of the device.
b.
The operating or playing of any radio, television, phonograph, musical instrument or similar device which produces or reproduces sound in a motor vehicle or public park in a manner as to be plainly audible at a distance of 15 meters, 50 feet.
(3)
Loudspeakers and sound amplifiers. The using or operating of any loudspeaker, loudspeaker system, sound amplifier or other similar device between the hours of 11:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. on weekdays, and 11:00 p.m. and 10:00 a.m. on weekends and holidays, within or adjacent to residential or noise-sensitive areas such that the sound therefrom is plainly audible across the real property line of the source; provided, however, that this shall not apply to any public performance, gathering or parade for which a permit has been obtained from the city.
(4)
Street sales. The offering for sale by shouting outcry except by permit issued by the city.
(5)
Animals. The owning, possessing or harboring of any animal which frequently, or for continued duration, howls, barks, meows, squawks or makes other sounds which create excessive and unnecessary noise across a real property line or within a noise-sensitive area. For the purpose of this article, the term "barking dog" means a dog that barks, bays, cries, howls, or makes any other noise continuously and/or incessantly for a period of ten minutes, or barks intermittently for one-half hour or more to the disturbance of any person any time of day or night, regardless of whether the dog is physically situated in or upon private property; provided, however, that a dog shall not be deemed a "barking dog" if, at the time the dog is barking or making any other noise, a person is trespassing or threatening to trespass upon property in or upon which the dog is situated.
(6)
Construction and demolition. The operating of any equipment used in construction work within 50 meters, 52 yards of any residential or noise-sensitive area between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. on weekdays and 10:00 p.m. and 10:00 a.m. on weekends and holidays, except for emergency work.
(7)
Powered model vehicles. The operating of, or permitting the operation of, powered model vehicles, between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. on weekdays and 10:00 p.m. and 10:00 a.m. on weekends or holidays.
(8)
Emergency signaling devices.
a.
Except in cases of an emergency, the intentional sounding of any alarm between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m.
b.
The testing of any alarm for a period in excess of 60 seconds at any time.
c.
The testing of a complete emergency signaling system, including the signaling device and the personnel response to the signaling device, more than once in each calendar month, and the sounding of said emergency signaling system for a period in excess of 15 minutes.
(Code 1991, § 13-102)
Sec. 4-43. - Adequate mufflers or sound-dissipative devices.
(a)
It shall be unlawful to operate or cause to be operated any motor vehicle or motorcycle not equipped with a muffler in good working order and in constant operation.
(b)
It shall be unlawful to remove or render inoperative or cause to be removed or rendered inoperative any muffler or sound-dissipative device on a motor vehicle or motorcycle other than for purposes of maintenance, repair or replacement.
(Code 1991, § 13-102)
Sec. 4-44. - Special permits.
(a)
Any person desiring relief from any provision of this article shall apply for a special permit to cause or create a noise at sound levels which would otherwise be in violation of this article. Applications for a special permit shall be made, in writing, to the mayor, or the designee of the mayor, on forms provided for that purpose. Payment of a fee in an amount to be determined by the mayor and council from time to time shall accompany the application. The mayor shall grant said special permit upon a showing by the applicant that:
(1)
Additional time is necessary for the applicant to alter or modify the activity in order to comply with the provisions of the article; or
(2)
The activity, operation or noise source will be of a temporary duration and cannot be done in a manner that would comply with the provisions of this article; and
(3)
No reasonable alternative is available to the applicant.
(b)
Any permit granted pursuant to this section shall contain thereon all conditions upon which said permit has been granted, including, but not limited to, the effective date, time of day, location, sound level limit or equipment limitation; provided, however, that no special permit shall be issued for a period in excess of 15 consecutive days. Any special permit granted hereunder may be renewed upon application to the mayor, or designee of the mayor, upon a showing that the reasons for which the permit was granted still exist.
(Code 1991, § 13-102)
Sec. 4-45. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Alarm means any fire, burglary, motor vehicle or civil defense alarm, whistle or similar stationary emergency signaling device.
Construction means any site preparation, assembly, erection, substantial repair, alteration, demolition or similar action, for or of public or private rights-of-way, structures, utilities or similar property.
Emergency means any occurrence or set of circumstances involving actual or imminent physical trauma or property damage demanding immediate attention.
Emergency vehicle means a motor vehicle belonging to a fire department or certified private vehicle belonging to a volunteer firefighter, or firefighting association, partnership or corporation, any ambulance, a motor vehicle belonging to a private security agency, or a motor vehicle belonging to a federal, state, county or municipal law enforcement agency, provided said vehicles are in use as an emergency vehicle by one authorized to use said vehicle for that purpose.
Emergency work means any work for the purpose of preventing or alleviating the physical trauma or property damage threatened or caused by an emergency.
Motor vehicle means a motor vehicle means a vehicle with two or more wheels, or a machine, propelled or drawn by mechanical power and used on the public roads and highways in the transportation of passengers or property, or any combination thereof, which is required to be licensed, but does not include any vehicle, locomotive or car operated exclusively on rail or rails.
Noise-sensitive area means an area where a school, hospital, nursing home, church, court or public library is located within 1,000 linear feet.
Person means any individual, association, partnership, or corporation, and includes any officer, employee, department, agency or instrumentality of the United States, or of any political subdivision of the state.
Powered model vehicle means any self-propelled airborne, waterborne or landborne plane, vessel or vehicle which is not designed to carry persons, including, but not limited to, any model airplane, boat, car or rocket.
Public right-of-way means any street, avenue, boulevard, highway, sidewalk, alley or similar place normally accessible to the public which is owned or controlled by a governmental entity.
Real property line means a line along the surface, and its vertical plan extension, which separates the real property owned, rented or leased by one person from that owned, rented or leased by another person, excluding intra-building real property division.
Residential area means an area so classified by the city's zoning ordinance.
(Code 1991, § 13-102)
Secs. 4-46—4-63. - Reserved.
ARTICLE IV. - INJUNCTIONS

Sec. 4-64. - Violation; summary abatement by court.
The violation of this chapter is declared to be a public nuisance and is subject to summary abatement by a restraining order or injunction issued by a court of competent jurisdiction.
(Code 1991, § 13-103)
