DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Sec. 38-167. - Preface.
(a)
The following analysis, entitled "The Zoning Ordinance for the City," is designed to give the governing authority of the city with a recommended regulatory measure designed to meet present-day and anticipated future needs for the promotion of the health, safety, morals, convenience, order, prosperity or general welfare of the city by the control of such matters as the location, height, bulk, number of stories and size of buildings and other structures, the percentage of lot which may be occupied, the sizes of yards, courts, and the other open spaces, the density and distribution of population, and the uses of buildings, structures, and land for trade, industry, residence, recreation, agriculture, forestry, conservation, water supply, sanitation, protection against floods, public activities, and other purposes.
(b)
These recommended regulations are made in accordance with a comprehensive plan and shall be designed to lessen congestion in the streets; to secure safety from fire, panic, and other dangers; to promote health and the general welfare; to provide adequate light and air; to prevent the overcrowding of land; to avoid undue concentration of populations, water, sewerage, schools, parks, and other public requirements.
(c)
Said recommended regulations are made with responsible consideration, among other things, of the character of the district and its peculiar suitability for particular uses, and with a view to promoting desirable living conditions and the sustained stability of neighborhoods, protecting property against blight and depreciation, securing economy in governmental expenditures, conserving the value of buildings and encouraging the most appropriate use of land and other buildings and structure throughout the city.
(d)
These regulations represent an ordinance of the mayor and council establishing zoning districts and regulating the uses of land therein; specifying off-street parking and loading requirements; adopting general zoning regulations; adopting a map for the purpose of indicating land districts; describing zoning rules and regulations in said districts; defining said districts; providing for rezoning and redistricting; establishing certain building and zoning regulations in each of the said districts; regulating land uses and accessory uses; prescribing the percentage of land uses and accessory uses; prescribing the percentage of land area which may be occupied under varying circumstances; providing for variances and nonconforming uses; establishing an appeal procedure of zoning appeals; defining an appeal procedure of zoning appeals; defining certain terms herein used; providing a method of administration and practice and procedure; providing penalties for a violation; providing remedies for enforcement hereof; to repeal all conflicting ordinances; and for other purposes.
(Ord. of 5-2016(2), intro. ¶)
Sec. 38-168. - Purpose and enactment.
The mayor and council, under the authority of the General Planning and Zoning Enabling Act of 1957 of the state, as amended, and for the purpose of promoting the health, safety, morals, convenience, order, prosperity, or the general welfare of the municipality and designed to lessen congestion in the streets; to secure safety from fire, panic, and other dangers; to promote health and the general welfare; to provide adequate light and air; to prevent the overcrowding of land, to avoid undue concentration of population; to facilitate the adequate provision of transportation, water, sewerage, schools, parks, and other requirements; hereby ordain and enact into law the official zoning ordinance for the incorporated area of the city for planning, zoning and subdivision control purposes and agreed upon through laws enacted by both the mayor and council.
(Ord. of 5-2016(2), art. I)
Sec. 38-169. - Short title.
This article shall be known and may be cited as "The Zoning Ordinance for the City."
(Ord. of 5-2016(2), art. II)
Secs. 38-170—38-191. - Reserved.
