Chapter 30 - SOLID WASTE[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
State Law reference— Solid waste generally, O.C.G.A. § 12-8-20 et seq.; litter control, O.C.G.A. §§ 16-7-42 et seq., 16-7-51 et seq.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Secs. 30-1—30-18. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - COLLECTION AND DISPOSAL

Sec. 30-19. - Purpose.
The purpose of the rules and regulations contained in this article is to provide for the protection of the public health by prescribing the manner of storage, collection, transportation, and disposal of residential and industrial waste, rubbish, garbage, and refuse.
(Code 1985, § 7-201)
Sec. 30-20. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Collection person means a person who, under agreement, verbal or written, with or without compensation, does the work of collecting and/or transporting solid waste from industries, offices, retail outlets, businesses, institutions, and/or similar locations, or from residential dwellings; provided, however, that the term "collection person" shall not include an individual collecting and/or transporting waste from his own single-family dwelling unit.
Disposal facility means any facility or location where treatment, utilization, processing, or deposition of solid waste occurs.
Disposal operation means the performance of solid waste disposal, including administration, personnel, land, equipment, design, and other elements necessary or used in the work of solid waste disposal.
Disposal site means the location or land area where the final deposition of solid waste occurs.
Garbage means putrescible animal and vegetable wastes resulting from the handling, preparation, cooking, and consumption of food.
Hazardous waste means solid or liquid waste material resulting from the manufacture or use of pesticides and drugs (other than normal household use), pathological wastes, highly flammable or explosive wastes, toxic wastes, sewage sludge, and other waste material determined to be a likely hazard to the public health, safety, or environment, except radioactive waste materials as provided for in Rules of the Department of Human Resources, chapter 270-5-20, entitled Radioactive Materials.
Industrial waste means waste materials generated in industrial operations.
Open dump means a disposal site at which solid waste from one or more sources is consolidated and left to decompose, burn, or to otherwise create environmental pollution or nuisance.
Putrescible wastes means wastes that are capable of being decomposed by microorganisms, including kitchen wastes, manure, offal, hatchery and poultry wastes, and garbage.
Reclamation means a controlled method of sorting and storing solid wastes for future use in accordance with an approved plan.
Refuse means all putrescible and nonputrescible solid wastes (except body wastes), including garbage, rubbish, ashes, street cleanings, dead animals, abandoned automobiles, and solid commercial and industrial wastes.
Rubbish means nonputrescible solid wastes (excluding ashes), consisting of both combustible and noncombustible wastes, including, but not limited to, paper, cardboard, tin cans, yard clippings, wood, glass, bedding, crockery, and similar materials.
Sanitary landfilling means a method of disposing of putrescible waste and/or hazardous waste on land by placing an earth cover thereon.
Solid waste means putrescible and nonputrescible wastes, except water-carried body wastes, including garbage, rubbish, ashes, street refuse, dead animals, sewage sludge, animal manures, industrial wastes, residue from incineration, food-processing wastes, construction wastes, hazardous wastes, and any other waste material in a solid or semi-solid state not otherwise defined in this article.
Solid waste handling means the storage, collection, transportation, treatment, utilization, processing, or disposing of solid wastes, or any combination thereof.
Transfer station means a facility used to transfer solid wastes from one transportation vehicle to another for transportation to a disposal facility.
(Code 1985, § 7-202)
Sec. 30-21. - Enforcement.
(a)
In general. The director of public works shall be responsible for the administration and enforcement of this article. In the exercise of his solid waste management duties, said director shall:
(1)
Supervise the collection of solid waste, including the operation and maintenance of equipment and the supervision of personnel;
(2)
Establish collection schedules in accordance with the provisions of this article;
(3)
Supervise the operation and maintenance of the sanitary landfill and/or other disposal sites or facilities; and
(4)
Inspect and regulate the operations of private collectors and private transportation and disposal systems to ensure that such operations are in compliance with the provisions of this article.
(b)
Limitations of authority. All regulatory actions of the director of public works shall be subject to the review of the mayor and council.
(c)
Appeal. Any person aggrieved by a requirement of, or a fee charged by the director of public works shall have the right to appeal to the mayor and council, which body may, upon holding a hearing, confirm, modify, or revoke such requirement or fee.
(Code 1985, § 7-203)
Sec. 30-22. - Precollection.
(a)
In general. No person shall keep or store solid waste outside of any residence or building within the city, except in proper containers for collection or otherwise prepared, as set forth herein or under the express prior approval of the director of public works. Any unauthorized accumulation of solid waste is hereby declared to be a nuisance and is prohibited. The director of public works, by written notice, shall notify the owner or occupant of any premises with such solid waste accumulation within two weeks of the date of such written notice to do so shall be deemed a violation of these regulations and subject the offender to penalties hereinafter set forth. A separate violation shall be deemed committed each day during or upon which such unlawful accumulation continues.
(b)
Containers.
(1)
Garbage containers shall be provided by the owner of occupant or each residence or establishment sufficient in number to accommodate such waste generated by the residence or establishment between collections. Containers shall be of durable metal or plastic, water-tight, nonabsorbent, rust-resistance, rodent-proof, and easily cleanable. They shall be equipped with handles and tightly fitted covers and shall have a capacity of not less than 15 gallons nor more than 35 gallons, except that bulk containers (dumpsters) of a type accepted by the director of public works as suitable for mechanical collection by publicly-owned equipment used for such collection may be used. Containers failing to comply with these provisions of which have defects causing them to scatter waste upon the ground during collection or causing them to hamper or to injure the persons collecting the waste shall be promptly replaced.
(2)
Disposable paper or plastic bags of a type, size, and material designed for solid waste disposal may be used to contain refuse for storage and collection, provided they are unbroken, sealed, and loaded in such a manner that normal handling will not cause the bag to open.
(c)
Rubbish.
(1)
Rubbish may be stored for collection in cardboard boxes or other throwaway containers strong enough to retain the waste. Loose paper or cuttings shall be tied in bundles. Rubbish containers or bundles shall not exceed 50 pounds in weight. Limbs or cutting shall not exceed four inches in diameter or four feet in length. Rubbish containers or bundles shall be placed for collection beside the solid waste containers. Leaves and straw shall be placed in bags provided by the city.
(2)
It shall be unlawful for any person to trim trees for compensation within the city unless the trimmings and limbs and trash resulting therefrom are immediately removed from the premises and placed or deposited by the property owner or contractor in a disposal site.
(3)
Trimming trees for compensation shall be interpreted to include those persons or contractors that remove trees completely or partially and receive compensation for the wood, limbs and other residue from such trimming and cutting. Any form of compensation shall place the burden of disposal of any residue from trimming and cutting directly upon the individual persons or contractors performing the task and the property owner.
(4)
Building materials such as stone, dirt, plaster, lumber, brick, roofing, concrete, etc., or other materials from contract laborers, shall not be collected or removed by the city. The burden of responsibility for removal of said materials shall fall to the contractor and property owner.
(d)
Placement. On days designated as collection days for the respective routes by the director of public works, garbage and/or rubbish shall be placed for collection on the curb or beside the roadway in front of the residence or establishment owning same, or if the property abuts on an alley, at the rear of the property, but not in the gutter or in the street or alley in such manner as to interfere with pedestrian or vehicular traffic.
(e)
Scavenging. No person other than the owner or authorized collection personnel shall sift the contents of or remove anything from containers, boxes, or bundles containing garbage or rubbish.
(Code 1985, § 7-204)
Sec. 30-23. - Collection.
(a)
Frequency. Garbage and rubbish shall be collected from residential premises weekly. Garbage and rubbish shall be collected from commercial and business establishments in congested areas twice weekly.
(b)
Limitations. Industrial waste, large animals over 30 pounds, or waste from construction, demolition, landscaping, or processing operations will not be collected, transported, or disposed of by public facilities; but such waste collection, transportation and disposal shall be by the owners and/or generators of such waste collection, transportation, and disposal shall be by the owners and/or generators of such waste or animals. It shall be a violation of this article to place or to cause to be placed in any container, box, or bundle, or otherwise for collection, any hazardous waste of any kind except upon specific prior arrangement with the director of public works.
(c)
Collection vehicles. Vehicles used for collection and transportation of solid waste shall be kept clean and in good repair. They shall be constructed in such manner that the contents thereof cannot be spilled, leaked, or blown from the vehicle. They shall be readily identifiable by letters that are not less than three inches high and easily legible, painted on the door of the vehicle cab or in an equally conspicuous place showing: the owner's name; telephone number; state permit number; truck number; and rated load capacity in cubic yards. The rated load capacity shall be specified by the director of public works following his measurement of the load-carrying portion of the truck body.
(d)
Private contractors. No person other than employees of the city shall collect, transport, or dispose of solid waste for pay in the city without having first applied for and received a license to engage in such business as provided in chapter 18.
(Code 1985, § 7-205)
Sec. 30-24. - Disposal.
All disposal of solid waste shall be at disposal sites operated in accordance with state laws and with rules and regulations of the state department of natural resources, and at no other place. Waste deposited during operating hours at any site operated by the city shall be placed, as designated by the attendant on duty; waste deposited at any other times shall be placed in a bulk container located near the site entrance gate for the purpose of receiving such waste. Operating hours shall be from 8:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m. Monday through Friday of each week except for holidays. Motor vehicle bodies or major parts thereof, large appliances, stumps, or logs over four feet in length shall not be deposited at publicly-operated disposal sites except by prior arrangement with the director of public works. Fees for such disposal shall be billed and collected as hereinafter set forth.
(Code 1985, § 7-206)
Sec. 30-25. - Garbage fee.
(a)
All residences, businesses, churches, etc. which have curbside garbage pick-up available shall be assessed a monthly garbage fee as listed in subsection (b) of this section.
(b)
Fee schedule. Inside city limits: $20.00.
(1)
Garbage fees shall be included on the water/sewer bills. Where no monthly water/sewer bill is mailed to a garbage collection customer, a separate bill shall be sent for the garbage fee.
(2)
Garbage fees shall be due and payable on the same date as the water/sewer bills. Any garbage fee not paid by the due date of the water/sewer bill shall be subject to a 12 percent late penalty.
(3)
Past due garbage fees are collectable in the same manner as water/sewer bills.
(4)
Any commercial customers such as businesses or multi-unit developments, which choose to use a dumpster service, may request a waiver of the garbage fee requirement.
(5)
Garbage fees will be reviewed annually in October and any subsequent rate changes will take effect January 1 of the following year.
(6)
The city administrator shall be authorized to make adjustments of garbage bills for the following reasons:
a.
Computer or clerical error.
b.
To resolve disputes concerning bills. But in no case, shall such adjustment cover more than two billing cycles.
(Code 1985, § 7-208)
