ARTICLE V. - PET SHOPS

Sec. 22-170. - Definitions.
For the purpose of this article, the following words and phrases shall have the meanings respectively ascribed to them by this section.
Animal control facility means an animal control center or animal shelter, maintained by or under contract with any state, county or municipality, whose mission and practice is, in whole, or in significant part, the rescue, care, and placement of stray, abandoned, or surrendered animals in permanent homes or with rescue organizations, and which does not breed animals.
Animal rescue organization means any not for profit organization which has tax exempt status under Section 501(c)(3) of the United States Internal Revenue Code, whose mission and practice is, in whole or in significant part, the rescue, care, and placement of stray, abandoned, or surrendered animals in permanent homes, and which does not breed animals.
Cat means a member of the species of domestic cat, Felis catus.
Dog means a member of the specifics of domestic dog, Canis familiaris.
Offers for sale means to sell, offer for adoption, advertise for the sale of, barter, auction, give away or otherwise dispose of a dog or cat.
Pet shop means a retail establishment where animals sold, exchanged, bartered or offered for sale as pet animals to the general public at retail. Such definition shall not include a private residence not generally open to the public, an animal control facility or animal rescue organization as defined.
(Ord. of 6-12-2017)
Sec. 22-171. - Restrictions on the sale of dogs and cats.
A pet shop may not sell, exchange, barter, offer for sale, auction, or otherwise deliver or transfer a cat or a dog. Nothing in this section shall prevent a pet shop from providing space and appropriate care for cats and dogs owned by an animal control facility or an animal rescue organization and maintained at the pet shop for the purpose of adopting those animals to the public.
(Ord. of 6-12-2017)
Sec. 22-172. - Disclosures.
A pet shop that provides space for the adoption of cats or dogs shall post, in a conspicuous location on the cage or enclosure of each such animal, a sign stating the name of the animal control facility or animal rescue organization which owns the dog or cat offered for adoption.
(Ord. of 6-12-2017)
Sec. 22-173. - Penalties.
(a)
Each failure to post a sign for an individual dog or cat as required by this section shall constitute a separate offense.
(b)
Each dog or cat sold, exchanged, bartered, offered for sale, auctioned, delivered, or transferred in violation of this section shall constitute a separate offense of up to $500.00 per violation.
(c)
Each day's failure to comply with this section shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. of 6-12-2017)
Sec. 22-174. - Enforcement.
City Code enforcement and city police department shall be primarily responsible for the enforcement by means of court citations and are authorized to delegate enforcement authority to their designated employees.
(Ord. of 6-12-2017)
Secs. 22-175—22-214. - Reserved.
