ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL[2]

Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
State Law reference— Zoning procedures law, O.C.G.A. § 36-66-1.

Sec. 1-1. - Authority and purpose.
Pursuant to the authority conferred by article IX, section II, ¶ IV of the 1983 constitution of the State of Georgia and to guide development in accordance with existing and future needs; to protect, promote, and improve public health, safety, morals, convenience, order, appearance, prosperity, and the general welfare; to ensure the adequate provision of light and air; to promote safety from fire and other dangers; to facilitate economical and adequate provision of public facilities such as transportation, water, sewerage, education, recreation, sanitation, and other public requirements; with reasonable consideration of the character of each area and its suitability for particular uses, and with a view toward promoting desirable living conditions and sustained stability of living areas, protecting property against blight, conserving the value of land and buildings, securing economy in governmental expenditures, and encouraging the most appropriate use of land, buildings, and structures, the city council does ordain and enact into law the following regulations:
(1)
Dividing the city into districts and establishing the boundaries thereof;
(2)
Regulating the locations, height, bulk, and sizes of buildings and other structures;
(3)
Regulating the percentage of a lot which may be covered;
(4)
Regulating the size of yards, courts, and other open spaces;
(5)
Regulating the density and distribution of the population;
(6)
Regulating the uses and locations of buildings, structures, and land for trade, industry, residence, recreation, agriculture, conservation, public activities, airports, water supply, sanitation, and protection against floods;
(7)
Providing for the method of administration and amendment of these regulations;
(8)
Defining the powers and duties of the planning commission and city council with respect to these regulations;
(9)
Defining certain terms used herein; and
(10)
Providing penalties for violations of these regulations.
(Zoning Code 1997, § 1-1)
Sec. 1-2. - Title.
The following provisions shall hereafter constitute and may be cited as the "Zoning Code of the City of Wrightsville, Georgia," and may be referred to herein as the "zoning code."
(Zoning Code 1997, § 1-2)
Sec. 1-3. - Scope.
The provisions of this zoning code shall apply to all land, buildings, and structures within the incorporated limits of the city.
(Zoning Code 1997, § 1-3)
Sec. 1-4. - Zoning map.
The location and boundaries of the zoning districts established by this appendix are defined and shown on the map entitled "Zoning Map of Wrightsville, Georgia," hereby made a specific part of this appendix adopted on May 19, 1997, and signed by the mayor and city council, as may be amended from time to time. The map is on permanent display at the office of the city clerk and available for public inspection at the city hall during normal business hours.
(Zoning Code 1997, § 1-4)
Sec. 1-5. - Definitions.
Words used this this zoning code shall be interpreted according the rules of construction provided in chapter 1 of the Code of Ordinances. Defined terms used in this zoning code shall have the following meanings, unless otherwise specified:
Accessory use means one which:
(1)
Is subordinate to and serves a principal structure or use;
(2)
Is subordinate in area, extent, and purpose to the principal structure or use served;
(3)
Is located on the same lot as the principal structure or use; and
(4)
Is customarily incidental to the principal structure or use.
Agriculture means the use of land for agricultural purposes, including farming, dairying, pasturage, agriculture, horticulture, floriculture, and the necessary accessory uses for packing, treating or storing the produce; provided, however, that the operation of any such accessory uses shall be secondary to that of normal agriculture. The term "agriculture" does not include those agricultural uses that produce noxious odors and does not include the commercial raising of hogs, pigs, poultry or other livestock.
Alley means a thoroughfare either used or shown on any recorded description of the subject parcel which affords only a secondary means of access to abutting property and is not intended for general traffic circulation.
Alteration, structural or building, means any change in the supporting members of a building or structure, such as bearing walls, columns, beams or girders, except as may be required for its safety; provided, however, that the application of any exterior siding to an existing building for the purpose of beautifying and modernizing shall not be considered a structural alteration.
Apartment house means a building arranged, intended or designed to contain three or more independent dwelling units.
Automobile sales lot means a lot which is used principally for the storage and sale of complete and operable automobiles.
Automobile service or convenience center means a building, lot, or both, in or upon which gasoline, oil, grease, batteries, tires and automobile accessories may be supplied and dispensed at retail, and where, in addition, the following services may be rendered and sales made, and no other:
(1)
Sale and servicing of spark plugs, batteries, and distributors and distributor parts.
(2)
Tire servicing and repair, but not re-capping or re-grooving.
(3)
Replacement of mufflers and tail pipes, water hoses, fan belts, brake fluid, light bulbs, fuses, floor mats, windshield wipers and wiper blades, grease retainers, wheel bearings, mirrors and the like.
(4)
Radiator cleaning and flushing.
(5)
Washing and polishing, and the sale of automotive washing and polishing materials.
(6)
Greasing and lubrication.
(7)
Providing and repairing fuel pumps, oil pumps and lines.
(8)
Minor servicing and repair of carburetors.
(9)
Emergency wiring repairs.
(10)
Adjusting or repairing brakes.
(11)
Minor motor adjustments not involving removal of the head or crankcase or racing the motor.
(12)
Sale of cold drinks, packaged foods, tobacco, and similar convenience goods for service station customers as accessory and incidental to the principal operation.
(13)
Provision of road maps and other informational material to customers, and provision of restroom facilities.
Uses prohibited at an automobile service/convenience station are: major mechanical and body work, straightening of body parts, painting, welding, storage of automobiles not in operating condition, or other work involving noise, glare, fumes, smoke or other characteristics to an extent greater than normally found in service stations. A service station/convenience gas station is hereby declared not to be a repair/service garage nor a body shop.
Automobile wrecking yard means a lot where three or more vehicles not in running condition, or parts thereof, are stored, or any building or structure used principally for wrecking and storage of automobiles not in running condition.
Bed and breakfast inn means a house, or portion thereof, where short-term lodgingrooms and meals are provided. The operator of the inn shall live on the premises or adjacent premises. A bed and breakfast inn shall not be deemed a home occupation.
Boardinghouse means a residence in which, for compensation, lodging or meals, or both, are furnished to not more than nine guests. A boardinghouse shall not be deemed a home occupation.
Billboard means any sign or advertisement used as an outdoor display by the painting, posting, or affixing on any surface of a picture, emblem, words, figures, numbers, or letters; such sign or advertisement being remote from the point of sale.
Buffer means a portion of a lot set aside for open space and visual screening between land uses to minimize conflicts between them.
Building means a structure built, maintained, or intended for use as a shelter for persons, animals, or property of any kind. Where independent units with separate entrances are separated by common walls, each unit is a separate building.
Building, accessory. See Accessory use.
Building height means the vertical distance measured from the average established grade at the building line to the highest point of the structure. For flat roofs, it is the distance from the ground level to the highest point of the roof adjacent to the street wall. For gabled, hipped or gambrel roofs, it is the mean height between the eaves and ridge.
Building inspector means the person appointed by the mayor and city council, and charged with the duty of enforcing the provisions of this appendix along with his other official duties.
Building, principal, means a building in which is conducted, or in which is intended to be conducted, the main or principal use of the lot on which it is located.
Building setback line means a line beyond which no foundation, wall, eave, or other part of any building shall be built, altered, or maintained, unless specified exceptions are made elsewhere in these regulations.
Business identification sign means an attached, painted, or freestanding structure on which are announced the business use of the premises and/or the name of the operator of the business.
Centerline of a street means the line surveyed and monumented by the governing body as such, or if a centerline has not been surveyed and monumented, it shall be that line midway between the outside curbs or ditches of the street.
Child care center/day nursery means any agency, institution, center, home, nursery school, kindergarten, play school, or other place, however styled and whether operated under public auspices, as a private business, or by an established religious denomination, in which are received for temporary custodial care apart from their parents, part of the day or all of the day or night, and upon any number of successive days, one or more children not related to the person providing such temporary custodial care.
Club, lodge, civic, or fraternal organization means buildings and facilities owned or operated by a corporation, association, or person for a social, educational, religious, or recreational purpose, but not primarily for profit or to render a service which is customarily carried on as a business.
Code means The Code of the City of Wrightsville, Georgia, as designated in this appendix.
Communication tower means a tower of any size which supports communication (broadcast or receiving) equipment utilized by commercial, government, or other public and quasi-public users. This definition does not include private home use of satellite dishes and television antennas or amateur radio operators as licensed by the Federal Communications Commission.
Conditional use means a use that would not be appropriate generally or without restriction throughout zoning districts, but which, if controlled as to the number, area, location, or relation to the neighborhood, would not be detrimental to the public health, safety or general welfare.
Customary home occupation means a business, profession, occupation, or trade conducted for gain or support by any occupant of a dwelling and located entirely within a residential building, or a structure accessory thereto, which use is accessory, incidental, and secondary to the use of the building for dwelling purposes and does not change the essential residential character or appearance of such building. Such activity shall be subject to the provisions in section 8-19 of this appendix.
Dwelling means any building which is designed or used for permanent living quarters for one or more families.
Dwelling, multifamily, means a building designed for and used as a residence for three or more families, and consisting of three or more separate dwelling units.
Dwelling, single-family, means a structure containing not more than one dwelling unit designed for residential use, which meets or exceeds the following standards:
(1)
Minimum width in excess of 20 feet.
(2)
The roof shall have a minimum 2:12 roof pitch and shall have a surface of wood shakes, asphalt composition, wood shingles, concrete, fiberglass or metal tiles, slate, built-up gravel materials, or other materials approved by the building official.
(3)
The exterior siding materials shall consist of wood, masonry, concrete, stucco, masonite, metal or vinyl lap, or other materials of like appearance.
(4)
Attached to a permanent foundation.
(5)
Constructed according to standards established by the state minimum standard codes, as amended from time to time.
(6)
Mobile homes and manufactured homes placed in residential zoning districts or areas shall meet the minimum compatibility standards set forth in article II of this appendix. Mobile homes and manufactured homes, as defined herein, shall not be permitted in Residential-1 and Residential-2 zoning districts.
Dwelling, two-family , means a building designed for and used as a residence for two families and consisting of two separate dwelling units; also referred to as a duplex.
Dwelling unit means a dwelling, or portion thereof, providing complete living quarters for one or more persons living as a single housekeeping unit.
Family means one or more persons related by blood, marriage, adoption or guardianship, and not more than five unrelated persons occupying a dwelling unit and living as a single housekeeping unit.
Frontage means the distance along which the property abuts one side of a street, roadway, highway, or right-of-way.
Garage means a building or structure used, or intended to be used, for the parking and storage of motor vehicles.
Hotel means a building or group of buildings used, or intended to be used, for the provision of daily lodging of persons for compensation.
Junkyard means any lot or structure used for a salvaging operation, including, but not limited to, the storage and sale of waste paper, scrap metal, building materials, or the collection, demolition, dismantling, storage, or salvage of automobiles or other vehicles and/or machinery or parts thereof. Also, a yard, lot, or place, covered or uncovered, outdoors or in an enclosed building, upon which occurs one or more acts of buying, storing, keeping, dismantling, processing, selling, or offering for sale any such junk in whole units or by parts, for a business or commercial purpose, whether or not the proceeds from such acts are to be used for charity.
Land use plan means a plan consisting of proposals as to how physical development should take place in the future. Reference is made to the Joint Johnson County/City of Wrightsville Comprehensive Plan, 1992, and subsequent modifications, editions, and revisions of this plan.
Lot means a parcel or plat of land occupied by or designated to be developed for one principal building or use and the accessory buildings or uses, including such open spaces and yards as designated or required by this zoning code for such building, use, or development.
Lot, corner , means a lot which abuts at the intersection of two or more streets, or upon a curved street, provided that the two sides of the lot intersect to form an interior angle of not more than 135 degrees.
Lot depth means the mean distance between the front and rear lot lines, measured in the general direction of the side lot lines.
Lot frontage means the distance between the side lot lines measured at the street right-of-way line.
Lot of record means a lot which is a portion of a subdivision, the map of which has been recorded in the office of the clerk of the county.
Lot width means the distance between the side boundaries of the lot measured at the rear of the required front yard.
Major street means a street designated as a major street on the official zoning map of the city.
Manufactured home means a structure, transportable in one or more sections, which, in the traveling mode, is eight body feet or more in width or 40 body feet or more in length, or, when erected on-site, is 320 or more square feet, and which is built on a permanent chassis and designed to be used as a dwelling with or without a permanent foundation when connected to the required utilities, and includes the plumbing, heating, air conditioning, and electrical systems contained herein; except that the term "manufactured home" shall include any structure which meets all the requirements of this definition except the size requirements, and with respect to which the manufacturer voluntarily files a certification required by the secretary and complies with the standards established under this appendix. Also, mobile home.
Mini-warehouse means a one-story building or series of one-story buildings with separate enclosed areas available for rent for the storage of personal goods.
Mobile home park means any plot or tract of land on which two or more mobile homes/manufactured homes are to be located, or intended to be located, for purposes of residential occupancy.
Mobile office means a pre-fabricated structure designed to be transported on its own wheels, flatbed, trailer or detachable wheels from the place of manufacture or sale and used, or intended to be used, or occupied for the transaction of business or the rendering of professional services.
Modular home means a dwelling unit designed and constructed in compliance with the state minimum standard one- and two-family dwelling code which is wholly or in substantial part made, fabricated, formed, or assembled in a manufacturing facility and cannot be inspected at the installation site without disassembly, damage to, or destruction thereof. Any such structure shall not contain a permanent metal chassis and shall be affixed to a permanent load-bearing foundation. The term "modular home" shall not include mobile homes or manufactured homes. A modular home is a residential industrialized building, as defined by O.C.G.A. § 8-2-11(6.1).
Motel means a building or group of buildings used, or intended to be used, for the provision of daily lodging of persons for compensation, with a provision for direct vehicular access to each unit.
Nonconforming use means any building, structure, or lawful use existing at the time of enactment of this appendix that does not conform to the regulations of the zoning district in which it is located.
Nursing home means any dwelling in which aged, chronically ill, or incurable persons are housed and furnished with meals and professional nursing care.
Off-street loading space means the area required to load or unload goods or other materials plus the necessary driveways and maneuvering areas.
Off-street parking space means the area required to park one automobile plus the necessary driveways and maneuvering areas.
Outdoor advertising sign means an attached or freestanding structure conveying some information, knowledge or idea to the public.
Personal care means protective care and watchful oversight of a resident who needs a watchful environment but who does not have an illness, injury or disability which requires chronic or convalescent care including medical and nursing services. Protective care and watchful oversight includes, but is not limited to, a daily awareness by the care provider of the resident's functioning, his whereabouts, the making and reminding a resident of appointments for medical checkups, the ability and readiness to intervene if a crisis arises for a resident, supervision in areas of nutrition, medication and actual provision of transient medical care, with a 24-hour responsibility for the well-being of the resident.
Personal care home means a building occupied as a permanent primary residence and also occupied by unrelated ambulatory adults who reside there temporarily or long-term and receive services, including rooms, meals and personal care from the permanent occupants. The term "personal care home" does not include buildings which are devoted to independent living units which include kitchen facilities in which residents have the option of preparing and serving some or all of their own meals or boarding facilities which do not provide personal care.
Planned unit development (PUD) means a development project comprehensively planned as an entity with an overall site plan which permits flexibility in building sites, mixture of land uses, and the provision of open spaces. A PUD shall be primarily residential in character, and may include the following:
(1)
Single-family detached dwellings;
(2)
Single-family attached dwellings such as townhouses, condominiums, and duplexes;
(3)
Multifamily dwellings;
(4)
Public or semi-public institutions such as schools, churches, and community or club facilities;
(5)
Recreational facilities, including swimming pools, golf courses, tennis courts and other recreational facilities intended for the primary use of the residents of the development;
(6)
Open space;
(7)
Commercial, retail, and professional uses subject to the following limitations:
a.
The commercial, retail, or professional use is designed to primarily serve the residents of the development;
b.
The uses shall not have adverse effects on the residential uses within the development or in adjacent developments, or create traffic hazards to pedestrian or vehicular traffic.
Public notice means, as required by state law, a notice published in the newspaper of general circulation in the city, setting forth the time, place, and other applicable requirements for said notice pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 36-66-4, and running at least 15 but not more than 45 days prior to the date of the hearing.
Radial lot means an irregular (pie-shaped) lot fronting on a curved street, and which is formed by its side lot line being established along the course of a radius from the axis of the street curve. See the figure below.
Satellite dish antenna means a round, parabolic antenna intended to receive signals from orbiting satellites and other sources. Satellite dish antennas greater than 12 inches in diameter are subject to the provisions established in section 8-34 of this appendix.
Setback means the minimum horizontal distance between the street wall of a building and the centerline of a street.
Shopping center means a group of three or more commercial establishments planned, developed, and managed as a unit with off-street parking provided on the property.
Signs. See article VIII, division 5 of this appendix.
Structure means anything constructed or erected that requires location on the ground or attached to something having a location on the ground.
Subdivision means any division or re-division of a lot, tract, or parcel into two or more lots, tracts, sites, or parts by means of mapping, plotting, conveyance, or rearrangement of boundaries. All subdivisions are subject to the city's subdivision regulations.
Yard means the open, unoccupied space on the same lot with the principal building between the lot line and the building setback line.
Yard, front , means a yard extending the full width of the lot between the street right-of-way line and the front building setback line, projected to the side lines of the lot.
Yard, rear , means a yard extending the full width of the lot between the rear lot line and the rear building setback line.
Yard, side , means a yard extending from the front yard to the rear yard, between the side lot line and the side building setback line. In the case of corner lots, the yard along all established street right-of-way lines shall meet the requirements for front yards.
Zone means a portion of the territory of the city, exclusive of streets, alleys, and other public ways, within which certain uses of land, premises and buildings are not permitted, and within which certain yards and open spaces are required and certain height limits are established for buildings.
(Zoning Code 1997, § 2-2)
Secs. 1-6—1-25. - Reserved.
