Chapter 20 - SOLID WASTE[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
State Law reference— Georgia Comprehensive Solid Waste Management Act, O.C.G.A. § 12-8-20 et seq.; local solid waste plans, O.C.G.A. § 12-8-31.1; littering, O.C.G.A. § 16-7-42 et seq.; egregious litter control, O.C.G.A. § 16-7-50 et seq.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 20-1. - Litter control.
(a)
Definitions. The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this subsection, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Litter means all sand, gravel, slag, brickbats, rubbish, waste materials, tin cans, refuse, garbage, trash, debris, dead animals or discarded materials of every kind and description.
Public property or private property means the right-of-way of any road or highway; any body of water or watercourse, or the shores or beaches thereof; any park, playground, building, refuge or conservation or recreational area; and residential or farm property, timberlands or forests.
(b)
Public and private property, and water. It shall be unlawful for any person to dump, deposit, throw or leave, or to cause or permit the dumping, depositing, placing, throwing or leaving, of litter upon any public or private property in the city, or any water in the city unless:
(1)
Such property is designated by the city for the disposal of such litter and such person is authorized by the proper public authorities to use such property;
(2)
Such litter is placed into a litter receptacle or container on such property;
(3)
Such person is the owner or tenant in lawful possession of such property, or has first obtained consent of the owner or tenant in lawful possession of such property, or the act is done under the personal direction of such owner or tenant, all in a manner consistent with the public welfare.
(c)
Conveyances. Whenever litter is thrown, deposited, dropped or dumped from any motor vehicle, boat, airplane or other conveyance in violation of this section, it shall be prima facie evidence that the operator of such conveyance shall have violated this section.
(d)
Violations; fines. A fine of $50.00 shall be imposed for a violation of this section.
(Code 2005, § 50-61)
State Law reference— Littering, O.C.G.A. § 16-7-42 et seq.; egregious litter control, O.C.G.A. § 16-7-50 et seq.
Secs. 20-2—20-20. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - NOXIOUS BURNING

Sec. 20-21. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Garbage means putrescible animal and vegetable waste resulting from the handling, preparation, cooking and consumption of food.
Litter means refuse and rubbish as defined in this section.
Noxious waste, garbage or litter means any garbage, litter, animal or human waste, or byproduct, rubber, plastic, paper, petroleum or textile product, or any product upon which any of such materials are attached or compose a part. Such definition shall exclude the following:
(1)
Vegetation, leaves and the component parts of bushes or trees, as well as the petroleum products burned in mechanical devices designed for their combustion;
(2)
Paper products burned on the premises of the residence from which such products originate, in an appropriate container, such as a 55-gallon drum, which container is equipped with screen or mesh sufficient to prohibit the spread of embers or fly ash, or any other particulate residue of such fire from being emitted into the open air; and
(3)
Commercially generated paper or textile products burned in an enclosed incinerator that is constructed in accordance with the air quality control standards of the state.
Open burning means any outdoor fire from which the products of combustion are emitted directly into the open air without passing through a stack, chimney or duct.
Refuse means all putrescible and nonputrescible solid wastes, including garbage, rubbish, street cleanings, dead animals, and solid market and industrial wastes.
Rubbish means combustible nonputrescible solid wastes.
(Code 2005, § 50-31; Ord. No. 84-07-001, § 1-102, 7-9-1984; Ord. No. 85-02-001, §§ 1-102, 1-104, 2-5-1985)
Sec. 20-22. - Open fires.
(a)
It shall be unlawful for any person to kindle an open fire in any public or private place outside any building within the corporate limits of the city for the purpose of burning any noxious waste, garbage or litter.
(b)
It shall be unlawful for any person to allow, permit or acquiesce in the burning of any noxious waste, garbage or litter in an open fire upon premises or property owned or controlled by such person within the corporate limits of the city.
(Code 2005, § 50-32; Ord. No. 84-07-001, § 1-103, 7-9-1984; Ord. No. 85-02-001, § 1-103, 2-5-1985)
