Chapter 1 - GENERAL PROVISIONS

Sec. 1-1. - Designation and citation of Code.
The provisions in the following chapters and sections shall constitute and be designated as the "Code of the City of Young Harris, Georgia," and may be so cited. Such Code may also be cited as the "Young Harris Code."
(Code 2005, § 1-1)
State Law reference— Ordinance codification, O.C.G.A. § 36-80-19.
Sec. 1-2. - Definitions and rules of construction.
In the construction of this Code and of all ordinances, the following definitions and rules of construction shall be observed, unless inconsistent with the manifest intent of the city council or the context clearly requires otherwise:
Advice and consent of the city council. The term "advice and consent of the city council" means an affirmative vote of the majority of the entire city council.
Bond. When a bond is required, an undertaking in writing shall be sufficient.
City. The term "city" means the City of Young Harris in the County of Towns and the State of Georgia, except as otherwise provided.
City council and council. The terms "city council" and "the council" mean the city council of the City of Young Harris, Georgia.
Code. The term "Code" means the Code of the City of Young Harris, Georgia, as designated in section 1-1.
Computation of time. Except as otherwise provided by time period computations specifically applying to other laws, when a period of time measured in days, weeks, months, years or other measurements of time, except hours, is prescribed for the exercise of any privilege or the discharge of any duty, the first day shall not be counted, but the last day shall be counted, and, if the last day falls on a Saturday or Sunday, the party having such privilege or duty shall have through the following Monday to exercise the privilege or to discharge the duty. When the last day prescribed for such action falls on a public and legal holiday as set forth in O.C.G.A. § 1-4-1, the party having the privilege or duty shall have through the next business day to exercise the privilege or to discharge the duty. When the period of time prescribed is less than seven days, intermediate Saturdays, Sundays and legal holidays shall be excluded in the computation.
County. The term "county" means the County of Towns, State of Georgia.
Day. The term "day" means a calendar day of 24 hours.
Delegation of authority. Whenever a provision appears requiring the head of a department of the city to do some act or make certain inspections, it is to be construed to authorize the head of the department to designate, delegate and authorize subordinates to perform the required act or make the required inspection unless the terms of the provision or section designate otherwise.
Gender. Terms importing the masculine gender shall include the feminine and neuter.
Joint authority. All terms giving joint authority to three or more persons or officers shall be construed as giving such authority to a majority of such persons or officers, except when such terms are used to grant authority to the mayor and council.
Keeper and proprietor. The terms "keeper" and "proprietor" mean and include persons, firms, associations, corporations, receivers, trustees, personal representatives, clubs and partnerships, whether acting by themselves or through a servant, agent or employee.
Month. The term "month" means a calendar month.
Names of officers and departments. The name or title of any officer or department shall be read as though the term "of the City of Young Harris" was added to such name or title.
Nontechnical and technical words. Words and phrases shall be construed according to the common and approved usage of the language, but technical words and phrases, and such others as may have acquired a peculiar and appropriate meaning in law, shall be construed and understood according to such meaning.
Number. Terms used in the singular include the plural, and the plural includes the singular number.
O.C.G.A. The abbreviation "O.C.G.A." means the Official Code of Georgia Annotated, as amended.
Oath. The term "oath" shall be construed to include an affirmation in all cases in which, by law, an affirmation may be substituted for an oath, and in such cases, the terms "swear" and "sworn" shall be equivalent to the terms "affirm" and "affirmed."
Or and and. The term "or" may be read as the term "and" and the term "and" may be read as the term "or," if the sense requires it.
Owner. The term "owner," when applied to a building or land, shall include any part owner, joint owner, tenant in common, joint tenant or tenant by the entirety, of the whole or a part of such building or land.
Penal ordinances. The rules of construction and definitions of words as contained in the penal code of the state, insofar as they can be made applicable, are adopted as governing the penal ordinances of the city.
Person. The term "person" shall include a corporation, firm, partnership, association, organization and any other group acting as a unit, as well as an individual.
Personal property. The term "personal property" includes every species of property, except real property.
Preceding and following. The terms "preceding" and "following" mean next before and next after, respectively.
Premises. The term "premises" means a place or places.
Property. The term "property" includes real and personal property.
Public place. The term "public place" means any park, cemetery, schoolyard or adjacent open space, or any area available and/or accessible to the public, regardless of whether privately or publicly owned.
Real property. The term "real property" includes lands, tenements and hereditaments.
Residence. The term "residence" means the place adopted by a person as his place of habitation, and to which, whenever he is absent, he has the intention of returning. When a person eats at one place and sleeps at another, the place where such person sleeps shall be deemed his residence.
Seal. The term "seal" means the city seal.
Shall and may. The term "shall" is mandatory; the term "may" is permissive.
Sheriff. The term "sheriff" means the sheriff of Towns County, Georgia.
Sidewalk. The term "sidewalk" means any portion of a street between the curbline and the adjacent property line, intended for the use of pedestrians, but shall not include any unimproved areas between the curbline and improved walkways.
Signature and subscription. The terms "signature" and "subscription" includes a mark when the person cannot write.
State. The term "state" means the State of Georgia.
Street. The term "street" means and includes any public way, road, highway, street, avenue, boulevard, parkway, alley, lane, viaduct or bridge and their approaches within the city.
Tenant and occupant. The terms "tenant" and "occupant," when applied to a building or land, includes any person who occupies the whole or a part of such building or land, whether alone or with others.
Tense. Terms used in the past or present tense includes the future, as well as the past and present.
Week. The term "week" means a calendar week of seven days.
Written and in writing. The terms "written" and "in writing" include printing and any other mode of representing words and letters.
Year. The term "year" means a calendar year.
(Code 2005, § 1-2)
State Law reference— Definitions and rules of construction applicable to state statutes, O.C.G.A. § 1-3-1 et seq.
Sec. 1-3. - Catchlines and other headings; history notes; editor's notes and references.
The catchlines of sections in this Code, printed in boldface type, italics or otherwise, are intended as mere catchwords to indicate the contents of the sections, and shall not be deemed or taken to be titles of such sections, nor as any part of the sections, nor, unless expressly so provided, shall they be so deemed when any of such sections, including the catchlines, are amended or reenacted. The history notes appearing in parentheses after each section and the references and editor's notes scattered throughout the Code are for the benefit of the user of the Code and shall have no legal effect.
(Code 2005, § 1-3)
State Law reference— Notes and catchlines of code sections not part of law, O.C.G.A. § 1-1-7.
Sec. 1-4. - Effect of repeal or expiration of ordinance.
(a)
The repeal of an ordinance, or its expiration by virtue of any provision contained in the ordinance, shall not affect any right accrued or any offense committed, any penalty or punishment incurred, or any proceeding commenced before the repeal took effect or the ordinance expired.
(b)
When an ordinance that repealed another ordinance shall itself be repealed, the previous ordinance shall not be revived without express words to that effect.
(Code 2005, § 1-4)
Sec. 1-5. - Certain ordinances not affected by Code.
Nothing in this Code or the ordinance adopting this Code shall be construed to repeal or otherwise affect the validity of any of the following:
(1)
Any offense or act committed or done, or any penalty or forfeiture incurred, or any contract or right established or accruing before the effective date of this Code.
(2)
Any ordinance or resolution promising or guaranteeing the payment of money for the city or authorizing the issuance of any bonds of the city or any evidence of the city's indebtedness.
(3)
Any contract or obligation assumed by the city.
(4)
Any ordinance fixing the salary of any city officer or employee.
(5)
Any right or franchise granted by the city.
(6)
Any ordinance dedicating, naming, establishing, locating, relocating, opening, widening, paving, etc., any street or public way in the city.
(7)
Any appropriation ordinance.
(8)
Any ordinance which, by its own terms, is effective for a stated or limited term.
(9)
Any ordinance providing for local improvements and assessing taxes therefor.
(10)
Any zoning ordinance.
(11)
Any ordinance dedicating or accepting any subdivision plat.
(12)
Any ordinance describing or altering the boundaries of the city.
(13)
The administrative ordinances or resolutions of the city not in conflict or inconsistent with the provisions of this Code.
(14)
Any ordinance levying or imposing taxes not included in this Code.
(15)
Any ordinance establishing or prescribing street grades in the city.
(16)
The master fee schedule.
No such ordinance shall be construed to revive any ordinance or part of an ordinance that has been repealed by a subsequent ordinance which is repealed by this chapter. All such ordinances are hereby recognized as continuing in full force and effect to the same extent as if set out at length in this Code.
(Code 2005, § 1-5)
Sec. 1-6. - Provisions considered continuations of existing ordinances.
The provisions appearing in this Code, insofar as they are the same as ordinances adopted prior to this Code and included in such Code, shall be considered as continuations and not as new enactments.
(Code 2005, § 1-6)
Sec. 1-7. - Severability of parts of Code.
It is declared to be the intention of the city council that the sections, paragraphs, sentences, clauses and phrases of this Code are severable, and if any phrase, clause, sentence, paragraph or section of this Code shall be declared unconstitutional by the valid judgment or decree of any court of competent jurisdiction, such unconstitutionality shall not affect any of the remaining phrases, clauses, sentences, paragraphs and sections of this Code since they would have been enacted by the council without the incorporation in this Code of any such unconstitutional phrase, clause, sentence, paragraph or section.
(Code 2005, § 1-8)
State Law reference— Severability, O.C.G.A. § 1-1-3.
Sec. 1-8. - Amendments to Code.
(a)
All ordinances passed subsequent to this Code that amend, repeal or in any way affect this Code may be numbered in accordance with the numbering system of this Code and printed for inclusion in this Code. In the case of repealed chapters, sections and subsections, or any part thereof, by subsequent ordinances, such repealed portions may be excluded from this Code by omission thereof from reprinted pages. The subsequent ordinances as numbered and printed or omitted, in the case of repeal, shall be prima facie evidence of such subsequent ordinances until such time that this Code and subsequent ordinances numbered or omitted are readopted as a new Code by the city council.
(b)
Amendments to any of the provisions of this Code may be made by amending such provisions by specific reference to the section number of this Code.
(c)
If a new section not previously existing in this Code is to be added, the following language may be used: "The Code of the City of Young Harris, Georgia, is hereby amended by adding a section (or article or chapter) to be numbered _____, which section reads as follows:…." The new section may then be set out in full as desired.
(d)
All sections, articles, chapters or provisions desired to be repealed should be specifically repealed by section, article or chapter number, as the case may be.
(Code 2005, § 1-9)
Sec. 1-9. - Supplementation of Code.
(a)
By contract or by city personnel, supplements to this Code shall be prepared at least on an annual basis. A supplement to this Code shall include all substantive, permanent and general parts of ordinances passed by the city council during the period covered by the supplement and all changes made by the supplement in this Code. The pages of a supplement shall be numbered so that they will fit properly into this Code and will, where necessary, replace pages that have become obsolete or partially obsolete, and the new pages shall be prepared so that when they have been inserted this Code will be current through the date of the adoption of the latest ordinance included in the supplement.
(b)
In preparing a supplement to this Code, all portions of the Code that have been repealed shall be excluded from this Code by the omission thereof from reprinted pages.
(c)
When preparing a supplement to this Code, the codifier (meaning the person authorized to prepare the supplement) may make formal, nonsubstantive changes in ordinances and parts of ordinances included in the supplement, insofar as it is necessary to do so to embody them into a unified code. For example, the codifier may:
(1)
Organize the ordinance material into appropriate subdivisions.
(2)
Provide appropriate catchlines, headings and titles for sections and other subdivisions of this Code printed in the supplement, and make changes in such catchlines, headings and titles.
(3)
Assign appropriate numbers to sections and other subdivisions to be inserted in this Code and, where necessary to accommodate new material, change existing section or other subdivision numbers.
(4)
Change the words "this ordinance," or words of the same meaning, to "this chapter," "this article," "this division," etc., as the case may be, or to "sections to" (inserting section numbers to indicate the sections of this Code that embody the substantive sections of the ordinance incorporated into this Code).
(5)
Make other nonsubstantive changes necessary to preserve the original meanings of ordinance sections inserted into this Code, but in no case shall the codifier make any change in the meaning or effect of ordinance material included in the supplement or already embodied in this Code.
(Code 2005, § 1-10)
Sec. 1-10. - General penalty; continuing violations.
(a)
In this section, the term "violation of this Code" means:
(1)
Doing an act that is prohibited or made or declared to be an unlawful act, an offense, or a violation of this Code by ordinance or by rule or regulation authorized by ordinance;
(2)
Failure to perform an act that is required to be performed by ordinance, or by rule or regulation authorized by ordinance; or
(3)
Failure to perform an act if the failure is declared a violation of this Code, an offense, or an unlawful omission by ordinance, or by rule or regulation authorized by ordinance.
(b)
The term "violation of this Code" does not include the failure of a city officer or city employee to perform an official duty, unless it is provided that failure to perform the duty is to be punished as provided in this section or it is clear from the context of this Code that it is the intent of the city to impose the penalty provided for in this section upon the city officer or city employee.
(c)
Except as otherwise provided or if no specific penalty is provided, a person convicted of a violation of this Code shall be punished by a fine not exceeding $1,000.00, imprisonment for a term not exceeding 180 days, alternative sentencing as provided by law, or any combination thereof.
(d)
Except as otherwise provided:
(1)
With respect to violations that are continuous with respect to time, each day that the violation continues is a separate offense.
(2)
As to other violations, each act is a separate offense.
(e)
Violations of this Code that are continuous with respect to time are a public nuisance, and may be abated by injunctive or other equitable relief and by such other means as are provided by law.
(f)
The imposition of a penalty does not prohibit equitable relief.
(g)
The imposition of a penalty does not prohibit revocation or suspension of a license, permit, or franchise or the imposition of other administrative sanctions.
(Code 2005, § 1-11)
State Law reference— Imposition of additional penalty for certain drug offenses, O.C.G.A. § 15-21-100; imposition of additional penalty for offense of driving under the influence of alcohol or drugs, O.C.G.A. § 15-21-112; additional penalty to be imposed in criminal and traffic cases to provide training to law enforcement officers and prosecuting officials, O.C.G.A. § 15-21-73; additional penalty assessments for jail construction and staffing, O.C.G.A. § 15-21-93; deposit of drivers license for violations of laws pertaining to traffic and motor vehicles, O.C.G.A. § 17-6-11; payments to peace officers annuity and benefit fund from revenues collected from fines and fees, O.C.G.A. § 47-17-60 et seq.
Sec. 1-11. - Prior offenses, penalties, contracts or rights not affected by adoption of Code.
(a)
Nothing in this Code or the ordinance adopting this Code shall affect any offense or act committed or done or any penalty or forfeiture incurred or any contract or right established or accruing before the effective date of this Code.
(b)
The adoption of this Code shall not be interpreted as authorizing or permitting any use or the continuance of any use of a structure or premises in violation of any ordinance or resolution in effect on the date of adoption of this Code.
Sec. 1-12. - Provisions considered as continuation of existing ordinances.
The provisions appearing in this Code, so far as they are substantially the same as ordinances existing at the time of the effective date of this Code, shall be considered continuations thereof and not as new enactments.
