Chapter 70 - SOLID WASTE[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
State Law reference— Municipal authority to provide for garbage and solid waste collection and disposal, Ga. Const. 1983, art. IX, § II, ¶ III(a)(2); Georgia Comprehensive Solid Waste Management Act, O.C.G.A. § 12-8-20 et seq.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 70-1. - Definitions.
As used in this chapter, the following terms shall have the respective meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Abandoned means an article of machinery, appliance, vehicle, equipment and other material, shall be deemed to have been abandoned or discarded when it has remained upon a property in an inoperable condition for more than ten days, or when it has become inoperable and the owner does not intend to repair it and place it back into operation.
Abandoned vehicle means a vehicle that is in a state of disrepair and incapable of being moved under its own power. It shall be prima facie evidence that a vehicle has been abandoned if the owner or person in possession of such vehicle cannot furnish satisfactory evidence that the motor vehicle license fee required by O.C.G.A. § 48-10-2 has been paid and that the Georgia Motor Vehicle Accident Reparations Act (O.C.G.A. § 33-34-1) has been complied with as respect to such motor vehicle.
Appliance means any type of machine or device used in and about the home or premises, and includes, but shall not be limited to, refrigerators, iceboxes, freezers, stoves, washing machines, clothes dryers, television sets, radio sets, lawn mowers and other devices of like nature.
Automobile graveyard means any establishment which is maintained or used for storing, buying or selling wrecked, scrapped, ruined, dismantled, abandoned or discarded motor vehicles or for motor vehicle repairs.
C & D waste means waste materials generated by construction, remodeling, repair or demolition of residential, commercial or other premises.
Commercial solid waste.
(1)
The term "commercial solid waste" means all garbage, trash, refuse, rubbish and other acceptable waste generated by a commercial premises and C & D waste.
(2)
The term "commercial solid waste" does not include hazardous waste.
Dealers in junk or metals means any person, partnership firm or corporation who owns, leases, operates or otherwise maintains facilities for processing junk or metals or who buys, sells or in any way deals in any used or discarded metal material or articles.
Dismantler means any person, partnership, firm, or corporation engaged in the business of acquiring wrecked, abandoned or repairable motor vehicles and selling either the usable parts, the motor vehicle as a unit or the hulk of the motor vehicle after the usable parts have been removed. For the purposes of this chapter, a person, partnership, firm or corporation shall be presumed to be engaged in the business of auto dismantling if he/she or it possesses three or more inoperative motor vehicles for more than ten days.
Garbage.
(1)
The term "garbage" means organic waste matter, both animal and vegetable, including but not limited to waste matter, from houses, kitchens, restaurants, hotels, hospitals and other such places, and it comprises chiefly waste food.
(2)
The term "garbage" does not include moisture that may be drained in the sewer or human body wastes.
Junk means any:
(1)
Old or scrap copper, brass, rope, rags, battery, paper, trash, rubber, radiator, debris or waste;
(2)
Junked, dismantled or wrecked automobiles, or parts thereof;
(3)
Iron, steel, and any other scrap ferrous or nonferrous material; or
(4)
Abandoned or discarded machinery, appliance, vehicle, equipment or material of any description or kind whatsoever.
Major component part means one of the following subassemblies of a motor vehicle:
(1)
Front clip assembly (fenders, grille and hood);
(2)
Rear clip assembly (quarter panels and floor panel assembly);
(3)
Engine and transmission;
(4)
Top assembly, with the exception of soft tops;
(5)
Frame or frame sections; or
(6)
Complete side (fenders, door and quarter panel).
Motor vehicle means any vehicle which is self-propelled except trackless trolleys (which are classified as streetcars), motorcycles, motor-driven cycles, or go-carts.
Nuisance means anything that causes hurt, inconvenience or damage to another, and the fact that the act done may otherwise be lawful shall not keep it from being a nuisance. The inconvenience complained of shall not be fanciful, or such as would affect only one of fastidious taste, but shall be such as would affect an ordinary, reasonable man.
Part means any used motor vehicle part that has been installed as standard or optional equipment on a motor vehicle, has been removed from the motor vehicle on which it was originally attached or affixed, and is the subject of sale or resale as a part and not as scrap.
Rebuilder means any person, partnership, firm, or corporation engaged in the business of buying more than three used, salvage, or wrecked motor vehicles per year for the purpose of restoring or rebuilding them with used or new motor vehicle parts, or both, to be sold as motor vehicles.
Salvage dealer means any person, firm or corporation who purchases a salvage vehicle or parts of a salvage vehicle for the purposes of resale as parts only or as salvage.
Salvage vehicle means any vehicle which either:
(1)
Has been damaged, crushed, or otherwise reduced to such a state that its restoration would require the replacement of two or more major component parts;
(2)
Has been acquired by an insurance company as a result of the vehicle's being damaged to the extent that its restoration to an operable condition would require the replacement of two or more major component parts or for which the insurance company has paid a total loss claim, excluding recovered total theft vehicles which do not require the replacement of two or more major component parts for restoration; or
(3)
Is an imported vehicle which has been damaged in shipment and disclaimed by the manufacturer as a result of the damage, has never been the subject of a retail sale to a consumer, and has never been issued a certificate of title.
Scrap processor means any person, firm or corporation engaged in the business of buying or otherwise acquiring iron and metals including, but not limited to, old automobiles, aluminum, glass and parts thereof for the purpose of processing into raw materials for remelting or recycling.
Scrap vehicle means any vehicle which has been wrecked, destroyed, or damaged to the extent that it cannot be economically repaired, rebuilt or made operable or road worthy.
Solid waste means trash and or garbage as defined in this section.
Trash means rubbish such as feathers, paper, cans, bottles, boxes, wood, glass, shrubs, yard clippings, tree trimmings and all similar matter.
Unsafe building means any building or structure that has any of the following conditions, such that the life, health, property or safety of the general public or its occupant are endangered:
(1)
Whenever any means of egress or portion thereof is not of adequate size or is not arranged to provide a safe path of travel in case of fire or panic.
(2)
Whenever any means of egress of portion thereof, such as but not limited to, fire doors, closing devices, fire-resistive ratings, are in disrepair or in a dilapidated or nonworking condition such that the means of egress could be rendered unsafe in case of fire or panic.
(3)
Whenever the stress in any material, member or portion thereof, due to all imposed loads including dead load exceeds the working stresses allowed in the International Building Code (IBC) for new buildings.
(4)
Whenever a building, structure or portion thereof has been damaged by fire, flood, earthquake, wind or other cause to the extent that the structural integrity of the buildings or structures is less than it was prior to the damage and is less than the minimum requirement established by the International Building Code (IBC) for new buildings.
(5)
Whenever any exterior appendages or portion of a building or structure is not securely fastened, attached or anchored such that it is capable of resisting wind, seismic or similar loads as required by the International Building Code (IBC) for new buildings.
(6)
Whenever for any reason a building, structure or portion thereof is manifestly unsafe or unsanitary for the purpose for which it is being used.
(7)
Whenever any building, structure or portion thereof as a result of decay, deterioration or dilapidation is likely to fully or partially collapse.
(8)
Whenever any building, structure or portion thereof has been constructed or maintained in violation of a specific requirement of the standard codes or of a city, county or state law.
(9)
Whenever any building, structure or portion thereof is in such a condition as to constitute a public nuisance.
(10)
Whenever any building, structure or portion thereof is unsafe, unsanitary or not provided with adequate egress, or which constitutes a fire hazard, or is otherwise dangerous to human life, or, which in relation to existing use, constitutes a hazard to safety or health by reason of inadequate maintenance, dilapidation, obsolescence or abandonment.
Weed means a plant considered undesirable, unattractive or troublesome, especially one growing where it is not wanted.
(Code 1981, § 11-1; Ord. No. 1987-3, 11-16-1987; Ord. of 6-29-2009)
Sec. 70-2. - Sweeping trash; placing in gutters; burning, prohibited.
(a)
It shall be unlawful for any person or business to sweep or move garbage, trash, junk, refuse, or litter from any business, house, residence, or vacant area so as to intrude upon or interfere with any other business, residence, sidewalk, street, alleyway or passerby.
(b)
It shall be unlawful for any person or business to place garbage, trash, junk, refuse or litter in the gutters, storm sewers or drainage ditches of the city.
(c)
It shall be unlawful for any person or business to burn garbage, trash, junk, refuse or litter within the city limits, except under special permit given by the city. Such items and materials shall be placed in proper containers convenient for removal by the city.
(Code 1981, § 11-2; Ord. No. 1987-3, 11-16-1987)
Sec. 70-3. - Approval of solid waste haulers.
No person other than those under the direction of the city council shall haul away or remove any solid waste set out for collection except by written consent of the city council.
(Code 1981, § 11-3)
Sec. 70-4. - Receptacles—City to furnish; use required.
For all households and businesses, there shall be provided by the city receptacles for all garbage for removal by the city. The public works director shall review the service requirements for households and businesses and specify receptacles of a sufficient size and number to hold the garbage accumulated between collections. The accumulation of garbage in open bins or other contrivances which endanger the health and safety of the general public is prohibited.
(Code 1981, § 11-4; Ord. No. 1987-3, 11-16-1987; Ord. No. 1988-2, pt. 1, 1-20-1988)
Sec. 70-5. - Same—Accumulation and storage of garbage and refuse therein.
All garbage shall be accumulated as specified in this chapter and placed in appropriate receptacles. Garbage only shall be placed in a garbage receptacle and refuse only shall be placed in a refuse receptacle.
(Code 1981, § 11-5; Ord. No. 1987-3, 11-16-1987)
Sec. 70-6. - Same—Placement for collection.
Receptacles provided for garbage collection shall be placed so as to be accessible to the collector in removing same, but not in such place as will be a detriment to the appearance of the streets and ways of the city. It shall be the responsibility of the public works department to designate receptacle locations to ensure compliance with the intent of this section.
(Code 1981, § 11-6; Ord. No. 1987-3, 11-16-1987; Ord. No. 1988-2, pt. 2, 1-20-1988)
Sec. 70-7. - Same—Duty of owners, landlords, tenants and storekeepers.
It shall be the duty of each owner, landlord, tenant or storekeeper to see that all garbage receptacles, and the contents as provided for in this chapter, are set out at such place and time as may be fixed by the city council. No employee of the city shall assist in the performance of the duty of the owner, landlord, tenant or storekeeper under this section; provided, however, that any person with a physical disability shall not be required to place their containers curbside. Persons with physical disabilities shall be required to obtain a doctor's excuse for special service. Such persons shall make application for special service using forms supplied by the city.
(Code 1981, § 11-7; Ord. No. 1987-3, 11-16-1987; Ord. No. 1988-2, pt. 3, 1-20-1988)
Sec. 70-8. - Scavenging and interference prohibited.
It shall be unlawful for any person to scavenge, sift through, carry away, take, pilfer or otherwise handle or deal in solid waste set out for removal by the city, other than that generated at the home or business of such person. It shall be unlawful for any person to molest or interfere with any garbage receptacle set out for removal by the city unless by written permission by the city.
(Code 1981, § 11-8; Ord. No. 1987-3, 11-16-1987)
Sec. 70-9. - Solid waste collection fees—Schedule.
There shall be imposed a solid waste fee on each business establishment and residence in the city. Such fee, when imposed, shall be payable monthly. The amounts of the fees shall be as established by the city council from time to time.
(Code 1981, § 11-9; Ord. No. 1987-3, 11-16-1987; Ord. No. 1988-2, pt. 4, 1-20-1988)
Sec. 70-10. - Dumping materials on lots.
No garbage, offensive materials or disease-producing materials shall be dumped on any lot or space within the city for the purpose of filling, storage or for any other purpose.
(Code 1981, § 11-11; Ord. No. 1987-3, 11-16-1987)
State Law reference— Littering, O.C.G.A. § 16-7-43.
Sec. 70-11. - Commercial and C & D waste.
No person other than those under the direction of the city council shall haul away or remove any commercial solid waste and/or C & D waste set out for collection except by written consent by the city council.
(Code 1981, § 11-13; Ord. No. 1987-3, 11-16-1987; Ord. of 6-29-2009)
Secs. 70-12—70-42. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - LANDFILL OPERATIONS[2]

Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
State Law reference— Municipal authority to provide for garbage and solid waste collection and disposal, Ga. Const. art. IX, § II, ¶ III(a)(2); Georgia Comprehensive Solid Waste Management Act, O.C.G.A. § 12-8-20 et seq.

Sec. 70-43. - Definitions.
For the purpose of this article, the following terms, phrases, and words shall have the meaning indicated herein, unless the context indicates otherwise:
City landfill means any landfill or sanitary landfill which is owned, leased or operated by the city or any such landfill or sanitary landfill for which the city has been issued a solid waste handling permit pursuant to the Solid Waste Management Act of the state, whether such permit is held solely by the city or jointly with any other governmental body.
Director means the director of the division of environmental protection of the department of natural resources.
Disposal facility means any facility or location where any treatment, utilization, processing, or deposition of solid waste occurs.
Disposal operation means the performance of solid waste disposal which includes administration, personnel, land, equipment, design and other elements necessary or used in the work of solid waste disposal.
Disposal site means the location where the final deposition of solid waste occurs.
Garbage means food waste including waste accumulations of animal or vegetable matter used or intended for use as food, or that attends the preparation, use, cooking, dealing in or storing of meat, fish, fruit or vegetables.
Landfill means a disposal site where solid wastes, other than putrescible wastes or hazardous wastes, are disposed of using landfilling techniques.
Landfilling means a method of disposing of solid wastes except putrescible wastes or hazardous wastes, on land, by placing an earth cover thereon.
Sanitary landfill means a disposal site where solid wastes are disposed of using sanitary landfilling techniques.
Sanitary landfilling means a method of disposing of putrescible wastes and/or hazardous wastes on land by placing an earth cover thereon.
Scavenge means the uncontrolled picking from discarded solid waste materials.
Solid waste handling means the storage, collection, transportation, treatment, utilization, processing or disposal of solid wastes, or any combination thereof.
Solid waste handling permit means written authorization granted to a person by the director to engage in solid waste handling.
Solid Waste Management Act or the Act, wherever referred to in these rules and regulations, means O.C.G.A. § 12-8-20 et seq.
(Code 1981, § 12-30; Ord. No. 1985-3, § 1, 4-1-1985)
Sec. 70-44. - Penalty.
Any person found guilty of violating any section of this article shall be punished according to the general penalties described in section 1-8.
(Code 1981, § 12-34; Ord. No. 1985-3, § 1, 4-1-1985)
Sec. 70-45. - Permit for reclamation, recycling, etc.
No permit shall be issued by the city to any person granting them permission to go upon the premises of any city landfill for the purpose of collecting any type of solid waste or other material located on said landfill for the purpose of reclamation, recycling or any other purpose.
(Code 1981, § 12-31; Ord. No. 1985-3, § 1, 4-1-1985)
Sec. 70-46. - Scavenging prohibited.
It shall be unlawful for any person to go upon the premises for purposes of scavenging or removing any material from any city landfill except for employees of the city or of the county in their official capacity as employees and in furtherance of their employment and duties.
(Code 1981, § 12-32; Ord. No. 1985-3, § 1, 4-1-1985)
Sec. 70-47. - Hours of operation.
The regular hours of operation of any city landfill shall be posted at said landfill site which shall be the hours in which any member of the general public may go onto the landfill site for the purpose of delivering garbage or solid waste to said landfill site. It shall be unlawful for any person to be upon the premises of any city landfill except during the regular hours as are posted at the city landfill site; provided, however, that the provisions of this section shall not apply to any employee of the city or of the county when said employee is engaged in his/her normal course of employment and duties.
(Code 1981, § 12-33; Ord. No. 1985-3, § 1, 4-1-1985)
Secs. 70-48—70-67. - Reserved.
ARTICLE III. - WEEDS, GRASS CLIPPINGS, TREE LIMBS

Sec. 70-68. - Unsightly, unhealthful and hazardous growth of weeds prohibited.
It shall be unlawful for any person or business to allow or permit weeds, grass, shrubs, trees, and other vegetation to grow and be upon such person's or business' premises uncut or untrimmed so as to render the premises unsightly, unhealthful, or hazardous from the growth and accumulation of such vegetation. Any growth of weeds, grass, shrubs, trees or other vegetation which presents a present or potential threat of fire, vermin, rodents, obnoxious insects, pestilence or disease shall be considered unsightly, unhealthful and hazardous.
(Code 1981, § 11-14; Ord. No. 1987-3, 11-16-1987)
Sec. 70-69. - Weeds declared a nuisance.
To permit the growth and accumulation of weeds, grass, shrubs, trees or other vegetation so as to render the premises unsightly, unhealthful or hazardous, if within 100 feet of any building or within 100 feet of any street or public ground, is declared to be a nuisance and will be subject to abatement as provided in chapter 50, article IV.
(Code 1981, § 11-15; Ord. No. 1987-3, 11-16-1987)
Sec. 70-70. - Tree limbs, grass clippings, cuttings, etc., when picked up; length.
Tree limbs, grass clippings, cuttings, shrubbery and other similar trash of no more than one-half load per week will be hauled; provided such limbs, cuttings, shrubbery and other such trash if cut three feet in length and placed in piles at the front corner of the owner's or tenant's property nearest to the street or public alley. Tree limbs, shrubbery and other similar trash will not be picked up by the city if the property owner or tenant has had the work performed by a licensed contractor.
(Code 1981, § 11-16; Ord. No. 1987-3, 11-16-1987; Ord. of 8-3-2009(2))
Sec. 70-71. - Trimmings not to be placed in gutters; declaration of nuisance.
It shall be unlawful for any person or business to place tree limbs, grass clippings, cuttings, shrubbery and other similar trash in the gutter, storm sewers or drainage ditches of the city. To place or permit to be placed such trimmings in the gutter, storm sewer or drainage ditches of the city is declared to be a nuisance and will be subject to abatement as provided in chapter 50, article IV.
(Code 1981, § 11-17; Ord. No. 1987-3, 11-16-1987)
Secs. 70-72—70-100. - Reserved.
ARTICLE IV. - WATER; SEWER AND SOLID WASTE

Sec. 70-101. - Services.
The city is dedicated to providing our customers with professional service at a reasonable cost. All accounts are important and the city wishes to serve the public in a courteous, friendly and helpful manner. The following services are available without regard to race, color, sex, age, disability, religion or national origin:
(1)
Deposits. All new accounts (renters and owners) will be required to pay a deposit as follows when opening a new account:
a.
Residential service .....$  75.00
b.
Commercial service ..... 125.00
Deposits will be refunded upon the customer's notification to the city that services are no longer needed and a reading of the meter has been taken. Any unpaid balance will be deducted from the customer's deposit. If the amount due is more than the deposit the customer will be responsible for the remaining balance. It is the customer's responsibility to notify the city of the date that service is no longer required. The customer is ultimately responsible for any unpaid balance.
(2)
Meter readings. Water meters are read each month. Readings are divided into two books. The readings are done with the use of radio reads and some by hand. In the event of an unusual circumstance where a meter is unable to be read by any means, an average will be done as a last measure.
(3)
Late charges; cut offs. All payments are due and receivable by the city on or before the tenth day of each month. Weekends and city holidays are considered with penalties if a payment is made the next business date. A five percent late charge is added to the account when full payment is not received within the stated period of time. If the city does not receive full payment within 30 days from the due date, the account is placed in the cutoff status and water service is disconnected until payment is received. Once a meter has been cut off, full payment must be received and a reconnection fee of $20.00 is required to have the water services reinstated. Partial payments will be accepted but services will not be reinstated until full payment, plus any late charges and fees, are paid. Every customer's account must be paid by 4:00 p.m. on the date services are disconnected in order for services to be restored the same day. If payment is not received once the water is cut off, during the next billing cycle of the account, the account is placed in a final status and the deposit is used toward the bill. The customer is then required to pay a new deposit upon reconnection of services. Any bill that remains with an outstanding balance due and that is over 90 days past due will receive a letter notifying them that the account is subject to collections. Ten days after notification and if the account remains unpaid and all efforts to collect the account have been exhausted, the city is authorized to pursue the account in whatever action it deems appropriate, including but not limited to magistrate court and/or placement of liens on the subject's property.
EXPAND
1 month 10th penalty is placed on the customer's bill
2 month 10th cutoff of customer's services
3 month 10th finalized customer's bill/new deposit required, if
services are desired again
  (4)
Fines. If water services have been cut off due to nonpayment and the city's meter is cut on illegally by anyone other than an authorized agent of the city, a fee of $50.00 will be applied to the customer's account by the water department and a citation written by the city police department for theft by taking is filed and the customer may appear in court where additional fines may be deemed payable also.
(5)
Water meter ownership. All water meters are the property of the city. Installation fees are for the cost incurred by the city for providing the connection and not the purchase of a meter by the customer. Water meter valves are not designed for or are they to be used for cutting off water flow to a home or business by anyone other than a city representative. A separate cut off valve should be installed by a licensed plumber at the owner's expense for the cutting of water on and off by the property owner. The property owner is responsible for all leaks and repairs from the connection at the meter on the property owner's side of the meter.
(6)
Installation of meters. Meters are installed only by the city. A request must be made by the property owner and an installation fee according to size of pipe requested and the corresponding published fees are paid in full. The director of public works will determine the feasibility of connections for all new requests according to location and economical cost. The city will install the meter in a timely manner after all requirements are met and payment received, provided however, reasonable conditions exist which would not prevent, interfere, or prolong installation of the meter.
(7)
Billing/rates. The immediate prior month's accounts are entered in the computer as each book of customers has been read and finalized. Billing statements are mailed at intervals corresponding with each book's monthly closure. Computerized statements are then printed for mailing. The statement includes the previous month's reading, current reading, total gallons consumed, amount of charges for water, sewer and garbage, due date and late fee, should it be incurred.
EXPAND
Water
0—2,000 gallons $5.00
Next 3,000 gallons (this equals the first 5,000 gallons) $2.10—$6.30
5,000—10,000 gallons $2.25—$11.25
10,000—15,000 gallons $2.35—$11.75
Above 15,000 gallons $2.50
Sewer
0—2,000 gallons $5.00
Next 3,000 gallons (this equals the first 5,000 gallons) $2.10—$6.30
5,000—10,000 gallons $2.25—$11.25
10,000—15,000 gallons $2.35—$11.75
Above 15,000 gallons   $2.50
Outside city limits (All rates for water and sewer) Doubled
Garbage
Residential
First can $16.00
Second can $13.00
Commercial
Total monthly minimum bill $26.00
  Customers are responsible for payment of water/sewer/garbage/trash billing combined as one bill monthly.
(8)
Rate adjustments. A rate adjustment may be granted by the public works director or city manager for a customer who has had a sudden accidental leak and has had the leak repaired by a licensed plumber. An adjustment is eligible twice per year per customer. (See adjustment policy for eligibility). Any more than two per calendar year must be approved by the public works director and the city manager.
(9)
Write down/write offs. Please refer to article V of this chapter, pertaining to the city's write down/write off policy.
(10)
Request for services outside the city. All requests for water and/or sewer services must be made to the public works director in writing and containing details as to the applicant's name and address, exact location of the property, distance from applicant's property line to nearest service connection, size of line, type of customer, commercial, industrial, residential, etc., and other information deemed necessary by the city. The public works director or his/her designee shall make a determination as to the feasibility of the service extension outside the incorporated area and make such recommendation to the city manager and mayor. Should the recommendation be made to make the extension, the city shall follow the procedures as set forth and outlined in the city/county agreement dated August 1999.
(11)
Sewer stoppages. The property owner is responsible for any stoppage in the sewer pipe from the facility to the tie-in of the city's main line. Before the city responds to a customer's call for assistance, the customer must have called a licensed plumber to check for stoppages to the point of the main line. If the plumber cannot unstop the line, the plumber, not the resident, must call city hall giving all the details of the problem before the city can respond. Once the city has responded to a call and found the stoppage to be on the customer's line, a fee of $25.00 is charged to the customer.
(12)
Sewer line repair/replacement. The customer is responsible for the repair, maintenance, and replacement of sewer lines from the structure to the main line of the city. If the damaged line goes under a sidewalk or public paved area, the city will have the option, at its expense, to repair or replace the existing sewer line from the connection at the main line to the end of the city-owned right-of-way; or may determine the best and more feasible option to make a separate connection at another alternative location.
(Ord. of 2-2-2009(01))
Secs. 70-102—70-130. - Reserved.
ARTICLE V. - WATER/SEWER AND SOLID WASTE DEPARTMENT WRITE DOWN/WRITE OFF

Sec. 70-131. - Purpose.
The purpose of this article is to establish fair and opened procedures for write off or write down of bills for water, sewer and waste management services.
(Ord. of 2-2-2009(02))
Sec. 70-132. - Narrative.
There are numerous reasons why a water, sewer or waste management bill may need to be written down or written off completely. Some can be caused by the city such as faulty meters, bad meter readings, etc. Sometimes the blame may lie with the customer such as undetected leaks. And even sometimes the blame is unassigned such as the untimely death of a customer with no survivors. A write down or write off may be the result of a customer falling on financial hardship beyond their control. Whatever the facts and circumstances, the city would like to provide procedures that will deal with the situation in a fair and considerate manner for the customer while not violating the public trust.
(Ord. of 2-2-2009(02))
Sec. 70-133. - Procedure.
In order to ensure all write offs and write downs are done in an open manner, a log of each write down or write off will be maintained in the billing department. No biller or city personnel can cause a write down or write off without checking the log first to verify it has been recorded and approval has been secured under the following authorization levels. The following limits of approval for a write down or write off will be in force as of the effective date of the ordinance from which this article is derived:
EXPAND
Managers (city manager and public works director) $1.00 to $500.00
Mayor $501.00 to $1,000.00
City council $1,001.00 and above
  The managers' and mayor's authorizations can be evidenced by their signature on the appropriate log line. The city council's authorization will be supported by official minutes of city council meetings and signed off on by the city clerk on the appropriate log line.
(Ord. of 2-2-2009(02))
