ARTICLE IX. - PLANNING, ZONING AND SUBDIVISIONS

Sec. 97. - Joint planning commission—Authority to establish and maintain; function.
The city, and Bacon County may combine to establish and maintain a joint planning commission to make and amend an overall plan, and to otherwise promote the orderly growth of the county and city; to provide for the creation and appointing of said commission; and to define the powers, and duties of said commission, all as set forth in the 1966 Georgia Laws, [Act No. 112], at pages 2321 through 2330.
(1967 Ga. Laws (Act No. 257), p. 2643, § 24.02)
Sec. 98. - Same—City and county authorized to create; membership.
The board of county commissioners of the County of Bacon (hereinafter referred to as the board of commissioners) and the mayor and council of the City of Alma, Georgia (hereinafter referred to as the mayor and council), be authorized to create a joint city-county planning commission (hereinafter referred to as the commission) of eight (8) members, as follows:
(1)
One member of the city council of Alma, appointed by the mayor and confirmed by city council of Alma.
(2)
Three (3) other citizens of [the] City of Alma, appointed by the mayor and confirmed by city council.
(3)
Four (4) residents of Bacon County, residing either in or outside the corporate limits of Alma, to be appointed by chairman and confirmed by board of commissioners of Bacon County.
Terms of appointive members shall be four (4) years or thereafter until their successors are appointed, except that the members first appointed shall have terms of one and three (3) years for the county appointees and two (2) and four (4) years for the city appointees. Any vacancy in an appointive membership shall be filled within a reasonable time in the same manner as the initial appointment, but only for the unexpired term. The appointing officers or board or council shall have the authority to remove any appointive member for cause stated in writing and after public hearing.
The mayor of Alma and the chairman of the board of commissioners of Bacon County shall be ex officio members of the planning commission.
(1967 Ga. Laws (Act No. 550), p. 3259, § 1; 1971 Ga. Laws (Act No. 672), p. 3666, § 1)
Sec. 99. - Same—Organization; employees; expenditures; compensation, meetings.
The commission shall elect one of its appointive members as chairman who shall serve for one year or until re-elected or his successor is elected. The commission shall appoint a secretary who may be an officer or employee of the municipality or county. The commission may employ the services of a city planner and such other employees or consultants as are necessary.
The expenditures of the commission, exclusive of gifts, shall be within the amount appropriated by the board of commissioners and the mayor and council. The members of the commission shall serve as such without compensation, except for expenses incurred. The commission shall meet as needed when a zoning request has been submitted to the code enforcement officer. [The commission shall meet as needed when a zoning request has been submitted to the Code Enforcement Officer. The commission] shall adopt rules for the transaction of business, and shall keep a record of its resolutions, transactions, findings and determinations, which record shall be a public record.
(1967 Ga. Laws (Act No. 550), p. 3259, § 2)
Sec. 100. - Same—Purpose; powers; duties.
(a)
The commission shall have the general purpose of guiding and accomplishing a coordinated, adjusted and harmonious development of the community which will, in accordance with existing and future needs, best promote public health, safety, morals, order, convenience, prosperity, or the general welfare, as well as efficiency and economy in the process of development.
(b)
In particular, the commission shall have the power and duty to:
(1)
Study the resources, possibilities, and needs of Alma and Bacon County with due regard for the surrounding areas, to make, adopt, amend, detail, extend and add to the master plan for the physical development of the city and county as defined in section 4 [104 herein] of this Act.
(2)
Prepare and recommend to the mayor and council and board of commissioners for adoption regulations to govern the subdivision of land, and, upon adoption, to administer said regulations.
(3)
Make and recommend to the mayor and council and the board of commissioners for adoption a zoning ordinance and map.
(4)
In response to requests from officials and departments of the city and county, to furnish information and plans relating to the development of the area.
(c)
The commission shall have the power to:
(1)
Require information which shall be furnished within a reasonable time from other departments of the city or county in relation to its work.
(2)
In performance of its functions, at reasonable times enter upon any land, make examinations and surveys and place and maintain necessary monuments and marks thereon.
(3)
Contact other agencies and officials of local, state and federal governments and private citizens, organizations and civic groups for the purpose of obtaining information and assistance, and cooperating in the making and carrying out of plans.
(4)
Appoint advisory committees and other groups to secure community participation in and support for the making and carrying out of plans.
(5)
Prepare and recommend to the mayor and council and board of commissioners for adoption an official map together with regulations for the protection of proposed street rights-of-way, parks, playgrounds, and school sites and other public grounds shown on said map.
(6)
Promote public interest in and understanding of the master plan, planning and zoning.
(7)
Study and recommend, with consideration for need, timing and finances, a program for accomplishing the master plan.
(8)
Make reports and recommendations relating to the plan and the development of the city and the county to officials, citizens, agencies and organizations.
(1967 Ga. Laws (Act No. 257), p. 3259, § 3)
Sec. 101. - Same—Approval or disapproval of acquiring, disposing of, constructing or modifying public property.
No street, park or public way, ground or space, no public building or structure and no public utility whether publicly or privately owned, shall be constructed or authorized in Bacon County or the City of Alma, nor shall any real property be acquired by the county or city, until and unless the location and extent thereof shall have been submitted to the commission for consideration and approval; provided in case of disapproval the commission shall communicate its reasons to the board of commissioners or the mayor and council which shall have the power to overrule such disapproval. Upon such overruling the board of commissioners or the council or the appropriate office, department, or agency shall have the power to proceed. The widening, narrowing, relocation, vacation or change in the use of any street or public way or ground or the sale of any public building or real property shall be subject to similar submission and approval, and failure to approve may be similarly accepted or rejected by the board of commissioners or the council. The failure of the commission to act within thirty (30) days after date of official submission to the commission shall be deemed approval, unless a longer period is granted by the board of commissioners, the council or other submitting authority.
(1967 Ga. Laws (Act No. 550), p. 3256, § 6)
Sec. 102. - Zoning—Authorized.
The governing bodies of the county and city are authorized to regulate in their respective jurisdictions the location, height, bulk, number of stories, and size of buildings and other structures, the percentage of lot which may be occupied, the sizes of yards, courts, and other open spaces, the density and distribution of population, the uses of buildings and structures for trade, industry, commerce, residence, recreation, public activities or other purposes, and the use of land for trade, industry, commerce, residence, recreation, agriculture, forestry, soil conservation, water supply conservation, or other purposes.
By means of a map, various zones or districts may be established and different regulations prescribed for each zone or district, but the regulations shall be uniform for each class or kind of building or use throughout any zone or district. The ordinance establishing these zones, including both map and text must be based on the master plan. However, it may be adopted separately and at different times for various communities in the county.
(1967 Ga. Laws (Act No. 550), p. 3259, § 7)
Sec. 103. - Same—Purposes.
Such regulations shall be designed and enacted for the purpose of promoting the health, safety, morals, convenience, order, prosperity, or welfare of the present and future inhabitants of the State of Georgia, including amongst other things, lessening congestion in the streets or roads, of reducing the wastes of excessive amounts of road; securing safety from fire and other dangers; providing adequate light and air; preventing, on the one hand, excessive concentration of population and, on the other hand, excessive and wasteful scattering of population or settlement; promoting such distribution of population and such classification of land uses and distribution of land development and utilization as will tend to facilitate and conserve adequate provisions for transportation, water flowage, water supply, drainage, sanitation, educational opportunity, recreation, soil fertility, food supply, and the protection of both urban and nonurban development.
(1967 Ga. Laws (Act No. 550), p. 3259, § 8)
Sec. 104. - Master plan—Matters included.
The commission shall make a master plan consisting of maps, plats, charts, and descriptive and explanatory matter, showing the commission's recommendations for the physical development of Alma and Bacon County, and may include:
(1)
The general location, character, and extent of roads, streets, bridges, tunnels, viaducts, parks, parkways, waterways, waterfront developments, playgrounds, airports, forests, reservations and other public ways, grounds, places and spaces.
(2)
The general location of public buildings and other public property.
(3)
The general location and extent of public utilities and terminals, whether publicly or privately owned, for water, light, power, heat, sanitation, transportation, communication, and other purposes.
(4)
The acceptance, widening, removal, extension, relocation, narrowing, vacation, abandonment, or change of use of any of the foregoing public ways, grounds, places, spaces, buildings, property, utilities, or terminals.
(5)
The general location, character, layout, and extent of community centers, town sites, housing developments, service areas, and areas for residence, industry, business, recreation, agriculture and forestry, and limited development areas for purposes of conservation, food and water supply, sanitation, drainage and protection from urban development; and for classification of land as required by these uses and purposes.
(6)
The general character, extent, and layout of the replanning of blighted and other residential areas.
(1967 Ga. Laws (Act No. 550), p. 3259, § 4)
Sec. 105. - Same—Adoption.
The commission may adopt the master plan as a whole by single resolution, or may by successive resolutions adopt successive parts of the plan, said parts corresponding to major geographical sections of the city or county or to functional divisions of the subject matter of the plan, and may adopt any amendment of extension thereof or addition thereto. The adoption of the plan, or of any such part, amendment, extension or addition, shall be by resolution carried by the affirmative votes of not less than the majority of the commission, but before the adoption of the plan or any such part or any modification, extension or addition, the commission shall hold at least one public hearing on proposed action. An attested copy of the plan or part thereof shall be certified to the mayor and council and the board of commissioners.
(1967 Ga. Laws (Act No. 550), p. 3259, § 5)
Sec. 106. - Official maps.
From and after the time when the commission shall have adopted a master plan which includes at least a major road or street plan or shall have progressed in its master planning to the stage of making and adoption of a major road or street plan, the commission shall have the power to make or cause to be made, surveys for the exact location of the lines of new, extended, widened or narrowed roads or streets in the whole or in any portion of the county or city and to make and certify to the appropriate governing body a map or maps showing such lines, together with recommended regulations for the protection of such existing or future streets from encroachment detrimental to their public use.
Upon receiving from the commission a certified copy of said map and recommendations the governing body may, in accordance with the procedure specified herein, establish by ordinance official map of the city or county or portion thereof showing public streets and roads theretofore existing and established by law, or accepted in subdivision plats approved as prescribed in section 13 [110 herein], or new, extended, widened or narrowed streets as certified above, and including the recommended regulations for the protection of such streets from encroachment detrimental to their public use. Said official map and regulations shall not become effective until recorded in the courthouse of Bacon County in a manner open to public inspection.
The making, certifying and establishment of such maps shall not in and of itself constitute or be deemed to constitute the opening or establishment of any street, or the taking or acceptance of any land for street purposes.
Whenever the commission shall have prepared, adopted and certified to the governing body a master plan for parks, playgrounds, school sites or other public grounds, or for one of these types of grounds, the governing body may, within the conditions and procedure prescribed herein for streets and roads, in the same manner established an official map for the type or types of grounds.
(1967 Ga. Laws (Act No. 550), p. 3259, § 9)
Sec. 107. - Amendments to maps and ordinances; hearing; commission recommendations.
The official map and zoning ordinances, maps and texts, may be amended, extended or modified by the governing bodies in accordance with the conditions and procedure prescribed herein for the original enactment of these ordinances. This procedure shall include a public hearing, the time and place of which must be given at least fifteen (15) days notice in a newspaper of general circulation in the county. The notice shall designate the place where the proposed amendments, extensions and modifications may be inspected. Before any map or text other than that recommended by the commission is approved by a governing body, the proposed change shall be referred to the commission for its recommendation, which recommendation shall be advisory only and shall in no way bind the governing body.
(1967 Ga. Laws (Act No. 550), p. 3259, § 10)
Sec. 108. - Building permits; utility connections on existing streets only.
For the purpose of giving effect to the official map and zoning ordinances, the governing body of the city or county may provide in these ordinances, or amendments thereto, for the issuance of building permits by specifying the conditions where permits shall be issued or withheld, and designating a building officer or inspector for this purpose. The governing body may provide that no permit shall be issued for (1) any building or structure or part thereof on any land located within the lines of any street, road, park, playground, school site or other public ground shown on the official map; (2) any building on property to which there is not access by means of a street or road on the official map; or (3) any building not in accordance with the regulations prescribed for the zone or district in which the proposed building would be built. Any such ordinance shall provide for a board of appeals as specified herein.
Excepting in streets existing and established by law as public streets at the date of establishment of the official map, no public water facilities, sewer, or other public utility or improvement shall be constructed after said date in any street until such street is duly placed on the official map.
(1967 Ga. Laws (Act No. 550), p. 3259, § 11)
Sec. 109. - Board of appeals.
Any zoning or official map ordinance enacted by the board of commissioners or the mayor and council shall provide for a board of appeals, consisting of three (3) members; one of whom shall be selected by the planning commission from among its own members, one by the board of commissioners, and one by the mayor and council. The rules governing the board of appeals shall be the same as those set forth for the planning commission in section 2 [99 herein].
The ordinance first establishing the board of appeals, and any official map or zoning ordinance enacted subsequently, shall provide the board with the following duties and powers:
(1)
To hear and decide appeals wherein it is alleged that there has been error in an order or decision of the building officer or other official in administering the ordinance.
(2)
To hear and decide requests for special exceptions, interpretations of the map, and variations of the regulations where they impose practical difficulties or unnecessary hardships, and said decisions being within appropriate principles, conditions and safeguards set forth in the ordinance.
(1967 Ga. Laws (Act No. 550), p. 3259, § 12)
Sec. 110. - Subdivision regulations.
The board of commissioners or the mayor and council may adopt regulations governing the subdivision of land within its jurisdiction. Such regulations may provide for public safety, economy and convenience in the development of land, for the coordination of streets and other ways within the subdivided land with other existing or planned streets and ways or for conformance to the master plan or official map, for adequate open spaces, for spaces for traffic, utilities, recreation, light and air, and for the avoidance of congestion of population. Such regulations may include requirements as to the extent to which and the manner in which streets and other ways shall be graded and improved and water, sewer and other utility mains, piping, connections, or other facilities shall be installed as a condition precedent to the approval of a subdivision.
Such regulations shall provide for a preliminary approval by the planning commission of the plat of a proposed subdivision previous to such improvements and installation and for a final approval by the planning commission, commissioner of roads or other officials.
(1967 Ga. Laws (Act No. 550), p. 3259, § 13)
Sec. 111. - Enforcement of regulations.
The governing bodies of the city and county may provide for the enforcement of any ordinance enacted under this Act [article], and a violation of any such ordinance shall be a misdemeanor, punishable by fine or imprisonment or both. In addition, the building officer, city or county attorney or other appropriate official, or affected property owner may institute injunction, mandamus or other appropriate action or proceeding to prevent or correct such violation.
(1967 Ga. Laws (Act No. 550), p. 3259, § 14)
