ARTICLE IV. - CITY MANAGER

Sec. 51. - Appointment; term of office; ineligibility of councilmen.
The city council [ ] may select and appoint a city manager whose salary shall be fixed by council and whose term of office shall be indefinite and whose duties, powers and qualifications shall be prescribed by the council. The mayor and any other councilman shall be ineligible for the office of city manager for a period of at least six (6) months from the date of the expiration of his term of office or his resignation from office.
(1967 Ga. Laws (Act No. 257), p. 2643, § 10.01)
Sec. 52. - Scope of function; qualifications; residence in city.
It shall be the duty of the city manager to execute and administer the policies of the city government fixed by the mayor and council and the city manager shall be vested with sole authority over all administrative matters of the city, and he shall be accountable only to the city council. The city manager first appointed under the provisions of this Act and all persons subsequently appointed to such office shall be selected by the council on the basis of ability, experience, training, and character, with special reference to his actual experience in, or his knowledge of acknowledged practice in respect to the duties of his office. During his tenure of office he shall devote such time as is necessary to satisfactorily perform his assigned duties.
(1967 Ga. Laws (Act No. 257), p. 2643, § 10.02)
Sec. 53. - General duties and powers; interference by council; bond.
The city manager shall have the power to appoint, prescribe the duties of, supervise and remove all administrative employees, except the city recorder, city physician, city attorney, chief of police, and the board of tax assessors. The appointment of administrative employees shall be confirmed by the city council. The affairs of each department of the city, including the collection and disbursement of revenue are to be administered under his supervision and control and he is to be responsible therefor. No member of the council nor member of its committee shall direct or request the appointment of any person to or his removal from office by the city manager, or in any manner take part in the appointment or removal of officers and employees in the administrative service of the city, except the aforesaid confirmation of appointment. Except for the purpose of inquiry, the council and its members shall deal with the administrative service solely through the city manager, and neither the council nor any member thereof shall give orders to any subordinate of the city manager, either publicly or privately. The city manager shall give bond for the faithful administration of his office in such amount as council may determine, but in no event in the sum less than one hundred thousand dollars ($100,000.00), the premium for which is to be paid by the city.
The city manager may require subordinate employees to likewise give bond in an amount to be determined by him, but subject to the approval of the council, the premiums of such bond as may be required to be paid by the city.
(1967 Ga. Laws (Act No. 257), p. 2643, § 10.03)
Sec. 54. - Duties specifically.
It shall also be the duty of the city manager to act as chief conservator of the peace within the city; to supervise the administration of the city; to see that the ordinances of the city and the laws of the state are enforced therein; to make such recommendations to the council concerning the affairs of the city as may seem to him desirable; to keep the council currently advised of the financial condition and future needs of the city; to prepare and submit to the council regular quarterly reports of the affairs and finances of the city, these reports to be in such form as to be readily understood by the public, and cause the same to be published in the designated official organ; to act in advisory capacity to the city council in the formulation of policies of the city government; to prepare and to present to council, after reasonable notice, a budget upon which council may rely in the settling of millage for taxation purposes for the ensuing year, current year, or as may be required by council; he shall not be responsible for any differential balances, when he acts in good faith and as his judgment may dictate. It shall be the duty and the responsibility of the city manager to do all the buying for the different departments of the city; said department heads shall make written requisition for the needs of their departments and present the same to the city manager; the city manager shall then make such purchases not exceeding amounts prescribed by ordinance and for which funds are provided in the budget. He shall perform such duties and exercise such other authority as city council may fix by resolution or ordinance. All formal contracts on behalf of the city shall be executed by the city manager and attested by the city clerk, after an approving resolution of city council.
(1967 Ga. Laws (Act No. 257), p. 2643, § 10.04)
Sec. 55. - Recommending employee compensation.
The salary or compensation of heads of departments and other administrative employees shall be fixed by ordinance or resolution of council upon the recommendation of the city manager, such ordinance or resolution of council to provide uniform compensation for like services except that an increase in compensation of any department head or employee may be granted upon the basis of seniority and efficiency.
(1967 Ga. Laws (Act No. 257), p. 2643, § 10.05)
Sec. 56. - Removal from office; person to perform duties while absent.
While the council has the right to remove the city manager at any time, at least thirty (30) days before such removal becomes effective, the manager shall be furnished with a formal statement in the form of a resolution passed by a majority vote of the members of council, stating council's intention of removing him and the reasons therefor. If requested in writing by city manager so to do the council shall fix a time for a public hearing upon the question of his removal, giving a notice of the time and place of same by publishing said notice in the designated official organ, and the final resolution, removing the city manager shall not be adopted until such public hearing shall be had. The action of the council in removing the city manager shall be final. In the case of the absence or disability of the city manager, council may designate a qualified administrative officer of the city to perform the duties of the city manager during such absence or disability.
(1967 Ga. Laws (Act No. 257), p. 2643, § 10.06)
Sec. 57. - City-county office.
At such time as the mayor, council, and the board of roads and revenues of Bacon County, Georgia, may agree to do so, and may agree upon the necessary personnel, a position of city-county manager shall be created, and said city-county manager will be the chief executive officer of both the city and county with his qualifications and duties as county manager to be prescribed by resolution passed by the county government, and the qualifications and duties as city manager shall be as herein above set forth.
(1967 Ga. Laws (Act No. 257), p. 2643, § 25.01)
