Chapter 22 - NUISANCES[1]
ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 22-1. - Definitions.
modified
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Nuisance means anything within the county that causes hurt, inconvenience or damage to another; and the fact that the act done may otherwise be lawful shall not keep it from being a nuisance. The inconvenience complained of shall not be fanciful or such as would affect only one of fastidious taste, but it shall be such as would affect an ordinary, reasonable person. Any such nuisance may be abated as provided in this chapter.
(Code 2003, § 22-81)
State Law reference— Similar provision, O.C.G.A. § 41-1-1.
Sec. 22-2. - Nuisances declared.
modified
(a)
Nuisances deemed nonexclusive. The various nuisances described and enumerated in this section shall not be deemed to be exclusive but shall be in addition to all other nuisances described and prohibited in this Code.
(b)
Specific conditions declared offensive. The following are declared to be nuisances:
(1)
Things interfering with peace or comfort. Sounds, animals or things that interfere with the peace or comfort or disturb the quiet of the county.
(2)
Obnoxious, offensive odors. The emission of obnoxious and offensive odors; the tainting of the air rendering it offensive or unwholesome so as to affect the health or comfort of reasonable persons residing in the neighborhood.
(3)
Discharging of offensive matter. The placing or throwing or discharging from any house or premises and flow from or out of any house or premises, of any filthy, foul or offensive matter or liquid of any kind, into any street, alley or public place, or upon any adjacent lot or ground.
(4)
Water pollution. The obstruction or pollution of any watercourse or source of water supply in the county.
(5)
Emission of dense smoke. The emission of dense smoke from any fire, chimney, engine, oil burner or other agency in the county so as to cause disturbance or discomfort to the public. For the purpose of testing and grading the density of smoke, the Ringelmann Smoke Chart, as published and used by the United States Geological Survey, shall be the standard for such grading; and smoke shall be defined and declared to be dense when it is of a degree of density of number three on the chart, or greater, for more than six minutes in any one hour, whether such period of time is consecutive or not.
(6)
Vacant lots. Any vacant lot whereon debris is permitted to accumulate and remain in such a manner as to create a fire hazard or other hazard to the public health, safety and welfare.
(7)
Nonconforming structures and machines. Any building, business, thing, machine or machinery, erected, repaired, conducted, maintained, operated or used contrary to or in violation of any of the fire and safety regulations of this Code, state law or county ordinance.
(8)
Animal enclosures. Any enclosure in which any animals are kept, dog kennels or runs and other animal or fowl pens wherein manure, dung, filth or litter is allowed to accumulate.
(9)
Dead animals. The carcass of any dead animal of any kind on any premises within the county.
(10)
Depositing trash, garbage and refuse on private or public property. The depositing and leaving on private or public property of trash, garbage, refuse, scrap building materials, paper, cardboard containers, brick, cement rubbish, tree residue, cans, containers, or any other rubbish or trash that is a menace to public health and safety in the county or which unreasonably annoys others.
(11)
Unoccupied buildings. Unoccupied buildings that are not properly whitewashed or cleansed.
(12)
Unsafe vehicles, machinery and equipment. Unsheltered storage of old, unused, stripped, junked, and other automobiles not in good and safe operating condition, and of any other vehicles, machinery, implements, and/or equipment and personal property of any kind that is no longer safely usable for the purposes for which it was manufactured for a period of 30 days or more (except in licensed junkyards). The absence of a license plate for the current year and/or the absence of a current motor vehicle registration shall be prima facie evidence that such vehicle is junked.
(13)
Gutters or spouts. Any gutter or spout that conveys filth into any street, lane or alley of the county.
(Code 2003, § 22-82)
Sec. 22-3. - Prohibited.
It shall be unlawful for any person to maintain or permit the existence of any nuisance on any property within the county.
(Code 2003, § 22-83)
Sec. 22-4. - Issuance of summons for abatement.
Whenever any nuisance exists within the county, or whenever any condition shall exist on any property within the county that is required or subject to be demolished, removed or abated under any of the ordinances of the county, and the owner or other responsible person refuses or fails after reasonable notice to demolish, remove or abate the nuisance, the sheriff, or the officer having responsibility for enforcement of this chapter, may issue a summons and cause the summons to be served upon such owner or other person responsible for such condition, describing the condition complained of and specifying the ordinances or parts of ordinances claimed to be violated, and requiring such person to appear before the magistrate judge at a time, date and place specified in the summons, to show cause why such condition should not be demolished, removed or abated.
(Code 2003, § 22-84)
Sec. 22-5. - Order for abatement.
(a)
If the magistrate judge at the hearing required by section 22-4 shall determine that a condition does exist as alleged that constitutes a nuisance or a condition which under this Code or the ordinances of the county is required or subject to be demolished, removed or abated, the judge shall issue his order and judgment so finding and shall order the property owner or other responsible person to demolish, remove or abate the condition within a period of time to be fixed by the judge. The order shall provide how the condition is to be abated, including, but not limited to, rehabilitation or demolition of any buildings or structures located on the property in question. The order shall further provide that if the property owner or other responsible person shall fail to comply with the order within the time specified, the county shall be authorized to proceed without further notice to demolish, remove or abate such condition and to take whatever actions are deemed necessary to demolish, remove or abate such condition; and the expense shall be charged against the owner of the property in question and shall be a lien against the property upon which the condition existed, ranking equally with the lien for county taxes.
(b)
Execution shall issue for such costs as in the case of county taxes, and the procedure for the enforcement of the execution shall thereafter be the same as in the case of county taxes.
(Code 2003, § 22-85)
State Law reference— Authorization and procedure for abatement of nuisances in cities, O.C.G.A. § 41-2-5.
Sec. 22-6. - Special provisions for old, unused, stripped, junked automobiles.
(a)
Unsheltered storage of old, unused, stripped, junked and other automobiles not in good and safe operating condition, and of any other vehicles, machinery, implements, and/or equipment and personal property of any kind that is no longer safely usable for the purposes for which it was manufactured, for a period of 30 days or more (except in licensed junkyards) within the corporate limits of the county is a nuisance.
(b)
The owners, tenants, lessees and/or occupants of any lot within the corporate limits of the county upon which the storage of property is made, and also the owners and/or lessees of the property involved in such storage shall jointly and severally abate the nuisance by the prompt removal of the property into completely enclosed buildings authorized to be used for such storage purposes, if within the corporate limits of the county, or otherwise by removing it to a location outside the corporate limits.
(Code 2003, § 22-86)
State Law reference— Counties authorized to enact ordinances for removal of junked vehicles, O.C.G.A. § 36-60-4.
Sec. 22-7. - Junkyard licensing.
(a)
A business license must be obtained from the county for the operation of any junkyard within the county on a yearly basis. The license fee for a junkyard business shall be as set forth in the schedule of fees and charges on file in the office of the county clerk and shall be paid on or before December 20 of the preceding year for which the business license is applied. A junkyard shall be defined as any business which recycles automobiles, or stores automobiles for salvage or for the sale of parts from such automobiles if the business contains more than ten such automobiles or vehicles. Furthermore, in order to license a junkyard for business in the county, the junkyard must comply with all environmental regulations and laws established by the state pertaining to operation of a junkyard in the state.
(b)
No junkyard shall be operated within the county unless such junkyard is at least 1,000 feet minimum from any existing home, excluding the home of the operator or family members. Any junkyard existing in the county on the effective date of this Code shall be excluded from the provisions of this section and shall be grandfathered in as complying with the Code.
(c)
Each junkyard shall maintain an adequate privacy fence to shield the junkyard from view of any roadway which parallels or crosses in front, beside, or behind such junkyard, excepting any private drive or dirt roads.
(Code 2003, § 22-87)
Sec. 22-8. - Nuisances constituting imminent danger.
Whenever any condition shall exist which constitutes an immediate and grave hazard to public health and safety requiring immediate action, the condition may be abated or otherwise remedied summarily and without following the procedures set forth in sections 22-4 and 22-5.
(Code 2003, § 22-88)
Sec. 22-9. - Service on nonresidents and others.
Whenever it shall be necessary for the county to proceed under sections 22-4 and 22-5 and the owner of the property or other responsible person resides outside the county limits, or cannot be found after diligent search, service of the notice required by section 22-5 shall be made by posting a copy of the notice on the property involved, and by publishing the notice in a newspaper having general circulation in the county once a week for four consecutive weeks, the last notice to be not longer than ten days nor less than one day prior to the hearing. Where the address of the person to be served is known, or where there is a last known address, a copy of the notice shall also be mailed to the person at such address by certified mail. In all cases where personal service cannot be made upon such person within the county limits, the case shall proceed as quasi in rem, and the execution shall issue in rem.
(Code 2003, § 22-89)
Sec. 22-10. - Other powers preserved.
Nothing in this chapter shall in any way affect the power and authority of the magistrate judge to punish for any violations which the conditions may constitute, nor shall it affect the power and authority of the magistrate judge to punish by contempt the failure to comply with his order.
(Code 2003, § 22-90)
Secs. 22-11—22-38. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - NOISE CONTROL[2]

Sec. 22-39. - General prohibition.
It shall be unlawful for any person to make, continue or cause to be made or continued any loud, unnecessary or unusual noise or any noise that unreasonably or unnecessarily annoys, disturbs, injures or endangers the comfort, repose, health, peace or safety of others in the county. The provisions of this section shall not apply to or be enforced against:
(1)
Any vehicle of the county while engaged in necessary public business.
(2)
Excavations or repairs of streets by or on behalf of the county or state at night when public welfare and convenience renders it impossible to perform such work during the day.
(3)
The reasonable use of amplifiers or loudspeakers in the course of public addresses that are noncommercial in character.
(Code 2003, § 22-31)
Sec. 22-40. - General noise standard.
The acts contained in this article, among others, shall constitute a violation of this article; but such enumeration shall not be deemed to be exclusive.
(Code 2003, § 22-32)
Sec. 22-41. - Horns.
The following shall be a violation of this article:
(1)
The sounding of any horn on any automobile, motorcycle or other vehicle on any street or public place in the county except as a danger warning.
(2)
The creation of any unreasonably loud or harsh sound by means of any such signaling device and the sounding of any such device for an unreasonable period of time.
(3)
The use of any horn, whistle or other device operated by engine exhaust.
(Code 2003, § 22-33)
Sec. 22-42. - Radios, phonographs, other machines or devices that produce or reproduce sound.
The using, operating or permitting to be played, used or operated of any radio receiving set, musical instrument, phonograph or other machine or device for the producing or reproducing of sound in such a manner as to disturb the peace, quiet and comfort of the neighboring inhabitants, or at any time with louder volume than is necessary for convenient hearing for the person who is in the room, vehicle or chamber in which such machine or device is operated and who is a voluntary listener shall be a violation of this article. The operation of any such set, instrument, phonograph, machine or device between the hours of 9:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. in such a manner as to be plainly audible at a distance of 50 feet from the building, structure or vehicle in which it is located shall be prima facie evidence of a violation of this section.
(Code 2003, § 22-34)
Sec. 22-43. - Loudspeakers, amplifiers, other devices for production or reproduction of sound for advertising.
The using, operating or permitting to be played, used or operated of any radio receiving set, musical instrument, phonograph, loudspeaker, sound amplifier or other machine or device for the producing or reproducing of sound which is cast upon the public streets for the purpose of attracting the attention of the public to any building or structure without a special permit from the county clerk or board of commissioners shall be a violation of this article. Announcements over loudspeakers can only be made by the announcer, in person, and without the aid of any mechanical device.
(Code 2003, § 22-35)
Sec. 22-44. - Yelling, shouting, hooting, whistling, singing.
Yelling, shouting, hooting, whistling or singing on the public streets, particularly between the hours of 9:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. or at any time or place so as to annoy or disturb the quiet, comfort or repose of any persons in the vicinity, shall be a violation of this article.
(Code 2003, § 22-36)
Sec. 22-45. - Animals and birds.
The keeping of any animal or bird that will disturb the comfort or repose of any persons in the vicinity by making long, continual or frequent noise shall be a violation of this article.
(Code 2003, § 22-37)
Sec. 22-46. - Exhausts.
The discharge into the open air of the exhaust of any steam engine, stationary internal combustion engine, motorboat or motor vehicle, except through a muffler or other device that will effectively prevent loud or explosive noises, shall be a violation of this article.
(Code 2003, § 22-38)
Sec. 22-47. - Defect in vehicle or load.
The use of any automobile, motorcycle or vehicle so out of repair, so loaded or in such a manner as to create loud and unnecessary grating, grinding, rattling or other noise shall be a violation of this article.
(Code 2003, § 22-39)
Sec. 22-48. - Loading, unloading, opening boxes.
The creation of a loud and excessive noise in connection with loading or unloading any vehicle or the opening and destruction of bales, boxes, crates and containers shall be a violation of this article.
(Code 2003, § 22-40)
Sec. 22-49. - Construction or repairing of buildings.
The erection, including excavation, demolition, alteration or repair of any building other than between the hours of 6:00 a.m. and 12:01 a.m. on weekdays, except on urgent necessity in the interest of public health and safety, and then only with a permit from the county building official, shall be a violation of this article. Such permit may be granted for a period not to exceed three days or less while the emergency continues and may be renewed by the board of commissioners for periods of three days or less while the emergency continues. If the board of commissioners determines that the public health and safety will not be impaired by the erection, demolition, alteration or repair of any building or the excavation of streets and highways from 12:01 a.m. to 6:00 a.m., and further determines that loss or inconvenience would result to any party in interest, the board may grant permission for such work to be done from 12:01 a.m. to 6:00 a.m., upon application made at the time the permit for the work is applied for or during the progress of the work.
(Code 2003, § 22-41)
Sec. 22-50. - Schools, courts, churches, hospitals.
The creation of any excessive noise on any street adjacent to any school, institution of learning, church or court while they are in session or adjacent to any hospital, and which unreasonably interferes with the work of such institution, or which disturbs or unduly annoys patients in the hospital, provided that conspicuous signs are displayed about such institutions indicating the presence of such institutions, shall be a violation of this article.
(Code 2003, § 22-42)
Sec. 22-51. - Hawkers, peddlers, vendors.
The shouting and crying of hawkers, peddlers and vendors which disturb the peace and quiet of the neighborhood shall be a violation of this article.
(Code 2003, § 22-43)
Sec. 22-52. - Noises to attract attention.
The use of any drum or other instrument or device for the purpose of attracting attention to any performance, show or sale by creation of noise shall be a violation of this article.
(Code 2003, § 22-44)
Sec. 22-53. - Transportation of metal rails, pillars or columns.
The transportation of rails, pillars or columns of iron, steel or other material over and along streets and other public places upon carts, drays, cars, trucks or in any other manner so loaded as to cause loud noises or as to disturb the peace and quiet of such streets or other public places shall be a violation of this article.
(Code 2003, § 22-45)
Sec. 22-54. - Piledrivers, hammers, other such appliances.
The operation from 6:00 p.m. to 7:00 a.m. of any piledriver, steam shovel, pneumatic hammer, derrick, steam or electric hoist or other appliance, the use of which is attended by loud or unusual noise, without a special permit from the board of commissioners shall be a violation of this article.
(Code 2003, § 22-46)
Sec. 22-55. - Blowers.
The operation of any noise-creating blower or power fan or any internal combustion engine, the operation of which causes noise due to the explosion of operating gases or fluids, unless the noise from such blower or fan is muffled and such engine is equipped with a muffler device sufficient to deaden such noise, shall be a violation of this article.
(Code 2003, § 22-47)
Sec. 22-56. - Vehicle repair in residential areas.
The repairing, rebuilding, or testing of any motor vehicle between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. within any residential area in such a manner as to disturb the peace, quiet, and comfort of the residents of the area shall be a violation of this article.
(Code 2003, § 22-48)
Sec. 22-57. - Exemptions.
(a)
The following uses and activities shall be exempt from noise regulations set forth in this article:
(1)
Noises of safety signals and warning devices.
(2)
Noises resulting from any authorized emergency vehicle, when responding to an emergency call or responding to an emergency.
(3)
Noises resulting from emergency work, to be construed as work made necessary to restore property to a safe condition following a public calamity, or work required to protect persons or property from an imminent exposure to danger.
(b)
Applications for other exemptions should be filed with the county clerk for approval by the chairperson, and should state the time, date, organization and reason for the request.
(Code 2003, § 22-49)
Sec. 22-58. - Injunctions.
The operation or maintenance of any device, vehicle, or machinery in violation of any provision of this article which causes discomfort or annoyance to reasonable persons of normal sensitivity or which endangers the comfort, repose, health, or peace of residents of the county shall be deemed, and is declared to be, a public nuisance, and may be subject to abatement summarily by a restraining order or injunction issued by a court of competent jurisdiction.
(Code 2003, § 22-50)
Secs. 22-59—22-89. - Reserved.
ARTICLE III. - VEGETATION

Sec. 22-90. - Certain weeds, grasses and plants declared a nuisance; exemptions.
(a)
Any weeds such as jimson, burdock, ragweed, thistle, cocklebur or other weeds of a like kind found growing in any lot or tract of land in the county, and any weeds, grasses or plants other than trees, bushes, flowers or other ornamental plants growing to a height exceeding 12 inches anywhere in the county are declared to be a nuisance, subject to abatement as provided in this article.
(b)
Garden flowers, vegetables, cultivated agricultural crops, ornamental shrubbery and trees shall not be considered weeds, grass or vegetation within the meaning of this section.
(Code 2003, § 22-111)
Sec. 22-91. - Notice to abate.
(a)
For a violation of this article, the owner of the property shall be given notice to remove excess growth within seven days from the receipt of the notice. Such notice may be served personally, or may be served by registered or certified mail, or by attaching a copy of the notice to the principal entrance of the dwelling, and shall contain a description of the location of the property upon which such condition exists.
(b)
Where notice is given by registered or certified mail, the depositing of such notice in the United States mail by registered or certified mail, return receipt requested, addressed to the owner of the property at the address shown on the latest ad valorem tax return of such owner for such property shall constitute sufficient service of such notice, where the return receipt shall be duly returned signed by the addressee or someone residing on the premises, or where the return receipt or other notification from the federal postal service indicates that the notice was refused, or that there was a refusal to sign the return receipt or that delivery of the notice at such address could not be made.
(Code 2003, § 22-112)
Sec. 22-92. - Abatement by county; notice of abatement.
(a)
Upon the failure to comply within the required time by the owner of the property in violation of this article, when properly notified pursuant to the provisions of section 22-91, the county is authorized to enter upon the property and cut and remove the weeds, grass and vegetation. The county shall issue a lot cleaning order to the contractor, who shall promptly perform the work and submit his bill to the county. The county shall inspect the work, and, if satisfactory, shall approve the bill for payment and forward it to the county treasurer for payment.
(b)
The county treasurer, for the purposes stated in subsection (a) of this section, shall promptly send to the owner of the property a statement of account demanding payment on or before a date named in such demand, which shall not be earlier than 15 days nor later than 45 days after payment to the contractor.
(c)
If payment under subsection (b) of this section shall not have been made on or before the date named, the county treasurer shall issue a notice directed to the owner of the property and signed by the magistrate judge, notifying such owner to show cause before the judge at a time and place and on a date named in the notice why execution should not issue against the property for its approval amount.
(d)
If it shall appear at such hearing that the property was in violation of this article, that the notice required in section 22-91 was given, that the work was performed and the cost paid by the county, and that the county has not been reimbursed, execution shall issue for such amount, and shall be executed by the sheriff in the same manner as tax executions are executed.
(e)
If the owner of the property is unknown or cannot be located, the provisions of subsections (b) and (c) of this section shall not apply; but in lieu thereof, a notice shall be published once a week for four weeks in a newspaper of general circulation in the county, which notice shall be addressed "To Whom It May Concern"; shall describe with reasonable particularity the property involved; shall provide a statement of the amount due for the removal of the weeds, grass or other vegetation; and shall notify all persons interested to show cause before the magistrate judge at a time and place and on a date named in the notice why execution should not issue in rem against the property for such amount. In such event, subsection (a) of this section will apply, but the execution shall issue against the property in rem.
(Code 2003, § 22-113)
Sec. 22-93. - Remedies.
The remedies provided in this article are cumulative of all other remedies the county has for the accomplishment of the objectives set forth in this article. Nothing in this article shall be construed as relieving any person from the obligation to comply with this article, all ordinances, laws or regulations of the county, or to permit the maintenance by any person of a nuisance; and any nuisance shall be subject to be abated in the manner provided by law.
(Code 2003, § 22-114)
Secs. 22-94—22-114. - Reserved.
ARTICLE IV. - ABANDONED MOTOR VEHICLES[3]

Sec. 22-115. - Definitions.
modified
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Abandoned motor vehicle means a motor vehicle or trailer which:
(1)
Has been left by the owner or some person acting for the owner with an automobile dealer, repairman, or wrecker service for repair or for some other reason and has not been called for by such owner or other person within a period of 30 days after the time agreed upon; or within 30 days after such vehicle is turned over to such dealer, repairman, or wrecker service when no time is agreed upon; or within 30 days after the completion of necessary repairs;
(2)
Is left unattended on a public street, road, highway or other public property for a period of at least five days and when it reasonably appears to a law enforcement officer that the individual who left such motor vehicle unattended does not intend to return and remove such motor vehicle;
(3)
Has been lawfully towed onto the property of another at the request of a law enforcement officer and left there for a period of not less than 30 days without anyone's having made claim to the vehicle;
(4)
Has been lawfully towed onto the property of another at the request of a property owner on whose property the vehicle was abandoned and left there for a period of not less than 30 days without the owner's having made claim to the vehicle; or
(5)
Has been left unattended on private property for a period of not less than 30 days without anyone's having made claim to the vehicle.
Motor vehicle and vehicle mean a motor vehicle or trailer.
Owner means the owner, lessor, lessee, security interest holders, and all lienholders as shown on the records of the state department of revenue.
(Code 2003, § 22-141)
Sec. 22-116. - Prohibited.
It shall be unlawful for any person, either as owner, occupant, lessee, agent, tenant or otherwise, to store or deposit, or cause or permit to be stored or deposited, any abandoned motor vehicle upon any public or private property within the corporate limits of the county. There shall be an exception to this section for all persons, owners, or businesses described in sections 22-6 and 22-7 as these apply to junkyards or the like.
(Code 2003, § 22-142)
Sec. 22-117. - Removal—Required.
Any abandoned, junked or discarded motor vehicle shall be removed upon ten days' written notice to the owner or occupant of any premises upon which the motor vehicle is stored or deposited, or to the owner thereof if the identity of such owner of the motor vehicle can be ascertained through license plates or otherwise. If such motor vehicle is not removed after ten days' written notice, the sheriff's department of the county shall remove or cause the removal and sale at the cost of the owner or occupant of the premises, or the owner of such motor vehicle, if such owner can be ascertained. Sale shall be made to the highest of at least two bids obtained from dealers in such property.
(Code 2003, § 22-143; Res. of 5-12-2003, § 1(J))
Sec. 22-118. - Same—Notice to owner and state.
(a)
Any person who removes a motor vehicle from public or private property at the request of someone other than the owner or who stores any motor vehicle which has been left unattended shall seek the identity of the owner of such vehicle and shall, within 15 days of the day such vehicle became an abandoned motor vehicle, give notice in writing to the state department of revenue and the state bureau of investigation, stating the manufacturer's vehicle identification number, the license number, the fact that such vehicle is an abandoned motor vehicle, and the present location of such vehicle, and requesting the name and address of all owners, lessors, lessees, security interest holders, and lienholders of such vehicle. If a person removing or storing the vehicle has knowledge of facts which reasonably indicate that the vehicle is registered or titled in a certain other state, he shall check the motor vehicle records of that other state in the attempt to ascertain the identity of the owner of the vehicle.
(b)
Upon ascertaining the owner of such motor vehicle, the person removing or storing such vehicle shall, within three days, by certified or registered mail, notify the owner, lessors, lessees, security interest holders, and lienholders of the location of such vehicle and of the fact that such vehicle is deemed abandoned and shall be disposed of if not redeemed.
(c)
If the identity of the owner of such motor vehicle cannot be ascertained, the person removing or storing such vehicle shall place an advertisement in a newspaper of general circulation in the county where such vehicle was obtained or, if there is no newspaper in the county, shall post such advertisement at the county courthouse in such place where other public notices are posted. Such advertisement shall run in the newspaper once a week for two consecutive weeks or shall remain posted at the courthouse for two consecutive weeks. The advertisement shall contain a complete description of the motor vehicle, its license and manufacturer's vehicle identification numbers, the location where such vehicle was initially left unattended by the owner, the present location of such vehicle, and the fact that such vehicle is deemed abandoned and shall be disposed of if not redeemed.
(Code 2003, § 22-144)
State Law reference— Similar provisions, O.C.G.A. § 40-11-2.
