ARTICLE IV. - WETLAND PROTECTION
DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Sec. 14-210. - Findings of fact.
(a)
Wetlands are indispensable and fragile natural resources with significant development constraints due to flooding, erosion and soil limitations. In their natural state, wetlands serve man and nature. They provide habitat for fish, wildlife and vegetation; water quality maintenance and pollution control; flood control; erosion control; natural resource education; scientific study; and open space and recreational opportunities. In addition, the wise management of forested wetlands is essential to the economic well-being of many communities within the state.
(b)
Nationally, a considerable number of wetland resources have been lost or impaired by draining, dredging, filling, excavating, building, pollution and other acts. Damaging or destroying wetlands threatens public safety and the general welfare. It is, therefore, necessary to discourage development activities that may adversely affect wetlands by ensuring maximum protection for wetlands located in the unincorporated area of the county.
(Code 2003, § 22-351; Ord. of 2-6-2001(2), § 1.1)
Sec. 14-211. - Purpose.
The purpose of this article is to promote wetland protection, while taking into account varying ecological, economic development, recreational and aesthetic values. Activities that may damage wetlands should be located on upland sites to the greatest degree practicable as determined through a permitting process. The objective of this article is to protect wetlands from alterations that will significantly affect or reduce their primary functions for water quality, floodplain and erosion control, groundwater recharge, aesthetic nature and wildlife habitat.
(Code 2003, § 22-352; Ord. of 2-6-2001(2), § 1.2)
Sec. 14-212. - Definitions.
modified
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Generalized wetland map means a map showing the general locations of wetlands within the unincorporated area of the county. The generalized wetland map used on February 6, 2001, is the National Wetlands Inventory as published by the United States Department of the Interior.
Hydric soils means soils that form as a result of saturated soil conditions. A list of these soils is maintained by the soil conservation service.
Hydrology means science dealing with the properties, distribution, and circulation of water on the surface of the land, in the soil and underlying rocks, and in the atmosphere.
Hydrophytic vegetation means macrophytic plants tolerant of or dependent on saturated soil conditions.
Jurisdictional determination means an official, written statement or map signed by the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, stating whether a certain specified site is a wetland or is in a wetland.
Jurisdictional wetland means a wetland area that meets the definitional requirements for wetlands as determined by the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers.
Regulated activity means any activity which will, or which may reasonably be expected to, result in the discharge of dredged or fill material into waters of the United States except for those activities exempted in section 404 of the Federal Clean Water Act.
Temporary emergency permit means a temporary permit that may be issued in certain circumstances specified in section 14-248.
Wetland means an area that is inundated or saturated by surface water or groundwater at a frequency and distribution sufficient to support, and under normal circumstances does support, a prevalence of vegetation typically adapted for life in saturated soil conditions, commonly known as hydrophytic vegetation. The term "wetlands" generally includes swamps, marshes, bogs and similar areas.
Wetland delineation means the establishment of wetland boundaries by a representative of the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers or an authority designated by the Corps.
Wetland protection district means all wetlands within the unincorporated area of the county and shown on the generalized wetland map.
(Code 2003, § 22-353; Ord. of 2-6-2001(2), § 10)
Sec. 14-213. - Wetland protection district.
modified
(a)
Application. This article shall apply to all lands within wetlands located in the unincorporated area of the county outside the municipalities. The generalized wetland map, adopted as part of this article, shows the general location of wetlands and should be consulted by persons contemplating activities in or near wetlands. The generalized wetland map, together with all explanatory matter thereon and attached thereto, is adopted by reference and declared to be part of this article. The generalized wetland map shall be on file in the office of the county clerk.
(b)
District boundaries. The generalized wetland map is a general reference document, and wetland boundaries indicated on the map are approximations. The purpose of the generalized wetland map is to alert developers/landowners that a subject site may be in a jurisdictional wetland or in proximity to a jurisdictional wetland, requiring the developer/landowner to seek U.S. Army Corps of Engineers' guidance as to whether a section 404 permit will be required prior to initiation of any development activity on the subject site. The generalized wetland map does not represent precise boundaries of jurisdictional wetlands in the unincorporated area of the county, and cannot serve as a substitute for a delineation of wetland boundaries by the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, as required by section 404 of the Clean Water Act, as amended. Any local government action under this article does not relieve the landowner from federal or state permitting requirements.
(Code 2003, § 22-354; Ord. of 2-6-2001(2), § 2.2)
Sec. 14-214. - Right of entry on private property.
The permitting officer shall have authority to enter upon privately owned land for the purpose of determining whether the provisions of this article are applicable, for the purpose of performing duties required under this article, and for the purpose of taking or causing to be made such examinations, surveys or sampling as the permitting officer deems necessary.
(Code 2003, § 22-355; Ord. of 2-6-2001(2), § 4.1)
Sec. 14-215. - General authority of officer.
The permitting officer shall have authority to enter the subject site to monitor development and to enforce this article, issue permits under this article, and address violations or threatened violations of this article by issuance of violation notices, administrative orders and civil and criminal actions. All costs, fees and expenses in connection with such actions may be recovered as damages against the violator.
(Code 2003, § 22-356; Ord. of 2-6-2001(2), § 4.1.1)
Sec. 14-216. - Assistance by other officials.
Law enforcement officials or other officials having police powers in the jurisdiction shall have authority to assist the permitting officer with enforcement of this article.
(Code 2003, § 22-357; Ord. of 2-6-2001(2), § 4.1.2)
Sec. 14-217. - Issuance of cease and desist orders.
The permitting officer shall have authority to issue cease and desist orders for any violation of this article. Cease and desist orders may be appealed to a court of competent jurisdiction, as identified in this article.
(Code 2003, § 22-358; Ord. of 2-6-2001(2), § 4.1.3)
Sec. 14-218. - Bond may be required.
The permitting officer may require a bond with surety and conditions sufficient to secure compliance with the conditions set forth in the permit. The particular amount and the conditions of the bond shall be consistent with the purposes of this article. Upon a breach of any condition of any such bond, the permitting officer may institute an action in a court of competent jurisdiction upon such bond and prosecute such breach of bond to judgment and execution.
(Code 2003, § 22-359; Ord. of 2-6-2001(2), § 4.2)
Sec. 14-219. - Removal of violative structure.
When the permitting officer determines a building or other structure has been constructed in violation of this article, the violator may, at the discretion of the permitting officer, be required to remove the structure.
(Code 2003, § 22-360; Ord. of 2-6-2001(2), § 4.3)
Sec. 14-220. - Restoration of affected land.
When removal of vegetative cover, excavation or fill has taken place in violation of this article, the violator may, at the discretion of the permitting officer and as far as practicable, be required to restore the affected land to its original contours and to restore vegetation.
(Code 2003, § 22-361; Ord. of 2-6-2001(2), § 4.5)
Sec. 14-221. - Issuance of notice of violation.
If the permitting officer discovers a violation of this article that also constitutes a violation of any provision of the Clean Water Act, as amended, the permitting officer shall issue written notification of the violation to the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers and the landowner.
(Code 2003, § 22-362; Ord. of 2-6-2001(2), § 4.5)
Sec. 14-222. - Suspension and revocation.
The permitting officer may suspend or revoke a permit if he finds the applicant has not complied with the conditions or limitations set forth in the permit or has exceeded the scope of the work set forth in the permit. The permitting officer shall cause notice of denial, issuance, conditional issuance, revocation or suspension of a permit to be published in a daily newspaper having a broad circulation in the area where the wetland is located.
(Code 2003, § 22-363; Ord. of 2-6-2001(2), § 4.6)
Sec. 14-223. - Penalties.
Any person who commits, takes part in or assists in any violation of any provision of this article may be punished as provided in section 1-19. Each violation shall be a separate offense and, in the case of a continuing violation, each day's continuance shall be deemed to be a separate and distinct offense.
(Code 2003, § 22-364; Ord. of 2-6-2001(2), § 5)
Sec. 14-224. - Appeals.
modified
(a)
Jurisdiction. All final decisions of the board of commissioners concerning denial, approval or conditional approval of a permit issued pursuant to the provisions of this article may be appealed to the county superior court.
(b)
Alternative actions. Based on the proceedings of the county superior court and the decision of such court, the board of commissioners may, within the time specified by the court, elect to:
(1)
Institute negotiated purchase or condemnation proceedings to acquire an easement or fee interest in the applicant's land;
(2)
Approve the permit application with lesser restrictions or conditions (i.e., grant a variance); or
(3)
Institute other appropriate actions ordered by the court that fall within the jurisdiction of the board of commissioners.
(Code 2003, § 22-365; Ord. of 2-6-2001(2), § 6.2)
Sec. 14-225. - Amendments.
The regulations of this article and the generalized wetland map may from time to time be amended in accordance with procedures and requirements in the general statutes and as new information concerning wetland locations, soils, hydrology, flooding or plant species peculiar to wetlands becomes available.
(Code 2003, § 22-366; Ord. of 2-6-2001(2), § 7)
Sec. 14-226. - Assessment relief.
The county board of tax assessors shall consider wetland regulations in determining the fair market value of land. Any owner of an undeveloped wetland who has dedicated an easement or entered into a conservation program with the government or a nonprofit organization restricting activities in a wetland shall have that portion of land assessed consistent with those restrictions. Such landowner shall also be exempted from special assessment on the wetland to defray the cost of municipal improvements such as sanitary sewers, storm sewers and water mains.
(Code 2003, § 22-367; Ord. of 2-6-2001(2), § 8)
Secs. 14-227—14-245. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - LOCAL DEVELOPMENT PERMITS

Sec. 14-246. - Permit requirements.
No regulated activity will be allowed within the wetland protection district without written permission from the permitting officer in the form of a local development permit. Issuance of a local development permit is contingent on full compliance with the terms of this article and other applicable regulations. All activities that are not identified in section 14-247 or by other local development ordinances shall be prohibited without prior issuance of a local development permit. If the area proposed for development appears to be located within a wetland protection district boundary, or within 50 feet of the wetland protection district boundary, as determined by the permitting officer from review of the generalized wetland map, a U.S. Army Corps of Engineers' determination shall be required. If the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers determines that wetlands are present on the proposed development site and that a section 404 permit or letter of permission is required, a local development permit will be issued only following receipt by the local permitting officer of a copy of the section 404 permit or letter of permission issued by the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers.
(Code 2003, § 22-391; Ord. of 2-6-2001(2), § 3.1)
Sec. 14-247. - Permissible uses.
The following uses shall be allowed as of right within a wetland to the extent they are not prohibited by any other ordinance or law, including laws of trespass, and provided they do not require structures, grading, fill, draining or dredging except as provided in this section:
(1)
Conservation or preservation of soil, water, vegetation, fish and other wildlife, provided they do not affect waters of the state or of the United States in such a way that would require an individual 404 permit.
(2)
Outdoor passive recreational activities, including fishing, birdwatching, hiking, boating, horseback riding and canoeing.
(3)
Forestry practices applied in accordance with best management practices approved by the state forestry commission and as specified in section 404 of the Clean Water Act.
(4)
The continued cultivation of agricultural crops. Agricultural activities shall, however, be subject to best management practices approved by the state department of agriculture. Disturbances of wetlands for agricultural purposes are subject to the Swampbuster Act of the 1985 Farm Bill, and are to be reported to the USDA Farm Service Agency prior to commencement.
(5)
The pasturing of livestock, provided that riparian wetlands are protected, that soil profiles are not disturbed and that approved agricultural best management practices are followed.
(6)
Education, scientific research and nature trails.
(Code 2003, § 22-392; Ord. of 2-6-2001(2), § 3.2)
Sec. 14-248. - Temporary emergency permit.
A temporary emergency permit can be issued by the permitting officer for the following reasons:
(1)
Maintenance or repair of lawfully located roads or structures and of facilities used in the service of the public to provide transportation, electric, gas, water, telephone, telegraph, telecommunication or other services, provided that such roads, structures or facilities are not materially changed or enlarged, and written notice prior to the commencement of work has been given to the permitting officer, and provided that the work is conducted using best management practices to ensure that flow and circulation patterns and chemical and biological characteristics of the wetland are not impaired, and that any adverse effect on the aquatic environment will be minimized.
(2)
Temporary water-level stabilization measures associated with ongoing silvicultural operations.
(3)
Limited ditching, tilling, dredging, excavating or filling done solely for the purpose of maintaining or repairing existing drainage systems necessary for the cultivation of agricultural crops, provided the maintenance or repair activity does not result in the impairment, alteration or loss of wetlands not previously subject to agricultural and silvicultural use under the terms and provisions of section 14-247(4).
(4)
Limited excavating and filling necessary for the repair and maintenance of piers, walkways, nature trails, observation decks, wildlife management shelters, boathouses or other similar water-related structures, provided such facilities and structures are built on pilings to allow unobstructed flow of water and preserve the natural contour of the wetland.
(Code 2003, § 22-393; Ord. of 2-6-2001(2), § 3.3)
Sec. 14-249. - Site plans.
Applications for a local development permit within the generalized wetland protection district shall include a site plan, drawn to a scale of one inch equals 50 feet, unless a different scale is approved, in advance, by the permitting officer, with the following information:
(1)
A map of all planned excavation and fill, including calculations of the volume of cut and fill involved with cross sectional drawings showing existing and proposed grades. Elevations, horizontal scale and vertical scale must be shown on the cross sectional drawings.
(2)
A map of any wetland boundaries occurring within the site must be provided. This boundary may be included on other maps provided by the applicant.
(3)
Location, dimensions and area of all impervious surfaces, both existing and proposed, on the site and adjacent to the site for a distance of 200 feet.
(4)
The orientation and distance from the boundaries of the subject site to the nearest bank of an affected perennial stream or water body.
(5)
Elevation of the site and adjacent lands within 200 feet of the site at contour intervals of no greater than two feet; and no greater than one foot for slopes less than or equal to two percent.
(6)
Location and detailed design of any spill and leak collection systems designed for the purpose of containing hazardous or toxic materials released accidentally.
(7)
All proposed temporary disruptions or diversions of local hydrology.
(Ord. of 2-6-2001(2), § 3.4)
Sec. 14-250. - Activities to comply with site plan.
All development activities or site work conducted after approval of the site plan shall conform with the specifications of the site plan. The site plan may be amended only with approval of the permitting officer. The permitting officer may require additional information deemed necessary to verify compliance with the provisions of this article or to evaluate the proposed use in terms of the purposes of this article.
(Ord. of 2-6-2001(2), § 3.5)
Sec. 14-251. - Subdivision approval.
Any application for subdivision approval in a wetland protection district shall include a jurisdictional determination approved by the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers. If the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers determines that wetlands are present and that a section 404 permit or letter of permission is required, subdivision approval will be issued only following issuance of the section 404 permit or letter of permission.
(Ord. of 2-6-2001(2), § 3.6)
Sec. 14-252. - Subdivision design options.
modified
Any subdivision that includes jurisdictional wetlands shall be allowed and encouraged to use the following options:
(1)
Lot size averaging. Lot size averaging is encouraged in single-family detached subdivisions as a means to work around wetland areas. The permitting officer may allow a reduction in lot size, provided the same number of lots in the same subdivision are oversized by an equal or greater area. The maximum permissible reduction shall not exceed 25 percent of the minimum required lot area. The number of lots with areas reduced shall not exceed 25 percent of the total number of lots in the subdivision. The permitting officer shall allow no more than a 25 percent adjustment of rear, side and front setbacks for each affected lot.
(2)
Cluster development. Clustering of residential development is encouraged in single-family detached subdivisions as a way around wetland areas. When considering subdivision approval, the permitting officer may allow incorporation of wetland or other significant natural areas as open space in the subdivision plan. Such plans should designate at least 25 percent of the gross land area as open space. Density shall be calculated by subtracting from the total acreage of a parcel all land dedicated or in use for private or public roads, including all vehicular rights-of-way. The resultant acreage will then be divided by the minimum allowed lot size of the district to derive the number of lots permissible.
(Ord. of 2-6-2001(2), § 3.7)
Sec. 14-253. - Filing fee.
At the time of the application for a development permit, the applicant shall pay a filing fee specified by the permitting officer. Filing fees, as set forth in the schedule of fees and charges on file in the office of the county clerk, shall be required to evaluate the application. However, if after review of the initial application it is determined that expert consultants are necessary to provide services pertaining to functional assessment, mitigation and wetland boundary determination, those fees will be in addition to the filing fee. The additional fee may be used to retain expert consultants who will provide services as deemed necessary by the permitting officer.
(Ord. of 2-6-2001(2), § 3.8)
Sec. 14-254. - Enforcement authority.
The permitting officer is the department, office or individual assigned the responsibility of administering this article. The administrative authority is vested in the office of the county clerk.
(Ord. of 2-6-2001(2), § 3.9)
Sec. 14-255. - Review procedures.
The application for a development permit shall be made to the permitting officer and will be reviewed within 14 days. The review period shall begin upon the permitting officer's written determination that the application submitted is complete. The review period shall include the preparation of findings (approval, conditional approval or disapproval) by the permitting officer. The applicant will receive written notification of the findings of the permitting officer. If the review process is not completed and written finding not released within 30 days, the application is considered to be approved.
(Ord. of 2-6-2001(2), § 3.10)
Sec. 14-256. - Appeals.
Decisions on permit applications for development permits made by the permitting officer may be appealed to the board of commissioners. The appeal must be submitted in writing to the county clerk within ten days of the decision rendered by the permitting officer. A public hearing shall be held by the board of commissioners for appeals. Public announcement of the hearing shall be printed in a local newspaper of general circulation at least 15 days but not more than 45 days prior to the hearing. Any person may offer testimony at the hearing. The decision of the board of commissioners shall be issued within 15 days of the public hearing and may be appealed to the county superior court.
(Ord. of 2-6-2001(2), § 3.11)
Sec. 14-257. - Duration of permit validity.
(a)
If construction described in the development permit has not commenced within six months from the date of issuance, the permit shall expire.
(b)
If construction described in the development permit is suspended or abandoned after work has commenced, the permit shall expire six months after the date work ceased.
(c)
Written notice of the pending expiration of the development permit may be issued by the permitting officer, but no such notification is required.
(Ord. of 2-6-2001(2), § 3.12)
