Subpart A - CHARTER[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Editor's note— Printed in this subpart is 1989 Georgia Laws, page 3512, substantially as adopted by the Georgia General Assembly. Amendments to this act are indicated by parenthetical history notes following amended provisions. The absence of a history note indicates that the provision remains unchanged from the original act. Obvious misspellings have been corrected without notation. For stylistic purposes, a uniform system of headings, catchlines and citations to state statutes has been used. Additions made for clarity are indicated by brackets.
State Law reference— Construction and interpretation of certain general law municipal powers, O.C.G.A. §§ 36-34-7 et seq., 36-35-7 et seq.; preparation for and conduct of municipal primaries and elections, O.C.G.A. § 21-3-310 et seq.

ARTICLE I. - INCORPORATION AND POWERS

Section 1.10. - Incorporation.
The City of Acworth in Cobb County is reincorporated by the enactment of this Charter and is constituted and declared a body politic and corporate under the name of the "City of Acworth." References in this Charter to "the city" or "this city" refer to the City of Acworth. The city shall have perpetual existence.
Section 1.11. - Corporate boundaries.
(a)
The boundaries of this city shall be those existing on the effective date of this charter with such alterations as may be made from time to time by local law or in a manner provided by general state law. The boundaries of this city at all times shall be shown on a map, a written description, or any combination thereof, to be retained permanently in the office of the city clerk and to be designated, as the case may be, the "Official Map or Description of the Corporate Limits of the City of Acworth, Georgia." Photographic, typed, or other copies of such map or description certified by the city clerk shall be admitted as evidence in all courts and shall have the same force and effect as the original map or description. The "Official Map of the Corporate Limits of the City of Acworth, Georgia," dated December 19, 2019, prepared by the city clerk of the City of Acworth, is adopted as the official map of the corporate limits of the City of Acworth, Georgia, and the corporate boundaries of the City of Acworth, Georgia, as of January 1, 2021, shall be reflected on said official map, subject to amendment as set forth in this charter or by local Act or in accordance with the general laws of the state.
(Ord. No. 1994 Ga. Laws, p. 3704; H.B. 1054, § 1, 5-8-2018; H.B. 1025, § 1, 12-19-2019)
(b)
The mayor and board of aldermen may provide for the redrawing of any such map by ordinance to reflect lawful changes in the corporate boundaries. A redrawn map shall supersede for all purposes the earlier map or map which it is designated to replace but such earlier map shall be retained in the office of the city clerk.
Editor's note— Changes in the boundaries of the city have been made by the following acts of the Georgia General Assembly and are reflected on the official map of the city referred to in § 1.11(a) above.
1990 Ga. Laws, page 4736, added subsection 1.11(c);
1992 Ga. Laws, page 6445, added subsection 1.11(d);
1993 Ga. Laws, page 4245, added subsection 1.11(e);
1995 Ga. Laws, Extra Session, page 320, added subsection 1.11(f);
2017 Ga. Laws, Act. No. 161.
In addition thereto, 1995 Ga. Laws, page 541, section 5, provided for the annexation of certain real property owned by the State of Georgia to the city.
Section 1.12. - Powers and construction.
(a)
This city shall have all powers possible for a city to have under the present or future constitution and laws of this state as fully and completely as though they were specifically enumerated in this Charter.
(b)
The powers of this city shall be construed liberally in favor of the city. The specific mention or failure to mention particular powers shall not be construed as limiting in any way the powers of this city.
Section 1.13. - Examples of powers.
The powers of this city shall include, but are not limited to, the following powers:
(1)
Ad valorem taxation. To levy, assess, and collect ad valorem taxes on all taxable property in the city;
(2)
Other taxes. To levy, assess, and collect other taxes allowed by general law;
(3)
Business regulation and taxation. To levy, assess, and collect occupational and business taxes and to license and regulate occupations and businesses;
(4)
Appropriations. To make appropriations and expend funds for support of the city and any other lawful purpose;
(5)
Municipal debts. To borrow money and issue bonds, notes, and other obligations as authorized by general law;
(6)
Property. To own property and interests in property;
(7)
Gifts. To accept gifts and grants for any purpose related to the powers and duties of the city on such terms as the donor may impose;
(8)
Condemnation. To condemn property, inside or outside the corporate limits of the city for present or future use and for any corporate purpose deemed necessary by the governing authority, under any applicable public acts as are or may be enacted;
(9)
Municipal utilities. To acquire, lease, operate, and dispose of public utilities;
(10)
Public utilities and services. To grant franchises or make contracts for public utilities and public service, and to prescribe the rates, fares, regulations, and standards and conditions of service applicable to the service to be provided by the franchise grantee or contractor, insofar as not in conflict with valid regulations by the public service commission;
(11)
Roadways. To open, maintain, improve, and close streets and roads and to grant franchises and rights-of-way thereon;
(12)
Public facilities. To acquire, operate, and dispose of public buildings, public projects, parks, cemeteries, golf courses, and other public improvements inside or outside the city;
(13)
Sidewalk maintenance. To require real estate owners to repair and maintain in a safe condition the sidewalks adjoining their lots or lands; and to enact ordinances establishing the terms and conditions under which such repairs and maintenance shall be effected, including the penalties to be imposed for failure to do so;
(14)
Building regulation. To regulate the erection and construction of buildings and all other structures; to adopt building, housing, swimming pool, plumbing, electrical, gas, and heating and air conditioning codes and to regulate all housing, building, and building trades; to license the construction and erection of buildings and all other structures;
(15)
Planning and zoning. To provide such comprehensive city planning for development by zoning, subdivision regulation, and the likes [sic] as the city council [sic] deems necessary and reasonable to ensure a safe, healthy, and aesthetically pleasing community;
(16)
Police power. To exercise the police power for the public safety and well-being of the city;
(17)
Special areas of public regulation. To regulate or prohibit junk dealers; pawnshops, the manufacture, sale, or transportation of intoxicating liquors; the use and sale of firearms; to regulate the transportation, storage, and use of combustible, explosive, and inflammable materials, the situation which may be dangerous to persons or property; to regulate and control the conduct of peddlers and itinerant traders; theatrical performances, exhibitions and shows of any kind whatever, by taxation or otherwise; to license, tax, regulate, or prohibit professional fortunetelling, palmistry, adult bookstores, game rooms, game machines, teen clubs, dance halls, and massage parlors;
(18)
Regulation of roadside areas. To prohibit or regulate and control the erection, removal, and maintenance of signs, billboards, trees, shrubs, fences, buildings, and any and all other structures or obstructions upon or adjacent to the rights-of-way of streets and roads or within view thereof, within or abutting the corporate limits of the city and to prescribe penalties and punishment for violation of such ordinances;
(19)
Health and sanitation. To prescribe standards of health and sanitation and to provide for the enforcement of such standards;
(20)
Noise, air, and water pollution. To regulate the decibel level of noise, including music, and the emission of smoke or other exhaust which pollutes the air and to prevent the pollution of natural streams which flow within the corporate limits of the city;
(21)
Fire regulations. To fix and establish fire limits and from time to time to extend, enlarge, or restrict same; to prescribe fire safety regulations not inconsistent with general law, relating to both fire prevention and detection and to firefighting, and to prescribe penalties and punishment for violation thereof;
(22)
Public hazards. To provide for the destruction and removal of any building or other structure which is or may become dangerous or detrimental to the public;
(23)
Solid waste disposal. To provide for the collection and disposal of garbage, rubbish, and refuse and to regulate the collection and disposal of garbage, rubbish, and refuse by others; and to provide for the separate collection of glass, tin, aluminum, cardboard, paper, and other materials for recycling and to provide for the sale of such items;
(24)
Garbage fees. To levy, fix, assess, and collect a garbage, refuse, and trash collection and disposal and other sanitary service or availability charge, tax, or fee for such service as may be necessary in the operation of the city from all individuals, firms, and corporations residing in or doing business therein benefitting from such services; to enforce the payment of such charges, taxes, or fees, and to provide for the manner and method of collecting such service charges;
(25)
Nuisance. To define a nuisance and provide for its abatement whether on public or private property;
(26)
Municipal property protection. To provide for the preservation and protection of property and equipment of the city and the administration and use of same by public, whether inside or outside the city limits, and to prescribe penalties and punishment for violations thereof;
(27)
Jail sentences. To provide that persons given jail sentences in the city's court shall work out such sentences in any public works or on the streets, roads, drains, and squares in the city; or to provide for commitment of such persons to any county work camp or jail by agreements with the appropriate county officials; or to provide for community service work; and to house prisoners for other governmental agencies;
(28)
Animal control. To regulate or prohibit the keeping of animals;
(29)
Motor vehicles. To regulate the operation of motor vehicles and exercise control over all traffic, including parking, upon or across the streets, roads, alleys, and walkways of the city;
(30)
Taxicabs. To regulate vehicles operated for hire in the city;
(31)
Bonding companies. To regulate and license bonding companies in the city or doing business in the city;
(32)
Pensions. To provide and maintain a system of pensions and retirement for officers and employees of the city;
(33)
Special assessments. To levy and provide for the collection of special assessments to cover the costs for any public improvements;
(34)
Contracts. To enter into contracts and agreements with other governmental entities and with private persons, firms, and corporations providing for services to be made therefor;
(35)
City agencies and delegation of power. To create, alter, or abolish departments, boards, offices, commissions, and agencies of the city and to confer upon such agencies the necessary and appropriate authority for carrying out all the powers conferred upon or delegated to same;
(36)
Penalties. To provide penalties for violations of any ordinance adopted pursuant to the authority of this Charter and the laws of the State of Georgia;
(37)
Police protection. To organize and operate a police department, and to exercise the power of arrest through duly appointed policemen;
(38)
Emergencies. To establish procedures for determining and proclaiming that an emergency situation exists inside or outside the city and to make and carry out all reasonable provisions deemed necessary to deal with or meet such an emergency for the protection, safety, health, or well-being of the citizens of the city;
(39)
Urban redevelopment. To organize and operate an urban redevelopment program;
(40)
Public transportation. To organize and operate such public transportation systems as are deemed beneficial;
(41)
General health, safety and welfare. To define, regulate, and prohibit any act, practice, conduct, or use of property which is detrimental to the health, sanitation, cleanliness, welfare, and safety of the inhabitants of the city and to provide for the enforcement of such standards; and
(42)
Other power. To exercise and enjoy all other powers, functions, rights, privileges, and immunities necessary or desirable to promote or protect the safety, health, peace, security, good order, comfort, convenience, or general welfare of the city and its inhabitants; to exercise all implied powers necessary to carry into execution all powers granted in this Charter as fully and completely as if such powers were fully stated herein; and to exercise all powers now or in the future authorized to be exercised by other municipal governments under other laws of the State of Georgia.
No listing of particular powers in this Charter shall be held to be exclusive of others, nor restrictive of general words and phrases granting powers, but shall be held to be in addition to such powers unless expressly prohibited to municipalities under the constitution [or] applicable laws of the State of Georgia.
Section 1.14. - Exercise of powers.
All powers, functions, rights, privileges, and immunities of the city, its officers, agencies or employees shall be carried into execution as provided by the Constitution of Georgia, by general law, or by this Charter. If general law and this Charter make no provisions, such powers, functions, rights, privileges, and immunities shall be carried into execution as provided by ordinance.
ARTICLE II. - GOVERNMENT STRUCTURE

Section 2.10. - Mayor and board of aldermen creation; composition; number; election.
The legislative authority of the government of this city, except as otherwise specifically provided in this Charter, shall be vested in a mayor and board of five (5) aldermen. Those persons serving as mayor or alderman of the city upon the effective date of this Charter shall continue to serve out their respective terms of office and until their successors [are] elected and qualified as provided in article V of this Charter.
Section 2.11. - Mayor and board of aldermen terms and qualifications for office.
The mayor and board of aldermen shall serve for terms of four (4) years, except as provided in article V of this Charter, and until their respective successors are elected and qualified. No person shall be eligible to serve as mayor or alderman unless he or she is a qualified municipal voter and shall have been a resident of the city for one year immediately prior to the date of his or her election. The mayor and each member of the board of aldermen shall continue to reside therein during their period of service.
Section 2.12. - Vacancy; filling of vacancies.
(a)
The office of mayor or alderman shall become vacant upon the incumbent's death, resignation, forfeiture of office, or removal from office in any manner authorized by this Charter or the general laws of the State of Georgia.
(b)
A vacancy in the office of mayor or aldermen shall be filled for the remainder of the unexpired term, if any, as provided for in article V of this Charter.
Section 2.13. - Compensation and expenses.
(a)
Until changed as provided in subsection (b) of this section, the mayor and aldermen shall continue to receive the same compensation to which they were entitled immediately prior to the effective date of this Charter.
(b)
The compensation of the mayor and aldermen may be changed by ordinance; but any increase shall be subject to O.C.G.A. § 36-35-4 or any similar law hereafter enacted.
(c)
The mayor and aldermen shall be entitled to receive their actual and necessary expenses incurred in the performance of their duties of office.
Section 2.14. - Holding other office.
Except as authorized by general state law, the mayor or any alderman shall not hold any other city office or city employment during the term for which he or she was elected.
Section 2.15. - Conflicts of interest.
(a)
If the mayor or any alderman has any private financial interest in any contract or other matter pending before the city or any department of the city, the mayor or alderman shall disclose such private financial interest to the other members of the government and shall abstain from taking any part in proceedings relating to such contract or other matter.
(b)
The mayor and board of aldermen may promulgate rules and policies concerning conflicts of interest on the part of other officers and employees of the city.
Section 2.16. - Inquiries and investigations.
The mayor and board of aldermen may make inquiries and investigations into the affairs of the city and the conduct of any department, office, or agency thereof and for this purpose may subpoena witnesses, administer oaths, take testimony, and require the production of evidence. Any person who fails or refuses to obey a lawful order issued in the exercise of these powers by the mayor and board of aldermen shall be punished as provided by ordinance.
Section 2.17. - General power and authority of the mayor and board of aldermen.
Except as otherwise provided by this Charter, the mayor and board of aldermen shall be vested with all the powers of government of this city as provided by article I of this Charter.
Section 2.18. - Organization meeting.
The mayor and board of aldermen shall meet for organization on the first Thursday in January of each year or as soon thereafter as practicable. The meeting shall be called to order by the city clerk and the oath of office shall be administered to the newly elected members by a judge or other person qualified to administer oaths as follows:
I do solemnly swear (or affirm) that I will faithfully perform the duties of (mayor or alderman as the case may be) of this city and that I will support and defend the Charter thereof as well as the constitution and laws of the State of Georgia and of the United States of America.
(Ord. No. 91-009, § 1(2.18), 4-4-1991)
Section 2.19. - Regular and special meetings.
(a)
The mayor and board of aldermen shall hold regular meetings at such times and places as prescribed by ordinance.
(b)
Special meetings of the mayor and board of aldermen may be held on call of the mayor, the mayor pro tempore in the absence of the mayor, or three aldermen. Notice of such special meetings shall be served on all other members, in writing, personally, or by leaving a copy of such notice with some person of suitable age and discretion residing at the mayor's or aldermen's usual place of abode; in the event there is no one present at the mayor's or aldermen's residence at the time of service, the said notice shall be affixed to the front door of the said residence; such notice shall be served at least twenty-four (24) hours in advance of the meeting. Such notice to the mayor and board of aldermen shall not be required if the mayor and all aldermen are present when the special meeting is called. Such notice of any special meeting may be waived by the mayor or any aldermen, in writing, before or after such a meeting. Attendance at the meeting shall constitute a waiver of notice on any business transacted in such councilmember's presence. Except where there is a waiver by all members of the city government in writing, only the business stated in the call may be transacted at the special meeting.
(c)
All meetings of the mayor and board of aldermen shall be public to the extent required by general state law and notice to the public of all meetings shall be made as required by general state law.
(Ord. No. 91-009, § 1(2.19), 4-4-1991)
Section 2.20. - Rules of procedure.
(a)
The mayor and board of aldermen shall adopt its rules of procedure and order of business consistent with the provisions of this Charter and shall provide for keeping minutes of its proceedings, which shall be a public record.
(b)
All committees and committee chairmen and officers of the city government shall be appointed by the mayor, with the consent of the board of aldermen. The mayor, with the consent of the board of aldermen, shall have the power to remove members of any committee and the power to appoint new members of any committee, at any time.
(Ord. No. 96-009, § 1(2.20), 3-21-1996)
Section 2.21. - Quorum; voting.
Three (3) aldermen and the mayor or the mayor pro tempore and two (2) aldermen shall constitute a quorum and shall be authorized to transact business of the city council [sic]. Voting on the adoption of ordinances shall be taken by voice vote and the ayes and nays shall be recorded in the minutes, but any member of the city council [sic] shall have the right to request a roll-call vote. The affirmative vote of a majority of all members of the board of aldermen shall be required for the adoption of any ordinance, resolution, or motion except as otherwise provided in this Charter. The mayor shall be entitled to vote only in the case of a tie, but the mayor pro tempore shall always be entitled to vote, even if presiding.
Section 2.22. - Ordinance form; procedure.
(a)
Every proposed ordinance shall be introduced in writing and in the form required for final adoption, subject to such changes as may be made and voted on by the city council [sic]. The enacting clause shall be: "The Mayor and Board of Aldermen of the City of Acworth hereby ordain…." Every ordinance shall so begin.
(b)
An ordinance may be introduced by the mayor or any member of the board of aldermen and read at a regular or special meeting of the mayor and board of aldermen.
(c)
Upon passage, all ordinances shall be signed by the mayor, or mayor pro tempore if presiding, and the city clerk.
(d)
Failure to comply with the technical requirements of this section shall not invalidate an ordinance if the intention of the governing authority that the ordinance be effective is evident.
Section 2.23. - [When action by ordinance required.]
Notwithstanding any other provisions of this Charter, acts of the mayor and board of aldermen which have the force and effect of law may be done by ordinance or resolution of the mayor and board of aldermen except that any act of the mayor and board of aldermen to amend the Charter or the Code of Ordinances or any other act required by general state law to be done by ordinance shall be done by ordinance.
Section 2.24. - Emergencies.
To meet a public emergency affecting life, health, property, or public peace, the mayor and board of aldermen may convene on call of the mayor or three (3) aldermen and promptly adopt an emergency ordinance, but such ordinance may not levy taxes, grant, renew, or extend a franchise, regulate the rate charged by any public utility for its services, or authorize the borrowing of money except for loans to be repaid within thirty (30) days. An emergency ordinance shall be introduced in the form prescribed for ordinances generally, except that it shall be plainly designated as an emergency ordinance and shall contain, after the enacting clause, a declaration stating that an emergency exists and describing in it clear and specific terms. It shall become effective upon adoption or at such later time as it may specify. Every emergency ordinance shall automatically stand repealed thirty (30) days following the date upon which it was adopted, but this shall not prevent reenactment of the ordinance in the manner specified in this section if the emergency still exists. An emergency ordinance may also be repealed by adoption of a repealing ordinance in the same manner specified in the section for adoption of emergency ordinances.
Section 2.25. - Codes of technical regulations.
(a)
The mayor and board of aldermen may adopt any standard code of technical regulations by reference thereto in an adopting ordinance. The procedure and requirements governing such adopting ordinance shall be as prescribed for ordinances generally.
(b)
Copies of any adopted code of technical regulations shall be made available by the clerk for distribution or for purchase at a reasonable price.
Section 2.26. - Signing; authenticating; recording; codification; printing.
(a)
The clerk shall authenticate by his or her signature and record in full and in a properly indexed book kept for that purpose all ordinances adopted by the mayor and board of aldermen.
(b)
The mayor and board of aldermen may provide for the preparation of a general codification of all of the ordinances of the city having the force and effect of law. The general codification shall be adopted by the mayor and board of aldermen and shall be published as soon as is practicable, together with all amendments thereto and such codes of technical regulations and other rules and regulations as may specify. This compilation shall be known and cited officially as the "The Code of the City of Acworth, Georgia." Copies of the code shall be furnished to all officers, departments, and agencies of the city, and made available for purchase by the public at a reasonable price as fixed by the mayor and board of aldermen.
(c)
The mayor and board of aldermen shall cause each ordinance and each amendment to this Charter to be published as soon as is practicable following its adoption, and the published ordinances and Charter amendments shall be made available for purchase by the public at reasonable prices to be fixed by the mayor and board of aldermen. Following publication of the first code under this Charter and at all times thereafter, the ordinances and Charter amendments shall be printed in substantially the same style as the code currently then in effect and shall be suitable in form for incorporation therein. The mayor and board of aldermen shall make such further arrangements as deemed desirable with respect to reproduction and distribution of any current changes in or additions to codes of technical regulations and other rules and regulations included in the code.
Section 2.27. - Election of mayor; forfeiture; compensation.
Except as provided in section 5.12 of this Charter, the mayor shall be elected and serve for a term of four (4) years and until his or her successor is elected and qualified. He or she shall be a qualified elector of this city and shall have been a resident of this city for at least one year immediately preceding his or her election. He or she shall continue to reside in this city during the period of his or her service. He or she shall forfeit his or her office on the same grounds and under the same procedure applied to aldermen. The compensation of the mayor shall be established in the same manner as for aldermen.
Section 2.28. - Chief executive officer.
The mayor shall be the chief executive of this city. He or she shall possess all of the executive and administrative powers granted to the city under the constitution and laws of the State of Georgia, and all the executive and administrative powers contained in this Charter.
Section 2.29. - Powers and duties of mayor.
As the chief executive of this city, the mayor shall:
(1)
See that all laws and ordinances of the city are faithfully executed;
(2)
Preside at all meetings of the mayor and city council [sic] and have the right to take part in the deliberations of said board, but shall not vote on any question except in the case of a tie;
(3)
Sign all deeds and contracts, except deeds for property sold under execution at public sale;
(4)
Cosign, along with the city clerk or city manager, all checks for the payment of moneys over $1,000.00 as approved in the budget. The mayor pro tempore may cosign for the mayor in the absence from the city of the mayor. Any two of the mayor, the mayor pro tempore, the city clerk, or the city manager may cosign checks for the payment of moneys up to and including $1,000.00 or less as approved in the budget. All other payments of money, invoices, bills and vouchers must be approved by the mayor and board of aldermen and be cosigned as provided for payment of money as approved by the city budget.
(5)
Keep the board of aldermen advised from time to time of the general condition of the city and recommend such measures as he or she may deem necessary or expedient for the welfare of the city;
(6)
Call the board of aldermen together at any time when deemed necessary;
(7)
To appoint, subject to the approval of the board of aldermen, at the first meeting of each year, or as soon thereafter as expedient, members of standing committees and such other committees as the mayor and board of aldermen may deem necessary; and
(8)
Vote only in case of a tie.
(Ord. No. 91-009, § 3(2.29), 4-4-1991; Ord. No. 96-009, § 2, 3-21-1996)
Section 2.30. - Mayor pro tempore.
The board of aldermen shall elect by a majority vote from among its members a mayor pro tempore who shall assume the duties and powers of the mayor upon the mayor's disability or absence. The mayor pro tempore shall always be entitled to vote, even when presiding.
ARTICLE III. - ADMINISTRATIVE AFFAIRS

Section 3.10. - Administrative and service departments.
(a)
Except as otherwise provided in this Charter, the mayor and board of aldermen, by ordinance, shall prescribe the functions or duties of and establish, abolish, or alter all nonelective offices, positions of employment, departments, agencies of the city as necessary for the proper administration of the affairs and government of this city.
(b)
Except as otherwise provided by this Charter or general state law or federal law, the directors of departments and other appointed officers of the city shall be appointed solely on the basis of their respective administrative and professional qualifications.
(c)
All appointive officers and directors of departments shall receive such compensation as prescribed by ordinance or pay scale as adopted from time to time by the city council [sic].
(d)
There shall be a director of each department or agency who shall be its principal officer. Each director shall, subject to the direction and supervision of the mayor and board of aldermen, be responsible for the administration and direction of the affairs and operations of his or her department or agency.
Section 3.11. - Boards, commissions, and authorities.
(a)
The mayor and board of aldermen shall create by ordinance such boards, commissions, and authorities to fulfill any investigative, quasi-judicial, or quasi-legislative functions as the mayor and board of aldermen deems necessary and shall by ordinance establish the composition, period of existence, duties, and powers thereof.
(b)
All members of boards, commissions, and authorities of the city shall be appointed by the mayor and board of aldermen for such terms of office and in such manner as shall be provided by ordinance, except where other appointing authority, term of office, or manner of appointment is prescribed by this Charter or general state law.
(c)
The mayor and board of aldermen, by ordinance, may provide for the compensation and reimbursement for actual and necessary expenses of the members of any board, commission, or authority.
(d)
Except as specifically authorized by general law, no member of any board, commission, or authority shall hold any elective office in the city.
(e)
No individual shall serve on more than one board, commission, or authority of the city at the same time.
(f)
Any vacancy on a board, commission, or authority of the city shall be filled for the unexpired term in the manner prescribed herein for original appointment, except as otherwise provided by this Charter, by general law, or by ordinance.
(g)
No member of a board, commission, or authority shall assume office until he or she has executed and filed with the clerk of the city an oath obligating himself or herself to faithfully and impartially perform the duties of his or her office, such oath to be prescribed by ordinance and administered by the mayor.
(h)
Any member of a board, commission, or authority may be removed from office for cause by a majority vote of the mayor and board of aldermen.
(i)
Except as otherwise provided by this Charter or by general state law, each board, commission, or authority of the city shall elect one of its members as chairman and one member as vice chairman and one member as secretary. Each board, commission, or authority of the city government may establish such bylaws, rules, and regulations, not inconsistent with this Charter, ordinances of the city, or general state law, as it deems appropriate and necessary for the fulfillment of its duties or the conduct of its affairs, copies of which shall be filed with the clerk of the city.
Section 3.12. - City attorney.
(a)
The mayor and board of aldermen shall appoint a city attorney, together with such assistant city attorneys as may be authorized, and shall provide for the payment to such attorney or attorneys for services rendered to the city. The city attorney shall be responsible for representing and defending the city in all litigation in which the city is a party; may be the prosecuting officer in the municipal court; shall attend the meetings of the mayor and board of aldermen as directed; shall advise the mayor and board of aldermen, and other officers and employees of the city concerning legal aspects of the city's affairs; and shall perform such other duties as may be required of him or her by virtue of his or her position as city attorney.
(b)
In the event the city attorney has a conflict of interest in representing the city on any particular matter or otherwise feels that he or she cannot adequately or properly represent the city, he or she shall so inform the mayor and board of aldermen and the mayor and board of aldermen shall be authorized to hire another attorney to represent the city in the matter in which the city attorney has disqualified himself or herself.
Section 3.13. - City clerk.
The mayor and board of aldermen shall appoint a city clerk, who shall not be the mayor or a member of the board of aldermen. The city clerk shall be custodian of the official city seal, maintain records of the mayor and board of aldermen required by this Charter, and perform such other duties as may be required by the mayor and board of aldermen. In the event that the position of city manager is created as authorized by section 3.15 of this Charter, the mayor and board of aldermen may by ordinance abolish the position of city clerk and provide that the duties of the city clerk shall be performed by the city manager.
Section 3.14. - City treasurer.
The mayor and board of aldermen shall appoint a city treasurer to perform the duties of a treasurer and fiscal officer. In the event that the position of city manager is created as authorized by section 3.15 of this Charter, the mayor and board of aldermen may by ordinance abolish the position of city treasurer and provide that the duties of the city treasurer shall be performed by the city manager.
Section 3.15. - City manager.
The mayor and board of aldermen may, in their discretion and for the best interest of the city, elect a city manager. If a city manager is elected the mayor and board of aldermen are empowered to describe his or her duties, powers, salary, term of office, and determine such other functions of the position as may be necessary.
Section 3.16. - Personnel policies.
The mayor and board of aldermen may adopt rules and regulations consistent with this Charter concerning:
(1)
The method of employee selection and probationary periods of employment;
(2)
The administration of a position classification and compensation plan, methods of promotion and application of service ratings thereto, and transfer of employees within the classification plan;
(3)
Hours of work, vacation, sick leave and other leaves of absence, overtime pay, and the order and manner in which layoffs shall be accomplished;
(4)
Such dismissal hearings as due process may require; and
(5)
Such other personnel policies as may be necessary to provide for adequate and systematic handling of personnel affairs.
ARTICLE IV. - JUDICIAL BRANCH

Section 4.10. - Creation; name.
There shall be a court to be known as the "Municipal Court of the City of Acworth."
Section 4.11. - Chief judge; associate judge.
(a)
The municipal court shall be presided over by a chief judge and such part-time, full-time, or stand-by associate judges as shall be elected by the mayor and board of aldermen at the first organization meeting each even-numbered year, in the same manner as they pass an ordinance or resolution.
(b)
No person shall be qualified or eligible to serve as a judge on the municipal court unless he or she shall have attained the age of twenty-one (21) years. Members of the State Bar of Georgia shall be given preference in selection. All judges shall be appointed by the city council [sic].
(c)
Compensation of the judges shall be fixed by ordinance.
(d)
Judges may be removed for cause by the mayor and board of aldermen.
(e)
Before entering his or her duties as a judge of municipal court, the person elected by the mayor and board of aldermen shall take and subscribe on the minutes of the mayor and board of aldermen, the following oath:
I do solemnly swear that I will faithfully, fairly, and impartially discharge the duties of judge of the municipal court of the City of Acworth, Georgia, in accordance with the ordinances of said city and the laws of the State of Georgia, and will uphold the Constitution of the State of Georgia, to the best of my skill and power. So help me God.
The oath shall be entered upon the minutes of the mayor and board of aldermen.
Section 4.12. - Convening.
The municipal court shall be convened at regular intervals as designated by ordinance or as provided by ordinance.
Section 4.13. - Jurisdiction; powers.
(a)
The municipal court shall try and punish violations of all city ordinances.
(b)
The municipal court shall have authority to punish those in its presence for contempt, provided that such punishment shall not exceed three hundred dollars ($300.00) or thirty (30) days in jail.
(c)
The municipal court may fix punishment for offenses within its jurisdiction not exceeding a fine of one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) or imprisonment for six (6) months or both or may sentence any offender upon conviction to labor for the city on the streets, sidewalks, squares, or other public places for a period not exceeding sixty (60) days. Notwithstanding the maximum punishments contained in this subsection, any amendments to general state law that alter the maximum fine or terms of imprisonment that may be levied by a municipal court shall be applicable to the municipal court of the City of Acworth.
(d)
The municipal court shall have authority to establish a schedule of fees to defray the cost of operation and shall be entitled to reimbursement of the cost of meals, transportation, and caretaking of prisoners bound over to superior courts for violations of state law.
(e)
The municipal court shall have authority to establish bail and recognizances to ensure the presence of those charged with violations before said court, and shall have discretionary authority to accept cash or personal or real property as surety for the appearance of persons charged with violations. Whenever any person shall give bail for his or her appearance and shall fail to appear at the time fixed for trial, his or her bond shall be forfeited by the judge presiding at such time. In the event that cash or property is accepted in lieu of bond for security for the appearance of a defendant at trial and if such defendant fails to appear at the time and place fixed for trial the case so deposited shall be on order of the judge declared forfeited to the city, or the property so deposited shall have a lien against it for the value forfeited, which lien shall be enforceable in the same manner and to the same extent as a lien for city property taxes.
(f)
The municipal court shall have the authority to bind prisoners over to the appropriate court when it appears by probable cause that a state law has been violated.
(g)
The municipal court shall have the same authority as superior courts to compel the production of evidence in the possession of any party; to enforce obedience to its orders, judgments, and sentences; and to administer such oaths as are necessary.
(h)
The municipal court may compel the presence of all parties necessary to a proper disposal of each case by the issuance of summonses, subpoenas, and warrants which may be served as executed by any officer, as authorized by the Charter or by general state law. All judges of the municipal court are authorized to issue warrants for the arrest of the persons charged with offenses against an ordinance of the city.
(i)
Each judge of the municipal court shall have the same authority as a magistrate to issue warrants for offenses against state laws committed within the city.
(j)
The municipal court is specifically vested with all of the jurisdiction and powers throughout the entire area of this city that are granted by general state laws to municipal courts and particularly by such laws as authorize the abatement of nuisances and prosecution of traffic violations.
(k)
The municipal court shall have the authority to create a probation office which shall be under the supervision of the judge of the municipal court. The probation office shall have the duty of supervising persons convicted in the municipal court when so directed by the judge of the municipal court. The probation office shall have such other duties as may be given to it by the judge of the municipal court or by ordinance. All matters relating to the operation of the probation office shall be as directed by ordinance. The probation office may collect a monthly probation fee from any individual on probation as is set by the judge of the municipal court not to exceed fifty dollars ($50.00).
(1992 Ga. Laws, p. 5397, § 1; Ord. No. 95-033, § 1, 12-7-1995)
Section 4.14. - Certiorari.
The right of certiorari from the decision and judgment of the municipal court shall exist in all criminal cases and in cases involving ordinance violations, and such certiorari shall be obtained under the sanction of a judge of the Superior Court of Cobb County under the laws of the State of Georgia regulating the granting and issuance of writs of certiorari.
Section 4.15. - Rules for court.
With the approval of the mayor and board of aldermen, the judge shall have full power and authority to make reasonable rules and regulations necessary and proper to secure the efficient and successful administration of the municipal court; provided, however, that the mayor and board of aldermen may adopt in part or in toto the rules and regulations for procedure in the superior court under the general laws of the State of Georgia. The rules and regulations made or adopted shall be filed with the city clerk, shall be available for public inspection and, upon request, a copy shall be furnished to all defendants in municipal court proceedings.
ARTICLE V. - ELECTIONS

Section 5.10. - Applicability of general law.
All primaries and elections shall be held and conducted in accordance with the "Georgia Municipal Election Code," as now or hereafter amended.
Section 5.11. - Regular elections; time for holding.
Except as provided in section 5.12 of this Charter, on the Tuesday next following the first Monday in November of 1989, and on that day biennially thereafter, there shall be an election for successors to the mayor and members of the board of aldermen, whose terms will expire the following January. The terms of office shall begin at the time of taking the oath of office as provided in section 2.18 of this Charter.
Section 5.12. - Elections of mayor and aldermen.
(a)
The five (5) offices of aldermen shall be designated as "Alderman Post 1," "Alderman Post 2," "Alderman Post 3," "Alderman Post 4," and "Alderman Post 5." Any person desiring to offer as a candidate for alderman shall designate the alderman post for which he or she is announcing.
(b)
The initial elections under this Charter for the aldermen representing Posts 1, 2, and 3 shall be held on the Tuesday next following the first Monday in November of 1989 for two-year terms. The next elections for the aldermen to represent Posts 1, 2, and 3 shall be held at the time of the regular municipal elections in 1991 for four-year terms, and thereafter every four (4) years at the regular municipal elections.
(c)
The initial elections under this Charter for the mayor and aldermen representing Post 4 and Post 5 shall be held on the Tuesday next following the first Monday in November of 1990 for three-year terms. The next elections for the mayor and aldermen to represent Post 4 and Post 5 shall be held at the time of the regular municipal elections in 1993 for four-year terms, and thereafter every four (4) years at the regular municipal elections.
Section 5.13. - Special elections; vacancies.
In the event that the office of mayor or member of the board of aldermen shall become vacant for any cause whatsoever, the mayor and board of aldermen or those remaining shall order a special election to fill the balance of the unexpired term of such office. However, if a vacancy occurs in the office of alderman within six (6) months of the expiration of the term of that office, the mayor and members of the board of aldermen remaining shall by majority vote appoint a successor for the remainder of the term. If a vacancy occurs in the office of mayor within six (6) months of the expiration of the term of that office, the mayor pro tempore shall act as mayor for the remainder of the term. In all other respects, the special election shall be held and conducted in accordance with the "Georgia Municipal Election Code."
Section 5.14. - Qualification of candidates.
The mayor and board of aldermen shall establish, by ordinance, a qualification period for candidates for elective office, and it shall be not less than three (3) working days and not more than five (5) working days as designated by the Acworth mayor and board of aldermen. The qualifying period shall commence and end as set forth in O.C.G.A. § 21-2-132(d)(3) for both the general election and any special election.
(Ord. No. 2010-26, § 11-21-2010)
Section 5.15. - Nonpartisan election by majority.
A person must receive a majority of the votes cast for any city office in order to be elected. All municipal elections shall be nonpartisan and political parties shall not conduct primaries for municipal offices. All names of candidates for such offices shall be listed without party labels.
ARTICLE VI. - FINANCE

Section 6.10. - Property tax.
The mayor and board of aldermen may assess, levy, and collect an ad valorem tax on all real and personal property within the corporate limits of the city that is subject to such taxation by the state and county. This tax is for the purpose of raising revenues to defray the costs of operating the city government, of providing governmental services, for the repayment of principal and interest on general obligations, and for any other public purpose as determined by the mayor and board of aldermen in its discretion.
Section 6.11. - Millage rate; due dates; payment method.
The mayor and board of aldermen, by ordinance, shall establish a millage rate for the city property tax, a due date, and in what length of time these taxes must be paid. The mayor and board of aldermen, by ordinance, may provide for the payment of these taxes by installments or in one lump sum and may authorize the voluntary payment of taxes prior to the time when due.
Section 6.12. - Occupation and business tax.
The mayor and board of aldermen, by ordinance, shall have the power to levy such occupation or business taxes as are not denied by general state law. Such taxes may be levied on both individuals and corporations who transact business in this city or who practice or offer to practice any profession or calling therein to the extent such persons have a constitutionally sufficient nexus to this city to be so taxed. The mayor and board of aldermen may classify businesses, occupations, professions, or callings for the purpose of such taxation in any way which may be lawful and compel the payment of such taxes as provided in section 6.18 of this Charter.
Section 6.13. - Licenses; permits; fees.
The mayor and board of aldermen, by ordinance, shall have the power to require any individuals or corporations who transact business in this city or who practice or offer to practice any profession or calling therein to obtain a license or permit for such activity from the city and pay a reasonable fee for such license or permit where such activities are not now regulated by general state law in such a way as to preclude city regulation. Such fees, if unpaid, shall be collected as provided in section 6.18 of this Charter. The mayor and board of aldermen, by ordinance, may establish reasonable requirements for obtaining or keeping such licenses as the public health, safety, and welfare necessitate.
Section 6.14. - Franchises.
The mayor and board of aldermen shall have the power to grant franchises for the use of this city's streets and alleys for the purposes of railroads, street railways, telephone companies, electric companies, cable television companies, gas companies, transportation companies, and other similar organizations. The mayor and board of aldermen shall determine the duration, provisions, terms, whether the same shall be exclusive or nonexclusive, and the consideration for such franchises.
Section 6.15. - Service charges.
The mayor and board of aldermen, by ordinance, shall have the power to assess and collect fees, charges, and tolls for sanitary health services, or any other services rendered within and outside the corporate limits of the city. If unpaid, such charges shall be collected as provided in section 6.18 of this Charter.
Section 6.16. - Special assessments.
The mayor and board of aldermen, by ordinance, shall have the power to assess and collect the costs of construction, reconstructing, widening, or improving any public way, street, sidewalk, curbing, gutters, or other utility mains and appurtenances from the abutting property owners under such terms and conditions as are reasonable in the discretion of the mayor and board of aldermen. If unpaid, such charges shall be collected as provided in section 6.18 of this Charter.
Section 6.17. - Construction; other taxes.
This city shall be empowered to levy any other tax allowed now or hereafter by state law, and the specific mention of any right, power, or authority in this article shall not be construed as limiting in any way the general powers of this city to govern its local affairs.
Section 6.18. - Collection of delinquent taxes and fees.
The mayor and board of aldermen, by ordinance, may provide generally for the collection of delinquent taxes, fees, or other revenue due the city by whatever reasonable means as are not precluded by general state law. This shall include providing for the dates when the taxes or fees are due, late penalties or interest, issuance and execution of fi. fas., creation and priority of liens, making delinquent taxes and fees personal debts of the persons required to pay the taxes or fees imposed, revoking city licenses for failure to pay any city taxes or fees, allowing exceptions for hardship, and providing for the assignment or transfer of tax executions.
Section 6.19. - General obligation bonds.
The mayor and board of aldermen shall have the power to issue bonds for the purpose of raising revenue to carry out any project, program, or venture authorized under this Charter or the general laws of the state. Such bonding authority shall be exercised in accordance with the laws governing bond issuance by municipalities in effect at the time said issue is undertaken.
Section 6.20. - Revenue bonds.
Revenue bonds may be issued by the mayor and board of aldermen as state law now or hereafter provides. Such bonds are to be paid out of any revenue produced by the project, program, or venture for which they were issued.
Section 6.21. - Short-term loans.
Any short-term loan obtained by the city must be repaid by December 31 of the year in which the loan was obtained unless otherwise provided by present or future state law.
Section 6.22. - Fiscal year.
The mayor and board of aldermen shall set the fiscal year by ordinance. This fiscal year shall constitute the budget year and the year for financial accounting and reporting of each and every office, department, agency, and activity of the city government, unless otherwise provided by general state or federal law. The city shall also comply with the applicable provisions of O.C.G.A. tit. 36, ch. 81, relating to government budgets and audits.
Section 6.23. - Action on the budget.
(a)
The mayor and board of aldermen shall adopt and may thereafter amend an annual budget, except that the budget as finally adopted and amended must provide for all expenditures required by state law or by other provisions of this Charter and for all debt service requirements for the ensuing fiscal year and the total appropriations from any funds shall not exceed the estimated fund balance, reserves, and revenues.
(b)
The mayor and board of aldermen, by ordinance, shall adopt the final budget for the ensuing fiscal year not later than the first regular meeting of the fiscal year. If the mayor and board of aldermen fail to adopt the budget by this date, the amounts appropriated for operation for the current fiscal year shall be deemed adopted for the ensuing fiscal year on a month-to-month basis, with all items prorated accordingly until such time as the mayor and board of aldermen adopt a budget for the ensuing fiscal year. Such adoption shall take the form of an appropriations ordinance setting out the estimated revenues in detail by sources and making appropriations according to fund and by organizational unit, purpose, or activity.
(c)
The amount set out in the adopted budget for each organizational unit shall constitute the annual appropriation for such; and no expenditure shall be made or encumbrance created in excess of the otherwise unencumbered balance of the appropriations or allotment thereof to which it is chargeable unless approved by a majority vote of the mayor and board of aldermen.
Section 6.24. - Tax levies.
As the next order of business following adoption of the budget, the mayor and board of aldermen shall levy, by ordinance, such taxes as are necessary. The taxes and tax rates set by such ordinance shall be such that reasonable estimates of revenues from such levy shall at least be sufficient, together with other anticipated revenues, fund balances, and applicable reserves, to equal the total amount appropriated for each of the several funds set forth in the annual operating budget for defraying the expenses of the general government of this city.
Section 6.25. - Changes in appropriations.
The mayor and board of aldermen, by majority vote, may make changes in the appropriations contained in the current operating budget at any regular meeting or special or emergency meeting called for such purpose.
Section 6.26. - Independent audit.
There shall be an annual independent audit of all city accounts, funds, and financial transactions by a certified public accountant selected by the mayor and board of aldermen. The audit shall be conducted according to generally accepted accounting principles. Any audit of any funds by the state or federal governments may be accepted as satisfying the requirements of this Charter. Copies of all audit reports shall be available at printing cost to the public.
Section 6.27. - Contracting procedures.
Subject to general state law provisions on municipal contracts, a contract with the city shall not be binding on the city unless:
(1)
It is in writing;
(2)
It is drawn by or submitted to and reviewed by the city attorney; and
(3)
It is made or authorized by the mayor and board of aldermen and such approval is entered in the minutes of the meeting of the mayor and board of aldermen.
Section 6.28. - Centralized purchasing.
The mayor and board of aldermen may prescribe procedures for a system of centralized purchasing for the city.
Section 6.29. - Sale of city property.
(a)
The mayor and board of aldermen may sell and convey any real or personal property owned or held by the city for governmental or other purposes as provided by general state law.
(b)
The mayor and board of aldermen may quitclaim any rights it may have in property not needed for public purposes upon a report by the mayor and adoption of a resolution, both finding that the property is not needed for public or other purposes and that its interest to the city is of no readily ascertainable monetary value.
(c)
Whenever in opening, extending, or widening any street, avenue, alley, or public place of the city, a small parcel or tract of land is cut off or separated by such work from a larger tract or boundary of land owned by the city, the mayor and board of aldermen may authorize the mayor to execute and deliver in the name of the city a deed conveying said cutoff or separated parcel or tract of land to an abutting or adjoining property owner or owners in exchange for rights of way of said street, avenue, alley, or public place or in settlement of any alleged damages sustained by said abutting or adjoining property owner. All deeds and conveyances heretofore and hereafter so executed and delivered shall convey all title and interest the city has in such property, notwithstanding the fact that no public sale after advertisement was or is hereafter made.
Section 6.30. - [Sale of water and sewer systems.]
(a)
If the mayor and board of aldermen of the City of Acworth determine to spend any of the $3 million which was received by the city from the sale of its water and sewer system to Cobb County at a closing held March 30, 1987, and if said mayor and board determine such expenditure of any such principal amount should be approved in a special election by the qualified voters of the city, the provisions of this section shall be complied with. The mayor and board of aldermen at a regularly scheduled meeting shall adopt a resolution which calls for the expenditure of a specified sum of that principal amount, which specifies the purpose or purposes for which such expenditure is to be made, and which requests that a special election be called for the purpose of submitting the question of such expenditure to the qualified voters of the city for approval or rejection. A copy of that resolution shall be transmitted to the election superintendent of the city.
(b)
Within 15 days after receiving the resolution pursuant to subsection (a) of this section, the election superintendent of the city shall issue the call for a special election to approve or reject the proposed expenditure. That election shall be held no sooner than 30 and no later than 60 days after the call and shall be held on a Tuesday between the hours of 7:00 a.m. and 7:00 p.m. at the regular polling places for the city. The superintendent shall cause the date and purpose of the election to be published once a week for two weeks immediately preceding the date of the election in the official organ of Cobb County and otherwise comply with O.C.G.A. tit. 21, ch. 3, the "Georgia Municipal Election Code." The ballot shall have written or printed thereon the words (and the blanks shall be filled in to accord with the resolution of the mayor and board of aldermen of Acworth):
EXPAND
`( ) YES
( ) NO Shall the proposed expenditure from the sale [of] water and sewer systems by City of Acworth of $_____ for the purpose of _______ be approved?'
  All persons desiring to vote for approval of the said proposed expenditure shall vote "Yes" and those persons desiring to vote for rejection of said proposed expenditure shall vote "No." If more than one-half of the votes cast on such question are for approval of the said proposed expenditures, the mayor and board of aldermen of Acworth may expend said amount for said purposes. If the said proposed expenditure is not so approved, the mayor and board of aldermen of Acworth shall not be authorized to make such expenditure, but shall be authorized to submit such proposed expenditure for referendum approval or rejection after at least 24 months have expired since the last election rejecting such proposed expenditure.
(c)
The expense of such election shall be borne by the City of Acworth. It shall be the superintendent's duty to certify the result thereof to the secretary of state.
(1991 Ga. Laws, p. 3576, § 1)
ARTICLE VII. - GENERAL PROVISIONS

Section 7.10. - Official bonds.
The officers and employees of this city, both elective and appointive, shall execute such official bonds in such amounts and upon such terms and conditions as the mayor and board of aldermen shall from time to time require by ordinance or as may be provided by state law.
Section 7.11. - Eminent domain.
The mayor and board of aldermen are empowered to acquire, construct, operate, and maintain public ways, streets, sidewalks, parks, public grounds, cemeteries, markets, market houses, public buildings, libraries, electrical systems, gas mains and lines, gas system facilities, airports, hospitals, and charitable, educational, recreational, sport, curative, corrective, detentional, penal and medical institutions, agencies, and facilities, and any other public improvements inside or outside the city, and to regulate the use thereof, and for such purposes, property may be taken under the state law of eminent domain, subject to such amendments as shall be enacted, or any other state law applicable now or provided in the future.
Section 7.12. - Prior ordinances.
All ordinances, bylaws, rules, and regulations now in force in the city not inconsistent with this Charter are declared valid and of full effect and force until amended or repealed by the mayor and board of aldermen.
Section 7.13. - Pending matters.
Except as specifically provided otherwise by this Charter, all rights, claims, actions, orders, contracts, and legal or administrative proceedings shall continue; and any such ongoing work or cases shall be dealt with by such agencies, personnel, or office as may be provided by the mayor and board of aldermen.
Section 7.14. - Penalties.
The violation of any provisions of this Charter, for which penalty is not specifically provided for herein, is declared to be a misdemeanor and shall be punishable by a fine of not more than one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) or by imprisonment not to exceed three hundred sixty-five (365) days or by both such fine and imprisonment.
Section 7.15. - Construction.
(a)
Section captions in this Charter are informative only and are not to be considered as a part thereof.
(b)
The word "shall" is intended to be mandatory and the word "may" is not mandatory, but permissive.
(c)
The singular shall include the plural and the masculine the feminine and vice versa.
Section 7.16. - Severability.
If any article, section, subsection, paragraph, sentence, or part thereof of this Charter shall be held to be invalid or unconstitutional, such invalidity or unconstitutionality shall not affect or impair other parts of this Charter, unless it clearly appears that such other parts are wholly and necessarily dependent upon the part held to be invalid or unconstitutional, it being the legislative intent in enacting this Charter that each article, section, subsection, paragraph, sentence, or part thereof be enacted separately and independently of each other, and the remainder of this Charter would have been enacted without such invalid or unconstitutional part had it been known upon enactment that the part in question would have been held invalid or unconstitutional.
Section 7.17. - Specific repealer.
An act incorporating the City of Acworth in Cobb County, approved August 17, 1903 (1903, Ga. Laws p. 413) is repealed in its entirety and all amendatory acts thereto are likewise repealed in their entirety.
Section 7.18. - Effective date.
This act shall become effective upon its approval by the governor or upon its becoming law without such approval.
Section 7.19. - General repealer.
All laws and parts of laws in conflict with this Charter are repealed.
