Chapter 26 - CIVIL EMERGENCIES
ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Secs. 26-1—26-18. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT[1]

Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Editor's note— In conjunction with the provisions of this article, the county has adopted an emergency operations plan. This plan sets forth the policies and procedures for coordinated county/city emergency and disaster operations plus the preparations for executing all such emergency or disaster functions other than functions for which military forces are primarily responsible. An official copy of the plan is on file in the office of the clerk of the board of commissioners.
State Law reference— Georgia Mutual Aid Act, O.C.G.A. § 36-69-1 et seq.; Georgia Emergency Management Act of 1981, O.C.G.A. § 38-3-1 et seq.; Interstate Civil Defense and Disaster Compact, O.C.G.A. § 38-3-70 et seq.; authority to adopt temporary or experimental traffic regulations to cover emergencies or special conditions, O.C.G.A. § 40-6-371(a)(19).

Sec. 26-19. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Emergency management means the preparation for and the carrying out of all emergency and disaster functions other than those functions for which military forces or state and federal agencies are primarily responsible, to prevent, minimize, and repair injury and damage resulting from emergencies, energy emergencies, disasters, or the imminent threat thereof, of manmade or natural origin caused by enemy attack, sabotage, acts of domestic or international terrorism, civil disturbance, fire, flood, earthquake, wind, storm, wave action, oil spill or other water contamination requiring emergency action to avert danger or damage, epidemic, air contamination, blight, drought, infestation, explosion, riot or other hostile action, radiological action, or other causes. These functions include, without limitation, firefighting services, police services, medical and health services, rescue, engineering, warning services, communications, protection against the effects of radiological, chemical and other special weapons to include weapons of mass destruction, evacuation of persons from stricken areas, emergency welfare services, emergency transportation, consequence management functions to include victim services, plant protection, shelter, temporary restoration of public utility services, and other functions related to civilian population, together with all other activities necessary or incidental to total emergency and disaster preparedness for carrying out these functions.
(Code 2004, § 26-31; Res. of 9-25-1992, § I)
Sec. 26-20. - Penalties.
Any person violating any provision of this article, or any rule, order, or regulation made pursuant to this article, shall, upon conviction thereof, be punished as provided in section 1-14.
(Code 2004, § 26-32; Res. of 9-25-1992, § VI)
Sec. 26-21. - Office of the county emergency management director established; duties.
In agreement with governing officials of the cities within the county, there is established the county emergency management agency. The chairman of the county board of commissioners, with concurrence of the mayors of the cities within the county, shall nominate for appointment by the director of the state emergency management agency a person qualified to serve as director of emergency management for the entire county. When appointed, the emergency management director is charged with the following duties:
(1)
To represent the governing officials of the county and the cities therein on matters pertaining to emergency management.
(2)
To assist county and city officials in organizing county and city departments for emergency operations.
(3)
To develop, in conjunction with county and city departments, the county plan for emergency functions set forth in the definition of "emergency management" in section 26-19. Such plan will be in consonance with the state natural disaster operations plan and nuclear emergency operations plan, and shall be submitted to the governing officials of the county and the cities therein for approval, and then to the state emergency management agency for approval.
(4)
To maintain the emergency management agency and carry out the day-to-day administration of the county emergency management program, including the submission of required reports to the state emergency management agency.
(5)
To submit reports as required by governing officials in keeping with good management practices (e.g., financial, daily activity, etc.).
(6)
To obtain, with the authority of governing officials, a facility to be used as the county emergency operating center.
(7)
To coordinate the activities of the county emergency operating staff during periods of an emergency, and under the supervision of county governing officials.
(Code 2004, § 26-33; Res. of 9-25-1992, § II)
Sec. 26-22. - Emergency management agency.
(a)
The county emergency management agency shall be established around existing county and city departments and the emergency functions listed in the definition of "emergency management" in section 26-19 are assigned as follows:
EXPAND
Department/Agency Functions
(1) Chairman, county commissioners
Mayors of cities Direction and control
(2) Sheriff's department
Police department Communications/warning
Police services
Evacuation
(3) Emergency management agency Public information
State military support
Training
Preliminary damage assessment and reporting
Public property assistance
Attack preparedness
Specific hazards
(4) Fire department Search, rescue and recovery
Fire services
Hazardous materials
Radiological protection
(5) Public works Engineering
Petroleum and solid fuel services
Utilities
(6) School superintendent Transportation
Food services
(7) Health department Health services
Medical services
(8) Clerk's office Administrative services
Resource management
(9) Department of family and children services Social services
Shelter and temporary housing
  (b)
Heads of departments listed in subsection (a) of this section are responsible for developing appropriate annexes to the local emergency operations plan (EOP) for their assigned emergency functions. Such annexes will be submitted to the emergency management director for inclusion in the local EOP for submission to appropriate local officials for their approval.
(Code 2004, § 26-34; Res. of 9-25-1992, § III)
Sec. 26-23. - Powers during an emergency or disaster.
In the event of a manmade or natural disaster, actual enemy attack upon the United States, or any other emergency which may affect the lives and property of the citizens of the county, the chairman of the county board of commissioners, jointly, with the mayors of the affected cities, or in their absences their legally appointed successors, may determine that an emergency or disaster exists and thereafter shall have and may exercise for such period as such emergency or disaster exists or continues, the following powers:
(1)
Enforce all rules, laws and regulations relating to emergency management, and to assume direct operational control over all emergency management resources.
(2)
Seize and take for temporary use, any private property for the protection of the public.
(3)
Sell, lend, give or distribute all or any such property or supplies among the inhabitants of the county and to maintain strict accounting of property or supplies distributed and for funds received for such property or supplies.
(4)
Perform and exercise such other functions and duties, and take such emergency actions as may be necessary to promote and secure the safety, protection and well-being of the inhabitants of the county.
(Code 2004, § 26-35; Res. of 9-25-1992, § IV)
Sec. 26-24. - Volunteers.
All persons, other than officers and employees of the county and cities therein, performing emergency functions pursuant to this article, shall serve with or without compensation. While engaged in such emergency functions, duly assigned volunteers shall have the same immunities as county and city officers and employees.
(Code 2004, § 26-36; Res. of 9-25-1992, § V)
Secs. 26-25—26-51. - Reserved.
ARTICLE III. - STATES OF EMERGENCY
DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Secs. 26-52—26-75. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - PROHIBITION ON OVERCHARGING[2]

Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
State Law reference— Unlawful to sell goods or services in area in which state of emergency has been declared at price higher than such goods or services sold for prior to emergency declaration, O.C.G.A. § 10-1-393.4; civil penalties and remedies for violations committed in connection with unlawful sale of supplies for or repair of structures damaged in natural disasters, O.C.G.A. § 10-1-438.

Sec. 26-76. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this division, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Overcharging means charging prices for goods, materials, services, or housing which are substantially in excess of the customary charges or in applicable cases substantially in excess of the supplier's or provider's costs for such goods, materials, services or housing. The existence of overcharging shall be presumed from a substantial increase in the price at which the goods, materials, services, or housing was offered in the usual course of business immediately prior to the onset of the emergency, but shall not include increases in costs to the supplier directly attributable to higher costs of materials, supplies and labor costs resulting from the emergency.
State of emergency means, pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 38-3-3(5), a condition declared by the governor when, in his judgment, the threat or actual occurrence of a disaster or emergency is of sufficient severity and magnitude as to warrant extraordinary efforts in preventing or alleviating the damage, loss, hardship, or suffering threatened or caused thereby.
Subsequent recovery period means that period during which the disaster continues to cause disruptions in the disaster area, but shall not exceed six months after the emergency declaration has been terminated by the governor unless extended by official action of the county board of commissioners.
(Code 2004, § 26-92; Ord. of 2-15-2000, § 2)
Sec. 26-77. - Overcharging unlawful.
(a)
In order to preserve, protect, or sustain the life, health, or safety of persons or their property, it shall be unlawful, unfair, and a deceptive trade practice during the duration of a state of emergency or subsequent recovery period in which the county has been designated as a disaster area, for any person, firm, or corporation located or doing business in the county to sell or offer for sale at retail any goods, materials, services or housing identified by the county director of emergency management in the declaration of the state of emergency as necessary to preserve, protect, or sustain the life, health, or safety of persons or their property at a price higher than the price at which such goods were sold or offered for sale immediately prior to the declaration of a state of emergency within the county.
(b)
Provided, however, that such price may be increased only in an amount which accurately reflects an increase in cost of the goods or services to the person selling the goods or services or an increase in the cost of transporting the goods or services into the area.
(c)
Notwithstanding the provisions of subsection (a) of this section, a retailer may increase the price of goods or services during a state of emergency if the price charged for those goods or services is no greater than the cost to the retailer of those goods or services, plus the retailer's average markup percentage applied during the ten days immediately prior to the declaration of a state of emergency.
(Code 2004, § 26-91; Ord. of 2-15-2000, § 1)
Secs. 26-78—26-97. - Reserved.
DIVISION 3. - SUSPENSION OF CODE OF ORDINANCES

Sec. 26-98. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this division, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Fee means any fee or rate charged by the county for building permits, land disturbance permits, zoning applications, special land use permits, temporary land use permits, and other fees relating to the reconstruction, repair and cleanup of areas impacted by the disaster or emergency. The term "fee" shall not include those fees collected by the county on behalf of the federal or state government or those fees charged by the county pursuant to a federal or state statute or regulation.
State of emergency means, as defined by O.C.G.A. § 38-3-3(5), a condition declared by the governor when, in his judgment, the threat or actual occurrence of a disaster, emergency, or energy emergency is of sufficient severity and magnitude as to warrant extraordinary efforts in preventing or alleviating the damage, loss, hardship, or suffering threatened or caused thereby.
Subsequent recovery period means the period of time that the disaster or emergency continued to cause disruptions in the area impacted by the disaster or emergency. The subsequent recovery period shall not exceed six months after the state of emergency declaration by the governor is terminated unless extended by official action of the board of commissioners.
Temporary dwelling means any mobile or easily moveable mobile home, trailer, recreational vehicle or structure not otherwise permitted by the zoning regulations in a particular zoning district.
(Code 2004, § 26-112; Ord. of 2-15-2000(1), § 2)
Sec. 26-99. - Authority to waive procedures and fee structures.
(a)
Meetings. Upon proclamation by the appropriate state official of an emergency or disaster of manmade or natural causes or enemy attack impending on or affecting the state or the United States, the affairs and business of the county may be conducted at places other than the regular or usual place thereof, within or outside of the county, when it is not prudent, expedient or possible to conduct business at the regular location. When such meetings occur outside of the county, all actions taken by the county board of commissioners shall be as valid and binding as if performed within the county. Such meetings may be called by the presiding officer or any two members of the county board of commissioners without regard to or compliance with time-consuming procedures and formalities otherwise required by law.
(b)
Purchasing and public works contracts. Upon the declaration of a state of emergency by the governor, or upon the determination by the board of commissioners, or its designee, of the existence of an emergency or disaster, the board of commissioners, its designee or the emergency interim successor may contract for public works without letting such contracts out to the lowest, responsible bidder and without advertising and posting notification of such contract out to the lowest, responsible bidder and without advertising and posting notification of such contract for four weeks; however, any public works contract entered into pursuant to this subsection shall be entered on the minutes of the county as soon as practical and the nature of the emergency described therein.
(c)
Code enforcement. Upon the declaration of a state of emergency by the governor, or upon the determination by the board of commissioners, or its designee, of the existence of an emergency or disaster, the board of commissioners, its designee or the emergency interim successor may temporarily suspend the enforcement of this Code, or any portion thereof, where:
(1)
The emergency or disaster is of such nature that immediate action outside this Code is required;
(2)
Such suspension is consistent with the protection of the public health, safety and welfare; and
(3)
Such suspension is not inconsistent with any federal or state statutes or regulations.
(d)
Fees. Upon the declaration of a state of emergency by the governor or upon the determination by the board of commissioners, or its designee, of the existence of an emergency or disaster, the board of commissioners, its designee or the emergency interim successor may temporarily reduce or suspend any permit fees, application fees or other rate structures as necessary to encourage the rebuilding of the area impacted by the disaster or emergency.
(e)
Temporary dwellings. Upon the declaration of a state of emergency by the governor, or upon the determination by the board of commissioners, or its designee, of the existence of an emergency, an interim successor may issue a temporary permit for a mobile home, trailer, recreational vehicle or other temporary dwelling, structure or park in any zoning district while the primary dwelling is being repaired, provided that such temporary dwelling or park is designed by an engineer and the plans are approved by the county health department and the county building and inspections department. The temporary permit shall not exceed six months in duration. In the case of continuing hardship and in the discretion of the board of commissioners or its designee, the permit may be extended for an additional period of six months. Upon expiration of the temporary permit or an extension, the temporary dwelling shall be removed.
(Code 2004, § 26-111; Ord. of 2-15-2000(1), § 1)
Secs. 26-100—26-126. - Reserved.
DIVISION 4. - REGISTRATION OF BUILDING AND REPAIR SERVICES

Sec. 26-127. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this division, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Building contractor means any person, firm, partnership, corporation or other entity engaging in, undertaking or carrying on any business consisting of or relating to building construction, repair, renovation or making improvements to real property, including dwellings, homes, buildings, structures, or fixtures attached thereto.
Doing business. A building contractor shall be deemed to be doing business if:
(1)
He has or operates an office, agency, project site or place of business located in the unincorporated areas of the county, whether permanently, temporarily, periodically, or otherwise, that provides the following activities in the unincorporated areas of the county, expressly including, but not limited to, the construction, renovation or repair of dwellings or buildings or the making of improvements to real property or any fixtures attached thereto; or
(2)
He performs the following activities or services for hire or for a fee in the unincorporated areas of the county, expressly including, but not limited to, the construction, renovation or repair of dwellings or buildings or the making of improvements to real property or any fixtures attached thereto regardless of the location of the principal office.
State of emergency means, pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 38-3-3(5), a condition declared by the governor when, in his judgment, the threat or actual occurrence of a disaster or emergency is of sufficient severity and magnitude as to warrant extraordinary efforts in preventing or alleviating the damage, loss, hardship, or suffering threatened or caused thereby.
Subsequent recovery period means that period during which the disaster continues to cause disruptions in the disaster area, but shall not exceed three months after the emergency declaration has been terminated by the governor.
(Code 2004, § 26-131; Ord. of 2-15-2000(2), § 2)
Sec. 26-128. - Penalties.
Any building contractor required by this division to pay a registration fee who engages in business without first registering and receiving a registration certification from the county as required shall be in violation of this division. Violation of this division, upon conviction, shall be punished as provided in section 1-14.
(Code 2004, § 26-132; Ord. of 2-15-2000(2), § 5)
Sec. 26-129. - Building contractor registration required.
No person, firm, partnership, corporation or other entity shall engage in, undertake or carry on any business in whole or in part within the unincorporated areas of the county, consisting of or relating to building, constructing, repairing, renovating or making improvements to real property, including dwellings, homes, buildings, structures, or fixtures attached thereto without having registered the name of the business with the board of commissioners and having paid fees as provided by this division.
(Code 2004, § 26-133; Ord. of 2-15-2000(2), § 1)
Sec. 26-130. - Registration; certification.
All building contractors doing business or proposing to do business in the unincorporated areas of the county during a state of emergency or the subsequent recovery period shall register and file applications with the clerk of the board of commissioners or such other person designated by the board of commissioners at the county courthouse or such other place or places designated by the county. The building contractor shall, under oath, provide the board of commissioners with a statement describing the general nature of the business to be conducted and give true and correct information as may be called for on the registration form, application or certificate provided by the county.
(Code 2004, § 26-134; Ord. of 2-15-2000(2), § 3)
Sec. 26-131. - Registration fees.
Building contractor registration fees shall be in an amount as established by the board of commissioners from time to time. Registration fees shall be paid in full at the time of issuance of the registration certification.
(Code 2004, § 26-135; Ord. of 2-15-2000(2), § 4)
Sec. 26-132. - Transferability.
Each certification issued under this division is granted to, and shall be accepted by, the building contractor under the condition that the same is not transferable and, after issuance, no such certification shall be transferred by the county or the building contractor to another individual or entity.
(Code 2004, § 26-136; Ord. of 2-15-2000(2), § 6)
Sec. 26-133. - Display of registration certification.
Each certification issued under this division shall be posted conspicuously by the building contractor in the place of business of the building contractor or shall be carried on his person or vehicle used in such business. Such certification shall be exhibited to any authorized enforcement officer when so requested.
(Code 2004, § 26-137; Ord. of 2-15-2000(2), § 7)
Sec. 26-134. - Revocation; suspension.
Each certification granted under this division is a mere permit to engage in the business only so long as such business is conducted in a lawful manner. The county reserves the right to revoke or suspend any certification granted under this division, if the building contractor, or the building contractor's agent or employee acting within the scope of his employment, violates this division or any other county, state or federal law. If, after issuance of a certification, the county desires to revoke such certification, written notice thereof shall be given to the building contractor, which notice shall specify the violation with which the building contractor is charged and a date, time and place at which a hearing shall be held with regard to the violation. The building contractor shall have an opportunity to be heard at such hearing, shall have the right to be represented by counsel, and shall have the right to introduce and submit evidence in opposition to such revocation.
(Code 2004, § 26-138; Ord. of 2-15-2000(2), § 8)
