Chapter 34 - FIRE PREVENTION AND PROTECTION[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
State Law reference— Authority to provide police and fire protection, Ga. Const. art. IX, § II, ¶ III(a)(1); statewide application of Standard Fire Prevention Code, O.C.G.A. § 8-2-25; regulation of fire and other hazards to persons and property generally, O.C.G.A. § 25-2-1 et seq.; local fire departments generally, O.C.G.A. § 25-3-2 et seq.; authority to enact ordinances or fire and life safety codes, O.C.G.A. § 25-3-4; firefighter standards and training, O.C.G.A. § 25-4-2 et seq.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Secs. 34-1—34-18. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - ESTABLISHMENT OF NEW FIRE DEPARTMENTS

Sec. 34-19. - Approval required.
Any person or group wishing to establish a new fire department in any part of the county must come before the chiefs of the fire department association to establish a need for such fire department and receive a unanimous approval of the fire department association.
(Code 2004, § 34-31)
Sec. 34-20. - Substation.
Any planned fire department presented to the fire department association within a five-mile circular radius of another fire department will operate as a substation of the established fire department within such radius. The proposed fire department will be governed by and operated under all of the established fire department's rules, regulations and bylaws of existing fire departments.
(Code 2004, § 34-32)
Sec. 34-21. - State compliance certificate.
No fire department or substation will be recognized until such fire department has become a certified fire department with the state rules and compliance regulations. After the fire department or substation becomes a certified fire department and receives a state compliance certificate, such department or substation will be brought before the county board of commissioners for funding.
(Code 2004, § 34-33)
Sec. 34-22. - District fire department approval required.
Any proposed substation must be approved by the established fire department in which district it is to be located.
(Code 2004, § 34-34)
Sec. 34-23. - Communication systems.
The fire department association will govern all use of fire departments' communications systems.
(Code 2004, § 34-35)
Sec. 34-24. - Grievances.
Any grievances between members of the fire departments shall be brought before the fire department association for arbitration.
(Code 2004, § 34-37)
Secs. 34-25—34-42. - Reserved.
new
ARTICLE III. - FIRE SERVICES COST RECOVERY

Sec. 34-43. - Recovery for costs associated with fire and hazardous material emergencies.
new
(a)
The county may seek recovery for all costs incurred in connection with structure fire, vehicular fire or accident, and hazardous material emergencies. Such costs shall be the actual costs incurred and that which are usual, customary, and reasonable. Such costs may include emergency rescue tools, equipment, and materials; hazardous material abatement tools, equipment, and materials; and personnel hours involving hazardous material, environmental, fire safety, and/or rescue incident to such emergency, including vehicular accidents and collisions.
(b)
Except for circumstances where the response is related to an intentional or criminal act, the board of commissioners authorizes efforts to recover costs in accord with the terms hereof against carriers or third parties providing liability coverage, property damage coverage or other applicable policies of insurance, or any other types of coverage or reimbursements. If the emergency is created by an intentional or criminal act, the board of commissioners authorizes efforts to recover costs in accord with the terms hereof against carriers or third parties providing liability coverage, property damage coverage or other applicable policies of insurance, or any other types of coverage or reimbursements and against the responsible party or parties.
(c)
The county administrator may make rules or regulations, and from time-to-time may amend, revoke or add rules and regulations, consistent with the provisions of this section as he or she deems necessary or expedient in respect to billing for the collection of costs and expenses permitted under this section.
(d)
The board of commissioners may enter into contracts on such terms and conditions as the board of commissioners deems appropriate for the third-party billing and collection of the costs and expenses permitted under this section.
(Ord. No. 2023-002 , § 1(Exh. A), 3-14-2023)
Secs. 34-44—34-61. - Reserved.
new
