PART I - RELATED LAWS
ARTICLE I. - BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS[1]

Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Editor's note— Printed herein is 1873 Ga. Laws (Act No. 108), page 279, establishing a board of commissioners in the county. Amendments to the act are indicated by parenthetical history notes following amended provisions. The absence of a history note indicates that the provision remains unchanged from the original act. Obvious misspellings have been corrected without notation. Additions made for clarity are indicated by brackets.
State Law reference— County government generally, O.C.G.A. § 36-1-1 et seq.; claims against counties, O.C.G.A. § 36-11-1 et seq.; code of ethics for government service, O.C.G.A. § 45-10-1.

Sec. I. - Certain duties of Ordinary transferred to county commissioners.
Be it enacted by the General Assembly of the State of Georgia, That from and after the passage of this Act, all the powers and duties of the Ordinary of Mitchell county, so far as the same relate to roads, bridges, ferries, public buildings and other property, management of the county jail and its fees, assessing and collecting tax, disbursing public money for county purposes, and all laws in reference thereto, are hereby conferred upon a county board of commissioners as hereinafter set forth.
Sec. II. - Five districts; one commissioner from each; election.
(a)
The Board of Commissioners of Mitchell County which existed immediately prior to the effective date of this Act, is continued in existence but on and after the effective date of this Act, shall be constituted as provided in this Act. The Board of Commissioners of Mitchell County so continued and constituted, sometimes referred to in this Act as the "board," shall continue to have the powers, duties, rights, obligations, and liabilities of that board as existed immediately prior to the effective date of this Act.
(b)
Those members of the Board of Commissioners of Mitchell County who are serving as such immediately prior to the effective date of this Act, and any person selected to fill a vacancy in any such office shall continue to serve as such members until the regular expiration of their respective terms of office and upon the election and qualification of their respective successors. On and after the effective date of this Act, the Board of Commissioners of Mitchell County shall consist of five members all of whom shall be elected from commissioner districts described in subsection (c) of this section.
(c)
For purposes of electing members of the board of commissioners, Mitchell County is divided into five commissioner districts. One member of the board shall be elected from each such district. The five commissioner districts shall be and correspond to those five numbered districts described in and attached to and made a part of this Act and further identified as "Plan: mitchellcc-2012 Plan Type: Local Administrator: Mitchell CC User: Gina".
(d)
(1)
For the purposes of such plan:
(A)
The term "VTD" shall mean and describe the same geographical boundaries as provided in the report of the Bureau of the Census for the United States decennial census of 2010 for the State of Georgia. The separate numeric designations in a district description which are underneath a VTD heading shall mean and describe individual Blocks within a VTD as provided in the report of the Bureau of the Census for the United States decennial census of 2010 for the State of Georgia; and
(B)
Except as otherwise provided in the description of any district, whenever the description of any district refers to a named city, it shall mean the geographical boundaries of that city as shown on the census maps for the United States decennial census of 2010 for the State of Georgia.
(2)
Any part of Mitchell County which is not included in any district described in subsection (c) of this section shall be included within that district contiguous to such part which contains the least population according to the United States decennial census of 2010 for the State of Georgia.
(3)
Any part of Mitchell County which is described in subsection (c) of this section as being included in a particular district shall nevertheless not be included within such district if such part is not contiguous to such district. Such noncontiguous part shall instead be included within that district contiguous to such part which contains the least population according to the United States decennial census of 2010 for the State of Georgia.
(e)
No person shall be a member of the board if that person is ineligible for such office pursuant to Code Section 45-2-1 of the O.C.G.A. [O.C.G.A. § 45-2-1] or any other general law applicable to that office.
(f)
In order to be elected as a member of the board from a commissioner district, a person must receive the number of votes cast as required by general law for that office in that district only. Only electors who are residents of that commissioner district may vote for a member of the board for that district. At the time of qualifying for election as a member of the board from a commissioner district, each candidate for such office shall specify the commissioner district for which that person is a candidate. A person elected or appointed as a member of the board from a commissioner district must continue to reside in that district during that person's term of office or that office shall become vacant.
(1907 Ga. Laws (Act No. 35), § 1, p. 315; 1913 Ga. Laws (Act No. 207), § 1, p. 420; 1915 Ga. Laws (Act No. 248), § 1, p. 309; 1927 Ga. Laws (Act No. 29), § 1, p. 632; 1988 Ga. Laws (Act No. 984), § 1, p. 4190; 1993 Ga. Laws (Act No. 37), § 1, p. 3784; 2002 Ga. Laws (Act No. 418), § 1, pg. 3676; 2012 Ga. Laws (Act No. 401), § 1, pg. 4405)
Editor's note— Section 2 of Act 401 has not been included in the text of this recodification at the discretion of the editor. Section 2 states as follows:
"(a) Those members of the Board of Commissioners of Mitchell County who are serving as such on the effective date of this Act and any person selected to fill a vacancy in any such office shall continue to serve as such members until the regular expiration of their respective terms of office and upon the election and qualification of their respective successors.
(b) Commissioner Districts 1, 2, 3, 4, and 5, as they exist immediately prior to the effective date of this Act, shall continue to be designated as Commissioner Districts 1, 2, 3, 4, and 5, respectively, but as newly described under this Act, and on and after the effective date of this Act, such members of the board serving from those former commissioner districts shall be deemed to be serving from and representing their respective districts as newly described under this Act."
The attachment to the Act describing the composition of the county commission districts has not been included in the text of this recodification at the discretion of the editor. Instead, a copy of the attachment may be found at 2012 Ga. Laws (Act No. 401), § 1, pg. 4405).
Sec. II-A. - Chairman; election, pay.
The Board of Commissioners of Mitchell County shall elect one of its members as chairman by majority vote of the board. The chairman shall preside over all meetings of the board of commissioners and shall be the county's chief executive officer. The board of commissioners shall likewise elect another member of the board as vice chairman who shall act in the absence of the chairman. The chairman or vice chairman shall be entitled to vote on all issues that may come before the board.
(1915 Ga. Laws (Act No. 248), § 2, p. 309; 1927 Ga. Laws (Act No. 29), § 2, p. 632; 1988 Ga. Laws (Act No. 984), § 1, p. 4190)
Editor's note— Section 1 of 1988 Ga. Laws (Act No. 984), p. 4190, purported to amend sections 1 and 2 of 1927 Ga. Laws (Act No. 29), p. 632. Section 1 of 1927 Ga. Laws (Act No. 29) appears as a later amendment of section II of 1873 Ga. Laws (Act No. 108) p. 279. Section 2 of 1927 Ga. Laws (Act No. 29) appears as a new section that was added by an amendment to 1873 Ga. Laws (Act No. 108), p. 279.
Sec. III. - Commissioners.
That Harmon D. Sapp, Boliver H. Gee, Reuben Sacker and James H. Cochran, together with the Ordinary of said county, are hereby appointed a county board of commissioners for said county; that the term of office of said board shall be equal with that of the Ordinary, and that said board shall discharge all duties herein mentioned.
[Sec. IV. - Repealed.]
Sec. V. - Time and place of meeting; record of proceedings.
That from and after the passage of this Act, the time for the meeting of the Commissioners of Roads and Revenue, in Mitchell County, shall be changed from the first Tuesday in each month to the second Tuesday in each month, and at such other time as said Commissioners may adjourn to meet.
(1874 Ga. Laws (Act No. 292), § I, pg. 354)
Sec. VI. - Board may adjourn from day to day; oath of office.
That said board may adjourn from day to day; that each member of said board shall, before undertaking to act as commissioner, take an oath before the clerk of the superior court of said county, which oath shall be recorded by said clerk, to faithfully and honestly discharge all duties herein named; that each member shall receive three dollars for each day actually served as such.
(1907 Ga. Laws (Act No. 35), § 3, p. 315)
Sec. VII. - Power to punish for contempt.
That said Board of County Commissioners, when regularly in session as a court for the transaction of business, shall have the right to punish for contempt, and the same power to punish for contempt is conferred upon said Board of Commissioners as is now by law conferred upon the several ordinaries or the courts of ordinary of the several counties of this State.
(1927 Ga. Laws (Act No. 29), § 3, p. 632)
Sec. VIII. - Clerk.
That said board shall have the right, and it is authorized to appoint a clerk, who shall take the same oath, and in the same manner as its members have, and whose term of office shall be equal with that of the board selecting him.
Sec. IX. - [Repeal.]
Repeals conflicting laws.
Sec. X. - Reserved.
Editor's note— Section 3 of 1915 Ga. Laws (Act No. 248), p. 309, purported to amend 1913 Ga. Laws (Act No. 207), p. 420, by adding a new Section Five (5). The numbering and placement of the new section 5 in this printing was at the discretion of the editor. However, this section was later stricken and replaced by a subsequent Act.
Sec. XI. - No other salary; no other office.
Be it further enacted by the authority aforesaid, That no Commissioner of Road and Revenues of Mitchell County, Georgia, shall receive any other salary or compensation for services as commissioners or for no discharge of any duty imposed by virtue of being a commissioner or by virtue or authority of any resolution by the board, except as above set out in preceding section and none of said commissioners shall be competent or eligible to hold any office elective by said board of commissioners, such as road superintendent, or warden, or clerk of said board, or any other office within the power of said commissioners, but all such offices shall be filled by persons other than commissioners.
(1915 Ga. Laws (Act No. 248), § 3, p. 309)
Sec. XII. - Rural route roads.
That it shall be the duty of the commissioners of roads and revenues to put all rural route roads in first class condition and to maintain said rural route roads in such condition.
(1915 Ga. Laws (Act No. 248), § 4, p. 309)
[Sec. XIII. - Repealed.]
Sec. XIV. - Clerk; election; duties; bond; compensation; removal.
Be it further enacted by the authority aforesaid, that said Board of Commissioners in and for said County of Mitchell shall have the right and power to elect a clerk of said board, whose duty it shall be to faithfully and carefully keep all records, books, papers, and documents of said Board of Commissioners, and to perform any and all duties in connection with said office as may be prescribed by said board; and said board shall have the right and power to require said clerk to give bond in such sum as said board in its discretion may deem fit and proper, payable to said board and their successors in office, conditioned for the faithful performance of his duties and for the faithful accounting for any funds or monies belonging to the County of Mitchell that may pass into his hands or for which he is responsible, and to fix the compensation of said clerk, and whose term of office shall be equal with that of the board electing him; provided, however, that said Board of Commissioners shall have the right and power to remove said clerk from office for failure to perform the duties of his said office, or for any malpractice or malfeasance in office.
(1927 Ga. Laws (Act No. 29), § 4, p. 632)
Sec. XV. - Services covered by pay provided for.
Be it further enacted by the authority aforesaid, that the remuneration and compensation hereinbefore provided for said members of said Board of Commissioners of said County of Mitchell shall be in full and complete payment for their services as commissioners in and for said County of Mitchell during their respective terms of office.
(1927 Ga. Laws (Act No. 29), § 5, p. 632)
Sec. XVI. - Election of members.
(a)
The first members of the reconstituted Board of Commissioners of Mitchell County from Commissioner Districts 1 and 3 shall be elected at the general election on the Tuesday next following the first Monday in November 2002. Those members of the board elected thereto from Commissioner Districts 1 and 3 in 2002 shall take office the first day of January immediately following that election and shall serve for initial terms of office which expire December 31, 2006, and upon the election and qualification of their respective successors. The first members of the reconstituted Board of Commissioners of Mitchell County from Commissioners Districts 2, 4, and 5 shall be elected at the general election on the Tuesday next following the first Monday in November, 2004. Those members of the board elected thereto from Commissioner Districts 2, 4, and 5 in 2004 shall take office the first day of January immediately following that election and shall serve for initial terms of office which expire December 31, 2008, and upon the election and qualification of their respective successors. Those and all future successors to members of the board whose terms of office are to expire shall be elected at the time of the state-wide general election immediately preceding the expiration of such terms, shall take office the first day of January immediately following that election, and shall serve for terms of office of four years each. Members of the board shall serve for the terms of office specified therefor in this subsection and until their respective successors are elected and qualified.
(b)
All members of the board who are elected thereto shall be nominated and elected in accordance with Chapter 2 of Title 21 of the O.C.G.A., the "Georgia Election Code."
(c)
Commissioner Districts 1, 2, 3, 4, and 5, as they exist immediately prior to the effective date of this Act, shall continue to be designated as Commissioner Districts 1, 2, 3, 4, and 5, respectively, but as newly described under this Act, and on and after the effective date of this Act, such members of the board serving from those former commissioner districts shall be deemed to be serving from and representing their respective districts as newly described under this Act.
(d)
Any vacancy in office upon the board which occurs for any reason shall be filled pursuant to Code Section 36-5-21 of the O.C.G.A. [O.C.G.A. § 36-5-21].
(1927 Ga. Laws (Act No. 29), § 6, p. 632; 1988 Ga. Laws (Act No. 984), § 2, p. 4190; 1993 Ga. Laws (Act No. 37), § 2, p. 3784; 2002 Ga. Laws (Act No. 418), § 2, p. 3676)
ARTICLE II. - COUNTY ADMINISTRATOR[2]

Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
Editor's note— Printed herein is 1991 Ga. Laws, page 3616, which provided for the creation of the office of county administrator. Amendments to the act are indicated by parenthetical history notes following amended provisions. The absence of a history note indicates that the provision remains unchanged from the original act. Obvious misspellings have been corrected without notation. For stylistic purposes, a uniform system of headings, catchlines and citations to state statutes has been used. Additions made for clarity are indicated by brackets.
State Law reference— County manager authorized, O.C.G.A. § 36-5-22.

Sec. 201. - Creation of office.
There is created the office of county administrator of Mitchell County, Georgia.
Sec. 202. - Appointment.
The county administrator shall be appointed by majority vote of the Board of Commissioners of Mitchell County. No member of the board of commissioners shall be appointed county administrator during the term of office for which he was elected or for a period of one year thereafter.
Sec. 203. - Qualifications.
The county administrator shall be chosen by the board of commissioners solely upon the basis of his executive and administrative qualifications with special emphasis on his educational background and experience in public administration or closely related fields.
Sec. 204. - Conditions of employment.
The county administrator shall serve at the pleasure of the board of commissioners and the terms and conditions of his employment and the compensation he shall receive shall be as agreed upon by the board of commissioners and contained in his contract of employment.
Sec. 205. - Chief administrative officer.
The county administrator shall be the chief administrative officer of Mitchell County and shall work under the general direction of and shall be directly responsible to the board of commissioners for the proper management and efficient operation of all affairs of Mitchell County except as otherwise provided by law. It shall be the duty of the county administrator:
(1)
To prepare and submit to the board of commissioners the proposed annual budget;
(2)
To provide the board of commissioners with a monthly financial statement regarding the operation of all phases of the Mitchell County government;
(3)
To continuously assess the projected expenses and revenue during the course of the year and advise the board of commissioners of any deficits or surpluses that were not anticipated at the time the budget was prepared;
(4)
To serve as chief purchasing agent for the county through whom all purchases, supplies, and contracts shall be made; and to sign all vouchers for payment of same under such rules, regulations, and limitations as the board of commissioners may adopt, including a limitation on the amount of any obligation which the county administrator may incur without prior approval of the board of commissioners;
(5)
To develop and maintain detailed personnel records on all county employees and, in addition to developing and maintaining individual files, to:
(A)
Prepare for the board's consideration, review, and adoption a set of personnel rules and regulations which provide, inter alia, rules for hiring, termination, grievances, vacations, sick leave, and other matters;
(B)
Prepare for the board's consideration, review, and adoption a systematic pay plan which shall include full job descriptions for every employee and shall establish a range of pay for each type of job; and
(C)
Hire, suspend, discharge, transfer, or remove all employees of the county under the jurisdiction of the board of commissioners except the county attorney; provided, however, that before taking such action, the county administrator will consult with the head of the employee's department and in the case of a department head will consult with the board of commissioners, who shall have final authority;
(6)
To exercise control over all departments or divisions of the county which now exist or that may hereafter be created and to direct and supervise the administration of all county offices and specifically the construction, maintenance, and operation of all county roads, bridges, drains, buildings, and other public works and the care and maintenance of all real and personal property owned by Mitchell County;
(7)
To inventory, prepare, and maintain an itemized list of all county owned land, buildings, and other real property and machinery, equipment, and all other personal property;
(8)
To attend all board of commissioners' meetings fully prepared to provide all of the information and facts for the board's decision making process;
(9)
To confer and advise with all other elected or appointed officials of Mitchell County who are not under the immediate control of the board of commissioners but receive financial support from said board; and
(10)
To perform such other duties as may be required of the county administrator by the board of commissioners.
Sec. 206. - Acting county administrator.
The board of commissioners may designate some qualified person to act as acting county administrator in the absence of the county administrator. While so engaged, the acting county administrator shall have all of the rights, duties, and authority of the county administrator.
Sec. 207. - Bond required.
The county administrator and any acting county administrator shall be required to execute and deliver a good and sufficient bond payable to the Board of Commissioners of Mitchell County and the premium therefor shall be paid by Mitchell County.
Sec. 208. - Effective date of Act.
This Act shall become effective upon its approval by the Governor or upon its becoming law without such approval.
Sec. 209. - Repeal of laws.
All laws and parts of laws in conflict with this Act are repealed.
ARTICLE III. - MITCHELL COUNTY DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY[3]

Footnotes:
--- (3) ---
Editor's note— Printed herein is 1962 Ga. Laws (Res. No. 88), page 761, which amended the state constitution to create the Mitchell County Development Authority. The constitutional amendment was continued in force and effect by 1985 Ga. Laws, page 3890, and a resolution by the board of commissioners dated September 13, 1983. Amendments to the act are indicated by parenthetical history notes following amended provisions. The absence of a history note indicates that the provision remains unchanged from the original act. Obvious misspellings have been corrected without notation. For stylistic purposes, a uniform system of headings, catchlines and citations to state statutes has been used. Additions made for clarity are indicated by brackets.
State Law reference— Development Authorities Law, O.C.G.A. § 36-62-1 et seq.; resource Recovery Development Authorities Law, O.C.G.A. § 36-63-1 et seq.; Georgia Development Authority Act, O.C.G.A. § 50-10-1 et seq.

Sec. 301. - Amendments to Constitution.
Article VII, Section V, Paragraph I of the Constitution is hereby amended by adding at the end thereof the following:
A.
Created. There is hereby created a body corporate and politic in Mitchell County to be known as the Mitchell County Development Authority, which shall be an instrumentality of Mitchell County and a public corporation and which in this amendment is hereby referred to as the "Authority";
B.
Membership. The Authority shall consist of seven members who shall serve for a term of five years and who shall be eligible for reappointment. The members shall be elected by a majority of the Commissioners of Roads and Revenues of Mitchell County, two of whom shall reside within the city limits of Camilla, Georgia, two within the city limits of Pelham, Georgia, and three at large from the area of Mitchell County outside the limits of Camilla and Pelham. The first members shall be appointed as follows: two for terms of one year, two for terms of two years, and one for a term of three years, one for a term of four years, and one for a term of five years; and thereafter their successors shall be appointed for terms of five years. Vacancies shall be filled for the unexpired term by the said Board of County Commissioners. A majority of the members shall constitute a quorum and a majority may act for the Authority in any matter. No vacancy shall impair the power of the Authority to act. No member shall be a member of the Board of County Commissioners of Mitchell County, but there shall be no other disqualification to hold public office by reason of membership in the Authority;
C.
Property. The property, obligations and the interest on the obligations of the Authority shall have the same immunity from taxation as the property, obligations and interest on the obligations of Mitchell County. The exemption from taxation herein provided shall not extend to tenants nor lessees of the Authority. The right of any private person to use or occupy any real estate of the Authority for a period of one year or longer under any lease or other agreement for the purpose of taxation shall be classed as an interest in the real estate and as real property and shall be taxed as real property as now provided by law, or may be taxed as the General Assembly may hereafter provide by general or local law. The tax exemption herein provided also shall not include exemption from sale and use taxes on property purchased by the Authority or for use of the Authority;
D.
Powers. The powers of the Authority shall include, but not be limited to, the power:
(1)
To buy, acquire, develop, improve, own, operate, maintain, sell, lease as lessor and lessee, and mortgage land, buildings and property of all kinds within the limits of Mitchell County;
(2)
To receive and administer gifts, grants and donations and to administer trusts;
(3)
To grant, loan and lease without adequate consideration or without any consideration and with and without security, any of its funds and property to private persons and corporations operating or promising to operate any industrial plant or establishment within Mitchell County which in the judgment of the Authority will be a benefit to the people of said County. The provisions of this clause shall not be construed to limit any other power of the Authority;
(4)
To borrow money, to issue notes, bonds, and revenue certificates therefor, to execute trust agreements or indentures, and to sell, convey, mortgage, pledge and assign any and all of its funds, property and income as security therefor;
(5)
To contract with Mitchell County and other political subdivisions of the State of Georgia and with private persons and corporations and to sue and be sued in its corporate name;
(6)
To have and exercise usual powers of private corporation except such as are inconsistent with this amendment, including the power to appoint and hire officers, agents, and employees and to provide their compensation and duties, which officers and agents may or may not be members of the Authority, and the power to adopt and amend a corporate seal and bylaws and regulations for the conduct and management of the Authority;
(7)
To encourage and promote the expansion and development of industry, agriculture trade, and commerce and the facilities therefor in Mitchell County, and to make long-range plans therefor, to relieve insofar as possible unemployment within its boundaries, and to that end to acquire by purchase or gift any building or structure within the limits of Mitchell County, suitable for and intended for use as a factory, mill, shop, processing plant, assembly plant, or fabricating plant, including all necessary and appurtenant lands and appurtenances thereto, and all necessary or useful furnishings, machinery and equipment. Such acquisition may be through the acquisition of land and the construction thereon of a building, including the demolition of existing structures, or through the acquisition of an existing building and the remodeling, renovating, reconstructing, furnishing and equipping of such building. No building acquired hereunder shall be operated by the Authority but shall be leased or sold to one or more persons, firms or corporations. If sold, the purchase price may be paid at one time or in installments falling due in not more than thirty (30) years from the date of transfer of possession. The lessee or purchaser shall be required to pay all costs of operating and maintaining the building or buildings and to pay rentals or installments sufficient, together with other revenues which may be pledged for the purpose, to retire all bonds, both principal and interest, and to pay all other expenses which the Authority may have incurred in connection with the undertaking;
(8)
To accumulate its funds from year to year and to invest accumulated funds in any manner that public funds of the State of Georgia or any of its political subdivisions may be invested;
(9)
To designate officers to sign and act for the Authority generally or in any specific matter;
(10)
To do any and all acts and things necessary or convenient to accomplish the purpose and powers of the Authority as herein stated;
E.
Debts. The Authority shall not be authorized to create in any manner any debt, liability or obligation against the State of Georgia or Mitchell County;
F.
Exemption from liability. The Authority shall have the same immunity and exemption from liability for torts and negligence as the State of Georgia and the officers, agents and employees of the Authority when in performance of the work of the Authority, shall have the same immunity and exemption from liability for torts and negligence as the officers, agents and employees of the State of Georgia when in performance of their public duties or work of the State. The Authority may be sued the same as private corporations on any contractual obligation of the Authority;
G.
Compensation. The members of the Authority shall receive no compensation for their services of the Authority;
H.
Revenue bonds. The Authority, with the consent of the Board of Commissioners of Roads and Revenues of Mitchell County and to carry out purpose of this amendment is hereby authorized to issue Revenue Bonds bearing rate or rates of interest and maturity at the years and amounts determined by the Authority and the procedure of validation, issuance and delivery shall be in all respects in accordance with the Revenue Bond Law (1937 Ga. Laws, page 761), as amended, Ga. Code Ann. Supp. Chapter 87-8, as if said obligations had been originally authorized to be issued thereunder; provided, however, that any property, real or personal, of the Authority may be pledged, mortgaged, conveyed, assigned, hypothecated or otherwise encumbered as security for any lawful debt of the Authority. The Authority may execute any trust agreement or indenture not in conflict with the provisions of this amendment to provide security for any bonds issued as provided herein, and such trust agreement or indenture may provide for foreclosure, or forced sale of any property of the Authority upon default on such bonds either in payment of principal or interest or under any term or condition under which such bonds are issued. Bonds, thus issued, shall be paid first from the income of the Authority. In the event such income is not sufficient to pay the principal and interest of such Revenue Bonds, as they mature, then the Commissioners of Roads and Revenues are authorized and required to provide the additional funds necessary to make such payment, and for this purpose the said Commissioners are authorized to levy an annual tax on all taxable property within the county provided such tax shall not exceed five mills;
I.
Appropriation of funds. The Commissioners of Roads and Revenues are also authorized in addition to the tax provided in Paragraph H, to appropriate to the Authority such amount from its funds each year as it shall see fit, and any funds so appropriated when paid to the Authority shall become a part of the funds of the Authority and may be used for the purposes as herein stated or as may hereafter be defined by law;
J.
Levy and sale of property. The property of the Authority shall not be subject to levy and sale under legal process except such property, income or funds as may be pledged, assigned, mortgaged or conveyed to secure an obligation of the Authority, and any such property, funds or income may be sold under legal process or under any power granted by the Authority to enforce payment of the obligation;
K.
Construction. This amendment is adopted for the purpose of promoting and expanding for the public good and welfare of Mitchell County and its citizens, industry, agriculture and trade within the County of Mitchell, and making long-range plans for such development and expansion and to authorize the use of public funds of Mitchell County for such purpose, and this amendment and any law enacted with reference to the Authority shall be liberally construed for the accomplishment of this purpose;
L.
Effective date. This amendment shall be effective immediately upon proclamation of its ratification by the Governor and the first members of the Authority shall be appointed within thirty days after such proclamation;
M.
General assembly. The General Assembly may by law further define and prescribe the powers and duties of the Authority and the exercise thereof, and may enlarge and restrict the same, and may likewise further regulate the management and conduct of the Authority. The Authority shall be an instrumentality of Mitchell County, and the scope of its operations shall be limited to the territory embraced within Mitchell County. The General Assembly shall not extend the jurisdiction of the Authority nor the scope of its operations beyond the limits of Mitchell County;
N.
Amount of debt. There shall be no limitations upon the amount of debt which the Authority may incur, but no debt created by the Authority shall be a debt of Mitchell County or the State.
ARTICLE IV. - SALES TAX FOR EDUCATIONAL PURPOSES[4]

Footnotes:
--- (4) ---
Editor's note— Printed herein is 1982 Ga. Laws, page 2643, which amended the state constitution to provide for a one percent sales and use tax for educational purposes in the county. The amendment was continued in force and effect by 1985 Ga. Laws, page 3719. Amendments to the act are indicated by parenthetical history notes following amended provisions. The absence of a history note indicates that the provision remains unchanged from the original act. Obvious misspellings have been corrected without notation. For stylistic purposes, a uniform system of headings, catchlines and citations to state statutes has been used. Additions made for clarity are indicated by brackets.

Sec. 401. - Constitutional amendment.
Article VIII, Section VII, Paragraph I of the Constitution is amended by adding at the end thereof a new undesignated paragraph to read as follows:
The Board of Education of the Mitchell County School District and the Board of Education of the Pelham Independent School District shall by concurrent resolutions impose, levy, and collect a sales and use tax for educational purposes of said school districts. This tax shall be at the rate of 1 percent, but in all other respects, except as otherwise provided in this paragraph, shall correspond to the tax provided for by Article 2, Chapter 8, Title 48 of the Official Code of Georgia Annotated, relating to the joint county and municipality sales and use tax. The ad valorem tax millage rate limitation applicable to the Mitchell County School District under this Section VII of the Constitution and any ad valorem tax millage rate limitation now or hereafter applicable to the Pelham Independent School District shall be reduced for every taxable year beginning on or after January 1, 1984, by a millage rate which, if levied against property taxable for educational purposes within each school district, would produce an amount of revenue equal to the proceeds of the local sales and use tax received by that school district in the immediately preceding taxable year. Said school districts shall also comply with the provisions of O.C.G.A. § 48-8-91 as if they were counties or municipalities within the meaning of that Code section and as if the tax provided for herein were levied pursuant to Article 2, Chapter 8, Title 48 of the Official Code of Georgia Annotated. No referendum shall be required for the imposition of this tax. Nothing in this paragraph shall prohibit Mitchell County and those municipalities located therein from imposing as an additional tax that joint county and municipality sales and use tax authorized by Article 2, Chapter 8, Title 48 of the Official Code of Georgia Annotated. The two school districts are authorized to contract or otherwise provide for the collection and administration of the tax required to be imposed under this paragraph. The net proceeds of the tax shall be distributed between the Mitchell County School District and the Pelham Independent School District according to the ratio the population in each school district bears to the total population of Mitchell County or upon such other formula for distribution as may be determined by local law. The tax authorized by this paragraph may be imposed, levied, and collected as provided herein without further action by the General Assembly, but the General Assembly shall be authorized by local law to control the subject matter of this paragraph and to further define and implement its provisions. This authority may be exercised by the General Assembly notwithstanding any general law heretofore or hereafter enacted dealing with the subject matter of this paragraph and any local law adopted pursuant to the authority of this paragraph shall control that subject matter notwithstanding the provisions of any conflicting general law.
ARTICLE V. - JOINT RECREATION AUTHORITY OF BROOKS, COLQUITT, GRADY, MITCHELL, AND THOMAS COUNTIES ACT[5]

Footnotes:
--- (5) ---
Editor's note— Printed herein is 2002 Ga. Laws (Act No. 542), § 1, p. 4379, which created the Joint Recreation Authority of Brooks, Colquitt, Grady, Mitchell, and Thomas Counties and to authorize such authority to acquire, own, operate, manage, construct, equip, maintain, modify, improve, expand, and operate sports, cultural, and recreational facilities and areas of all kinds and descriptions. Amendments to the act are indicated by parenthetical history notes following amended provisions. The absence of a history note indicates that the provision remains unchanged from the original act. Obvious misspellings have been corrected without notation. Additions made for clarity are indicated by brackets.

Sec. 1. - Short title.
This Act shall be known and may be cited as the "Joint Recreation Authority of Brooks, Colquitt, Grady, Mitchell, and Thomas Counties Act."
Sec. 2. - Findings.
It is found, determined, and declared that:
(1)
The availability of sports, cultural, tourism, hospitality, and recreational facilities and areas within Brooks, Colquitt, Grady, Mitchell, and Thomas counties is important to meet the recreational needs and for the general welfare and well-being of the residents of Brooks, Colquitt, Grady, Mitchell, and Thomas counties, of contiguous counties, and of the state and is important for the economic well-being of said counties and of the state in that such facilities and areas create employment, attract tourists, and enhance the attractiveness of said counties to companies seeking sites for new industrial and commercial facilities;
(2)
Achieving the objectives described in paragraph (1) above constitutes the governmental mission of the authority created hereby, and said objectives can best be achieved by creating a local joint recreation authority, as contemplated by this Act, which is authorized to acquire, own, operate, manage, construct, equip, modify, improve, expand, lease, sell, maintain, and finance such facilities and to promote and assist the acquisition, ownership, operation, management, construction, equipping, modification, improvement, expansion, maintaining, and financing of such facilities located in any one or more of said counties by any one or more of said counties, by municipalities located in any one or more of said counties, and by private sector entities to raise, administer, and spend funds for that purpose, including revenues derived by the authority under intergovernmental contracts and from grants, and to issue revenue bonds and other obligations to finance the cost of such facilities; and
(3)
The activities herein authorized to be undertaken and conducted by the authority serve a public purpose and are hereby declared to serve a purpose of each of Brooks, Colquitt, Grady, Mitchell, and Thomas counties, a purpose of the municipalities located in such respective counties, and a purpose of the state.
Sec. 3. - Definitions.
As used in this Act, the following terms shall have the following meanings:
(1)
"Authority" means the Joint Recreation Authority of Brooks, Colquitt, Grady, Mitchell, and Thomas Counties created in Section 4 of this Act.
(2)
"Board of commissioners" means the board of commissioners of a particular county.
(3)
"Cost," when used with reference to any project, means and shall embrace and include all costs of acquisition, construction, equipping, modification, improvement, and expansion of such project; all costs of financing or refinancing such project; and, during the period of the acquisition, construction, equipping, modification, improvement, or expansion of such project and for a period ending one year following the completion of the acquisition, construction, equipping, modification, improvement, or expansion of such project shall include interest on revenue bonds or other obligations issued to finance or refinance such project, startup costs, costs of maintaining and operating such project, and administrative and other costs relating to such project or relating to any revenue bonds or other obligations issued to finance or refinance such project, including, but not limited to: (i) costs of acquiring, leasing, constructing, fabricating, and installing real property, fixtures, furnishings, machinery, equipment, and other tangible and intangible personal property and interests, rights, easements, and franchises therein including, but not limited to, the cost of all conveyances and leases thereof to or by the authority and costs of labor, materials, supplies, equipment rental charges, premiums on performance and payment bonds, builder's risk and liability insurance, and other costs associated with the construction or fabrication of any project or any part thereof; (ii) costs of plans and specifications, engineering, architectural, and design services, soil testing and stabilization, land surveys, environmental studies, and other preconstruction expenses and expenses necessary or incident to determining the feasibility or practicability of the project; (iii) costs of applying for and obtaining grants relating to any project; (iv) costs relating to the issuance of revenue bonds and other obligations to finance or refinance any such project and relating to any forward purchase contract or any option agreement relating to the future issuance by the authority of any revenue bonds or other obligations, including, but not limited to, any "points," commitment fee, or other fee charged by any lender, original issue discount, underwriter's discount, the fees and expenses of any securities depository, placement agents, financial advisers, attorneys, trustees, registrars, paying agents, remarketing agents, indexing agents, escrow agents, tender agents, or other agents and consultants for services relating to the financing or refinancing of such project; (v) costs relating to obtaining ratings and complying with applicable securities laws; (vi) costs of any bond insurance policy, letter of credit, surety bond, other financial guaranty, or other credit facility or liquidity facility relating to such revenue bonds or other obligations or the refunding thereof; (vii) costs of any hedge facility, including any currency swap, interest rate swap, interest rate cap, interest rate collar, or other financial product relating to such revenue bonds or other obligations; (viii) costs, in the case of the refinancing and refunding of previously issued revenue bonds or other obligations relating to any project, of any investment securities, guaranteed investment contract, forward purchase contract, and other financial products to be used to retire or defease such previously issued revenue bonds or other obligations; (ix) costs incurred during the period of the acquisition, construction, equipping, modification, improvement, or expansion of such project and for a period ending one year following the completion of the acquisition, construction, equipping, modification, improvement, or expansion of such project, for the payment of interest on the revenue bonds or other obligations issued to finance or refinance such project, startup costs of such project, costs of maintaining and operating such project, and administrative and other costs relating to such project or relating to any revenue bonds or other obligations issued to finance or refinance such project; and (x) any other costs relating to any project that would be classified as a "cost" of a "project" under the Revenue Bond Law. Any obligation or expense incurred for any of the foregoing purposes shall be regarded as a part of the cost of the project and may be paid or reimbursed as such out of the proceeds of revenue bonds or other obligations issued under the provisions of this Act with respect to such project.
(4)
"Counterparty" means any person that is a party to any contract or agreement with the authority.
(5)
"Counties" means Brooks, Colquitt, Grady, Mitchell, and Thomas counties.
(6)
"County" means one of the counties.
(7)
"Other obligations" means debt obligations of the authority other than revenue bonds.
(8)
"Project" means and includes sports, cultural, and recreational facilities and areas of all kinds and descriptions, including, but not limited to, playgrounds, parks, amusement parks, hiking, camping, and picnicking areas and facilities, swimming and wading pools, lakes, ponds, marinas, tennis courts, handball courts, squash courts, racket ball courts, frontons, basketball courts, ice rinks, facilities for track and field events, rifle, archery, skeet, and trap ranges and facilities, athletic fields and courts, club houses, gymnasiums, museums, libraries, concert halls, theaters, amphitheaters, auditoriums, arenas, stadiums, grandstands, facilities for fairs, livestock shows, trade shows, exhibitions, and conventions, youth centers, senior citizen centers, recreation centers and other recreational buildings, golf courses, driving ranges, stables, hunting preserves, lodges and resorts, fishing lodges and resorts, boats, historic sites and attractions, and facilities for the recreation and accommodation of tourists and of visitors to and citizens of said counties, including hotels, motels, convention centers, conference centers, and restaurants and ancillary and related facilities and areas serving the foregoing or to be used in connection therewith, including, but not limited to, offices, parking facilities, food and beverage service facilities, and retail and service facilities associated therewith.
(9)
"Revenue Bond Law" means Article 3 of Chapter 82 of Title 36 of the O.C.G.A., as the same exists on the date of enactment of this Act and as the same may hereafter be amended.
(10)
"Revenue bonds" and "bonds" shall means revenue bonds described in Section 8 of this Act.
Sec. 4. - Creation of authority, situs, tax exemption, sovereign immunity, venue, and other matters.
(a)
Creation. There is created a public body corporate and politic to be known as the "Joint Recreation Authority of Brooks, Colquitt, Grady, Mitchell, and Thomas Counties," which shall be deemed to be a political subdivision of the state, a body corporate and politic, and a public corporation of the state. By that name, style, and title, the authority may contract and be contracted with, sue and be sued, implead and be impleaded, complain and defend in courts of law and equity, and participate in mediation and arbitration proceedings. The authority shall not be a state institution nor a department or agency of the state but shall be an instrumentality of the state, a mere creation of the state, having a distinct corporate identity, and shall be exempt from the provisions of Article 2 of Chapter 17 of Title 50 of the O.C.G.A., the "Georgia State Financing and Investment Commission Act." The authority shall have perpetual existence.
(b)
Situs. The authority shall have its principal office in one of the counties, and its legal situs, domicile, and residence for the purposes of this Act shall be the counties.
(c)
Tax exemption. The exercise of the powers conferred upon the authority in this Act shall constitute an essential governmental function for a public purpose. The properties of the authority and leasehold interests therein, whether such leasehold interest is a usufruct or an estate for years and whether or not the lease giving rise to such leasehold interest could be construed to be an installment sale agreement, both real and personal, and the income of the authority are declared to be public properties and income used for the benefit and welfare of the people of the respective counties and not for the purpose of private or corporate benefit, and the authority, its income, its property, its revenue bonds, and other obligations and all interest and other income derived therefrom shall be exempt from all taxes and special assessments of the state or any city, county, or other political subdivision thereof. The authority and its property shall have all of the exemptions and exclusions from taxes as are now granted to cities and counties for the operation of properties or facilities similar to the properties and facilities to be owned or operated, or both, by the authority. For purposes hereof, property shall be deemed to be "owned" by the authority if legal or equitable title is in the authority, even though security title thereto may be held by another person under a deed to secure debt and even though a third party may have the right, under the terms of a lease, option, or installment sale agreement, to acquire full ownership of such property.
(d)
Sovereign immunity, venue, and other matters. The authority shall have the same immunity and exemption from liability for torts and negligence as the state, and the officers, agents, and employees of the authority, when in performance of work of the authority, shall have the same immunity and exemption from liability for torts and negligence as officers, agents, and employees of the State of Georgia. The authority may be sued the same as private corporations on any contractual obligation of the authority. Any action to protect or enforce any rights under the provisions of this Act or any suit or action against the authority shall be brought in the Superior Court of Colquitt County, and any action pertaining to validation of any bonds issued under the provisions of this Act shall likewise be brought in such court which shall have exclusive, original jurisdiction of such actions. The property of the authority shall not be subject to levy and sale under legal process, provided that the authority may convey by deed to secure debt or deed absolute, mortgage, pledge, hypothecate, and grant a security interest in any of its property, real or personal, as security for its obligations and remedies provided for in any deed to secure debt, mortgage, indenture, pledge agreement, or security agreement executed by the authority shall be enforceable in accordance with the terms thereof. The records of the authority shall be public records which are subject to Article 4 of Chapter 18 of Title 50 of the O.C.G.A. [O.C.G.A. § 50-18-70]. Nothing in this Act shall be construed to abridge or change the powers and duties of other authorities, departments, boards, and like agencies of the respective counties.
Sec. 5. - Members, meetings, and related matters.
(a)
Members. The persons who from time to time are serving as the members of the Joint Development Authority of Brooks, Colquitt, Grady, Mitchell, and Thomas counties shall be the members of the authority. The members of the authority shall constitute its board of directors. A majority of the members of the authority shall constitute a quorum, but no action may be taken by the authority without the affirmative vote of a majority of the full membership of the authority.
(b)
Compensation. The members shall receive no compensation for their services as members or directors of the authority but shall be reimbursed for their actual expenses incurred in the performance of their duties.
(c)
Ethics. The provisions of Code Section 45-10-3 of the O.C.G.A. [O.C.G.A. § 45-10-3] shall apply to the members of the authority, and a member of the authority shall not engage in any transaction with the authority. The provisions of the immediately preceding sentence and the provisions of paragraph (9) of Code Section 45-10-3 shall be deemed to have been complied with and the authority may purchase from, sell to, borrow from, loan to, contract with, or otherwise deal with any member or any organization or person with which any member of the authority is in any way interested or involved, provided that (i) any interest or involvement by such members is disclosed in advance to the members of the authority who will be voting on the matter or transaction and such disclosure is recorded in the minutes of the authority, (ii) no member having a substantial interest or involvement may be present at that portion of any meeting of the members during which discussion of such matter or transaction is conducted, and (iii) no member having a substantial interest or involvement may participate in any decision of the members relating to any such matter or transaction. As used in this subsection, a "substantial interest or involvement" shall mean any interest or involvement which reasonably may be expected to result in a direct financial benefit to such member, as determined by the members by vote, which determination shall be final and not subject to review. A member who has any interest or involvement shall be entitled to participate in discussions of whether such interest or involvement is a "substantial interest or involvement" but shall not be entitled to vote on the question. Nothing contained in this subsection or in Code Section 45-10-3 of the O.C.G.A. [O.C.G.A. § 45-10-3] shall be deemed to prohibit any member from providing legal services to the authority, being paid for such services and related expenses, participating in discussions relating to his or her engagement, scope of services, compensation, or related matters or from voting on such matters.
(d)
Meetings. An annual meeting of the authority shall be held in January of each year for the election of officers and for the conduct of such other business as the authority shall elect to conduct thereat. Such annual meeting shall be held on such date and at such time and place as shall be established by or pursuant to the rules and regulations of the authority or, if no rules and regulations have been adopted, such annual meeting shall be held on such date and at such time and place as shall be established by the chairperson in the notice calling the meeting. The authority, in its rules and regulations, may schedule additional regular meetings. Special meetings of the authority may be called by the chairperson or vice chairperson of the authority and may be held on not less than 18 hours' notice or such lesser notice as may be specified in rules and regulations adopted by the authority. Notice of all meetings shall be given to the members and to the public. Notice to the members may be given orally, by telephone, or in writing. Notice to the public shall be given as mandated by the laws of the state. Meetings of the authority shall be open to the public as mandated by the laws of the state. Written minutes of all meetings shall be kept and the authority shall comply with the state's open records laws, found at Code Sections 50-18-70 through 50-18-76 of the O.C.G.A., with respect to its minutes and other records.
Sec. 6. - Officers, employees, counsel, and consultants.
(a)
Officers. At the first meeting of the authority in 2002 and at the annual meeting held in each calendar year thereafter, the authority shall elect one of its members as chairperson, another member as vice chairperson, and shall also elect a secretary, who need not be a member of the authority, and treasurer, who need not be a member of the authority, or one individual to serve as both secretary and treasurer, who need not be a member of the authority. If the secretary or treasurer is not a member of the authority, such officer shall be entitled to participate in meetings of the authority but shall not be entitled to vote. Such officers shall serve in such offices until the annual meeting of the authority held in the next succeeding year and until their successors are elected and assume the duties of office. Whether or not the authority has employed an executive director, who shall serve as assistant secretary, as provided below, the authority may elect one or more persons, other than a person serving as chairperson or vice chairperson, to serve as an assistant secretary. The chairperson shall preside at meetings of the authority; in the absence of the chairperson, the vice chairperson shall preside and in the absence of both of them, the members present at the meeting shall elect from their number an acting chairperson for such meeting or for such portion thereof during which the chairperson and vice chairperson shall both be absent. All contracts, leases, indentures, deeds, revenue bonds, or other contractual or financial obligations of the authority shall be executed by the chairperson or, in the absence of the chairperson, shall be executed by the vice chairperson or, in the absence of both of them, by any member of the authority. The secretary shall be the custodian of the records of the authority other than any financial records. Any instrument that is required to be attested shall be attested by the secretary or any assistant secretary or, in the absence of both of them, by any member of the authority or by its executive director, if any, and if the form of such instrument requires a seal, the official seal of the authority may be impressed thereon or a facsimile thereof may be imprinted or printed thereon. The treasurer shall keep or cause to be kept the financial books and records of the authority except for (i) books and records required to be kept by any trustee or escrow agent or custodian of funds under any trust indenture or other instrument relating to the issuance of revenue bonds and other obligations of the authority or pursuant to any agreement to which the authority is a party and (ii) books and records required to be kept by the clerk under any intergovernmental contract relating to funds being administered by the clerk as assistant treasurer of the authority.
(b)
Employees. The authority is authorized to employ such employees as are necessary or desirable for the operation of the authority. The authority may employ an executive director and may delegate to such executive director duties and powers of the type normally possessed by the president of a Georgia for profit corporation, except for those powers herein reserved to the officers of the authority. Any such executive director shall, ex officio, serve as an assistant secretary of the authority and shall be entitled to attest instruments executed by the chairperson or vice chairperson and to execute certificates on behalf of the authority and shall serve as recording secretary of the authority and, in such capacity, be responsible for the recording of minutes of meetings of the authority.
(c)
Counsel. The authority is authorized to employ legal counsel of its choice to serve as general counsel to the authority and is authorized to employ other legal counsel in connection with the issuance of revenue bonds and other obligations and other matters of a type that are not regularly and routinely handled by its general counsel.
(d)
Consultants. The authority may retain, employ, and engage the services of such independent consultants and accountants as it deems necessary.
Sec. 7. - Powers of the authority.
(a)
The authority shall have the following powers:
(1)
To have a seal and alter the same at pleasure;
(2)
To lend financial support through grants, contributions, or otherwise to other governmental entities in furtherance of the authority's public purpose, provided that the benefits to be received by the residents of the counties as a result thereof are determined by the authority to be of sufficient value to prevent the same from violating Article III, Section VI, Paragraph VI of the state Constitution; any such determination shall be presumed to be correct and shall not judicially be set aside unless the court finds such determination to be clearly erroneous;
(3)
To conduct studies of the recreational needs of the counties, to develop plans for meeting those needs, to consult with other public and private sector entities in connection with the meeting of those needs, to conduct activities to encourage governmental and private sector entities to locate projects in the counties, to advertise and promote facilities and areas which are owned by the authority, and to promote the development of the tourism, recreation, and hospitality industries in its area of operations;
(4)
To lend financial support through grants, contributions, loans, or otherwise to private sector for profit and not for profit entities in furtherance of its corporate purposes, provided that the benefits to be received by the residents of the counties as a result thereof are determined by the authority to be of sufficient value to prevent the same from violating Article III, Section VI, Paragraph VI of the state Constitution; any such determination shall be presumed to be correct and shall not judicially be set aside unless the court finds such determination to be clearly erroneous;
(5)
To engaging in fundraising activities to raise moneys to be used in furtherance of its corporate purposes;
(6)
To apply for and accept grants of money or materials or property of any kind from the United States of America or any agency or instrumentality thereof upon such terms and conditions as the United States of America or such agency or instrumentality may impose;
(7)
To apply for and accept grants of money or materials or property of any kind from the State of Georgia or any agency or instrumentality or political subdivision thereof upon such terms and conditions as the State of Georgia or such agency or instrumentality or political subdivision may impose;
(8)
To issue and validate revenue bonds, as provided in Section 8 of this Act, and to enter into contracts and agreements in connection therewith, including but not limited to (i) any lease, installment sale agreement, loan agreement, or other agreement between the authority and any user of the project to be financed or refinanced with the proceeds of such revenue bonds, any of which revenues from such project are to be used as a source of payment or as security for such revenue bonds, (ii) intergovernmental contracts between the authority and the state or any agency or instrumentality of the state or between the authority and the United States government or any agency or instrumentality thereof or between the authority and any county, municipality, political subdivision, public body, or public corporation of the state, any of the revenues from which are to be used as a source of payment or as security for such revenue bonds, (iii) agreements under which the authority obtains a credit facility, liquidity facility, or hedge facility including any currency swap agreement, interest rate swap agreement, interest rate cap, or interest rate collar from a counterparty in connection with the issuance of such revenue bonds if any of the amounts to be paid by the counterparty thereunder are to serve as a source of payment or as security for such revenue bonds or otherwise provide security to the holders of such revenue bonds, and (iv) agreements under which the authority sells such revenue bonds for future delivery or sells call options, to be exercisable at a future date, on revenue bonds that have been authorized and may be issued at a future date if such options are exercised by the holders of such options;
(9)
To borrow money for any of its corporate purposes and to issue, as evidence thereof, other obligations which are not expressly prohibited by the state Constitution, including, but not limited to: (i) bond anticipation notes issued in anticipation of the issuance of validated revenue bonds relating to any project on which notes are to be paid with proceeds of such revenue bonds and the proceeds of which are to be used to pay costs of such project, (ii) grant anticipation notes issued in anticipation of the receipt of proceeds of any grant that has been authorized by the grantor, which notes are to be repaid from the proceeds of such grant and the proceeds of which notes are to be used for the purposes specified in the grant or, if no purpose is specified, the proceeds of such notes may be used for any lawful purpose of the authority, and (iii) intergovernmental contract payment anticipation notes issued in anticipation of the receipt of revenues under an intergovernmental contract, which notes are to be repaid from the revenues received under such intergovernmental contract and the proceeds of which notes are to be used for the purposes specified in the intergovernmental contract or, if no purpose is specified, the proceeds of such notes may be used for any lawful purpose of the authority. Such notes and other obligations may be, but shall not be required to be, validated, unless required to be validated by the state Constitution or general law in effect at the time such other obligations are issued; such other obligations may, to the extent not prohibited by law, be payable from and secured by a pledge of funds to be received by the authority from any source;
(10)
To sue and be sued in contract and in tort and to complain and defend in all courts;
(11)
To acquire by purchase, lease, or otherwise, by public bidding or negotiated transaction, on such terms and conditions and in such manner as it may deem proper personal property of every kind and description and real property and rights or easements therein or franchises necessary or convenient for its corporate purposes, to use the same so long as its corporate existence shall continue, to lease or make contracts with respect to the use of the same, or to dispose of the same in any manner it deems to the best advantage of the authority. If the authority shall deem it expedient to construct any project on any lands or property the title to which shall then be in the state, the Governor is authorized to convey for and in behalf of the state title to such lands to the authority upon payment to the state for the credit of the general fund of the state the reasonable value of such lands or upon the receipt of such lawful consideration as may be determined by the parties to such conveyance. If the authority shall deem it expedient to acquire and construct any project on any lands the title to which shall then be in the name of the board of commissioners of any of the counties or any municipality incorporated in any of said counties, the board of commissioners of such particular county or governing authority or body of said municipality is authorized to convey title to such lands or to lease such lands to the authority upon the receipt of such lawful consideration as may be determined by the parties to such conveyances or leases upon payment of the reasonable value of such lands or leasehold interest, such value to be determined by mutual agreement of the authority and said county or municipality or by an appraiser agreed upon by the board of commissioners of such county or the governing authority or body of said municipality, as applicable; land and other property of the state, of any of the counties, of any municipality within any such county, or of any department, agency, or instrumentality thereof may be contributed by grant to the authority in furtherance of the authority's public purpose, provided that the benefits to be received by the residents of such county or municipality as a result thereof are determined by the authority to be of sufficient value to prevent the same from violating Article III, Section VI, Paragraph VI of the state Constitution; any such determination shall be presumed to be correct and shall not judicially be set aside unless the court finds such determination to be clearly erroneous;
(12)
To make contracts and leases and to execute all instruments necessary or convenient including contracts for the acquisition and construction of projects and leases of projects or contracts with respect to the use of projects which it causes to be erected or acquired and including contracts for acquiring, constructing, renting, and leasing of its projects for use by any one or more of the counties or any municipality in any such county or for use by any public or private sector entity and to dispose by conveyance of its title and interest in real and personal property of every kind and character; and any and all persons, firms, and corporations and the state and any and all political subdivisions, departments, institutions, instrumentalities, or agencies of any of the foregoing are authorized to enter into contracts, leases, or agreements with the authority upon such terms and for such purposes as they deem advisable and to donate and convey to the authority real and personal property, including, but not limited to, parks; and, without limiting the generality of the foregoing, the authority and the state and any and all political subdivisions, departments, institutions, or agencies of any of the foregoing may lease property to or from the United States government or any agency or department thereof; the authority is specifically authorized to convey title to any and all of its lands and any improvements thereon to any person, firm, corporation, the state, or any political subdivision, department, institution, or agency of any of the foregoing, subject to the rights and interest of the holders of any revenue bonds or other obligations authorized to be issued pursuant to this Act and by the resolution authorizing the issuance of any of such revenue bonds or other obligations as provided in this Act;
(13)
To construct, erect, acquire, own, operate, manage, repair, remodel, maintain, add to, expand, extend, improve, and equip projects and to enter into management contracts and construction contracts relating thereto by public bidding, by competitive sealed proposals or subject, in the case of construction, to any contrary provision of general law, by negotiated transaction without public bidding or competitive sealed proposals; in connection with any such construction contract, the authority may, but shall not be required to, require the contractor to post a payment and performance bond unless so required by general law;
(14)
To sell, lease, grant, exchange, or otherwise dispose of, by competitive bidding or by negotiated transaction, any property, both real and personal, or any interest therein not required in the normal operation of and usable in the furtherance of the purpose for which the authority was created;
(15)
To convey, mortgage, pledge, hypothecate, and grant a security interest in any of its revenues, receipts, and property, real or personal, as security for its revenue bonds, other obligations, and contractual obligations;
(16)
To make recommendations to the counties and municipalities within the respective counties on land acquisition, facilities development, and other matters relating to the provision of sports, cultural, or recreation facilities and areas within the counties;
(17)
To appoint, select, retain, and employ employees, agents, consultants, and independent contractors and to fix their respective compensation;
(18)
To exercise the power of eminent domain to acquire property for public use in furtherance of its public purpose in accordance with general law;
(19)
To establish fees, rates, and charges for the use of its facilities and regulations relating to the use thereof;
(20)
To provide water service and facilities and waste-water and storm-water disposal and treatment service and facilities to the counties and to any municipality located therein and to obtain water service and facilities and waste-water and storm-water disposal and treatment service and facilities from the counties or any municipality located therein and to enter into contracts in connection therewith with any of the counties or with any municipality located therein as the authority and such county or such municipality may agree, including, without limitation, contracts relating to portions of the authority's property being used for waste-water or storm-water retention, treatment, or disposal; any such intergovernmental contract shall be deemed pursuant to, and shall be subject to, Article IX, Section III, Paragraph 1(a) of the state Constitution;
(21)
To provide such assistance or facilities and to enter into such contracts in connection therewith to any such county and any municipality located therein with respect to the provision of health and fitness services to the authority or to the public or to employees of any of the counties or of any such municipality as the authority and any such county or any such municipality may agree; any such intergovernmental contract shall be deemed pursuant to and shall be subject to Article IX, Section III, Paragraph I of the state Constitution; and
(22)
To do all things necessary or convenient to carry out the powers expressly given in this Act; and to exercise any power usually possessed by private corporations performing similar functions which is not expressly in conflict with the state Constitution and general laws of the state.
(b)
The powers enumerated in each paragraph of subsection (a) of this section are cumulative of and in addition to those powers enumerated in the other paragraphs of subsection (a) of this section and any other powers elsewhere in this Act or which may reasonably be inferred from the provisions of this Act. This Act shall be liberally construed to effect the purposes hereof, and, in interpreting this Act, the courts are not to apply "Dillon's Rule."
Sec. 8. - Revenue bonds.
(a)
Authorization. The authority or any authority or body which has or which may in the future succeed to the powers, duties, and liabilities vested in the authority created by this Act shall have power and is authorized at one time or from time to time to provide by resolution for the issuance of revenue bonds for the purpose of paying all or any part of the cost of any one or more projects. The principal of and interest on such revenue bonds shall be payable solely from the sources provided for in this Act for such payment. The revenue bonds of each issue shall be dated and shall bear interest at such rate or rates as determined by the authority or as provided by the authority, payable on such dates as determined by the authority. Principal on such revenue bonds shall mature at such time or times not exceeding 40 years from their date or dates, shall be payable in such medium of payment as to both principal and interest as may be determined by the authority, and may be made redeemable or subject to purchase before maturity at such price or prices and under such terms and conditions as may be fixed by the authority. Such revenue bonds shall be issued pursuant to and in conformity with the Revenue Bond Law and all procedures pertaining to such issuance and the conditions thereof shall be the same as those contained in said Revenue Bond Law.
(b)
Sale. The authority may sell such revenue bonds in such manner and for such prices as it may determine to be for the best interest of the authority.
(c)
Use of proceeds. The proceeds derived from the sale of such revenue bonds shall be used solely for the purpose of paying costs of the project, as provided in the proceedings authorizing the issuance of such revenue bonds.
(d)
Proceedings. Such revenue bonds shall be issued pursuant to a resolution of the authority and may be issued without any other proceedings or the happening of any other conditions or things than those proceedings, conditions, and things which are specified or required by this Act and the Revenue Bond Law. Any resolution providing for the issuance of revenue bonds under the provisions of this Act shall become effective immediately upon its passage and need not be published or posted, and any such resolution may be passed at any regular or special or adjourned meeting of the authority by a majority of its members.
(e)
Special and limited obligations. Revenue bonds issued under the provisions of this Act shall not be deemed to constitute a debt of the state or of the county or a pledge of the faith and credit thereof; but such bonds shall be payable solely from the rentals, revenues, earnings, and funds of the authority as provided in the resolution authorizing the issuance of such revenue bonds or in documents approved by such resolution. The issuance of such revenue bonds shall not directly, indirectly, or contingently obligate the state or any political subdivision thereof, including specifically said counties to levy or to pledge any form of taxation whatever therefor or to make any appropriation for their payment, and all such bonds shall contain recitals on their face covering substantially the foregoing provisions of this subsection. However, any county or any other political subdivision contracting with the authority may obligate itself to pay the amounts required under any contract entered into with the authority from funds received from taxes to be levied and collected for that purpose to the extent necessary to pay the obligations contractually incurred under this subsection, and from any other source; and the obligation to make such payments shall constitute a general obligation and a pledge of the full faith and credit of the obligor but shall not constitute a debt of the obligor within the meaning of Article IX, Section V, Paragraph I of the state Constitution. When such obligation is made to make such payments from taxes to be levied for that purpose, then the obligation shall be mandatory to levy and collect such taxes from year to year in an amount sufficient to fulfill and fully comply with the terms of such obligation.
(f)
Pledge of projects and revenues. Any one or more projects and the revenues, rents, and earnings derived from any particular project or projects and any and all revenues, rents, and earnings received by the authority, regardless of whether such revenues, rents, and earnings were produced by a particular project for which revenue bonds or other obligations have been issued, unless otherwise pledged, may be pledged by the authority to the payment of the principal of and interest on the revenue bonds and other obligations of the authority as may be provided in any resolution authorizing the issuance of such bonds or in any document approved by such resolution. Such funds so pledged from whatever source received, which may include funds received from one or more or all sources, may be set aside at regular intervals into sinking funds for which provision may be made in any such resolution or document approved by such resolution and which may be pledged to and charged with the payment of: (i) the interest upon such revenue bonds as such interest shall become due, (ii) the principal of the bonds as the same shall mature, (iii) the necessary charges of any trustee, paying agent, registrar, tender agent, indexing agent, remarketing agent, or other agent involved in the administration of such revenue bonds, (iv) the redemption price, including any premium, of any of such revenue bonds that is payable upon the redemption thereof prior to maturity, (v) the purchase price of any revenue bonds that are required to be purchased pursuant to the terms of such resolution or any document approved thereby, and (vi) any amounts payable by the authority or in behalf of the authority to any counterparty to any agreement under which a credit facility, liquidity facility, or hedge facility has been issued by such counterparty in connection with the issuance of such revenue bonds. The use and disposition of any sinking fund or other pledged fund securing any revenue bonds shall be as provided for in the resolution authorizing the issuance of the bonds or in any document approved thereby.
(g)
Validation. Revenue bonds issued by the authority shall be confirmed and validated in accordance with the procedures provided for in the Revenue Bond Law. At the request of the authority in the notice filed with the district attorney for the Southern Circuit relating to validation, such district attorney shall file a petition for validation of such revenue bonds in the Superior Court of Colquitt County and may include in the petition a request for the validation of the authority's obligations to any counterparty under (i) any lease, installment sale agreement, loan agreement, or intergovernmental contract or other agreement, the payments by the counterparty which are to serve as a source of payment or as security for any of such revenue bonds, (ii) any agreement relating to any credit facility, liquidity facility, or hedge facility the payments by the counterparty under which are to serve as a source of payments to the holders of any of such revenue bonds, and (iii) any agreement providing for the future issuance and delivery of any such revenue bonds, including any forward sale contract or option agreement, and, if so requested by the authority and if the counterparty is subject to suit or consents to the jurisdiction of the court, the petition shall also make the counterparty a party defendant to such validation action and shall request that the counterparty show cause, if any, why such contract or agreement and the counterparty's obligations thereunder should not be inquired into by the court and the validity of the terms thereof be determined and the validity of the counterparty's obligations thereunder be adjudicated to be valid. If the petition requests that the validity of the obligations of the authority and the counterparty be determined and if the counterparty is subject to suit or consents to the jurisdiction of the court, the court may validate the obligations of both the authority and the counterparty under such contract or agreement, but if the counterparty is not subject to suit and does not consent to jurisdiction, the court may nonetheless determine the validity of the authority's obligations under such contract or agreement and for such purpose may assume that the agreement or contract is the duly authorized, legal, and binding obligation of the counterparty, and if the authority's obligations are validated on the basis of such assumption, the authority shall be barred from raising any defense in any action by the counterparty to enforce the authority's obligations under such contract or agreement other than the defense of lack of mutuality on the grounds that the contract or agreement is not legal, valid, and binding on the counterparty. The revenue bonds when validated and the judgment of validation shall be final and conclusive with respect to such revenue bonds and the security for the payment thereof and interest thereon and against the authority issuing the same, and if any such counterparty is a party to the validation proceedings, the judgment of validation shall be final and conclusive with respect to such counterparty.
Sec. 9. - Budget and finance.
The authority shall prepare an annual budget and file a copy thereof and any amendments thereto with the clerk of the board of county commissioners of each of the counties.
Sec. 10. - Rules and regulations; bylaws.
The authority may by affirmative vote of a majority of all members adopt rules and regulations or bylaws to govern the authority, its employees, and operations and may by affirmative vote of all members repeal, replace, or amend such rules and regulations or bylaws.
Sec. 11. - Liability limited.
Neither the members of the authority nor any person executing bonds, notes, leases, or other agreements or obligations on behalf of the authority shall be personally liable thereon by reason of such execution.
Sec. 12. - Oversight.
The boards of commissioners of the counties are authorized by and through a committee of their own number or by any one or more persons they may select to inspect at their pleasure the state and condition of the authority, its properties, and all books and records pertaining to the authority and its affairs, and the authority shall give and furnish assistance in making such inspections.
Sec. 13. - Dissolution.
The authority may be dissolved by the General Assembly, provided that all financial obligations of the authority have been paid or assumed by the counties and all other contractual obligations of the authority have been performed or assumed by the counties. Upon such dissolution all property of the authority that is located in a county shall be conveyed to that county, subject to any rights of third parties therein at the time of such conveyance. Should the authority for any reason be dissolved after full payment of all indebtedness incurred under the provisions of this Act, both as to principal and interest, title to all property of any kind and nature, real and personal, held by the authority at the time of such dissolution shall be conveyed to the particular county in which it is located; or title to any such property may be conveyed prior to such dissolution in accordance with provisions which may be made therefor in any resolution or trust instrument relating to such property, subject to any liens, leases, or other encumbrances outstanding against or in respect to said property at the time of such conveyance.
Sec. 14. - No impairment.
While any of the revenue bonds or other obligations issued by the authority remain outstanding, the powers, duties, or existence of said authority or of its officers, employees, or agents shall not be diminished or impaired in any manner that will affect adversely the interest and rights of the holders of such bonds, and no other entity, department, agency, or authority will be created which will compete with the authority to such an extent as to affect adversely the interest and rights of the holders of such bonds, nor will the state itself so compete with the authority. The provisions of this Act shall be for the benefit of the authority and the holders of any such bonds or other obligations and the issuance of bonds or other obligations under the provisions of this Act shall constitute a contract with the holders of such bonds or other obligations.
Sec. 15. - Trust funds.
All funds received pursuant to the authority of this Act whether as proceeds from sale of revenue bonds or other obligations or as revenues, rents, fees, charges, or other earnings or as grants, gifts, or other contributions shall be deemed to be trust funds to be held and applied by the authority solely as provided in this Act, and the bondholders or holders of other obligations that are entitled to receive the benefits of such funds shall have a lien on all such funds until the same are applied as provided for in any such resolution or trust instrument of the authority.
Sec. 16. - Construction.
This Act and any other law enacted with reference to the authority shall be liberally construed for the accomplishment of its purposes.
Sec. 17. - Scope of operation.
The scope of the authority's operation shall be limited to the territory embraced within the counties.
Sec. 18. - Effective date.
This Act shall become effective upon its approval by the Governor or upon its becoming law without such approval.
ARTICLE VI. - SOUTH GEORGIA REGIONAL INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY AUTHORITY[6]

Footnotes:
--- (6) ---
Editor's note— Printed herein is 2007 Ga. Laws (Act No. 353), § 1, p. 4336, which created the authority to provide for communication systems projects in Baker, Calhoun, Early, Miller, and Mitchell counties. Amendments to the act are indicated by parenthetical history notes following amended provisions. The absence of a history note indicates that the provision remains unchanged from the original act. Obvious misspellings have been corrected without notation. Additions made for clarity are indicated by brackets.

Sec. 1. - [Title.]
This Act shall be known and may be cited as the "South Georgia Regional Information Technology Authority Act."
Sec. 2. - [Definitions.]
(a)
As used in this Act, the term:
(1)
"Authority" shall mean the South Georgia Regional Information Technology Authority created by Section 3 of this Act.
(2)
"Cost of the project" means the cost of planning, design, and construction, the cost of all lands, properties, rights, easements, and franchises acquired, the cost of all buildings, machinery and equipment, financing charges, interest prior to and during construction, and for one year after completion of construction, cost of compliance with environmental regulations and environmental protection, cost of engineering, architectural, fiscal, and legal expenses, cost of plans and specifications, and other costs necessary or incident to determining the feasibility or practicability of any project, administrative costs, and such other costs as may be necessary or incident to the financing authorized in this Act, the construction of any project, the placing of the same in operation, and the condemnation of property necessary for such construction and operation. Any obligation or cost incurred for any of the foregoing purposes shall be regarded as a part of the cost of the project and may be paid or reimbursed as such out of the proceeds of revenue bonds, certificates, or other obligations issued under the provisions of this Act for such project.
(3)
"Project" means and includes the planning, design, acquisition, construction, and equipping of communication cables, sleeves, and systems for the distribution and sale of communication services to private and public users and consumers, including but not limited to broadband, Internet, cable television, and associated services to the state, counties, and municipalities, within the territorial boundaries of Baker, Calhoun, Early, Miller, Mitchell, Seminole, and Terrell counties, and additions and improvements to and extensions of such facilities and the operation and maintenance of same.
(4)
"Public authority" means any entity which is created by the laws of the State of Georgia, which is designated as an authority, and which provides services or facilities to the public.
(5)
"Revenue bonds" and "bonds" shall mean revenue bonds, certificates, and other obligations of the authority, as defined and provided for in Article 3 of Chapter 82 of Title 36 of the O.C.G.A., the "Revenue Bond Law," and such type of obligations may be issued by the authority as authorized under said article. In addition, such terms shall also mean obligations of the authority, the issuance of which is specifically provided for in this Act.
(6)
"State" means the State of Georgia.
(b)
Any project shall be deemed self-liquidating if, in the judgment of the authority, the revenues and earnings to be derived by the authority therefrom will be sufficient to pay the costs of operating, maintaining, repairing, improving, and extending the project and to pay the principal and interest of the revenue bonds which may be issued for the cost of such project or projects.
(2010 Ga. Laws (Act 347), § 1, p. 3501)
Sec. 3. - [Created; composition.]
(a)
There is created a body corporate and politic, to be known as the South Georgia Regional Information Technology Authority, which shall be a political subdivision of the state and a public corporation and by that name, style, and title said body may contract and be contracted with, bring and defend actions, sue and be sued, implead and be impleaded, and complain and defend in all courts. The authority shall make rules and regulations for its own government and shall have perpetual existence.
(b)
The authority shall consist of 15 members as follows:
(1)
Two residents of Baker County appointed by the governing authority of Baker County;
(2)
Two residents of Calhoun County appointed by the governing authority of Calhoun County;
(3)
Two residents of Early County appointed by the governing authority of Early County;
(4)
Two residents of Miller County appointed by the governing authority of Miller County;
(5)
Two residents of Mitchell County appointed by the governing authority of Mitchell County;
(5.1)
Two residents of Seminole County appointed by the governing authority of Seminole County;
(5.2)
Two residents of Terrell County appointed by the governing authority of Terrell County; and
(6)
One appointed by the other members of the authority.
Each member shall serve for a four-year term and until a successor is appointed and qualified, except for the members initially appointed as provided by this Act. The initial members appointed under paragraphs (1), (3), and (5) of this subsection shall serve for terms of four years each and until their successors are appointed and qualified. The initial members appointed under paragraphs (5.1) and (5.2) of this subsection shall serve for terms of four years each and until their successors are appointed and qualified. The initial members appointed under paragraphs (2), (4), and (6) of this subsection shall serve for terms of two years each and until their successors are appointed and qualified.
(c)
Any member of the authority may be selected and appointed to succeed himself or herself. Immediately after such appointments and ratification, the members of the authority shall enter upon their duties. Any vacancy on the authority shall be filled by appointment by the entity originally appointing the member whose termination of membership resulted in such vacancy, and the person so appointed and ratified shall serve for the remainder of the unexpired term. The authority shall elect one of its members as chairperson and another as vice chairperson. The authority shall also elect a secretary and a treasurer or a secretary-treasurer, each of which does not necessarily have to be a member of the authority; and if not a member he or she shall have no voting rights. Each member of the authority shall be reimbursed for all actual expenses incurred in the performance of his or her duties.
(d)
A majority of the authority shall constitute a quorum, and any action may be taken by the authority upon the affirmative vote of a majority of a quorum of the members; provided, however, that the approval for the matters set forth in subsection (e) of this section shall require the affirmative vote of at least two-thirds of the members of the authority. No vacancy on the authority shall impair the right of the quorum to exercise all the rights and perform all the duties of the authority.
(e)
The matters requiring the affirmative votes of two-thirds of the members for approval are as follows:
(1)
Amending the bylaws of the authority;
(2)
The purchase, sale, lease, exchange, or other disposition of real property;
(3)
To borrow money; or
(4)
Authorization of projects or undertakings as those terms are defined herein.
(2010 Ga. Laws (Act 347), § 2, p. 3501)
Sec. 4. - [Powers and duties.]
The authority is authorized:
(1)
To have a seal and alter the seal at pleasure;
(2)
To acquire by purchase, lease, or otherwise and to hold, lease, and dispose of real and personal property of every kind and character for its corporate purposes;
(3)
To acquire in its own name by purchase on such terms and conditions and in such manner as it may deem proper, or by condemnation in accordance with the provisions of any and all existing laws applicable to the condemnation of property for public use, real property, rights, or easements therein or franchises necessary or convenient for its corporate purposes, to use the same so long as its corporate existence shall continue, and to lease or make contracts with respect to the use of or to dispose of the same in any manner deemed by the board to be to the best advantage of the authority, the authority being under no obligation to accept and pay for any property condemned under this Act except from the funds provided to the authority under this Act; and in any proceedings to condemn, such orders may be made by the court having jurisdiction of the suit, action, or proceedings as may be just to the authority and to the owners of the property to be condemned; and no property shall be acquired under the provisions of this Act upon which any lien or other encumbrance exists, unless at the time such property is so acquired a sufficient sum of money is deposited in trust to pay and redeem the fair value of such lien or encumbrance. If the authority shall deem it expedient to construct any project on any lands the title to which shall then be in Baker, Calhoun, Early, Miller, Mitchell, Seminole, or Terrell County or in any municipality incorporated in any such county, the governing authority or body of such county or of any of such municipality or of the conservation district is hereby authorized to convey title to such lands to the authority upon payment for the credit of the general funds of such county or municipality the reasonable value of such lands. The authority shall have the nonexclusive right, easement, and franchise of laying communication cables along the highways in Baker, Calhoun, Early, Miller, Mitchell, Seminole, or Terrell County, or in the corporate limits of any municipality incorporated in any such county, without cost; provided, however, that the authority shall repair all damage done by the authority by reason thereof;
(4)
To appoint, select, and employ officers, agents, and employees, including engineering, architectural, construction, and experts, fiscal agents, attorneys, and other professionals and fix their respective compensation;
(5)
To make contracts and leases and to execute all instruments necessary or convenient to carry out the purposes of this Act, including contracts for construction of projects and leases of projects or contracts with respect to the use of projects which it causes to be constructed or acquired, and any and all persons, firms, and corporations and any and all political subdivisions, departments, institutions, or agencies of the state are authorized to enter into contracts, leases, or agreements with the authority upon such terms and for such purposes as they deem advisable; and without limiting the generality of the above, authority is specifically granted to the authority to enter into contracts, lease agreements, or other undertakings relative to the furnishing of services and facilities by the authority to such municipal corporations, counties, political subdivisions, corporations, or individuals for a term not exceeding 50 years;
(6)
To plan, design, construct, erect, acquire, own, lease, repair, remodel, maintain, add to, extend, improve, equip, operate, and manage projects as defined in paragraph (3) of subsection (a) of Section 2 of this Act, the cost of any such project to be paid in whole or in part from the proceeds of revenue bonds of the authority, from revenues available from contracting for services, or from such proceeds and any grant from the United States of America, the State of Georgia, or any agency or instrumentality thereof; provided, however, that in delivering cable service the authority shall comply with applicable provisions of Chapter 90 of Title 36 of the O.C.G.A., the "Local Government Cable Fair Competition Act of 1999";
(7)
To accept loans and grants of money, materials, or property of any kind from the United States of America, the State of Georgia, or any political subdivision, agency, or instrumentality thereof upon such terms and conditions as the United States of America, the State of Georgia, or such political subdivision, agency, or instrumentality may impose;
(8)
To borrow money for any of its corporate purposes by the issuance of promissory notes, lease-purchase agreements, agreements with counties and other governmental bodies, and other contracts; and to provide for the payment of such debt;
(9)
To exercise any power which is usually possessed by private corporations performing similar functions and which is not in conflict with the Constitution and laws of this state;
(10)
To purchase policies of insurance as may be deemed appropriate for its corporate purposes;
(11)
To apply for and accept any and all local, state, or federal permits necessary and convenient for its corporate purposes;
(12)
To appoint a technical advisory group or such other committees as circumstances might require; and
(13)
To do all things necessary or convenient to carry out the powers expressly given in this Act.
(2010 Ga. Laws (Act 347), §§ 3, 4, p. 3501)
Sec. 5. - [Procurement of goods and services.]
The authority shall adopt regulations and requirements for the procurement of goods and services as are reasonable and necessary and consistent with requirements of state law.
Sec. 6. - [Contractor bonds.]
The authority shall adopt regulations and requirements to bonds from contractors who are awarded contracts by the authority as are reasonable and necessary and consistent with requirements of state law.
Sec. 7. - [Revenue bonds—Issuance.]
The authority, or any public authority or body which had or which may in the future succeed to the powers, duties, and liabilities vested in the authority created by this Act, is authorized, at one time or from time to time, to provide by resolution for the issuance of revenue bonds of the authority for the purpose of paying all or any part of the cost of any one or more projects. The principal and interest of such revenue bonds shall be payable solely from the special fund provided in Section 19 of this Act for such payment. The bonds of each issue shall be dated, shall bear interest at such rate or rates, shall be payable, shall mature at such time or times not to exceed 50 years from their date or dates, shall be payable in such medium of payment as to both principal and interest, and may be made redeemable before maturity, at such price or prices, and under such terms and conditions as may be determined by the authority in the resolution providing for the issuance of the bonds.
Sec. 8. - [Same—Form; terms.]
The authority shall determine the form of the bonds and shall fix the interest rates, denomination or denominations of the bonds, and the place or places of payment of principal and interest thereof, which may be at any bank or trust company inside or outside the state. The bonds may be issued in bearer or registered form, or both, as the authority may determine, and provision may be made for the registration of any bond as to principal alone or also as to both the principal and interest.
Sec. 9. - [Same—Signatures and seal.]
All revenue bonds shall bear the manual or facsimile signature of the chairperson of the authority and attested by the manual or facsimile signature of the secretary of the authority and the official seal of the authority or a facsimile thereof shall be affixed thereto, and any coupons attached thereto shall bear the facsimile signatures of the chairperson and secretary of the authority. Any coupon may bear the facsimile signatures of such persons and any bond may be signed, sealed, and attested on behalf of the authority by such person as at the actual time of the execution of such bonds shall be duly authorized or hold the proper office, although at the date of such bonds such persons may not have been so authorized or shall not have held such office. In the event an officer whose signature appears on any bonds or coupon ceases to be such officer before delivery of such bonds, such signature shall nevertheless be valid and sufficient for all purposes the same as if the officer had remained in office until such delivery.
Sec. 10. - [Same—Negotiable instruments.]
All revenue bonds issued under this Act shall have and are declared to have all the qualities and incidents of negotiable instruments under the negotiable instruments law of the state. Such bonds and the income thereof shall be exempt from all taxation within this state.
Sec. 11. - [Same—Sales.]
The authority may sell such bonds in such a manner and for such price as it may determine to be for the best interest of the authority, but no such sale shall be made at a price so low as to require the payment of interest on the money received therefor at a greater rate than the interest allowed by Article 3 of Chapter 82 of Title 36 of the O.C.G.A., the "Revenue Bond Law," computed with relation to the absolute maturity of the bonds in accordance with standard tables of bond values, excluding, however, from such computation the amount of any premium to be paid on redemption of any bond prior to maturity.
Sec. 12. - [Same—Proceeds.]
The proceeds of such bonds shall be used solely for the payment of the cost of the project or projects and, unless otherwise provided in the resolution authorizing the issuance of the bonds or in the trust indenture, additional bonds may be issued in like manner to provide the amount of such deficit, which, unless otherwise provided in the resolution authorizing the issuance of the bonds or in the trust indenture, shall be deemed to be of the same fund without preference or priority of the bonds first issued for the same purpose.
Sec. 13. - [Same—Interim receipts, certificates; temporary bonds.]
Prior to the preparation of definitive bonds, the authority may issue interim receipts, interim certificates, or temporary bonds, with or without coupons exchangeable for definitive bonds upon the issuance of the later.
Sec. 14. - [Same—Replacement of mutilated, lost or destroyed bonds.]
The authority may also provide for the replacement of any bond which shall become mutilated or be destroyed or lost.
Sec. 15. - [Same—Issuance proceedings or conditions; single-issue bonds.]
Such revenue bonds may be issued without any other proceedings or the happening of any other conditions or things than those proceedings, conditions, and things which are specified or required by this Act. In the discretion of the authority, revenue bonds of a single issue may be issued for the purpose of any particular project. Any resolution providing for the issuance of revenue bonds under this Act shall become effective immediately upon its passage and need not be published or posted, and any such resolution may be passed at any regular or special or adjourned meeting of the authority by its board member at any meeting where a quorum is present and voting requirements are met.
Sec. 16. - [Same—Not deemed to constitute debt or obligation.]
Revenue bonds issued under the provisions of this Act shall not be deemed to constitute a debt of this state, or any county or municipality thereof, or any public authority except the authority created by this Act, nor shall such bonds be deemed a pledge of the faith and credit of this state, any county or municipality thereof, or any public authority except the authority created by this Act, but such bonds shall be payable solely from the fund provided for in this Act; and the issuance of such revenue bonds shall not directly, indirectly, or contingently obligate this state, or any county or municipality thereof, to levy or to pledge any form of taxation whatever therefor or to make any appropriation for the payment of such bonds; and all such bonds shall contain recitals on their face covering substantially the foregoing provisions of this section.
Sec. 17. - [Same—Security by resolution or trust indenture.]
In the discretion of the authority, any issue of such revenue bonds may be secured by a resolution or a trust indenture by and between the authority and a corporate trustee, which may be any foreign or domestic trust company or bank having the powers of a trust company. Such resolution or trust indenture may pledge or assign fees, tolls, revenues, and earnings to be received by the authority. Either the resolution providing for the issuance of revenue bonds or such trust indenture may contain such provisions for protecting and enforcing the rights and remedies of the bondholders as may be reasonable and proper and not in violation of law, including covenants setting forth the duties of the authority in relation to the acquisition of property, the construction of the project, the maintenance, operation, repair, and insurance of the project, and the custody, safeguarding, and application of all moneys and may also provide that any project shall be constructed and paid for under the supervision and approval of registered professional consulting engineers of the State of Georgia or architects employed or designated by the authority and satisfactory to the original purchasers of the bonds issued therefor and may also require that the security given by contractors and by any depository of the proceeds of the bonds or revenues or other moneys be satisfactory to such purchasers and may also contain provisions concerning the conditions, if any, upon which additional revenue bonds may be issued. It shall be lawful for any bank or trust company incorporated under the laws of this state to act as such depository and to furnish such indemnifying bonds or pledge such securities as may be required by the board. Such resolution or trust indenture may set forth the rights and remedies of the bondholders and of the trustee and may restrict the individual right of action of bondholders as is customary in resolution or trust indentures securing bonds and debentures of corporations. In addition to the foregoing, such resolution or trust indenture may contain such other provisions as the board may deem reasonable and proper for the security of the bondholders. All expenses incurred in carrying out such resolution or trust indenture may be treated as a part of the cost of maintenance, operation, and repair of the project affected by such indenture.
Sec. 18. - [Same—Trustee, custodian or depository.]
In the resolution providing for the issuance of revenue bonds or in the trust indenture, the authority shall provide for the payment of the proceeds of the sale of the bonds to any officer or person who, or any agency, bank, or trust company which, shall act as trustee, custodian, or depository of such funds and shall hold and apply the same to the purposes for which such bonds were issued, subject to such regulations as this Act and such resolution or trust indenture may provide.
Sec. 19. - [Same—Allocation of fees, earnings and revenues.]
The revenues, fees, and earnings derived from any particular project or projects, regardless of whether or not such fees, earnings, and revenues were produced by a particular project for which bonds have been issued unless otherwise pledged and allocated, may be pledged and allocated by the authority to the payment of the principal and interest on revenue bonds of the authority as the resolution authorizing the issuance of the bonds or the trust instrument may provide; and such funds so pledged from whatever source received, which said pledge may include funds received from one or more or all sources, shall be set aside at regular intervals, as may be provided in the resolution or trust indenture, into a sinking fund, which sinking fund shall be pledged to and charged with the payment of:
(1)
The interest upon such revenue bonds as such interest shall fall due;
(2)
The principal of the bonds as the same shall fall due;
(3)
The necessary charges of paying agents for paying principal and interest; and
(4)
Any premium upon bonds retired by call or purchase as provided in this Act.
The use and disposition of such sinking fund shall be subject to such regulations as may be provided in the resolution authorizing the issuance of the revenue bonds or in the trust indenture, except as may otherwise be provided in such resolution or trust indenture. Such sinking fund shall be a fund for the benefit of all revenue bonds without distinction or priority of one over another. Subject to the provisions of the resolution authorizing the issuance of the bonds or the trust indenture, surplus moneys in the sinking fund may be applied to the purchase or redemption of bonds. Any such bonds so purchased or redeemed shall forthwith be canceled and shall not again be issued.
Sec. 20. - [Same—Protection of rights under state law.]
Any holder of revenue bonds issued under this Act or any coupons appertaining thereto and the trustee under the trust indenture, if any, except to the extent the rights given in this Act may be restricted by the resolution passed before the issuance of the bonds or by the trust indenture, may, either at law or in equity, by suit, action, mandamus, or other proceedings, protect and enforce any and all rights under the laws of the State of Georgia or granted under this Act or under such resolution or trust indenture and may enforce and compel performance of all duties required by this Act or by such resolution or trust indenture, and may enforce and compel performance of all duties required by this Act or by such resolution or trust indenture to be performed by the authority or any officer thereof, including the fixing, charging, and collecting of revenues, fees, tolls, and other charges for the use of the facilities and services furnished.
Sec. 21. - [Same—Funding or refunding.]
The authority is authorized to provide by resolution of its board for the issuance of revenue refunding bonds of the authority for the purpose of funding or refunding any revenue bonds issued under this Act and then outstanding, together with accrued interest and premium, if any, thereon. The issuance of such revenue funding or refunding bonds, the maturities, all other details thereof, the rights of the holders, and the duties of the authority with respect to the same shall be governed by the foregoing provisions of this Act insofar as the same may be applicable.
Sec. 22. - [Suit.]
Any action to protect or enforce any rights under this Act or any suit or action against the authority shall be brought in the Superior Court of Baker, Calhoun, Early, Miller, or Mitchell County, Georgia, and any action pertaining to validation of any bonds issued under this Act shall likewise be brought in said court, which shall have exclusive jurisdiction of such actions.
Sec. 23. - [Confirmation and validation of bonds.]
Bonds of the authority shall be confirmed and validated in accordance with the procedure of Article 3 of Chapter 82 of Title 36 of the O.C.G.A., the "Revenue Bond Law." The petition for validation shall also make a party defendant to such action any municipality, county, public authority, subdivision, or instrumentality of the State of Georgia which has contracted with the authority for furnishing or receiving the services and facilities of the project for which bonds are to be issued and sought to be validated, and such municipality, county, public authority, subdivision, or instrumentality shall be required to show cause, if any, why such contract or contracts and the terms and conditions thereof should not be inquired into by the court, the validity of the terms thereof be determined, and the contract or contracts adjudicated as security for the payment of any such bonds of the authority. The bonds, when validated, and the judgement of validation, shall be final and conclusive with respect to such bonds against the authority issuing the same and any municipality, county, public authority, subdivision, or instrumentality contracting with the authority.
Sec. 24. - [Powers, duties of authority not affected by outstanding bonds.]
While any of the bonds issued by the authority remain outstanding, the powers, duties, or existence of the authority or of its officers, employees, or agents shall not be diminished or impaired in any manner that will affect adversely the interests and right of the holders of such bonds, and no other entity, department, agency, or public authority will be created which will compete with the authority to such an extent as to affect adversely the interests and rights of the holders of such bonds nor will the state itself so compete with the authority. The provisions of this Act shall be for the benefit of the authority and the holders of any such bonds and, upon the issuance of bonds under the provisions of this Act, shall constitute a contract with the holders of such bonds.
Sec. 25. - [Moneys deemed to be trust funds.]
All moneys received by the authority pursuant to this Act, whether as proceeds from the sale of revenue bonds, as grants, or other contributions, or as revenues, fees, and earnings, shall be deemed to be trust funds to be held and applied solely as provided in this Act.
Sec. 26. - [Financial authority.]
The authority is authorized to prescribe, fix, and collect rates, fees, or charges and to revise from time to time and collect such rates, fees, or charges for the services, facilities, or commodities furnished and, in anticipation of the collection of the revenues of such undertaking or project, to pay from current revenues and issue revenue bonds as provided in this Act to finance in whole or in part the cost of the project and to pledge to the punctual payment of said bonds and interest thereon all or any part of the revenues of such undertakings or projects, including the revenues of improvements, betterments, or extensions subsequently made to the system.
Sec. 26A. - No bonds issued after July 1, 2009.
Any other provision of this Act to the contrary notwithstanding, the authority shall not issue any revenue bonds on or after July 1, 2009.
(2009 Ga. Laws (Act No. 287), § 1, p. 4081)
Sec. 27. - [Duty to prescribe rules and regulations for project operation.]
It shall be the duty of the board to prescribe rules and regulations for the operation of the project or projects constructed under the provisions of this Act, including the basis on which communication services and facilities shall be furnished.
Sec. 28. - [Taxes or assessments.]
It is found, determined, and declared that the creation of the authority and the carrying out of its corporate purposes are in all respects for the benefit of the people of this state and constitute a public purpose and that the authority will be performing an essential governmental function in the exercise of the powers conferred upon it by this Act. The authority therefore shall be required to pay no taxes or assessment upon any of the property acquired by it or under its jurisdiction, control, possession, or supervision or upon its activities in the operation or maintenance of the facilities erected, maintained, or acquired by it or any fees, rentals, or other charges for the use of such facilities or other income received by the authority.
Sec. 29. - [Supplemental, additional powers.]
The foregoing sections of this Act shall be deemed to provide an additional and alternative method for doing the things authorized thereby, shall be regarded as supplemental and additional to powers conferred by other laws, and shall not be regarded as being in derogation of any powers now existing.
Sec. 30. - [Liberal construction of Act.]
This Act, being for the welfare of various political subdivisions of the state and its inhabitants, shall be liberally construed to effect the purposes hereof.
Sec. 31. - [County or municipal authority.]
This Act does not in any way take from Baker, Calhoun, Early, Miller, Mitchell, Seminole, or Terrell County or any municipality located within any such county the power to own, operate, and maintain communications systems or issue revenue certificates as is provided by Article 3 of Chapter 82 of Title 36 of the O.C.G.A., the Revenue Bond Law.
The authority shall be immune and exempt from liability for torts and negligence to the same extent as Baker, Calhoun, Early, Miller, Mitchell, Seminole, and Terrell counties; and the officers, agents, and employees of the authority, when in the performance of the work of the authority, shall be immune and exempt from liability for torts and negligence to the same extent as employees of such counties.
(2010 Ga. Laws (Act 347), §§ 5, 6, p. 3501)
Sec. 32. - [Reserved.]
Sec. 33. - [Conflict; repeal.]
All laws and parts of laws in conflict with this Act are repealed.
