PART III - APPENDICES
Appendix A - ZONING[1]

Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Editor's note— The zoning and subdivision ordinances are published as separate documents and are on file in the city offices. The Zoning Ordinance No. 2-89, prepared in cooperation with South Georgia Area Planning and Development Commission, adopted July 13, 1989, as amended through March 5, 2009 is printed herein. All amendments to the original material is indicated by history notes in parenthesis at the end of the affected section. The absence of such a history note indicates that the material remains substantially unchanged from the original. Obvious misspellings have been corrected without notation. Punctuation and capitalization have been made consistent within the ordinance. Changes for clarity have been indicated in brackets [ ].

Sec. 1. - Enactment, short title, jurisdiction, purpose.
1-1.
Enactment Clause. The City Council of the City of Hahira, under the authority of Article IX, section II, Paragraphs II and IV of the Constitution of the State of Georgia and the amendments thereto, hereby ordains and enacts into law the following sections.
1-2.
Title. This ordinance shall be known and may be cited as the "Zoning Ordinance for the City of Hahira, Georgia."
1-3.
Jurisdiction. This ordinance shall govern the use of all land and the development thereof within the corporate limits of the City of Hahira, Georgia.
1-4.
Purpose. The purpose of this ordinance shall be to promote the proper location, height, bulk, number of stories and size of open spaces, the density and distribution of population, and the uses of building, structures, and land for trade, industry, residence, recreation, agriculture, forestry, conservation, sanitation, protection against floods, public activities, and other purposes so as to lessen congestion in the streets; to secure safety from fire, panic, and other dangers; to promote the public health and the general welfare; to provide adequate light and air; to prevent the overcrowding of land; to avoid undue concentration of population, to prevent urban sprawl; to facilitate the adequate provision of transportation, water, sewerage, schools, parks, and other public requirements; to promote desirable living conditions and the sustained stability of neighborhoods; to protect property against blight and depreciation; to secure economy in governmental expenditures; to conserve the value of buildings and to encourage the most appropriate use of land, buildings, and structures throughout the City of Hahira; and for other purposes.
Sec. 2. - Definitions.
For the purposes of interpreting this ordinance, certain terms or words used herein are defined. All other words in this ordinance shall carry their customary meaning.
2-1.
Interpretation of Certain Terms and Words. Words used in the present tense include the future tense. Words used in the singular include the plural, and words used in the plural include the singular.
The word "person" includes a firm, partnership, company, corporation, association, or trust.
The word "lot" includes the word "plot" or "parcel."
The word "building" includes the word "structure."
The word "shall" is always mandatory, and not merely directory. The word "may" is always construed to be permissive.
The word "used" or "occupied" as applied to any land or building shall be construed to include the words "intended, arranged, or designed to be used or occupied."
2-1.5.
Abandoned Sign. A sign and/or sign structure which no longer correctly directs or exhorts any person, or advertises a bona fide business, lessor, owner, product, service, or activity available on or off the premises where such sign and/or sign structure is located. Off-premise signs with content denoting availability of advertising space are not considered abandoned.
2-2.
Accessory Building. A detached, subordinate structure, the use of which is clearly incidental to, customarily associated with, and related to the principal structure or use of the land; and which is located on the same lot as the principal structure or use, including residential swimming pools.
2-3.
Accessory Uses. A use customarily incidental and subordinate to the principal use of buildings and located on the same lot with such principal use of building.
2-4.
Administrator, Zoning. The person, officer, or official and his duly authorized representative(s), whom the City Council has designated as its agent for the administration of this ordinance. (See section 11-1.)
2-5.
Alteration of Building. Any change in the supporting members of a building (such as bearing walls, beams, columns, girders) except such changes as may be required for its safety; an addition to a building; any change in use from that of one district classification to another; or of a building from one location to another.
2-6.
Agriculture. Agriculture shall be considered to mean the raising of soil crops and/or livestock in a customary manner on tracts of land more than five acres in size and shall include all normal forestry and related activities.
2-7.
Boarding or Rooming House. A building dedicated to the lodging or feeding or both of non-transient persons or separate families as defined herein for compensation.
2-8.
Buffer Area; Buffer Strip. A landscaped open area and/or screened area designed to separate incompatible uses.
2-9.
Building. Any structure, including mobile homes as defined herein, but not including accessory trailers, which has a roof and which is for the shelter, support or enclosure of persons, animals, or property of any kind.
2-10.
Building Height. The vertical distance of a building measured from the average elevation of the finished lot grade along the front of the building to the highest point of the building.
2-11.
Club, or Lodge, Private. An incorporated or unincorporated association for civic, social, cultural, religious, fraternal, literary, political, recreational, or like activities, operated for the benefit of its members and not open to the general public.
2-12.
Care Home. An orphanage, rest home, nursing home, convalescent home, or similar use established to render domiciliary care, but not including facilities for the care of mental patients, alcoholics, drug addicts and not including nursery schools.
2-13.
Curb Cut. The providing of ingress and/or egress between property and an abutting public street.
2-14.
Density. The overall intensity of land use for the total project. When referring to residential areas, density is defined as the number of housing units permitted per acre in the respective zoning district involved in accordance with the terms of this zoning ordinance or as authorized under the development standards of this ordinance.
2-15.
Dwelling, Single-Family. A detached building used and either designed or constructed for one dwelling unit.
2-16.
Dwelling, Mobile Home. Mobile home (or manufactured home) is a detached structure transportable in one or more sections, which is built on a permanent chassis and designed to be used as a dwelling unit with or without a permanent foundation when connected to the required utilities and includes the plumbing, heating, air conditioning, and electrical systems contained therein.
2-17.
Dwelling, Two-Family, or Duplex. A building either designed, constructed, altered, or used for two adjoining dwelling units that are connected by a fire rated common wall and/or if two stories in height by a fire rated common floor.
2-18.
Dwelling, Multifamily. A building either designed, constructed, altered, or used for more than two adjoining dwelling units, with each dwelling unit having a party wall or party floor connecting it to at least one other dwelling unit in the building. This includes apartments, condominiums, or any other type of Multifamily structure.
2-19.
Dwelling Unit. An enclosure of one or more rooms, including kitchen and bathroom facilities, designed or constructed as a unit for residential occupancy by one family.
2-20.
Family. One or more persons occupying a premises and living as a single housekeeping unit, as distinguished from a group occupying a boarding house, lodging house, hotel, or fraternity or sorority house.
2-21.
Farmer's Market. A public marketplace, designed to serve area farmers, where provisions are sold at retail and wholesale.
2-22.
Floor Area, Gross. The total number of square feet of floor area in a building determined by horizontal measurements between the exterior faces of walls, excluding basement areas, attics, porches, carports, and garages.
2-23.
Health Officer. The legally designated health authority or his authorized representative of the City of Hahira.
2-24.
Home Occupation. An occupation for gain or support customarily conducted on the premises by a person or family residing therein. (See section 9-1.)
2-25.
Hospital. Any institution receiving in-patients, or a public institution receiving out-patients, and authorized under Georgia law to render medical, surgical, and/or obstetrical care. The term "hospital" shall include a sanitarium for the treatment and care of senile psychotics or drug addicts.
2-25A
Ice Cream Truck. A motor vehicle utilized as the point of retail sales of pre-wrapped or prepackaged ice cream, frozen yogurt, frozen custard, flavored frozen water or similar frozen dessert products operating on public ways within residential zoning districts in the city.
2-26.
Junk Yard. Use of property for outdoor storage, keeping, abandonment, sale, or resale of junk including scrap metal, rags, paper or other scrap materials, used lumber, salvaged house wrecking, and structural steel materials and equipment, or for the dismantling, demolition, or abandonment of automobiles or other vehicles or machinery or parts thereof.
2-26.1.
Storage Area. Property and/or buildings used for the permanent or temporary storage of inoperable vehicles, machinery or other equipment or materials awaiting salvage, restoration, or sale, but not including exterior displays of new or used merchandise in operable condition for retail or wholesale distribution.
2-27.
Kennels. The housing of four or more dogs and other animals for commercial purposes.
2-28.
Lot. A lot of record, held in a single ownership by one person, or in common ownership by more than one, which has both lot area and lot dimensions equal to or greater than the lot width and lot area requirements established by this ordinance for the zoning district in which such tract of land is located and for the use proposed for the tract of land.
2-29.
Lot, Corner. A lot having frontage on two or more public streets at their intersection.
2-30.
Lot of Record. A lot which is part of a subdivision recorded in the office of the Clerk of the Superior Court of Lowndes County, or a parcel described by metes and bounds, the description of which has been so recorded prior to the adoption of this ordinance.
2-31.
Lot, Through. A lot other than a corner lot, having frontage on more than one street; or a corner lot having frontage on three or more streets.
2-32.
Lot Width. The distance between the side lot lines, measured along the front yard setback line as established by this ordinance, or if no setback line is established, the horizontal distance between the side lot lines measured along the street right-of-way line.
2-32.1.
Maintenance. All signs and required signage landscaping shall be maintained as follows:
1.
Signs shall be kept clean, neatly painted, and maintained at all times so as not to be detrimental to public health and safety. This includes but is not limited to keeping the sign free from faulty wiring, loose fastenings, and sharp or otherwise dangerous protrusions.
2.
No trash or rubbish shall be allowed to accumulate in the area around a sign and all weeds shall be kept out. If required landscaping dies, it shall be replaced no later than 30 days after written notification from a designated official of the city.
3.
Removal of abandoned signs. Any abandoned signs and/or sign structures shall be removed by the property owner or sign owner no later than 30 days after written notification from the Building Official or other designated official of the city. If the property owner or sign owner fails to comply within 30 days after written notification, the city may cause the removal of the sign at the property owner's or sign owner's expense.
2-33.
Non-conforming Use. A building, structure, or use of land existing at the time of enactment of this ordinance which does not conform to the regulations of the district in which it is located.
2-34.
Nursery School. An agency, organization, or individual providing daytime care of six or more children not related by blood or marriage or not the legal wards or foster children of the attendant adult.
2-35.
Open Space. That required portion of a lot at ground level, unoccupied by enclosed buildings and available to all occupants of the project. This space shall not be devoted to driveways or off-street parking but shall be usable for green space, recreational use and other leisure activities normally carried on outdoors.
2-36.
Permit. Written authorization issued by the Zoning Administrator with the approval of the Health Officer, permitting the construction or installation of any use allowed under this ordinance.
2-37.
Personal Care Home. A building or group of buildings, a facility or place in which is provided two or more beds and other facilities and services, including room, meals and personal care for non-family ambulatory adults for compensation.
2-37.1.
Family Personal Care Home means a home for adults in a family-type residence, noninstitutional in character, which offers care to two through six persons.
2-37.2.
Group Personal Care Home means a home for adult persons in a residence or other type building(s), noninstitutional in character, which offers care to seven through 15 persons.
2-37.3.
Congregate Personal Care Home means a home for adults which offers care to 16 or more persons.
2-38.
Planning Commission. As utilized in this ordinance, the Planning Commission shall mean the Greater Lowndes County Planning Commission as duly appointed by the Hahira City Council.
2-39.
Principal Building. The building containing or to contain the principal use of a lot.
2-40.
Principal Use. The principal purpose for which a lot or the main building thereon is designed, arranged, or intended, and for which it is or may be used, occupied, or maintained.
2-41.
Public Street. Right-of-way dedicated to the city, county, state or federal government, or owned by the city, county, state or federal government for public street purposes.
2-42.
Setback. The shortest distance between the centerline of a street and the principal building or structure on a lot.
2-43.
Shopping Center. Two or more commercial establishments planned and managed as a single unit with off-street parking and loading facilities provided on the property.
2-44.
Sign. Any surface, fabric, or device bearing lettered, pictorial, or sculptured matter designed to convey information visually and exposed to public view; or any structure (including billboard or poster panel) designed to carry the above visual information.
2-44.1.
Advertising Separate Use Sign. A sign which directs attention to a business, commodity, service, or entertainment conducted, sold, or offered only elsewhere than upon the premises where the sign is displayed.
2-44.2.
Advertising Incidental Use Sign. A sign which directs attention to a business, commodity, service or entertainment conducted, sold, or offered as a minor and incidental activity upon the premises where the sign is displayed.
2-44.3.
Bulletin Board. A sign used to announce meetings or programs to be held on the premises of a church, community recreation center, school, auditorium, library, museum, or similar non-commercial places of public assembly.
2-44.4.
Identification Sign. A sign used to identify only the name of the individual, family, organization, or enterprise occupying the premises.
2-44.5.
Point of Business Sign. A sign which directs attention to a business, profession, or industry located upon the premises where the sign is displayed, to a type of product sold, manufactured, or assembled, and/or to a service or entertainment offered on said premises, but not a sign pertaining to the preceding if such activity is only minor and incidental to the principal use of the premises.
2-44.6.
Temporary Sign. Any sign, banner, pennant, or advertising display constructed of cloth, cardboard, wall board or other light materials, with or without frames. This definition includes portable display signs (mobile trailer signs for use with or without changeable letters.)
2-45.
Special Exception. A special exception is a use which within certain districts specified by this ordinance is not permitted as a matter of right but may be permitted within these districts by the Board of Appeals.
2-46.
Structure. Anything constructed or erected with a fixed location on or in the ground, or attached to something having a fixed location on the ground. Among other things, structures include buildings, mobile homes, signs, swimming pools, and fall-out shelters but does not include walls or fences.
2-47.
Tourist Home. A dwelling in which sleeping accommodations are provided for transient visitors for compensation.
2-48.
Trailer, Travel Type. A vehicular portable structure designed as a temporary dwelling for travel, recreation, and vacation uses, which is identified on the unit by the manufacturer as a "camper" or "travel" trailer.
2-49.
Variance. A variance is a relaxation of the dimensional and development standards of the zoning ordinance that will not be contrary to the public interest and where, owing to conditions peculiar to the property and not the result of the intentional actions of the applicant, a literal enforcement of the dimensional and developmental standards of this ordinance would result in unnecessary and undue hardship.
2-50.
Yard, Front. That area of a lot lying between the abutting street right-of-way line and the principal building of the lot and extending across the front of a lot from side lot line to side lot line. (See illustration, page [section] 7A.)
2-51.
Yard, Rear. That area of a lot extending across the rear of a lot from side lot line to side lot line and lying between the rear lot line and the principal building on the lot. (See illustration, page [section] 7A.)
2-52.
Yard, Side. That area of a lot between the side lot line and the principal building on the lot extending from the front yard to the rear yard. (See illustration, page [section] 7A.)
(Ord. No. 89-01, 3-5-2009; Ord. No. 2018-05-03, § I, 5-3-2018)
Sec. 3. - General provisions.
3-1.
Interpretation and Application. In interpreting and applying this ordinance, the requirements contained herein are declared to be the minimum requirements necessary to carry out the purposes of this ordinance. Except as hereinafter provided, this ordinance shall not be deemed to interfere with, abrogate, annul, or otherwise affect in any manner whatsoever any easements, covenants, or otherwise agreements between parties. Whenever the provisions of this ordinance impose greater restrictions upon the use of land or buildings, or upon the height of buildings, or require a larger percentage of a lot to be left unoccupied than the provisions of other ordinances, rules, regulations or permits, or any easements, covenants or other agreements between parties, then the provisions of this ordinance shall govern.
3-2.
Zoning Affects All Land and Buildings. No buildings, structures, or land shall be used or occupied; and no building, structure, or part thereof shall be erected, constructed, reconstructed, moved, enlarged, or structurally altered unless in conformity with the requirements of this ordinance.
3-3.
Every Use Must Be Upon a Lot. No building or structure may be erected or use established unless upon a lot as defined by this ordinance.
3-4.
Only One Principal Building per Lot. Except as herein provided, (see section 9-2), there shall be no more than one principal building or structure upon any lot in any residential district.
3-5.
Open Space Not to Be Encroached Upon. No open space shall be encroached upon or reduced in any manner except in conformity to the yard, setback, off-street parking space requirements, and such other requirements dictated by this ordinance for the district in which such building is located. Shrubbery, driveways, retaining walls, fences, curbs, and planted buffer strips shall be interpreted not to be encroachments of yards.
3-6.
Required Open Space May Not Be Used by Another Building. No part of any yard, other open space, or off-street parking or loading space required in connection with any building, structure, or use by this ordinance shall be considered to be part of a required yard, or other open space, or off-street parking or loading space for any other building, structure, or use except as provided in section 7.
3-7.
Reduction of Yards or Lot Area. Except as provided in section 3-21, no lot existing at the time of passage of this ordinance shall be reduced, divided, or changed so as to produce a tract of land which does not comply with the minimum dimension or area requirements of this ordinance for the district in which it is located unless said reduction or division is necessary to provide land that is needed and accepted for public use.
3-8.
Encroachment on Public Rights-of-Way. No building, structure, service area, or required off-street parking and loading facility, except driveways, shall be permitted to encroach on public rights-of-way.
3-9.
Location of Accessory Buildings or Uses. Accessory buildings on residential lots, when located within a front or side yard, shall be located no closer to property lines than would be allowed for a principal building. Within a rear yard, an accessory building on a residential lot shall be located at least five feet from all property lines and, except that in the case of corner lots, accessory buildings shall be set back from the centerline of an abutting street right-of-way a distance equal to three-fourths the front yard setback established for the zoning district in which the accessory buildings are located. In the case of a through lot, accessory buildings shall conform to front yard setbacks on both streets. Accessory buildings or uses on nonresidential lots shall comply with front, side, and rear yard requirements established for the zoning district in which such buildings or uses are located.
3-9.1.
Accessory Building on Separate Lot. An accessory building may be permitted, as a Special Exception by the Board of Appeals, on a separate lot from the lot of the principal building provided that: (a) the lot upon which the accessory building is to be located shall be within 400 feet of the principal use; and (b) all requirements, including use restrictions, established for the zoning district in which such accessory building is to be located shall be complied with; and (c) any structure or building erected shall meet the requirements of the Hahira Building Code and shall be approved by the building inspector. In addition to the above requirements, the Board of Appeals may require design features such as buffer strips, screening, etc., as may be found necessary to protect the purposes of this ordinance.
3-9.2.
Swimming Pools. Swimming pools accessory to residences or commercial uses shall be enclosed by a steel mesh security fence or other substantial building material affording equal or better access control. Said fence shall have a minimum height of four feet.
3-9.3.
Separation from Principal Use. Any accessory building of more than eight feet in height shall be located at least ten feet from the principal building.
3-10.
Every Lot Shall Abut a Street. No building shall hereafter be erected on a lot which does not have at least 50 feet of frontage on a publicly dedicated, accepted and maintained street.
3-11.
Uses Prohibited. If either a use or class of use is not specifically indicated as being permitted in a district, either as a matter of right, or as a Special Exception, then such use, class of use, or structures for such uses, shall be prohibited in such district.
3-12.
Zoning to Apply When Lot is Divided by District Boundary Line. In the event that a district boundary line on the zoning map divides a lot of record held in one ownership on the date of passage of this ordinance, each part of the lot so divided shall be used in conformity with the requirements established by this ordinance for the district in which such parcel is located; except, however, that if the property owner of such a lot so desires, he may extend a use allowed on either portion of said lot 50 feet beyond the district boundary line in accordance with setbacks and yard requirements of the district into which he is encroaching.
3-13.
Required Buffers in CN, CH, CBD, M-1 and M-2 Districts. In a CN, C-B-D, CH, M-1 and M-2 zoning district, where a lot abuts any residential district, a six foot wide buffer the entire length of the lot abutting the residential property shall be provided with screening as specified in section 3-15. Off-street parking associated with such uses shall be governed by this same provision.
3-14.
Screening of Service Areas Within 150 Feet of Public Street. Any service area, loading area, refuse, or storage area associated with a principal building and being visible from a public street and lying within 150 feet of said street shall be screened from view from the public street as specified in section 3-15.
3-15.
Screening Required. Wherever screening is required by this ordinance, a durable masonry wall, or fence and hedge of sufficient opacity to provide a visual blind, designed to be compatible with the character of adjoining properties, shall be provided and maintained by the owner or his successors and assigns. Such fences and walls shall be at least six feet in height, but no greater than eight feet in height, measured from the ground along the common lot line of the adjoining properties. Hedges or comparable natural plantings shall be of such variety that an average height of at least six feet could be expected by normal growth within no later than three years from the time of planting. The owner/developer shall install the screening prior to issuance of the certificate of occupancy. Occupancy will not be allowed until the screening is completed as a part of the normal development requirements.
3-16.
Side and Rear Yards Not Required Next to Railroad. Within any nonresidential district, side yards and rear yards shall not be required adjacent to railroad rights-of-way.
3-17.
Substandard Lots of Record. Any lot of record existing at the time of the adoption of this ordinance, which has an area or a width which is less than required by this ordinance, shall be subject to the following exceptions and modifications:
3-17.1.
Lot Not Meeting Minimum Lot Size Requirements. In any district, any lot of record existing at the time of the adoption of this ordinance which has an area or a width which is less than that required by this ordinance may be used as a building site for a structure or other use permitted in that zone; provided, however, that the same yard, setback, open space, and other dimensional requirements are met that would be required for a standard lot.
3-18.
Permitted Modification of Front Yard Setback Requirement. When a building is proposed on a lot and when on either or both lots which adjoin such lot at the street right-of-way line there exists a principal building which does not conform to the setback requirements of this ordinance, the required setback for such building shall be as follows: (1) where only one said adjoining lot contains a principal building with a non-conforming setback the setback shall be the computed average of (a) the normal setback requirement with (b) the non-conforming setback, or (2) where both adjoining lots contain a principal building each with a non-conforming setback, the minimum setback shall be the computed average of the two non-conforming setbacks.
3-19.
Structures Permitted Above the Height Limit. The height limits of this ordinance shall not apply to a church spire, belfry, cupola, dome, or ornamental tower not intended for human occupancy, monument, water tower, observation tower, transmission tower, chimney, smoke stack, conveyor, flag pole, radio or television tower, mast or aerial, parapet wall not extending more than four feet above the roof line of the building, and necessary mechanical appurtenances.
3-20.
Permitted Encroachments of Yards and Setbacks. Architectural features such as cornices, eaves, steps, gutters, and fire escapes may project not more than three feet beyond any required setback line, except where such projections would obstruct driveways: provided, however, that in the case of automobile service stations, motels, and similar uses which serve the motoring public, canopies shall be allowed over a driveway or walkways within the front yard not to extend from the principal building to a point any closer than 15 feet from the street right-of-way line.
3-21.
Modification of Side Yard Requirements. When a lot of record has a width less than the frontage required in the district in which it is located, then the Zoning Administrator shall be authorized to reduce the side yard requirements for such lot; provided, however, that there shall not be less than a eight foot side yard.
3-22.
Zoning of Annexed Area. Areas annexed to the City of Hahira subsequent to the adoption of this ordinance shall be subject to this ordinance as is all land area currently located in the corporate limits of the city. It is required that the annexation petition be accompanied by the petitioner's request for the city to assign a zoning designation to the property to be annexed and consideration of such property for initial City of Hahira zoning designation shall be subject to the normal amendatory requirements of this ordinance, including the normal public hearing requirements.
Sec. 4. - Zoning districts, official zoning map and major thoroughfare plan.
4-1.
Establishment of Districts. In order that the purposes of this ordinance as defined in section 1 may be accomplished, there are hereby established within the City of Hahira zoning districts identified as follows:
4-1.1.
R-15 Single-Family Residential. The purpose of this district is to provide single-family residential areas with minimum lot sizes of 15,000 square feet, said areas being protected from the depreciating effects of smaller lot development and excessive density and from the encroachment of these uses which are incompatible to a desirable residential environment.
4-1.2.
R-10 Single-Family Residential. The purpose of this district is to provide single-family residential areas with minimum lot sizes of 10,000 square feet, said areas being protected from the depreciating effects of smaller lot development and excessive density and from the encroachment of those uses which are incompatible to a desirable residential environment.
4-1.3.
R-6 Single-Family Residential. The purpose of this district is to provide residential areas with minimum lot sizes of 6,000 square feet, said areas being protected from the depreciating effects of smaller lot development and excessive density and from the encroachment of those uses which are incompatible to a desirable residential environment.
4-1.4.
R-6-M Residential. The purpose of this district is to create an area that, in addition to one, two and Multifamily housing, allows mobile homes as a matter of right in a conventional subdivision. Lots in this district must have a minimum of 6,000 square feet. These districts shall be protected from the encroachment of incompatible uses which are detrimental to a sound residential environment.
4-1.5.
MHP Mobile Home Park. The purpose of this district is to provide for the development of property that is located and planned for mobile home use. Property developed in this district is to remain under single ownership for rental purposes only. Mobile home parks shall be developed only in strict accordance with the Mobile Home Park provisions of this ordinance.
4-1.6.
RP Residential-Professional. The purpose of this district shall be to create an area in which residential, professional, educational, and institutional uses can be compatibly mixed while maintaining a healthful living environment for the residents of the district and at the same time preventing the development of blight and slum conditions. The minimum lot size in this district shall be 6,000 square feet.
4-1.7.
C-N Neighborhood Commercial. The purpose of this district shall be to provide and protect convenient areas for neighborhood shopping facilities consisting of neighborhood oriented sales and services.
4-1.8.
C-H Highway Commercial. The purpose of this district shall be to provide for and encourage the proper grouping and development of uses which include a wide variety of sales and services that will best accommodate the needs of the city and the traveling public in order to reduce highway traffic congestion, traffic hazards, and blight along the public streets of the city.
4-1.9.
C-B-D Central Business District. The purpose of this district shall be to accommodate development which will include a wide variety of sales which locate in the city's historical Central Business District. Due to the unique design of this district to serve the special needs of the city's historical central business district, applications for this zoning designation will not be accepted.
4-1.10.
M-1 Light Manufacturing. The purpose of this district shall be to provide and protect areas for those wholesale and light industrial uses which do not create excessive noise, odor, smoke, dust, and which do not possess other objectionable characteristics which might be detrimental to surrounding neighborhoods, or to the other uses permitted in the district.
4-1.11.
M-2 Heavy Manufacturing. The purpose of this district shall be to provide and protect areas for those industrial uses which cannot comply with the requirements of the M-1 district.
4-2.
Official Zoning Map and Major Thoroughfare Plan.
The boundaries of each zoning district are shown on a map entitled "Official Zoning Map, City of Hahira, Georgia." The classification of streets (local and collector streets and principal and minor arterials) within Hahira, Georgia are shown on a map entitled "Major Thoroughfare Plan, City of Hahira, Georgia." Both maps shall be dated and certified by the Mayor and the city Clerk, and said maps and all explanatory matter thereon accompanies and is hereby made a part of this ordinance.
Accurate copies of the "Official Zoning Map, City of Hahira, Georgia" and the "Major Thoroughfare Plan, City of Hahira, Georgia," shall be on file in the office of the Zoning Administrator at all times. Said map shall accurately show all map amendments made in accordance with the provisions of this ordinance. It shall be the duty of the Zoning Administrator to ensure that the "Official Zoning Map, City of Hahira, Georgia" and the "Major Thoroughfare Plan, City of Hahira, Georgia," displayed in his office are kept up-to-date and accurately show all amendments.
4-3.
Interpretation of Zoning District Boundaries. When uncertainty exists with respect to the location of boundaries of any zoning district as shown on the "Official Zoning Map, City of Hahira, Georgia," the following rules shall apply:
4-3.1.
Unless otherwise specifically indicated, where district boundaries are indicated on the zoning map as approximately following the centerline of a street right-of-way, highway, railroad right-of-way line, stream bed, or river bed; such centerlines shall be interpreted to be such district boundaries.
4-3.2.
Boundaries indicated as approximately following platted lot lines shall be interpreted as following such lot lines.
4-3.3.
Where district boundaries are indicated on the zoning map as approximately following the corporate limit lines, then such corporate limit lines shall be interpreted to be such district boundaries.
4-3.4.
Where district boundaries are indicated on the zoning map as being set back from the centerline of a street right-of-way, road, highway, railroad, stream, or river, and parallel thereto, then such district boundaries, unless otherwise specifically indicated, shall be interpreted as being at the scaled distance from the centerline of such street, road, highway, railroad, stream, or river as being parallel thereto.
Sec. 5. - Schedule of permitted uses.
5-1.
Table of Permitted Uses. Within the various zoning districts as indicated on the "Official Zoning Map, City of Hahira, Georgia," no building, structure, or land shall be constructed, erected, altered, or used except as indicated in the following schedules:
5-1.1.
Uses Permitted by Right. Uses permitted as a matter of right are indicated on the following schedule by the letter "X" in the appropriate column.
5-1.2.
Special Exception. Uses permitted only after special review and approved by the Board of Appeals are indicated on the following schedule by the letters "SE" in the appropriate column.
5-1.3.
Uses Not Allowed. Uses not specifically designated by an "X" or "SE" within the appropriate column are not allowed within the district.
5-1.4.
Conflict of Use Interpretation. In the event of a discrepancy between the various provisions of this ordinance as relates to a particular use of land being allowed in a particular zoning district, section 5, Schedule of Permitted Uses, shall govern.
5-1.1.5.
Uses permitted by administrative permit. Uses permitted after issuance of an administrative permit (see section 11-4-4.5) are indicated on the following schedule by the letters "AP" in the appropriate column.
(Ord. No. 2018-05-03, § II, 5-3-2018)
EXPAND
RESIDENTIAL AND RELATED USES R-15 R-10 R-6 R-6-M MHP R-P C-N C-H CBD M-1 M-2
1. ACCESSORY BUILDINGS OR USES X X X X X X X X X X
2. ANIMALS, keeping of pets indoors, provided that the principal building is used to house said pets and no outside enclosure is used. X X X X X X X X X X X
3. ANIMALS, keeping of horses, dogs and cats. (see section 9-4) X X X X X X X X X X
4. BOARDING OR ROOMING HOUSE (Including bed and breakfast) SE X X X
5. CHURCH OR OTHER PLACE OF WORSHIP AND ACCESSORY USES (see section 9-5) X X X X X X X
6. DWELLING, SINGLE FAMILY DETACHED X X X X X SE
7. DWELLING, TWO FAMILY (DUPLEX) SE X X X SE
8. DWELLING, MULTIFAMILY SE X X SE
9. FAMILY PERSONAL CARE HOME X X X X
10. GROUP PERSONAL CARE HOME (see section 9-6) SE X X SE
11. FRATERNITIES AND SORORITIES (see section 9-7) SE SE SE SE
12. GARAGE APARTMENT (see section 9-8) X X X
13. GUEST QUARTERS OR SERVANT'S QUARTERS (see section 9-9) X X X X X
14. HOME OCCUPATION (see section 9-1) SE SE SE SE SE X X X X X X
15. MOBILE HOME, NOT IN MOBILE HOME PARK (see section 9-10) X
16. MOBILE HOME PARK (see section 9-3) X
17. PUBLIC OWNED RECREATION CENTERS, Y.M.C.A. AND INSTITUTIONS OF A SIMILAR NATURE SE SE X X X SE
18. SCHOOLS, ELEMENTARY, JUNIOR AND SENIOR PUBLIC OR PRIVATE SE SE SE SE SE SE SE
19. SCHOOLS, KINDERGARTENS, NURSERIES, AND DAY CARE CENTERS (see section 9-11) SE SE X X X
20. TOURIST HOMES (Including bed breakfast) SE X X X SE SE SE
21. TRAVEL TRAILER PARK, (COMMERCIAL) (see section 9-12) X X
BUSINESS USES
22. ACCESSORY BUILDINGS OR USES X X X X X X
23. AMBULANCE SERVICE OR RESCUE SQUAD - PRIVATE SE X X X X X
24. AMUSEMENT OR RECREATIONAL ACTIVITIES - COMMERCIAL, carried on outside a building such as a golf or base-ball driving range, miniature golf course, softball field, and uses of a similar nature. X X X X
25. AMUSEMENT OR RECREATIONAL ACTIVITIES - COMMERCIAL, carried on wholly within a building, such as cinema, theater, auditorium, and uses of a similar nature. X X X
26. ANIMAL HOSPITAL - COMMERCIAL KENNELS, VETERINARY CLINIC OR ANIMAL BOARDING PLACE, located at least 300 feet from the nearest residential district. X X X X
27. ART STUDIO SE X X X X
28. AUTOMOBILE SERVICE STATION, provided that major auto repair shall not be permitted, nor shall there be outside storage of materials or equipment other than merchandise offered for sale in other than M-1 or M-2 districts. X X X
29. AUTOMOBILE, TRUCK, FARM EQUIPMENT, OR MOTORCYCLE SALES, REPAIR, OR UPHOLSTERY, AUTO WASHERTERIA, OR PAINT SHOPS (including rebuilding of parts or sales of parts and equipment, indoors only, no outside storage of equipment or parts except for M-1 and M-2 districts). X X X
30. AUTOMOBILE PARKING LOT OR PARKING GARAGE - COMMERCIAL X X X X
30A. AUTOMOBILE RENTAL ESTABLISHMENT X X X
31. BAIT AND TACKLE STORE X X X X
32. BANKS, FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS, AND OFFICES not specifically listed elsewhere in this column. SE X X X
33. BOOK BINDING, PRINTING, ENGRAVING, BLUEPRINTING, PHOTOSTATING, OR LETTER SHOP X X X X
34. BUILDING CONTRACTOR AND RELATED ACTIVITIES AND STORAGE OF BUILDING SUPPLIES AND MATERIALS (see section 9-13) X X X
35. BUSINESS SCHOOLS X X SE SE
36. CLOTHING AND DRY GOODS STORES, including shoe stores, men's shops, women's shops, variety stores and stores of a similar nature. X X X
37. CLUBS OR LODGES (PRIVATE) SE SE X X
38. PUBLIC COLLEGE AND UNIVERSITIES, including dormitories and fraternity or sorority houses if located on main campus. SE SE
39. CULTURAL FACILITIES, libraries, museums, and similar facilities. SE X X X SE SE
40. DANCE SCHOOL OR STUDIO SE X X X
41. DEPARTMENT STORES X X
42. DRIVE-IN AND DRIVE-THRU RESTAURANTS X
43. DRIVE-IN THEATER X
44. DRY CLEANING ESTABLISHMENTS (see section 9-14) X X SE
45. DRUG STORES SE X X X
46. ELECTRICAL REPAIR and similar repair of a heavy commercial nature. X X X
47. ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE REPAIR, wholly contained within a building. X X X X X
48. FREIGHT EXPRESS OFFICE X X X
49. FARMERS MARKET X X X
50. FEED, SEED, AND INSECTICIDES, AND FERTILIZER RETAIL SALES X SE X X
51. FLOWER SHOP SE X X X
52. FOOD STORES, including retail bakeries, meat markets, dairy products, confectioner shops, produce sales, and stores of a similar nature, wholly contained within a building. X X X
53. FUNERAL HOME, including monument sales. SE SE X X
54. FURNITURE UPHOLSTERY SHOP X X X
55. GLASS SALES AND STORAGE, wholly contained within a building. X X X
56. GOLF COURSE X
57. GOLF COURSE, provided that:
a) It shall be for daytime use only; and
b) all greens and fairways shall be set back at least 100 feet from any exterior property lines; and
c) structures shall meet minimum setback requirements for single-family residences within the respective district. SE SE SE SE SE X X
58. GROWING OF GARDENS X X X X X X X X X X X
59. GROWING OF CROPS (FARMING) X
60. HOME FURNISHINGS AND HARDWARE, such as appliance sales, hardware stores, paint stores, sporting goods stores, furniture stores, and stores of a similar nature. X X
61. HOSPITALS, NURSING HOMES, CARE HOMES, AND CONGREGATE PERSONAL CARE HOMES (see section 9-16) SE X X
62. HOTELS X X
63. LABORATORY - RESEARCH/COMMERCIAL X X X
64. LABORATORY SERVING PROFESSIONAL REQUIREMENTS - MEDICAL, DENTAL SE X X X
65. LAUNDROMAT OR WASHERTERIA - COMMERCIAL - (Self-service laundries and pickup stations) X X X
66. LOCKSMITH, GUNSMITH - Repairs and sales only. SE X X
67. MEDICAL, DENTAL, OR SIMILAR CLINIC SE X X X
68. MOTELS X
69. MUSIC TEACHING STUDIO SE X X X
70. NEWSPAPER OR MAGAZINE PUBLISHING AND DISTRIBUTION X X X
71. NIGHTCLUB OR LOUNGE, provided lot must front arterial street. X X
72. OFFICE EQUIPMENT SALES AND SERVICE X X
73. PACKAGE STORE, provided lot must front arterial street. X X
74. PAWN SHOPS and small personal loan offices other than commercial banks. X X
75. PERSONAL SERVICE SHOPS, such as barber shops, beauty shops, shoe repair, watch repair, and services of a similar nature. SE X X X
76. PEST CONTROL, providing no outside storage other than within the M-1 or M-2 districts. X X X X
77. PHOTOGRAPHY STUDIO SE X X X
78. RADIO AND TELEVISION STUDIOS SE X X X
79. RADIO AND TELEVISION TOWERS, AND UTILITY SUBSTATIONS, provided all buildings, masts, and other facilities are located at least 200 feet from adjacent property lines on any lot which adjoins any residential district. X X X
80. RAILROAD OR BUS PASSENGER STATION X X X
81. RAILROAD FREIGHT STATION X X X X
82. RESTAURANTS AND FOOD CATERING SERVICE X X X X X
83. RETAIL AUTO PARTS AND TIRE STORES X X X
84. RETAIL STORES, not covered else-where in this section. X X
85. RESIDENTIAL MOBILE HOME SALES OFFICE AND SALES LOT X X
86. SHRUBBERY SALES (Within C-N or CBD districts, must be wholly contained within the building.) SE X X X
87. SPECIALTY SHOPS, such as gift shops, jewelry stores, jewelry repair, antique shops, and stores of a similar nature. SE X X X
88. TAXIDERMIST X X
89. TAXI OFFICE X X
90. TELEGRAPH OR MESSENGER SERVICE X X X
91. TRADE SCHOOLS X X SE SE
92. UTILITY TRAILER RENTALS AND RENT-ALLS (No outside storage in a CBD district). X X
93. VENDING MACHINES, located out-of-doors subject to yard and set-back requirements for the respective districts (as an accessory use only). X X X X X
MANUFACTURING, WHOLESALE & INDUSTRY
94. ACID STORAGE AND MANUFACTURING X
95. FEED, GRAIN, OR FERTILIZER WHOLESALING AND STORAGE X
96. FREEZER LOCKER SERVICE, ICE STORAGE X X
97. GREENHOUSE AND PLANT NURSERY - COMMERCIAL X X
98. HEAVY MANUFACTURING (see section 9-17) X
99. JUNK YARD, OR AUTO GRAVEYARD, OR AUTOMOBILE DISMANTLING (see section 9-18) X
100. LIGHT MANUFACTURING:
a) Appliance and electronic device assembly plant including the manufacturing of parts for appliances and electronic devices; and
b) Manufacturing of food, cosmetics and pharmaceutical products, but not including fish and meat products, sauerkraut, vinegar, yeast, and rendering plants; and
c) Machine shop and related activities, including welding shops and uses of a similar nature; and
d) Construction of signs, including painted signs; and
e) Cooperage; and
f) Bottling and canning plants; and
g) Light sheet metal products such as ventilating ducts and eaves; and
h) Ice manufacturing; and
i) Laundry, cleaning, and dyeing plants; and
j) Musical instruments, toys, novelties and similar products; and
k) Ceramic products provided that kilns shall only be by gas or electricity; and
l) Assembly of products from previously prepared materials such as cabinet making and uses of a similar nature; and
m) Tinsmith and roofing services; and
n) Tire recapping; and
o) Other manufacturing, processing, packaging, or handling of a similar nature which shall not omit or produce more smoke, noise, odor, dust, vibration or fumes than the uses listed herein. SE X X
101. LUMBER YARD, COAL STORAGE YARDS, OR OTHER STORAGE NOT SPECIFICALLY LISTED IN THESE REGULATIONS (see section 9-20) X X
102. PETROLEUM BULK PLANT (Storage and wholesale distribution) X X
103. PLANING OR SAW MILL X
104. RAILROAD CLASSIFICATION AND REPAIR YARD X
105. RAISING OR SALE OF LIVESTOCK X
106. SANITARY LANDFILL OR INCINERATION - PRIVATE X
107. TRUCK TERMINAL X X
108. WAREHOUSING (not related to sales on the premises) X X
109. WAREHOUSING (MINI STORAGE FACILITY) Storage for personal property - must be wholly contained within a building. X X X X
110. WHOLESALING OF A LIGHT COMMERCIAL NATURE when operated in conjunction with or as part of a retail outlet. X X X X
111. WHOLESALING (not covered in other parts of this list) X X
SIGNS
112. ADVERTISING INCIDENTAL USE SIGN X X X X X X
113. ADVERTISING SEPARATE USE SIGN X X X
114. POINT OF BUSINESS SIGN (In accordance with restriction in section 9-1 if for home occupation); in R-P not to exceed 12 square feet combined; IDENTIFICATION SIGN, BULLETIN BOARD. X X X X X X X X X X X
115. SIGNS WHICH DO NOT REQUIRE A PERMIT (refer to section 10-4) X X X X X X X X X X X
MISCELLANEOUS
116. ARMORIES, for meetings and training organizations. X X X
117. CARNIVAL, RODEO, HORSE SHOW, OR ATHLETIC EVENT, COMMUNITY FAIR OR OTHER EVENT OF INTEREST TO THE PUBLIC X X X X
118. RELIGIOUS MEETINGS, held in a tent or other temporary structure not to exceed 30 days. X X X
119. TEMPORARY BUILDINGS AND STORAGE OF MATERIALS (in conjunction with construction of a building) on a lot where construction is taking place or on adjacent lots such temporary uses to be terminated upon completion of construction. X X X X X X X X X X X
119.5. TEMPORARY USE, COMMERCIAL RETAIL subject to conditions in section 9-21. AP
120. CEMETERY - COMMERCIAL X X X
121. GOVERNMENTAL USES SE SE SE SE SE SE SE SE SE SE SE
  (Ord. No. 2018-05-03, § III, 5-3-2018)
Sec. 6. - Setback, floor area and yard requirements by district.
6-1.
Development Standards. Within the various zoning districts as indicated on the 'Official Zoning Map, City of Hahira, Georgia," no building or structure, excluding all signs other than separate use advertising signs, shall be constructed or erected except as indicated in the following schedule:
EXPAND
R-15 R-10 R-6
MINIMUM GROSS FLOOR AREA FOR DWELLING UNITS 1,200 sq. ft. 1,000 sq. ft. 800 sq. ft.
MINIMUM LOT AREA FOR
DWELLING UNITS 15,000 sq. ft. 10,000 sq. ft. 6,000 sq. ft. as min. lot size. 9,000 sq. ft. for two-family (duplex). If developed Multifamily, the maximum density is 10 units per acre.
MINIMUM LOT WIDTH 100 feet 80 feet 60 feet
FRONT YARD
SETBACK FROM CENTERLINE OF RIGHT-OF-WAY ON PRINCIPAL AND MINOR
ARTERIALS 70 feet* 70 feet* 70 feet*
ON COLLECTOR STREETS 65 feet* 65 feet* 65 feet*
ON LOCAL STREETS 60 feet* 60 feet* 60 feet*
MINIMUM SIDE YARDS 10 feet 10 feet 10 feet except Multifamily projects three or more stories-20 feet**
MINIMUM REAR YARDS 30 feet 30 feet 30 feet
MAXIMUM HEIGHT 35 feet 35 feet 35 feet
*Plus ½ any amount which the R/W width exceeds 60 feet for local streets, 70 feet for collector streets, and 80 feet for Principal and Minor Arterials.
**If developed Multifamily in R-6, the maximum density is ten units per acre.
  EXPAND
R-6-M MHP R-P
MINIMUM GROSS FLOOR AREA FOR DWELLING UNIT *** 600 sq. ft. 400 sq. ft. *** 800 sq. ft.
MINIMUM LOT AREA FOR DWELLING UNITS 6,000 sq. ft. min.; two-family unit (duplex), two-family unit (duplex) 9,000 sq. ft. min.; two-family unit; two-family unit (duplex) 9,000 sq. ft. min. If developed Multifamily, maximum density is 10 units per acre. Gross Min. lot size of two acres; 4,000 sq. ft. lot area per unit 6,000 sq. ft. Min. lot area, 9,000 sq. ft. two-family (duplex) ****
MINIMUM LOT WIDTH 60 feet 100 feet 60 feet
FRONT YARD
SETBACK FROM CENTERLINE OF RIGHT-OF-WAY ON PRINCIPAL AND MINOR
ARTERIALS 70 feet* 70 feet 70 feet*
ON COLLECTOR STREETS 65 feet* 65 feet* 65 feet*
ON LOCAL STREETS 60 feet* 60 feet* 60 feet*
MINIMUM SIDE YARDS 10 ft. except for Multifamily projects-three or more stories - 20 feet** 10 ft. except for mobile home parks - 20 feet 10 ft. except Multifamily projects - 3 or more stories - 20 feet**
MINIMUM REAR YARDS 30 feet 20 feet 30 feet**
MAXIMUM HEIGHT 35 feet 35 feet None**
*Plus ½ any amount which the R/W width exceeds 60 feet for local streets, 70 feet for collector streets, and 80 feet for Principal and Minor Arterials.
**The minimum distance from all other property lines to any building over 35 feet in height shall be increased 1 foot for every 2 feet (or part of 2 feet) of building height greater than 35 feet.
***800 square feet for each unit (two-bedroom or larger); 600 square feet for each one bedroom unit (not to exceed 25 percent of project); 400 square feet for each efficiency unit (not to exceed 25 percent of project).
****If developed Multifamily in R-6-M, maximum density is 10 units per acre.
  EXPAND
C-N C-H C-B-D M-1 M-2
MINIMUM LOT WIDTH 60 feet 60 feet None None None
FRONT YARD SETBACK FROM CENTERLINE OF RIGHT-OF-WAY ON PRINCIPAL AND
MINOR
ARTERIALS 90 feet** 75 feet** None 70 feet** 70 feet**
ON COLLECTOR STREETS 85 feet** 70 feet** None 65 feet** 65 feet**
ON LOCAL STREETS 80 feet** 80 feet** None 60 feet** 60 feet**
MINIMUM SIDE YARDS * None*** * None*** None*** * None*** * None***
MINIMUM REAR YARDS * 12 ft.*** * 12 ft.*** None*** * 12 ft.*** * None***
MAXIMUM HEIGHT None* None* None None* None*
*The minimum distance from all other property lines to any building over 35 feet in height shall be increased 1 foot for every 2 feet (or part of 2 feet) of building height greater than 35 feet.
**Plus ½ any amount which the R/W width exceeds 60 feet for local streets, 70 feet for collector streets, and 80 feet for Principal and Minor Arterials.
***If the adjoining yard is within any residential district, the yard requirements specified in this table shall be increased 10 feet and screening shall be provided as specified in section 3-15 along the lot line common with said lot.
  Sec. 7. - Off-street parking and service area requirements.
7-1.
Off-Street Automobile Parking and Storage. At the time of the erection of any type of building or structure herein listed or at the time any such building or structure is enlarged or increased in capacity, there shall be provided for such new construction, enlargement or increased capacity only, off-street automobile parking and storage in accordance with the following minimum requirements except in the C-B-D zoning district. Such space shall be provided with vehicular access to a street or alley.
7-1.1.
Dwellings; two spaces per dwelling unit.
7-1.2.
Rooming and boarding houses and hotels; one space for each guest room.
7-1.3.
Places of public assembly, churches, fraternal organizations; one space for each four seats to be accommodated in the main assembly room.
7-1.4.
Tourist rooms, tourist courts, or motels; one space for each bedroom.
7-1.5.
Hospitals, convalescent homes, or similar institutions; one space for each two beds intended for patients, excluding bassinets.
7-1.6.
Retail businesses; one parking space for each 150 square feet of retail floor area.
7-1.7.
Medical and dental offices and clinics; one space for each 100 square feet of office floor area.
7-1.8.
Offices including banks; one space for each 200 square feet of total floor area.
7-1.9.
Automobile service stations; two spaces for each gasoline pump plus three spaces for each grease rack or similar facility.
7-1.10.
Wholesaling; one space for each two employees.
7-1.11.
Industrial; one space for each two employees at maximum employment on a single shift.
7-1.12.
Bus terminals; three spaces for each loading and unloading bay.
7-1.13.
Auto sales and repair; one space for each two employees at maximum employment on a single shift, plus two spaces for each 300 square feet of auto repair or maintenance space.
7-1.14.
Shopping Center; one parking space for each 200 square feet of total floor area.
7-2.
Off-Street Parking Within 250 Feet of Principal Use. If vehicle parking or storage space required cannot be reasonably provided on the same lot on which the principal use is conducted, such space may be provided on other appropriately zoned off-street property provided such space lies within 250 feet of the main entrance to such principal use. Such vehicle parking space shall be clearly associated with the principal use and shall not thereafter be reduced or encroached upon in any manner.
7-3.
Combined Parking Spaces. The required parking space for any number of separate uses may be combined in one lot but the required space assigned to one use may not be assigned to another use at the same time, except that one-half of the parking space required for churches, theaters or assembly halls whose peak attendance will be at night or on Sundays may be assigned to a use which will be closed at nights or on Sundays.
7-4.
Size of Off-Street Parking Spaces. The area of each parking space shall contain not less than 200 square feet with appropriate dimensions for the parking of an automobile, exclusive of the access drives or aisles thereto and adequate off-street maneuvering areas which generally will require an additional 100 square feet per vehicle.
7-5.
Off-Street Loading and Unloading Space. Every building or structure used for business, trade, or industry, shall provide space as indicated herein for the loading and unloading of vehicles off the street or public alley.
7-5.1.
Retail Business: One space, ten feet by 25 feet, for each 3,000 square feet of floor area or fraction thereof.
7-5.2.
Wholesale and Industry: One space, ten feet by 50 feet, for each 10,000 square of floor area or fraction thereof.
7-5.3.
Bus and Truck Terminals: Sufficient space to accommodate the maximum number of buses or trucks to be stored or to be loading or unloading at the terminal at any one time.
7-6.
Curb Cut Requirements. In all zoning districts, where the lowering or cutting away of curbs, or the placement of asphalt and/or driveway pipe on non-curbed sections is required for the purpose of access from public rights-of-way to private property, such curb cuts shall meet the following standards:
7-6.1.
Residential Curb Cuts. Residential curb cuts shall have a maximum width of 20 feet at the street right-of-way line. Where at least two streets intersect, all residential curb cuts shall be located at least 15 feet from the intersection of the street rights-of-way lines or right-of-way lines extended, unless more restrictive standards are required by the Georgia Department of Transportation.
7-6.2.
Commercial and Industrial Curb Cuts. Commercial and industrial curb cuts shall have a maximum width of 35 feet at the street right-of-way line. Where at least two streets intersect, all commercial and industrial curb cuts shall be located at least 60 feet from the street rights-of-way lines or rights-of-way lines extended, unless more restrictive standards are required by the Georgia Department of Transportation.
Sec. 8. - Non-conformances.
8-1.
Non-conforming Lots. Any lot for which a plat or legal description has been recorded in the Office of the Clerk of Superior Court of Lowndes County at the time of passage of this ordinance which fails to comply with the dimensional requirements for the district in which it is located may, if vacant, be used for any of the uses permitted within the district by this ordinance, or if occupied by a structure containing a conforming use, may have the structure improved, enlarged, or extended; provided that in either case:
8-1.1.
Minimum requirements of the district for front, side, and rear yard, height, and floor area shall be complied with.
8-1.2.
A lot to be used for duplexes, Multifamily dwellings, mobile homes, or mobile parks, when allowed within the district, only if the lot meets the minimum lot area requirements for those uses in the district.
8-2
Non-conforming Uses of Land. Non-conforming uses consisting of lots, including such uses as but not limited to storage yards, used car lots, auto wrecking, junk yards, golf driving ranges, miniature golf, mobile home parks and other similar open uses, where the only buildings on the lot are incidental and accessory to the use of the lot, and where such use of the land is not permitted to be established hereafter under this ordinance in the district in which it is located, shall be governed by the following restrictions in addition to the other requirements in this ordinance:
8-2.1.
When a non-conforming use of land has been changed to a conforming use, it shall not thereafter be used for any non-conforming use.
8-2.2.
Non-conforming uses of land shall not be changed to any but conforming uses.
8-2.3.
A non-conforming use of land shall not be enlarged to cover more land than was occupied by that use when it became non-conforming.
8-2.4.
When any non-conforming use of land is discontinued for a period in excess of six months, any future use of the land shall be limited to those uses permitted in that district under the provisions of this ordinance. Vacancy and/or non-use of the land, regardless of the intent of the owner or tenant, shall constitute discontinuance under this provision.
8-3.
Non-conforming Uses of Structures. Non-conforming uses consists of structures used, at the time of passage of this ordinance, for purposes not permitted in the district in which they are located. In addition to the other requirements of this ordinance, non-conforming uses of structures shall be governed by the following restrictions:
8-3.1.
An existing non-conforming use of a structure shall not be changed to another non-conforming use that generates more automobile or truck traffic, creates more noise, vibration, smoke, dust or fumes, is a more intensive use of structures than the existing non-conforming use, or is in any way a greater nuisance to the adjoining properties than the existing non-conforming use.
8-3.1[2].
A non-conforming use of a structure shall not be extended or enlarged except into portions of the structure which at the time the use became non-conforming were already erected and arranged or designed for such non-conforming use. No structural alterations shall be made in any structure occupied by a non-conforming use, which would in any way increase the floor space, area, or volume of space occupied by the use.
8-3.2[3].
When any non-conforming use of a structure is discontinued for a period in excess of one year, any future use of the structure shall be limited to those uses permitted in that district under the provisions of this ordinance. Vacancy and/or non-use of the building, regardless of the intent of the owner or tenant, shall constitute discontinuance under this provision. A passive use such as storage shall not be sufficient in and of itself to constitute a continuance of a non-conforming use.
8-4.
Non-conforming Signs. Non-conforming signs shall be allowed to continue except as provided in paragraphs [subsections] 10-3, and 10-6 as follows:
8-4.1.
A non-conforming sign shall not be replaced by another non-conforming sign except that the substitution or interchange of poster panels, painted boards, or demountable material on non-conforming signs shall be permitted.
8-4.2.
Minor repairs and maintenance of non-conforming signs such as repainting, electrical repairs, and neon tubing repairs shall be permitted. However, no structural repairs or changes in the size or shape of a non-conforming sign shall be permitted except to make the sign comply with the requirements of this ordinance.
8-4.3.
New point of business sign related to legally established non-conforming uses may be erected provided they comply with the sign regulations applicable to the use in the most restrictive district in which the use is permitted.
8-5.
Reconstruction of Non-conforming Structures. When a non-conforming structure or a structure containing a non-conforming use or non-conforming sign is razed or damaged by fire, flood, wind, or act of God, such structure or sign may be reconstructed as a non-conforming use only if the damage totals less than 50 percent of the value of the structure. Structures which do not conform to the yard requirements of this ordinance shall also be governed by this provision.
8-6.
Changes in Zoning. Any non-conformances created by a change in district boundaries or ordinance requirements after the date of passage of this ordinance shall also be governed by the provisions of this section.
Sec. 9. - Special provisions for certain uses.
9-1.
Home Occupations. A home occupation as defined by this ordinance shall be governed by the following requirements:
9-1.1.
At least one resident and not more than one nonresident of the dwelling may be engaged in the home occupation. The resident must be the owner of the home occupation.
9-1.2.
The home occupation shall be clearly incidental to the residential use of the dwelling and shall not change the essential residential character of the building.
9-1.3.
No display of products shall be visible from the street, and only products produced on the premises may be sold on the premises.
9-1.4.
Only one point of business sign, not exceeding two square feet in size, motionless, non-lighted, and attached to the principal building, shall be permitted, and no advertising signs shall be permitted.
9-1.5.
Use of the building for this purpose shall not exceed 25 percent of one floor of the principal building.
9-1.6.
No internal or external alterations inconsistent with the residential use of the building shall be permitted.
9-1.7.
The occupation shall not constitute a nuisance in the neighborhood.
9-1.8.
No accessory buildings or outside storage shall be used in connection with the occupation.
9-1.9.
Instruction in music and similar subjects shall be limited to two students at a time.
9-1.10.
Vehicles used primarily as passenger vehicles only shall be permitted in connection with the conduct of the customary home occupation.
9-1.11.
The following and similar uses may be considered home occupations provided that all additional requirements of this section are met: accountant, addressing service, answering service, architect, art instructor, barber or beauty shop (with no more than one chair), drafting, dressmaking, insurance agent, manufacturing agent, music teacher, notary public, photography, real estate agent, and tax consultant.
9-1.12.
Not more than five children may be kept in the home as a nursery as a customary home occupation.
9-2.
Multifamily Development Projects. Multifamily Development Projects must meet the following requirements:
9-2.1.
Multiple buildings are allowed on a single lot in these development types.
9-2.2.
Two parking spaces shall be provided for each dwelling unit proposed as part of any Multifamily development project.
9-2.3.
Multifamily development projects shall conform to the building height restrictions and yard setback requirements listed in section 6 of this ordinance.
9-2.4.
Each dwelling unit proposed as part of a Multifamily development project shall meet the minimum floor area requirements listed in section 6 of this ordinance, as well as limitations for efficiency and one bedroom units as part of the total project development.
9-2.5.
All Multifamily development projects shall leave 500 square feet per dwelling unit in a natural state as open space or be developed as park and/or open air recreation facilities.
9-3.
Mobile Home Parks. Mobile home parks are allowed within the MHF district as a matter of right provided the following requirements are met:
9-3.1.
The minimum size shall be two acres.
9-3.2.
The park shall have minimum side yards of 20 feet, minimum rear yard of 20 feet, and a front yard of at least 20 feet greater than that required for other uses permitted in the district.
9-3.3.
Each mobile home shall be connected to an approved water and sewer system.
9-3.4.
The minimum lot area per mobile home shall be not less than 4,000 square feet with a minimum stall width of 40 feet, where public sewer and water are available.
9-3.5.
The minimum distance between any two mobile homes or between any mobile home and any other building in the park shall be 20 feet.
9-3.6.
A 20 foot private drive(s), paved and properly drained, shall serve all mobile home stalls and be drained so as to prevent damage to adjoining property, public or private.
9-3.7.
Each mobile home lot shall be clearly defined by means of concrete, steel or iron pipe markers placed at all corners.
9-3.8.
At least 500 square feet per mobile home lot, not to be a part of the required mobile home lot, shall be provided in one or more locations for community playground and recreation purposes.
9-3.9.
All property lines of a mobile home park which abut any zoning district other than another MHP district shall be screened as described in section 3-15.
9-3.10.
No mobile home park shall be occupied by a greater number of mobile homes than that authorized in the approved building and inspection permits. No mobile home park shall be enlarged or extended unless a separate building permit and a separate certificate of occupancy have been issued.
9-3.11.
Any new mobile home park is subject to review and approval of the Planning Commission prior to approval of a building permit to insure compliance with the aforementioned requirements.
9-3.12.
Access to mobile home parks shall be by paved public street and either on or within 1,000 feet of and directly accessible to an arterial or collector street as designated on the Major Thorough-fare Plan, City of Hahira, Georgia.
9-4.
Animals. The keeping of horses, dogs, cats, provided that:
9-4.1.
No more than two horses, two dogs, or two cats are kept on any one lot.
9-4.2.
The distance from an enclosure for horses to the nearest principal building shall not be less than 300 feet and the distance from any property line shall be not less than 75 feet.
9-4.3.
The distance from the enclosure for dogs and cats to the nearest property line shall not be less than 75 feet.
9-5.
Church or Other Place of Worship. Churches or other places of worship, including Sunday school buildings, parish houses, convents, nursery school, kindergartens and other related uses on the same premises and operated by the church provided that:
9-5.1..
The lot size shall be no less than two acres in R-15, R-10, R-6, and R-6-M zones; all other zoning classifications require a minimum lot size of one acre.
9-5.2.
The property on which such uses are established shall front on a collector or arterial street as specified on the Major Thoroughfare Plan, Hahira, Georgia.
9-5.3.
Any building or structure established with any such use shall have minimum side and rear yards of 50 feet.
9-6.
Group Personal Care Home. Group personal care homes shall be provided that:
9-6.1.
Minimum lot size of one acre in all residential zones.
9-6.2.
Parking is restricted to rear and side yard and shall be screened per section 3-13.
9-7.
Fraternities and Sororities. Fraternities and sororities located on a collector or arterial street as specified on the Major Thoroughfare Plan, Hahira, Georgia. Lot must be within 500 feet of main college campus.
9-8.
Garage Apartment. Garage apartments shall be allowed provided no more than one shall be permitted on a lot with the principal dwelling, and provided such shall be permitted only within the rear yard. The lot on which such use is to be established must be 50 percent greater in lot area than the minimum standard lot size for the respective district.
9-9.
Guest Quarters or Servant's Quarters. Guest or servant's quarters shall be allowed provided no more than one shall be permitted on a lot with the principal building and provided such shall be permitted only within the rear yard. The lot on which such use is to be established must be 50 percent greater in lot area than the minimum standard lot size for the respective district.
9-10.
Mobile Home Not in Mobile Home Park. Mobile homes shall be allowed provided that:
9-10.1.
The mobile home shall meet the same requirements as a single-family dwelling.
9-10.2.
The mobile home shall be set on a permanent foundation, properly underpinned, and anchored per building code requirements.
9-11.
Schools, Kindergartens, Nurseries, and Day Care Centers. Schools, kindergartens, nurseries, and day care centers shall be allowed provided that:
9-11.1.
Off-street loading and unloading spaces are supplied.
9-11.2.
At least 100 square feet of outdoor play area is supplied for each child accommodated.
9-11.3.
The entire play area is enclosed by a steel mesh security fence or other substantial building material affording equal or better access control having a minimum height of at least four feet and constructed in such a manner that maximum safety to the children is ensured.
9-12.
Commercial Travel Trailer Park. Commercial travel trailer parks are allowed within the C-H zoning classification as a matter of right provided the following requirements are met:
9-12.1.
No travel trailer park shall be located except with direct access to a principal or minor arterial with a minimum lot width of not less than 50 feet for that portion used for entrance and exit. No entrances or exits shall be through a residential district, or shall require movement of traffic from the park through a residential district.
9-12.2.
The minimum lot area required for a travel trailer park shall be three acres.
9-12.3.
No space shall be located so that any part intended for occupancy for sleeping purposes shall be within 20 feet of any exterior property line.
9-12.4.
In addition to meeting the above requirements, the travel trailer park site plan shall be accompanied by a certificate of approval from the Lowndes County Health Department.
9-13.
Building Contractors and Related Activities. Building contractors and the storage of building materials and supplies shall be allowed provided that equipment and materials temporarily stored or displayed outside shall be completely enclosed by a suitable fence. No sawmill or planing mill operations shall take place on the premises within any district other than the M-1 and M-2 districts.
9-14.
Drycleaning Establishments. Drycleaning establishments shall be allowed provided:
9-14.1.
Drycleaning establishments using cleaning systems which make use of solvents rated at above 40 by the Underwriter's Laboratories, Inc. Standard of Classification known as Class 1 Systems shall be prohibited.
9-14.2.
Drycleaning establishments which use cleaning systems which make use of solvents rated at more than five but less than 40 according to the Underwriter's Laboratories, Inc. Standard Classification known as Class II and Class III Systems, shall not be established in building with other occupancy.
9-14.3.
The building for a drycleaning establishment shall not contain more than 4,000 square feet of floor area inclusive of drycleaning pick-up facilities within the building.
9-14.4.
The building for a drycleaning plant shall not contain more than 4,000 square feet of floor area inclusive of drycleaning pick-up facilities within the building.
9-14.5.
The drycleaning establishment shall be designed to operate in a manner that will not emit smoke, odor, or objectionable waste materials and which will not produce noise that will carry beyond the walls of the building occupied by such plant.
9-14.6.
Fuel for operation of equipment shall be smokeless fuel.
9-14.7.
The applicant for the drycleaning plant shall certify in writing at the time of application that all of the above conditions will be met.
9-15.
Reserved.
9-16.
Hospitals, Nursing Homes, Care Homes, and Congregate Personal Care Homes. These facilities must meet the following requirements:
9-16.1.
The lot size shall be no less than three acres within any district where allowed.
9-16.2.
Any building or structure established with any such use shall have minimum side and rear yards of 50 feet.
9-16.3.
The front yard setback shall be 25 feet more than required for other structures within the same district.
9-16.4.
The lot upon which any such use is built shall front on a collector or arterial street as specified on the Major Thorough-fare Plan, Hahira, Georgia.
9-17.
Heavy Manufacturing. Any manufacturing, packaging, processing, or handling of materials, shall be allowed in the M-2 zoning classification provided that any uses such as the manufacturing of cement, corrosive acids, bone distillation, drop forge industry, fat rendering, fertilizer manufacturing, organic materials reduction, meat processing plants, and the like which produce noise, odor, dust, fumes, fire hazards, or other nuisance features shall be set back not less than 500 feet from any M-2 district boundary.
9-18.
Junk Yard, or Auto Graveyard, or Automobile Dismantling. The uses shall be allowed provided that:
9-18.1.
A minimum of three acres is used.
9-18.2.
All setbacks shall be increased 100 feet over requirements for M-2 district.
9-18.3.
These uses cannot be adjacent to R-15, R-10, R-6, R-6-M, MHP, and R-P districts.
9-18-4.
The entire yard or operation shall be screened as required in section 3-15.
9-19.
Light Manufacturing.
9-20.
Lumber Yard, Coal Storage Yards, or other Storage not Specifically Addressed elsewhere in these Regulations. Such storage yards shall be enclosed by a fence and no storage shall be permitted outside such fence.
9-21.
Temporary Use, Commercial Retail (vendors).
(1)
A temporary commercial retail use other than food vending shall require an Administrative Permit (section 11-1.1) issued by the Zoning Administrator for a time period not to exceed 30 days per calendar year on the same lot or parcel of land. A temporary commercial retail use for food vending shall require an administrative permit for a time period not to exceed seven consecutive days. An applicant shall not be eligible to apply for a new administrative permit for food vending until at least 30 days after expiration of the applicant's previous permit.
(2)
The provisions of this section shall not apply to ice cream trucks (see section 2-25A) or to vendors at festivals or other special events sanctioned or operated by the city.
(3)
Temporary commercial retail uses shall operate in accordance with the following regulations:
(a)
No temporary commercial retail use activities or vehicles shall be permitted to operate in the following areas:
i.
Within 20 feet from the right-of-way of any city roadway or street.
ii.
Within a required landscape strip or buffer or improvement setback.
iii.
Within 20 feet of any street intersection or crosswalk.
iv.
Within 20 feet of any driveway or other curb cut access, loading zone or bus stop.
v.
In any area within 50 feet of a building entrance.
vi.
On the median strip of a divided roadway.
vii.
In front of display windows of a fixed location business.
viii.
Within 100 feet of an elementary, middle or high school property line.
ix.
Within 50 feet of a residential zoning district line.
x.
Within ten feet of any fire hydrant or fire escape.
xi.
Within ten feet of any parking space or access ramp designated for persons with disabilities.
xii.
On a vacant parcel of land without a permanent commercial building or without an existing active business that is properly licensed, unless the parcel is owned by the Permit applicant.
xiii.
On a parcel of land that already contains or is approved for another temporary commercial retail use.
(b)
No vending cart or stand, or other item related to the operation of a temporary commercial retail use shall be located on any city sidewalk or other public way during non-vending hours. Nor shall any vehicle be parked, stored or left overnight other than in a lawful parking place.
(c)
Vendors shall keep the sidewalks, roadways and other spaces adjacent to their vending sites or locations clean and free of paper, peelings, and refuse of any kind generated from their businesses. All trash or debris accumulating within 25 feet of any vending stand shall be collected by the vendor and deposited in a trash container. Vendors engaged in food vending shall provide a receptacle for litter that shall be maintained and emptied regularly and marked as being for litter.
(d)
Prohibited Conduct. No temporary commercial retail use may do any of the following:
i.
Obstruct pedestrian or motor vehicle traffic flow.
ii.
Obstruct traffic signals or regulatory signs.
iii.
Stop, stand or park any vehicle, pushcart or other conveyance upon any street for the purpose of selling during the hours when parking, stopping and standing have been prohibited by signs or curb markings.
iv.
Leave any vending cart or stand unattended at any time or store, park, or leave such conveyance in a public way overnight.
v.
Use any vending cart or stand that when fully loaded with merchandise cannot be easily moved and maintained under the control of licensed Vendor.
vi.
Generate excessive noise or sound any device that produces a loud or raucous noise or operate any loudspeaker, public address system, radio, sound amplifier, or similar device to attract public attention.
vii.
Conduct business in such a way as would restrict or interfere with the ingress or egress of the abutting property owner or tenant, create a nuisance, increase traffic congestion or delay, constitute a hazard to traffic, life or property, or obstruct adequate access to emergency and sanitation vehicles.
(4)
A drawing showing the dimensions of the proposed sales area, required parking spaces, and location of the vending stand, vending cart, or motor vehicle used for sales, shall accompany the Administrative Permit application and shall depict compliance with the standards of this subsection.
(5)
The applicant shall provide a notarized written permission statement from the property owner of the subject site and a 24-hour contact number of the property owner or their designated contact person.
(6)
Vendors shall comply with all state, federal and local health and safety codes, regulations and requirements and shall obtain and maintain any and all licenses required by any governmental or regulatory agency having jurisdiction over this subject matter. Food vendors must have a food vending permit from the Georgia Department of Human Resources, Public Health or the Lowndes County Health Department acting as agent of the Department of Human Resources. The license(s) under which the vendor is operating must be firmly attached and visible at all times.
(7)
No sale or offer for sale shall be made by any vendor between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 8:00 a.m. unless such sale is in conjunction with a city approved special event.
(Ord. No. 2018-05-03, § IV, 5-3-2018)
Sec. 10. - Sign requirements.
10-1.
Signs Shall Meet Requirements of this Section. All signs within the City of Hahira shall be erected, constructed, or maintained in accordance with the provisions of this section 10 and applicable sections of the Southern Standard Building Code for the City of Hahira, and only those signs that are permitted by these ordinances shall be erected in the City of Hahira.
10-2.
No Signs Shall Hamper Traffic Safety. No sign shall be erected or continued that:
a.
Obstructs the sight distance along a public right-of-way.
b.
Would tend by its location, color, or nature, to be confused with or obstruct the view of traffic signs or signals, or to be confused with a flashing light of an emergency vehicle.
c.
Would by its nature or moving parts tend to confuse traffic or create any potential hazard to traffic.
d.
Uses of admonitions such as "stop," "go," "slow," "danger," etc. which might be confused with traffic directional signals.
10-3.
Locations Prohibited. No sign shall be attached to or painted on any telephone pole, light pole, telegraph pole, or any tree, rock, or other natural object. Except in the C-B-D districts, no signs other than those signs erected by public governmental agencies or signs required by law, shall be placed so as to overhang any portion of public rights-of-way or other public properties.
10-4.
Illumination Not To Be a Nuisance. Illumination devices such as, but not limited to, flood or spot lights shall be so posted and so shielded as to prevent the rays or illumination therefrom being cast into neighboring dwellings and approaching vehicles.
10-5.
Signs Not Requiring a Permit.
a.
Signs to regulate traffic.
b.
Signs required to be posted by law.
c.
Warning signs and no trespassing signs.
d.
Signs established by governmental agencies.
e.
Signs indicating bus stops, taxi stands, and similar transportation facilities.
f.
Signs not exceeding ten square feet in area advertising specific property for sale, lease, rent, or development, or private property.
g.
Temporary real estate signs less than ten square feet in area advertising specific property for sale, lease, rent or development, on private property.
h.
Any sign not exceeding ten square feet in area other than Advertising Separate Use Signs or signs requiring electrical wiring.
i.
Temporary signs on private land involved in campaigns of religious, charitable, civic, fraternal, political, and similar organizations.
10-6.
Maximum Area of Signs. No sign shall be larger in area than 400 square feet.
10-7.
Issuance of Permits, Administration and Filing Procedure.
10-7.1.
Issuance of Permit. No sign, except those listed in section 10-5 shall be erected, hung, or placed or structurally altered without a permit from the Zoning Administrator. The Zoning Administrator shall only issue a permit for the erection or construction of a sign which meets the requirements of this zoning ordinance and applicable sections of the Southern Standard Building Code for the City of Hahira.
10-7.2.
Filing Procedure. Application for permits to erect, hang, or place a sign shall be submitted on forms obtainable from the Zoning Administrator. Each application shall be accompanied by plans showing the area of the sign, size and character and the method of illumination, if any, the exact location proposed for such sign and in the case of a projecting sign, the proposed method of fastening said sign to the building structure, the vertical distance between such sign and the finished grade, the horizontal distance between such sign and the street right-of-way line. In addition, the application must be accompanied by a permit fee, the cost of which shall be established by the City Council.
10-7.3.
Additional Information. Each application shall, upon the request of the Zoning Administrator, submit any additional information deemed necessary by said Administrator.
10-7.4.
Temporary Signs. If a temporary sign which requires a permit is not intended to be left in place for a period to exceed three months, the owner may deposit a sum of $10.00 with the Zoning Administrator in lieu of the usual permit fee. If the sign is removed by the owner before the first day of the fourth month, the deposit shall be refunded in full; if not, the deposit shall be forfeited and the Zoning Administrator shall remove said sign.
10-7.4[5].
Signs Adjacent to the Primary Systems of Highways within the City of Hahira. The erection, construction or maintenance of advertising separate use signs in areas adjacent to and visible from the main traveled way of the Primary Highway Systems shall be limited to C-B-D, M-1 and M-2 zoning districts. No sign permit shall be issued by the Zoning Administrator for sites adjacent to and visible from the Primary Highways unless a valid permit has been obtained from the Georgia Department of Transportation.
Sec. 11. - Administration, enforcement, and penalties.
11-1.
Zoning Administrator. An administrative official designated as the Zoning Administrator by the City Council, Hahira, Georgia, shall administer and enforce the provisions of this ordinance.
11-1.1
Administrative Permits.
(A)
The Zoning Administrator is authorized to approve administrative permits for certain temporary uses if authorized in accordance with section 5-1 Table of Permitted Uses.
(B)
Applications for administrative permits shall be filed on forms provided by the Zoning Administrator and shall be accompanied by a fee that shall be established by the Mayor and City Council. The application shall specify the nature, equipment and facilities, location and duration of the proposed temporary use and shall provide written consent of owners of the property where the activity is proposed to take place, if not the property of the applicant, as well as the written consent of each property owner of the adjacent properties.
(C)
Within ten days following receipt of a complete application, the Zoning Administrator shall approve, approve with conditions, or disapprove said application.
(D)
Prior to action on an administrative permit application, the Zoning Administrator shall conduct a site inspection of the location specified in the application and shall prepare a written analysis applying the criteria and standards set forth as follows:
(1)
The proposed temporary use complies with the applicable standards of section 5-1 and other applicable requirements of the Zoning Ordinance.
(2)
The applicant possesses a current business license for the proposed use, if required by law.
(3)
The location proposed for the temporary use(s) is appropriate in terms of each of the following criteria:
(a)
It provides adequate space for the proposed use.
(b)
It makes adequate provision for public safety, access and traffic circulation.
(c)
It makes adequate provision for utilities.
(d)
It makes adequate provision for parking.
(e)
It makes adequate provision for sanitation.
(f)
It makes adequate provision for litter control and solid waste disposal.
(g)
It is aesthetically compatible with the surroundings.
(h)
It does not interfere with the use of the subject property and surrounding properties.
(i)
It causes no undue emissions of smoke, light, heat, noise, runoff, or other forms of pollution.
11-1.2
Exceptions. The provisions of sections 9-21 and 11-1.1 shall not apply to the following businesses which are licensed and operating as of the effective date of this ordinance:
[(A)]
Southern BBQ Secrets, presently licensed to operate at 1012 Hwy 122 West, Hahira, GA 31632
[(B)]
Keith's Farm Fresh Produce, presently licensed to operate at 408 W. Main Street, Hahira, GA 31632
collectively, "the Excepted Businesses", except that if either of the Excepted Businesses ceases operation or is closed for business for 30 consecutive days, said business shall be required to obtain an administrative permit in compliance with sections 9-21 and 11-1.1 before resuming operation and shall thenceforth subject to those permitting requirements.
11-2.
Building Permit Required. A building permit, or a sign permit in the case of a sign, issued by the Zoning Administrator is required in advance of the initiation of construction, erection, moving, demolition, or alteration of any building or structure or sign. No building or sign permit shall be issued except in conformity with the provisions of this ordinance; however, a building permit issued before the adoption of this ordinance shall remain valid with the same qualifications as issued under this ordinance.
11-3.
Application for Building Permit. All applications for building permits, except single-family residential and duplexes shall be accompanied by two site plans drawn to scale showing the actual dimensions of the lot to be built upon, the size and location of the lot, the number of dwelling units the building is designed to accommodate (if applicable), the setback lines of the building on the "permit lot," the various easements on the lot and such other site planning information (i.e., parking spaces, loading space requirements and ingress/egress information) as may be essential for determining whether the provisions of this ordinance are being observed. The above referenced information is required on the site plan before the site plan is considered by the Zoning Administrator and any permits are approved.
Single family residential and duplex site plans need not be drawn to scale, but must be accurate as to dimensions of lot and proposed building.
Any application for a building permit which proposes to develop properties which have been duly identified as having a flood hazard potential must provide adequate technical information based on the flood hazard management requirements of the City of Hahira (please see Code chapter 46, as amended, for technical standards and requirements).
The applicant for a building permit shall submit a certificate with his application which certifies that the lot which he proposes to develop is a lot of record. When the lot in questions does not meet the lot width and lot area requirements of this ordinance, then the applicant shall certify that such lot was a lot of record prior to the adoption of this ordinance or is a lot which has been created through governmental taking of property.
Any building permit shall become void if the work involved has not begun within six months after the date of issuance of the permit or if the work or development authorized by such permit is suspended or abandoned for a period of six months after the work of development is commenced; provided that extensions of time and periods not exceeding six months each may be allowed in writing by the Zoning Administrator. Any unapproved deviation from the site plan shall cause the Zoning Administrator to not issue a certificate of occupancy.
11-4.
Sign Permits. The Zoning Administrator shall receive applications for the construction of signs, as required by this ordinance. Such applications shall follow the same forms as required for building permits, and shall contain information required by this ordinance in section 10. The Zoning Administrator shall process such sign applications and shall issue sign permits for proposed signs which comply with the requirements of this ordinance. The Hahira Zoning Administrator shall not issue a local sign permit for any signage subject to the review and approval of the Georgia Department of Transportation without documentary evidence of approval from the Georgia Department of Transportation.
11-5.
Reason for Denial of Permit. When a permit is denied, the Zoning Administrator shall provide in writing, upon request of the applicant for a permit, his reasons for denying the permit within five days after said request.
11-6.
Cancellation of Permits. A demolition, building, or sign permit shall be cancelled by the Zoning Administrator when the method of demolition, construction, or use violates any provision contained in this ordinance, or any state or local ordinance or resolution. Upon such cancellation, any further work upon the demolition, construction, alteration, or repair on said building or structure or land, shall be deemed a violation. Each and every day such unlawful demolition, construction, alteration, or repair on said building or structure, or further use of said building or structure or land continues shall be deemed a separate offense.
11-7.
Permits and Licenses Void When Issued in Conflict. Any permit or license issued in conflict with the provisions of this ordinance shall be null and void.
11-8.
Certificate of Occupancy. Certificate of occupancy shall be issued by the Zoning Administrator in accordance with the following provisions:
11-8.1.
Certificate of Occupancy Required. A certificate of occupancy issued by the Zoning Administrator is required in advance of occupancy or use of:
a.
A building hereafter erected.
b.
A building hereafter altered so as to affect height, the side, front, or rear yard.
c.
Any building or premises where a change in the type of use will occur.
11-8.2.
Issuance of Certificate of Occupancy. The Zoning Administrator shall sign and issue a certificate of occupancy if the proposed use of land or building is found to conform to the applicable provisions of this ordinance, and if the building, as finally constructed, substantially complies with the sketch or plan submitted and approved for the building permit. One copy of all certificates of occupancy issued which contain a statement of the intended use of the applicable property or other pertinent information, signed by the owner or his agent and shall be kept on file in the office of the Zoning Administrator.
11-8.3.
Denial of Certificate of Occupancy. A certificate of occupancy shall not be issued unless the proposed use of a building or land conforms to the applicable provisions of this ordinance, and substantially complies with the sketches or plans submitted for obtaining the building permit.
11-9.
Penalties for Violation. In case any building or structure is erected, constructed, reconstructed, demolished, altered, repaired, moved, converted or maintained, or land is used in violation of this ordinance, the offender shall be guilty and upon conviction in the City of Hahira's Recorders Court thereof be fined no more than $300.00 or imprisoned for not more than 30 days, or both, for each offense. Each day of continued violation shall be considered a separate offense.
11-10.
Remedies. In case any building or structure is or is proposed to be erected, constructed, reconstructed, altered, converted, or maintained, or any building, structure, or land is or is proposed to be used in violation of this ordinance, the Zoning Administrator, City Attorney, or other appropriate city authority or any adjacent or neighboring property owner or occupant who would be damaged by such violation may, in addition to other remedies, institute injunction, mandamus, or other appropriate action or proceedings to prevent such unlawful erection, construction, reconstruction, alteration, conversion, maintenance, or use; or to correct or abate such violation, or to prevent the occupancy of said building, structure, or land.
11-11.
Appeals. Appeals from the decisions of the Zoning Administrator with regard to interpretation, administration, and enforcement shall be made to the Board of Appeals in accordance with the provisions of section 12.
(Ord. No. 2018-05-03, § V, 5-3-2018)
Sec. 12. - Administrative appeals, special exceptions and variances.
12-1.
Administrative Appeals. Appeals from the decisions of the Zoning Administrator with regard to interpretation, administration, and enforcement shall be made to the City of Hahira Board of Appeals. The Board of Appeals shall hear and recommend to the City Council upon appeals where it is alleged there is error in any order, requirement, decision, or determination made by the Zoning Administrator.
12-1.1.
Who May Appeal. Appeals to the Board of Appeals may be taken by any person aggrieved or by any officer, department, board, or bureau of the governing authority affected by any decision of the Zoning Administrator. Such appeals shall be filed no later than 30 days after the date of notification of the decision appealed from by filing with the Zoning Administrator, a notice of appeal specifying the grounds thereof. The Zoning Administrator shall forthwith transmit to the Board of Appeals all the papers constituting the record upon which the action appealed from was taken.
12-1.2.
Presentation of Evidence. The appellant, and any public agency or private individual shall be entitled to present evidence on matters before the Board of Appeals.
12-1.3.
Administrative Appeal Decisions. The Board of Appeals, in conformity with the provisions of these regulations, may recommend to City Council the reversal or affirmation, wholly or partly, or modification of the order, requirement, decision, or determination of the Zoning Administrator.
12-2.
Special Exception. The City of Hahira Board of Appeals shall hear and recommend to the City Council upon Special Exceptions as authorized by section 5, Schedule of Permitted Uses of this ordinance.
12-2.1.
Special Exception Review Criteria. The application to establish such Special Exception use shall be recommended for approval on a finding by the Board of Appeals that:
a.
The proposed use will not be contrary to the purpose of this ordinance.
b.
The proposed use will not be detrimental to the use or development of adjacent properties or the general neighborhood nor affect adversely the health and safety of residents and workers.
c.
The proposed use will not constitute a nuisance or hazard because of the number of persons who will attend or use such facility, vehicular movement, noise or fumes generation, or type of physical activity.
d.
The proposed use will not be affected adversely by the existing uses of adjacent properties; and the proposed use will be placed on a lot of sufficient size to satisfy the space requirements of said use.
e.
The parking and all development standards set forth for each particular use for which a permit may be granted will be met.
f.
Provided that the Board of Appeals may recommend such additional restrictions and standards (i.e., increased setbacks, buffer strips, screening, etc.) as may be necessary to protect the health and safety of residents and workers in the community, and to protect the value and use of property in the general neighborhood; and provided, that wherever the Board of Appeals shall find, in the case of any permit granted pursuant to the provisions of this ordinance that any term, conditions or restrictions upon which such permit was granted are not being complied with, the city Board of Appeals may recommend such permit be rescinded and revoked after giving due notice to all parties concerned and granting full opportunity for a public hearing.
g.
Special Exceptions recommended by the Board of Appeals and approved by the City Council shall be exercised within 12 months from date of approval, shall not be transferable except upon written approval of the City Council, or shall become null and void and subject to procedures for resubmission as hereinabove established.
12-3.
Request for a Variance. The Board of Appeals may recommend to City Council upon appeal in specific cases such variance from the dimensional standards and development requirements of this ordinance as will not be contrary to the public interest where, owing to special conditions, a literal enforcement of provisions of this ordinance will, in an individual case, result in unnecessary hardship, so that the spirit of this ordinance shall be observed, public safety and welfare secured, and substantial justice done. Provided, however, that a variance shall not be granted for a use of land or building or structure that is prohibited by this ordinance in the district in question. Existing nonconforming uses are still valid.
12-3.1.
Variance Review Criteria. A variance may be granted by the City Council in an individual case upon finding by the Board of Appeals that the following exists:
a.
There are extraordinary and exceptional conditions pertaining to the particular piece of property in question because of its size, shape, or topography; and
b.
The application of all dimensional standards and development requirements to this particular piece of property would render the particular property unusable; and
c.
Such conditions are peculiar to the particular piece of property involved, or, in the alternative, that such conditions are due to the location of existing utilities, etc.; and
d.
Relief, if granted, would not cause substantial detriment to the public good or impair the purposes and intent of this ordinance; provided that no variance may be granted for a use of land, building or structure that is prohibited by this ordinance. Applications for use variances shall not be accepted by the Zoning Administrator. Such requests shall be properly filed as requests for rezoning, the authority for such rezoning of property being solely reserved for the Hahira City Council.
e.
Provided that the Board of Appeals may recommend to the City Council such additional restrictions and standards (i.e., increased setbacks, buffer strips, screening, etc.) as may be necessary to protect the health and safety of residents and workers in the community, and to protect the value and use of property in the general neighborhood. Provided, that whenever the Board of Appeals shall find, in the case of any permit granted pursuant to the provisions of this ordinance that any of the terms, conditions or restrictions upon which such permit was granted are not being complied with, the City Council shall rescind and revoke such permit after giving due notice to all parties concerned and granting full opportunity.
12-4.
Public Hearing Required. Before making its recommendation to the City Council on any administrative appeal, request for a Special Exception, or request for a variance, the Board of Appeals shall hold a public hearing thereon.
2[12]-4.1.
Notice of Hearing Shall Be Given. At least 15 but not more than 45 days, notice of such required public hearing shall be published in two consecutive issues of the official legal organ of the City of Hahira. In addition, notice of such public hearings shall be sent to the owners of all properties either adjoining or directly across the public right-of-way to the property affected. Said list of property owners shall be supplied by the applicant and is a required part of the application. Such required public hearing notice shall contain the name(s) of the appellant or petitioner, the date, time, and place set for the public hearing, and shall contain a brief statement of the nature of the hearing.
12-4.2.
Who May Appear. Any party may appear at the public hearing in person or by agent or by attorney.
12-4.3.
Time limit on Board's Recommendation. The Board of Appeals shall make a recommendation to the City Council following a public hearing within 30 days.
12-5.
Forms. Administrative appeals, requests for permission to establish a use requiring special approval, and requests for variances shall be made on forms provided therefor, and all information required on said forms shall be provided by the appellant. Forms shall be filed with the Zoning Administrator. No form shall be accepted by the Zoning Administrator unless it contains all pertinent information and shall include a fee set by the City Council payable to the city, to defray expenses.
12-6.
Board of Appeals. A Board of Appeals may be appointed by the Mayor with a majority vote by the City Council. The Board of Appeals will consist of five members. The term of appointment will be for five years, except that the initial individual appointments shall be for terms of:
[12-6.1.]
One appointment for one year.
[12-6.2.]
One appointment for two years.
[12-6.3.]
One appointment for three years.
[12-6.4.]
One appointment for four years.
[12-6.5.]
One appointment for five years.
[12-6.6.]
If no Board of Appeals is appointed, the Mayor and City Council will serve as the Board of Appeals for the City of Hahira.
12-7.
Organization. The Board of Appeals shall elect one of its members as Chairman, who shall serve for one year, or until re-elected or a successor is elected. The Board of Appeals shall elect one of its members as Secretary.
12-8.
Procedures. The Board of Appeals shall adopt rules in accordance with the provisions of this ordinance and meetings of the Board will be called by the Chairman or by two members of the Board. The Board shall keep minutes of its proceedings, showing the vote of each member upon each question, or if absent or failing to vote, indicating such fact, and shall keep records of its examinations and recommendations. A copy of the minutes will be forwarded to the City Hall for filing and these minutes shall he a public record.
Sec. 13. - Zoning decisions and ordinance amendments.
13-1.
General Conditions. This ordinance, including the zoning map or major thoroughfare plan, may be amended by the City Council on their own motion, on recommendation of the Planning Commission, or on petition by the property owner or his duly authorized agent, but no amendment shall become effective unless it shall have been proposed by or shall first have been submitted to the Planning Commission for review and recommendation. Before enacting an amendment to this ordinance, the governing authority shall give public notice and hold a public hearing thereon as set forth in this section.
13-2.
Application for Amendment.
13-2.1.
General. Applications for amendment of this ordinance may be in the form of proposals for amendment of the text or proposals for amendment of the zoning map. Applications for amendment shall be submitted to the Zoning Administrator and shall include a fee set by the city payable to the city, to defray expenses. No application for a zoning change affecting the same parcel of property or part thereof shall be accepted by the Zoning Administrator until the expiration of at least six months immediately following the defeat of a rezoning request by the City Council.
13-2.2.
Signature of Applicant Required. All applications shall be signed by the applicant, and shall state his name and address.
13-2.3.
Application for Text Amendment. In the case of a text amendment, the application shall set forth the text to be added and the existing text to be deleted.
13-2.4.
Application for Map Amendment. An application for a map amendment shall include the following information:
a.
The community or area in which is located the land proposed to be reclassified and the street number, if any, or if none, the location with respect to the nearby public roads in common use;
b.
A legal survey of the land in question, and a description by metes and bounds, bearings, and distances of the land, or if the boundaries conform to the lot boundaries within a subdivision for which a plat is recorded in the land records of the County; then the lot, block, and subdivision designations with appropriate plat reference;
c.
The present zoning classification and the classification proposed for such land and a statement as to the proposed use of the property;
d.
The name and address of the owners of the land;
e.
The area of the land proposed to be reclassified stated in square feet if less than one acre, and in acres if one or more.
f.
If the applicant has made, within two years immediately preceding the filing of the applicant's application for a map amendment, campaign contributions aggregating $250.00 or more or made gifts having in the aggregate a value of $250.00 or more to the City of Hahira, any member of the City Council of Hahira, Georgia, or a member of the City of Hahira Planning Commission, it shall be the duty of the applicant and the attorney representing the applicant to disclose the following in the application:
1)
The name of the local government official to whom the campaign contribution or gift was made;
2)
The dollar amount of each campaign contribution made by the applicant to the local government official during the two years immediately preceding the filing of the application for the map amendment and the date of each such contribution; and
3)
An enumeration and description of each gift having a value of $250.00 or more made by the applicant to the local government official during the two years immediately preceding the filing of the application for the map amendment.
4)
In the event that no such gifts or contributions were made, the application shall affirmatively so state.
g.
The application number, date of application, and action taken on all prior applications filed for the reclassification of the whole or part of the land proposed to be reclassified.
13-2.5.
Exclusions. The provisions of subsections 13-2.1 through 13-2.4 shall not be applicable to amendments of this ordinance, including the zoning map, initiated by the Planning Commission or the City Council.
13-3.
Referral to Planning Commission. Within five days after the routine monthly application acceptance deadline, the Zoning Administrator shall transmit two copies of the rezoning application to the Planning Commission for its review and recommendation. The Planning Commission shall have 30 days within which to submit its report to the City Council. If the Planning Commission fails to take action within 30 days, it shall be deemed to have recommended approval of the requested amendment. The passage of a motion to table or a postponement to a specific time shall constitute a decision for the purpose of this section. Upon receipt of the Planning Commission report or upon the expiration of said 30-day period, whichever occurs first, a public hearing shall be scheduled regarding the application.
13-4.
Posting of Property. Not less than 15 nor more than 45 days prior to the date set for the public hearing on any application for a map amendment (other than a map amendment initiated by the Planning Commission or City Council), the Zoning Administrator shall erect a sign on the land proposed to be reclassified. Such sign shall be erected by the Zoning Administrator within ten feet of whatever boundary line of such land abuts the most traveled public road; and, if no public road abuts thereon, then such sign shall be erected to face in such a manner as may be most readily seen by the public. The sign shall show the application number, if any, the present zoning classification, the proposed zoning classification, and the scheduled date, time and place of public hearing. If the land sought to be reclassified lies within more than one block as shown on a plat recorded in the land records of the County, then a sign shall be erected on the land in each such block. The Zoning Administrator shall verify the posting of a sign upon said property in accordance with these provisions. Any such sign shall be maintained on the property at all times by the Zoning Administrator until a decision on the application has been made by the City Council.
13-5.
Hearing Procedures.
13-5.1.
Hearing Called. Before taking action on a proposed amendment, the Mayor and Council shall hold a public hearing. At least 15 but not more than 45 days notice of the time, place, and purpose of said hearing shall be published in two consecutive issues of the official legal organ of the City of Hahira. Such notice with respect to text or map amendments not initiated by the Planning Commission or City Council shall state the application number, and shall contain a summary of the proposed amendment, if a text amendment, and in the case of a map amendment, the legal description (as furnished in compliance with subparagraph 13-2-4.b, above, and location of the property, its area, the name of the owner or their authorized agent, and the present and proposed zoning classification for the property affected. Such notice, with respect to text or map amendments initiated by the Planning Commission or City Council, shall state the time and place of the hearing, the purpose of the hearing, and that the proposed text or map amendment is described in documents available for public inspection during business hours in the office of the Zoning Administrator.
13-5.2.
Notice to Interested Parties. A notice shall be given to the applicant and the Planning Commission of the date, time and place of the public hearing. All application files shall be placed in the custody of the Zoning Administrator and be open to public inspection during regular office hours.
13-5.3.
Public Hearing Procedure. All public hearings on zoning matters shall be placed on the City Council agenda under a section entitled "Public Hearings." After an initial presentation of a specific zoning and/or annexation/zoning request by the Planning Commission or their designated staff, citizen comments will be heard in an orderly fashion. The Mayor or Mayor Pro Tem will ask for those citizens speaking in favor of the request first, followed by those opposed to the issue. All speakers will be asked to provide his or her name and address for the public record. Citizens are requested to keep their comments as brief as possible so that all who wish to be heard will have adequate time. When there are a large number of citizens wishing to testify at a given hearing, the presiding officer may invoke time limitations on individual speakers. In such cases, these time limits shall apply to all speakers. Citizens may address their comments to the City Council as a whole. Individual attacks or cross examination of a Council Member, city employees or other citizens will be ruled out of order. After all citizens' comments have been received, all further discussion of the specific application is reserved for the City Council. The City Council retains the privilege to ask any questions of staff or any citizen present for clarification. The City Council will then render a decision on the application. The passage of a motion to table or a postponement to a specific time shall constitute a decision for the purpose of this section.
13-5.4.
Standards for Exercise of Zoning Powers. In order to promote the public health, safety, and general welfare of the City of Hahira against the unrestricted use of property, the following standards, and any other factors relevant to balancing the above stated public interest will be considered, when deemed appropriate, by the City Council in making any zoning decision:
a.
The existing land use pattern;
b.
The possible creation of an isolated district unrelated to adjacent and nearby districts;
c.
The existing population density pattern and the possible increase or overtaxing of the load on public facilities;
d.
Whether changed or changing conditions make the passage of the proposed amendment reasonable;
e.
Whether the proposed change will adversely influence existing conditions in the neighborhood or the community at large;
f.
Potential impact on the environment, including but not limited to drainage, soil erosion and sedimentation, flooding, air quality, and water quality and quantity;
g.
The reasonableness of the costs required of the public in providing, improving, increasing or maintaining public utilities, schools, streets and public safety necessities when considering the proposed changes;
h.
Whether the proposed change will be detrimental to the value or improvement of development of adjacent or nearby property in accordance with existing requirements;
i.
Whether the proposed change is out of scale with the needs of the neighborhood or the City of Hahira;
j.
Whether the proposed change will constitute a grant of special privilege to the individual owner as contrasted with the adjacent or nearby neighborhood or with the general public; and
k.
The extent to which the zoning decision is consistent with local planning efforts, if any, of the City of Hahira.
Sec. 14. - Legal status provisions.
14-1.
Conflict With Other Laws. All previous zoning ordinances of the City of Hahira, Georgia, are hereby repealed. All ordinances or parts of ordinances not specifically in conflict herewith are hereby continued in force and effect, but all such ordinances or parts of ordinances in conflict herewith are hereby repealed. Whenever other ordinances or parts of ordinances require greater restrictions than those required by this ordinance, such more restrictive ordinances or parts of ordinances shall govern. Whenever other ordinances or parts of ordinances require lesser restrictions, the requirements herewithin shall govern.
14-2.
Separability. If any section, clause, portion or provision of this ordinance is found invalid or unconstitutional, such invalidity or unconstitutionality shall not affect any other portion of this ordinance.
14-3.
Effective Date. This ordinance shall take effect and be enforced from and after its adoption and passage by the City Council.
July 13, 1989
Date of Adoption
___________
Mayor, City of Hahira
___________
City Clerk, Hahira, Georgia (SEAL)
Appendix B - SUBDIVISIONS[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Editor's note— The zoning and subdivision ordinances are published as separate documents and are on file in the city offices. The subdivision ordinance as amended through February 7, 2008, is printed herein. All amendments to the original material is indicated by history notes in parenthesis at the end of the affected section. The absence of such a history note indicates that the material remains substantially unchanged from the original. Obvious misspellings have been corrected without notation. Punctuation and capitalization have been made consistent. Changes for clarity have been indicated in brackets [ ].

ARTICLE I. - SHORT TITLE, PURPOSE, AND JURISDICTION
1-1.
Short Title. This resolution shall be known as the "Land Subdivision Regulations of the City of Hahira."
1-2.
Purpose. This resolution is enacted pursuant to the authority contained in the Constitution of the State of Georgia, as amended for the following purposes:
a.
To encourage economically sound and stable land development.
b.
To assure the provision of required streets, utilities, and other facilities and services to land developments.
c.
To assure the adequate provision of safe and convenient traffic access and circulation, both vehicular and pedestrian, in land developments.
d.
To assure the provision of needed public open spaces and building sites in land developments through the dedication or reservation of land for recreational, educational, and other public purposes.
e.
To assure that land is developed in conformity with the Development Plan for Hahira, Georgia.
1-3.
Jurisdiction. These regulations shall govern all subdivision of land within the corporate limits of Hahira, Georgia.
ARTICLE II. - DEFINITIONS
2-1.
Definitions. When used in this resolution the following words and phrases shall have the meaning given in this section. Terms not herein defined shall have their customary dictionary definitions where not inconsistent with the context. The term "shall" is always mandatory. When not inconsistent with the context, words used in the singular number include the plural, and those used in the plural number include the singular. Words used in the present tense include the future. The Planning Commission's interpretation shall be final as to the meaning of any definition, statement, requirement, symbol, and/or abbreviation used in connection with these regulations and/or their application.
2-2.
Alleys. A public right-of-way, not intended to be a vehicular arterial or to provide the primary means of access to abutting property, but used for service access to the rear or side of properties otherwise abutting a public street.
2-3.
Building Line. A line beyond which no foundation wall or part of the structure of any building shall project, with the exception of roof overhang, walkways, and the subsurface projection of footings; provided, however, that such overhang does not exceed six feet and does not encroach upon the adjacent property or right-of-way.
2-4.
City. The City of Hahira, Georgia.
2-5.
City Council. The Mayor and Council of the City of Hahira.
2-6.
City Engineer. The official to whom responsibilities normally associated with this title have been delegated.
2-7.
Commissioner of Health. The Lowndes County Commissioner of Health, the Lowndes County Health Department and/or the State of Georgia Department of Human Resources. The words "Commissioner of Health" are used in these regulations to denote the fact that all matters pertaining to health regulations shall be directed to that official or his staff.
2-8.
Comprehensive Plan. The Comprehensive Plan for the City of Hahira, Georgia, approved by the Planning Commission and/or the City Council, which may consist of the Major Thoroughfare Plan, General Land Use Plan, Street and Road Classification Plan, and other maps, data, and descriptive matter for the physical development of the city or any portions thereof, including any amendments, extensions, or additions thereto as adopted by the Planning Commission and/or the City Council.
2-9.
Crosswalk. A right-of-way within a block dedicated to public use for pedestrian use only and so designed as to provide access to adjacent streets or lots.
2-10.
Cul-de-sac. A street having only one end open for access to another street, the other end being terminated by a turnaround as specified in these regulations.
2-11.
Development. The act or process of erecting buildings, structures, or making improvements.
2-12.
Director. The Director of the Greater Lowndes County Planning Commission.
2-13.
Easement. A grant by the owner of land for the use of such land by others, including public usage, for a specific purpose or purposes.
2-14.
Land Characteristics. A soils inventory of the area proposed for development. The inventory will include a soils map and identification of soil types. This information may be obtained by request of the property owner from the local soil conservation office.
2-15.
Lot. A portion or parcel of land separated from other portions or parcels by description, as on a subdivision plat or record of survey map or as described by metes and bounds, and intended for transfer of ownership or for building development. For the purpose of this resolution, the term does not include any portion of a dedicated right-of-way.
2-16.
Lot Width. The distance between the side lot lines, measured at the building line, parallel to the street right-of-way line.
2-17.
M.S.L. Mean Sea Level.
2-18.
Planning Commission. The Greater Lowndes County Planning Commission.
2-19.
Public Water and Sewage Systems. A system owned and operated by the county, a municipality, a community corporation, or an individual serving two or more premises and approved by the Department of Natural Resources, Environmental Protection Division.
2-20.
Public Right-of-Way. A portion of land being used or to be used as a public street, road, thoroughfare, crosswalk, pipeway, drainage canal, and/or other similar uses and designated by means of right-of-way lines.
2-21.
Street. A public right-of-way which provides vehicular access to abutting property.
2-21.1.
Major Arterial Street. A street which is designated as such on the Major Thoroughfare Plan and which is intended to provide swift and safe movement of traffic through the city.
2-21.2.
Secondary Arterial Street. A street which is designated as such on the Major Thoroughfare Plan and which is intended to provide easy and convenient traffic movement within the city.
2-21.3.
Collector Street. A street which is designated as such on the Major Thoroughfare Plan and which is intended to collect traffic from local streets and direct it safely to secondary or major streets.
2-21.4.
Dead-End Street. A street having only one end open for access to another street, and other end being abruptly terminated with no turnaround.
2-21.5.
Marginal Access Street. A street generally parallel to and adjacent to an arterial street providing access to abutting properties and protection from through traffic.
2-21.6.
Local Street. A street used for local circulation in residential areas providing access to abutting property.
2-22.
Subdivider. Any person, firm, corporation, association or partnership or any agent therefore who undertakes or proposes to undertake the subdivision of land so as to constitute a subdivision as herein defined.
2-23.
Subdivision. All divisions of a tract or parcel of land into two or more lots, parcels, building sites, or other divisions for the purpose, whether immediate or future, of sale, legacy, or building development, including all division of land involving a new street or a change in existing streets, and including resubdivision and, where appropriate to the context, relating to the process of subdividing or to the land or area subdivided; provided, however, that the following are not included within this definition. For plats not included within this definition, see section 4-2.11.
a.
Where located on the existing public road, the combination or recombination of previously platted lots, where total number of lots is not increased, and resultant lots are equal to the current standards of the city.
b.
The public acquisition of land.
c.
The sale of public land.
2-24.
Tax Assessors. Lowndes County Board of Tax Assessors.
2-25.
Tract. A portion of land with definite and ascertainable limits or boundaries.
2-26.
Utility. Any community service available to the public by means of an overhead or underground distribution or collection system such as electricity, telephone, water, gas, and sewerage disposal.
2-27.
Zoning Regulations. The zoning regulations enacted by the City Council, City of Hahira, Georgia.
ARTICLE III. - PLATTING JURISDICTION, ENFORCEMENT
3-1.
Platting Authority. From and after the passage of this resolution, the Planning Commission shall be the official platting authority, and no plat of a land subdivision shall be recorded in the office of the Clerk of the Superior Court of Lowndes County unless it has the approval of the Planning Commission inscribed thereon. The filing or recording of a plat of a subdivision without the approval of the planning commission as required by this resolution is declared to be a misdemeanor.
3-2.
Use of Plat. The transfer of, sale of, agreement to sell, or negotiation to sell land by reference to, exhibition of, or other use of a plat of a subdivision that has not been given final approval by the Planning Commission and recorded in the office of the Clerk of the Superior Court of Lowndes County is prohibited, and the description by metes and bounds in such an instrument of transfer or other document shall not exempt the transaction from prescribed penalties.
3-3.
Opening and Improving Public Streets. The governing body of the city shall not accept, lay out, open, improve, grade, pave, or light any street, or lay any utility lines in any street, which has not attained the status of a public street prior to the effective date of this resolution, unless such street corresponds to the street location shown on an approved subdivision plat or the Major Thoroughfare Plan; provided that the governing body may accept, lay out, open, and improve any street not so platted if it first submits such proposed action to the Planning Commission for its review and comment.
3-4.
Issuance of Building Permits. The Director of Building Inspections for Lowndes County will not issue building permits for any parcel of land, lot or building site subject to these regulations that have not been designated and recorded as required by these regulations.
ARTICLE IV. - APPROVAL OF SUBDIVISIONS
Pre-application Procedure. The subdivider may visit the Planning Commission offices and discuss the effect of the Major Thoroughfare Plan and other official plans on the subdivision, as well as general design standards, zoning, and related matters.
The subdivider may submit pre-application plans and data for review, advice, and assistance by the Planning Commission, city engineer, and the county health department. Professional assistance at this early stage may save time and effort during later steps. Pre-application plans and data should include:
a.
Location sketch map, showing site in relation to the section of the city in which it is located.
b.
A simple sketch plan on a topographic survey showing general layout of lots, streets, major drainage ways, and other features in relation to existing conditions on the site and the surrounding street system.
c.
General subdivision information including data on existing covenants, wooded areas, available and proposed community facilities, and utilities, typical lot size, etc., and land characteristics as defined.
Subdivisions shall be officially reviewed and approved in two stages as follows:
4-1.
Preliminary Plat.
4-1.1.
Purpose: The purpose of the preliminary plat is to safeguard the subdivider from unnecessary loss of time and expense in preparation of a subdivision plat which does not conform with the specifications of the subdivision regulations resolution. The preliminary plat requires only approximate accuracy of scale and dimension. Public agencies having jurisdiction will review preliminary plats regarding matters within their jurisdiction. During the review process, the subdivider or his agent may be called upon for consultation.
4-1.2.
Subdivisions Requiring No New Street, Water, or Sewer Facilities: All subdivisions which do not involve the platting, construction, or opening of new streets, water or sewer facilities may be accepted by the Planning Commission in the form of a Final Plat, provided that essential data required by the reviewing agencies to insure compliance with the intent of these regulations is submitted. This essential data includes a proper soils inventory, a contour map and necessary percolation tests.
4-1.3.
Filing: Any person desiring to subdivide land shall file with the Planning Commission (through the Zoning Administrator's office) five copies of the preliminary plat accompanied by a letter of application. The letter of application shall contain the name and address of the developer(s) and his agent(s), the zoning of the property to be subdivided, whether or not the subdivision will be developed in phases, any plans for potential annexation and plans for serving the proposed subdivision with sewer and water facilities. The plat shall be prepared in accordance with these regulations and with applicable county specifications by a registered land surveyor, who is licensed under the laws of the State of Georgia. The preliminary plat shall be deemed filed with the Planning Commission when it is filed with the Director. At the time of filing, a certificate of filing shall be provided to the subdivider and shall include the time and date of filing. The Director shall have authority to reject the preliminary plat if he finds that it does not comply with these regulations. If the Director rejects the preliminary plat, he shall provide the subdivider with a written statement specifying all the respects in which the plat fails to comply. The subdivider may appeal to the Planning Commission from such rejection. Filing of the preliminary plat shall be accomplished at least 14 days prior to the regular Planning Commission meeting at which it is to be considered. The preliminary plat shall include:
a.
Title Block and North Arrow: The plat will show the name of the proposed subdivision, its location by county and city, the name, address and registration number of the surveyor preparing the plat and the date of the plat. A north arrow shall be included with a notation referencing the bearings to magnetic north, astronomical north or grid north.
b.
General Layout: The plat shall show information as to the proposed street layout and widths, layout of lots with a notation as to the minimum size and width of lots and any proposed open space. Any lands to be dedicated will be identified. Plat scale, total acreage of the site and total number of lots created shall also be indicated. Lot and block identification and building setback lines shall also be indicated.
c.
Topography: The plat shall show existing contour lines dashed and any proposed contour lines solid, both set of lines to be at two-foot intervals, mean seal level (M.S.L.). Prominent drainage features such as lakes, depressions, streams, etc., which could affect the design of the subdivision shall be shown. Engineering data showing the high water elevation and how it was established shall be submitted with the plat.
d.
Existing Features: The plat shall show the locations and names of existing and platted property lines, streets (and its right-of-way), railroads (and its right-of-way), public and private rights-of-ways, sanitary sewer (and size), water mains (and size), bridges, culverts, storm drainage (and size), easements, parks and other public open spaces, land lot and land district lines, city limits lines and names of adjoining property owners or subdivisions. Groups of trees and swamp areas shall also be indicated.
e.
Location Map: The plat shall include a small scale map of sufficient clarity so that the location of the proposed subdivision can be readily determined.
f.
Water and Sewer: A statement from the subdivider shall be submitted with the preliminary plat which will describe the method by which sanitary sewer and water facilities will be provided. If non-public sewer is proposed to serve a subdivision, then a soils inventory (see section 2-14), soils percolation test results and contour map shall accompany the preliminary plat at the time of submission. The contour map shall show location and identification of each soil class and site of each percolation test. Percolation tests shall be made in accordance with county health department requirements.
g.
Future Tract Plan: In cases where a subdivision is to be developed in stages with additional plats being filed with the Planning Commission at a later date(s), the filing of the initial plat will be accompanied by a Future Tract Plan, a reasonably accurate plat in sketch form of the entire tract which will show the future street system and topography for the entire tract. Once the required tract plan has been given approval by the Planning Commission, five copies of the approved future tract plan must be provided for distribution to the various reviewing agencies and the city/county inspections office.
4-1.4.
Completeness: If any of the above facts are omitted or misrepresented on the plat, the director may refuse to review the plat and shall return the plat to the subdivider to be completed or revised.
4-1.5.
Approval by Individual Agencies: No preliminary plat shall be approved by the Planning Commission unless it is approved by the city engineer, the commissioner of health, and the assignment of parcel numbers by the Lowndes County Board of Tax Assessors. These agencies shall approve with or without modification or disapprove the preliminary plat to the extent that each has jurisdiction. If the plat is rejected, the reviewing agency shall provide the Planning Commission with a written statement specifying all respects where the plat fails to comply.
4-1.6.
Approval by Planning Commission: Approval or disapproval of the Preliminary plat shall be accomplished within 45 days after the plat is filed with the Planning Commission. If after 45 days the Planning Commission has failed to act, the preliminary plat shall be deemed approved; provided that the subdivider may waive in writing this requirement and consent to an extension of such period. If the preliminary plat is disapproved, the reasons therefor shall be stated in the resolution disapproving the same and the subdivider shall be so informed.
4-1.7.
Approval of Construction Drawings: Upon approval of the preliminary plat and before preparation of the final construction drawings for the minimum improvements required by these regulations, the subdivider shall receive tentative approval of said engineering plans from the city engineer.
a.
The design of all minimum improvements shall be under the direction of an engineer registered in the State of Georgia. All plans shall bear his seal.
b.
A certificate of approval from the county health department shall accompany all water and sewer plans.
4-2.
Final Plat.
4-2.1.
Conformance: The final plat shall conform with the approved preliminary. If desired by the subdivider, he may submit only that portion of the preliminary plat he proposed to record and develop at that time; provided, that such portion conforms with all requirements of these regulations.
4-2.2.
Filing: Filing the final plat with the Planning Commission shall include the following:
a.
A letter of application shall contain:
1)
The name and address of the person(s) developing the subdivision and his agent(s);
2)
Zoning of the property to be subdivided;
3)
Whether or not the subdivision will be developed in phases;
4)
Plans for serving the proposed subdivision with sewer and water facilities.
b.
A complete list of major deviations, if any, from the approved preliminary plat.
c.
A certified copy of all private covenants or deed restrictions, if any, pertaining to land within the subdivision.
d.
A copy of the agreement for providing the necessary water and sewer facilities.
e.
A filing fee adequate to cover the cost of investigation and review of the subdivision; the cost of filing the plat; and the cost of reproducing necessary copies will be charged on a per plat page basis.
f.
Two original reproducibles on plastic or linen and 5 blueline prints of the final plat, which will include the following:
1)
Sheet Design: The final plat shall conform to the items listed under the preliminary plat (4-1.3a, 4-1.3b, 4-1.3d, 4-1.3e, 4-1.3g) and the requirements thereof, as set forth in these regulations and shall be drawn in black India ink on one or more sheets of linen tracing cloth or mylar film measuring 18" by 24." When two or more sheets are used, a key map shall be shown on each sheet. There shall be a 2" [two-inch] margin on the left end of the plat and a ½" margin on the remaining three sides. A revision to a recorded plat shall be drawn in black India ink on the same type cloth or film as mentioned above. The final plat shall be drawn on the scale (stated and graphical) of 1" in 100 feet.
2)
Surveyor Certificate: The following certificate shall be entered on the face of the plat as shown in Figure 1. Placement of this certificate may vary as necessary:
I certify that all measurements are correct and were prepared from an actual survey of the property made under my supervision; the field data upon which this plat is based has a closure precision of one foot in _____ feet and an angular error of _______ per angle point, and was adjusted using _______ rule; the plat has been calculated for closure and is found to be accurate within one foot in _____ feet; monument and pin locations are correctly shown by the symbols _______ and the pins are _______ (type of metallic material and length).
Signed ___________ (Seal/Date)
_______ Surveyor, Georgia Registration No. _____
3)
Owner Certificate: The following certificate shall be entered on the face of the plat as shown in Figure 1. Placement of this certificate may vary as necessary:
Owner Date Mortgage Date
___________ ________ _______ ________
4)
Approvals: The following spaces shall be provided (as shown in Figure 1) in the form listed below for approval by all agencies having jurisdiction. Placement on plat may vary:
Approved by Department of Public Health; Lowndes County, Georgia.
Date________ Signed ___________
Health Department Representative
Approved by City Engineer, Hahira, Georgia.
Date________ Signed ___________
City Engineer
Approved by the Valdosta-Lowndes County Planning Commission.
Date________ Signed ___________
Planning Director
5)
Surveying Data: The final plat shall contain the location, bearing and length of every street line, lot line and boundary line whether curved or straight. A note will be made on the plat as to whether curved or straight. A note will be made on the plat as to whether curved dimensions are arc or chord distances. Easement lines (and width), land lot and land district lines will be shown. All dimensions shall be shown in feet and decimals to the nearest 1/100 of a foot, and all angles shall be shown to the nearest second. The error of closure shall not exceed one in 10,000, or as defined by the technical standards required by Georgia Code 84-21 of the Law Governing the Practice of Professional Engineering and Surveying (1980).
6)
Monuments: The final plat shall show the accurate location, material and description of all monuments. A permanent master bench mark shall be established (subject to the approval of the city engineer) within or adjacent to the site by transfer of levels, not less than third order accuracy, from the nearest approved bench mark of known mean sea level (M.S.L.) elevation showing its location on the final plat and recording its elevation on the final plat to the nearest 1/100 of a foot.
7)
Easements: In addition to the requirements for the preliminary plat as set forth in section 4-1.3d of these regulations, the final plat will show the location and width of all temporary construction easements (as required by standard engineering practice), public utility easements and drainage easements where required.
8)
Construction Drawings: At such time as the final plat is filed for review with the Director, the subdivider shall submit construction drawings to the City Engineer for review and approval if not previously approved. Construction drawings shall conform to county specifications.
4-2.3.
Filing Certificate: The final plat shall be deemed filed with the Planning Commission when it is filed with the Director. At the time of filing, a certificate of filing shall be furnished the applicant which will include the time and date of filing. The final plat shall be prepared in accordance with these regulations and applicable city requirements by a registered land surveyor, who is licensed under the laws of the State of Georgia. The director shall have authority to reject the final plat if he finds that it does not conform with the approved preliminary plat or these regulations. If the plat is rejected, the Director shall provide the subdivider with a written statement specifying all the respects in which it does not conform. Filing the final plat shall be accomplished at least 20 days prior to the regular Planning Commission meeting at which it is to be considered.
4-2.4.
Approval by Individual Agencies: No final plat shall be approved unless the Planning Commission first obtains approval of the commissioner of health, the city engineer, and the assignment of map and parcel numbers by the Lowndes County Board of Tax Assessors. Said agencies shall approve, with or without modification, or disapprove the final plat to the extent to which each has jurisdiction. If the plat is disapproved, the agency must provide a written statement of reasons for disapproval within ten days of the time of submittal.
4-2.5.
Approval by Planning Commission: Approval or disapproval of the final plat shall be accomplished within 45 days after the plat is filed with the Planning Commission. If, after 45 days, the Planning Commission has failed to act, the final plat shall be deemed approved and on demand, a copy shall be signed by the director for transmission to the City Manager; provided, that the subdivider may waive in writing these requirements and consent to an extension of such period. If the final plat is disapproved, the reasons therefor shall be stated in the resolution disapproving the same and the subdivider shall be so informed. The approval of a final plat shall not constitute an acceptance by the city of any street or other ground shown upon the plat. No plat shall be acted upon by the Planning Commission without a hearing, and due notice of the time and place of such hearing shall be provided to the applicant.
4-2.6.
Recording a Plat: Upon satisfactory compliance with these regulations and after approval by the Planning Commission, the final plat will be forwarded to the Hahira City Manager to retain until such time that all required minimum improvements have been completed, accepted by the city, and the required guarantee has been posted. At such time the Hahira City Manager shall release said final plat for recording. The plat shall be returned to the director of the Planning Commission who shall record the plat in a timely manner.
4-2.7.
Removal: After a subdivision has been recorded, the subdivider may petition the City Council for permission to remove the subdivision plat from the land records of Lowndes County. The City Council may permit such removal providing that no lot in the subdivision has been sold. Upon giving its permission for such removal, the City Council shall release the bonds and/or cash posted by the subdivider pursuant to the provisions of Article 7-3.
4-2.8.
Revision to a Recorded Plat: Proposed revisions to a recorded plat which do not affect platted rights-of-way may be submitted for administrative approval in accord with the provisions of section 4-2.10. In addition, a revision to a recorded plat shall show the name, phase (if any), date of the recorded subdivision plat being revised, and the exact citation with regard to the County Land Records and the book and page number wherein said plat is recorded. Revisions to a recorded plat which involve platted rights-of-way or other major changes shall be submitted as a preliminary plat.
4-2.9.
Distribution: The Planning Commission will make the following distribution of prints and reproducibles:
[a.]
County Records Original linen or plastic reproducible (recording copies) and one print.
[b]
City Engineer, one print and one reproducible.
[c.]
Building Inspections, one print.
[d.]
City Tax Assessor, one print.
[e.]
County Tax Assessor, one print.
[f.]
County Health Department, one print.
[g.]
Sheriff's Department, one print.
[h.]
City/County Traffic Eng., one print.
[i.]
County Board of Education, one print.
[j.]
Planning Commission, one reproducible and two prints.
4-2.10.
Administrative Approval of Small Subdivisions and Reimbursements: Where a proposed subdivision presents no engineering problems, no required improvements, and few, if any, planning problems, the Planning Director and City Manager may waive the requirements of filing a preliminary plat and may approve the final plat, provided proper plat and application is submitted to the Planning Commission. Said plat shall conform fully to the requirements of these regulations. It shall be the responsibility of the Planning Director to coordinate said administrative review responsibilities.
4-2.11.
Exempt Plat Process: Any plat submitted for recording that meets conditions for exempt status per section 2-23 (Subdivision) are required to be certified by the Planning Director or representative. All plats exempt from the standard review process must be assigned a parcel number by the Lowndes County Board of Tax Assessors if a new parcel is being created. The Tax Assessors will review and assign a map and parcel number which must be shown on the plat prior to recording. All exempt plats must be submitted on a Mylar plus five prints. The Mylar will be retained by the Planning Director. Resurveys of existing parcels which do not involve a map parcel change must be verified by the Planning Director and the Tax Assessors' Office. Any plat submitted through the normal subdivision process shall be reviewed by the Tax Assessors' Office and assigned map and parcel number.
ARTICLE V. - MINIMUM DESIGN STANDARDS
5-1.
Blocks.
5-1.1.
Nonresidential: Blocks for other than residential use shall be of such length and width as may be suitable for their prospective use, including adequate provision for off-street parking and maneuvering space.
5-1.2.
Residential: The length of residential blocks shall not exceed 1,500 feet nor be less than 400 feet. Blocks of more than 1,500 feet will be permitted if natural or manmade barriers such as streams and railroads require blocks of greater size. The depth of residential blocks shall be sufficient to allow two tiers of lots, unless prohibited by natural or manmade barriers, or unless one tier backs onto a line of another person's property, except as provided for in section 5-3.4. The foregoing shall not prevent the inclusion of blocks of greater width, including super blocks. Super blocks may contain public or joint use areas such as parks and playgrounds and shall be covered by adequate maintenance agreements if not dedicated and accepted for public maintenance.
5-1.3.
Crosswalks: Rights-of-way for pedestrian crosswalks shall be provided when in the opinion of the Planning Commission crosswalks are necessary for direct pedestrian access to schools, shopping centers, and parks. A crosswalk right-of-way shall not be less than 20 feet wide.
5-2.
Easements.
5-2.1.
Utility: Utility easements for overhead services shall be located within the platted street right-of-way and shall be a minimum width of 15 feet. Where possible, water lines shall be located on the west and south sides of streets; sewer and gas lines shall be on the east and north sides. Wherever public utility easements are planned adjacent to the subdivision tract boundary or phase, they shall be platted within said subdivision or phase thereof. Water and sewer lines outside of street rights-of-way shall follow side and rear property lines where possible and shall have a minimum easement width of 20 feet except that a greater width shall be provided where it is determined by the county engineer that a greater width is necessary for maintenance or construction.
5-2.2.
Drainage: Drainage easements shall be provided as required by the City Engineer after review of the preliminary construction plans and preliminary plat of the subject subdivision.
5-3.
Lots.
5-3.1.
Minimum Lot Elevation: The lot area contained within and contiguous to the building walls and for a minimum distance of ten feet measured from all sides of said building shall have a minimum elevation of two feet above the maximum flood stage of streams or canals in the particular area being developed based on acceptable engineering procedure and approved by the county engineer. Said minimum elevation shall be subject to approval by the commissioner of health. No change of elevation necessary to meet this requirement will be permitted if change constitutes filing within a designated flood hazard zone.
5-3.2.
Lot Width and Lot Area Requirements: Lots hereafter established within a subdivision shall conform to the lot area and lot width requirements set forth in the zoning ordinance for the City of Hahira or in other sections of this regulation.
5-3.3.
Corner Lots: Corner lots shall be of such size and dimensions that will permit the location of buildings so as to conform with the building setback lines as prescribed in the zoning ordinance. Corner property lines at street intersections shall have a minimum of 20-foot radii.
5-3.4.
Double and Reverse Frontage: Lots having street frontage both to the front and rear shall be prohibited except to provide for separation of residential development from railroad or major, secondary arterial or collector street rights-of-way. Where the aforementioned abuts or runs through any portion of the subdivision, the subdivision plan shall provide for lots backing on said railroad or right-of-way. Said lots shall have a minimum depth adequate to provide for the rear yard setback, required by the respective zoning district, plus an additional 30 feet, ten feet of which shall be a planted, nonencroachable buffer strip separating the lots from the right-of-way. The buffer zone shall be landscaped with hedges or closely planted small trees to provide a visual screen and shall be planted at the time of development. Said planted, nonencroachable buffer strip shall be clearly indicated on the final plat and proper covenants shall be prepared to insure this restriction.
5-4.
Building Lines. All building setback lines shall be as specified in the zoning ordinance for the City of Hahira.
5-5.
Buffer Zones.
5-5.1.
Commercial Use Buffer Zones: When a portion of the subdivision is to be devoted to commercial purposes and when the commercial area adjoins residential lots, or when a portion of a proposed subdivision adjoins an area zoned for commercial or industrial use, a buffer zone not less than 20 feet in width shall be provided. Said buffer strip shall be landscaped with hedges or closely planted small trees so as to provide visual screening. No building or portion thereof may be constructed in said buffer zone, and protective covenants shall be provided to ensure this restriction. Said buffer zone shall be labeled as such on the subdivision plat and shall be planned at the time of development.
5-6.
Streets. The street and road system of any subdivision shall give due consideration to the Major Thoroughfare Plan.
5-6.1.
Access: Every lot of every subdivision shall abut a public street a minimum of sixty feet which is or shall be maintained by the appropriate governing body. Where the subdivision does not immediately adjoin a public street, the subdivider shall provide a public street from the subdivision to a public street. In special situations, private roadways will be allowed per section 5-6.15. Driveways connecting the public road with adjoining property is the responsibility of the property owner. Prior to installation, approval of any needed drainage pipe, under the driveway, must be received form the City Engineer.
5-6.2.
Alignment and Continuation: Streets within the subdivision shall be so arranged as to provide for the alignment and continuation of or projection of existing public streets.
5-6.3.
Cul-de-sacs: Permanent cul-de-sacs shall not be longer than 500 feet from the nearest street right-of-way line with which it interests to the center of its diameter. Where the area served by the cul-de-sac has two or less dwelling units per acre, the maximum length may be increased to 1,000 feet. Cul-de-sacs shall terminate in a circular turnaround having a right-of-way of not less than 100 feet. Paving within the turnaround shall have an outside diameter of not less than 80 feet.
5-6.4.
Dead-end Streets: Permanent dead-end streets and dead-end alleys shall be prohibited.
5-6.5.
Half Streets: Permanent half streets and half alleys shall be prohibited.
5-6.6.
Intersections: The center line of no more than two streets shall intersect at any one point. No street shall intersect another street at less than 80 degrees and shall as nearly as possible interest at 90 degrees.
5-6.7.
Right-of-way Radius: The right-of-way radius at street intersections shall be no less than 20 feet except on major arterial streets where Georgia Highway Department Standards shall prevail.
5-6.8.
Curved Streets: The centerline radius shall not be less than 350 feet for major arterial streets, 250 feet for secondary streets, and 120 feet for collector and residential streets. Centerline tangents between reverse curves shall be not less than 200 feet for secondary streets and 100 feet for collector streets and residential streets.
5-6.9.
Right-of-way Extension: Where the proposed subdivision abuts undeveloped properties, it is essential that appropriate extensions of streets be provided to facilitate future growth and development. Such street rights-of-way to facilitate future development shall be extended by dedication and improved to the boundary of the proposed subdivision.
5-6.10.
Street Jogs: Street jogs at intersections shall be not less than 150 feet between centerline offsets. This provision shall not negate the design intent of section 5-6.2.
5-6.11.
Street Names: The subdivider shall indicate on the subdivision plat the proposed name or number of all streets within the subdivision. Streets and roads that are obviously in alignment with and are extensions of existing previously named or numbered streets shall bear that name. The names of all new streets within the subdivision shall be subject to the review and approval of the Planning Commission.
5-6.12.
Street Right-of-way and Pavement Width: Street rights-of-way shall be measured between lot lines and shall be prescribed in this section. The pavement width shall be as prescribed in the table following:
EXPAND
Street Classification Minimum Right-of-Way
(In Feet) Minimum Pavement Width
(In Feet)
Major Arterial 100 64
Second Arterial 100 48
Collector 80 24
Marginal Access 70 24
Local Street 60* 22
Alleys - Residential 20 12
- Commercial ** **
- Industrial ** **
Easements ** **
*When new development is proposed in proximity to existing curb and gutter sections, said development may be developed with curb and gutter and proper storm drainage within a 50-foot right-of-way. Subdivisions planned for annexation shall be developed to current city standards and shall be subject to review by the City Engineer.
**As appropriate for the proposed development, with approval required by the city engineering department.
  5-6.13.
Additional Rights-of-way: If the subdivision boundary line lies adjacent to the right-of-way line of an existing street of less than minimum right-of-way width, a minimum of one-half the required extra right-of-way shall be dedicated.
5-6.14.
Provisions for Public Use: In subdividing land, due consideration shall be given to suitable sites for schools, parks, playgrounds, and other common areas for public use. Such land should be located in accordance with the Comprehensive Plan. The acquisition of such land shall rest with Lowndes County, Lowndes County Commissioners, and the City Council, City of Hahira.
5-6.15.
Requirements for Private Streets: Private streets may be approved for development only when they are eligible for categorization as a local street. Said street shall be designed so as to prohibit through traffic. To allow for installation of utilities, there will be a 60-foot easement indicated on the plat. Any private street shall be developed to present city standards.
Prior to the issuance of building permits for lots within the development, the developer shall file with the city Attorney a Release of Maintenance Agreement, releasing the city from any present or future maintenance of said streets. In addition, a sign indicating the existence of a private street will be erected at the intersection of each public street and private street. Each lot owner shall have title to the center of the private street adjacent to his lot. An alternative, which must be approved by the City Council on a project by project basis, is the establishment of a responsible association with the authority to maintain the private streets.
ARTICLE VI. - MINIMUM IMPROVEMENTS
6-1.
General. The subdivider shall provide all public improvements as required by these regulations.
6-2.
Paving and Drainage. Within the corporate limits of the City of Hahira, the subdivider shall install paving and proper drainage, which includes ditch slopes and grassing requirements. Proper drainage control structures which may include paved ditches and canals, and which will require established grass sod on road shoulders, front and back slopes of ditches and erosion control devices at outfall locations are required in subdivisions within the corporate limits of the City of Hahira.
All streets and roads shall be paved according to standards set by the Georgia Department of Transportation Standard Specifications for Roads and Bridges, except that the minimum requirement for road base construction shall be six inches of soil-cement stabilized base material or five inches of sand Bituminous stabilized base material, or six inches of top soil or sand clay base material, class "B," surfaced with a paving course of one inch of asphaltic concrete "E," "F," or "H." The City Engineer will determine the type of base material to be used on each and all subdivisions based on conditions and sound engineering judgment prior to beginning any grading work. These materials shall be applied according to established construction methods and shall be subject to inspection by and final approval by the City Engineer prior to acceptance for public maintenance.
6-3.
Monuments/Pins. The subdivider shall provide, through the licensed surveyor, the setting of all reinforced concrete monuments and pins. The reinforced concrete monuments shall be four inches in diameter of square, 30 inches long with a flat top. The top of each monument shall be set flush with the ground. Said monuments shall be set within each block of the subdivision and shall be located along the longest interior straight away; a minimum of four per block shall be installed as shown on the approved plat. Pins, a minimum of fifteen inches long and one-half inch in diameter (metallic material type to be listed on plat per section 4-2.2f.(2) shall be placed along the exterior boundary and interior lot intersection except where concrete monuments are to be located, on each street corner, points of curvature in each street at all points where the street lines intersect the exterior boundary of the subdivision, and where such corners lie within a stream meander (in which case reference pins shall be placed on the bank of the stream). The pin shall be set a minimum of two inches under the ground. The top of the concrete monument shall contain a metal plate or metal rod which shall be scored in such a manner that will properly and accurately identify the location.
6-4.
Water Supply and Sanitary Sewerage.
6-4.1.
It is the intent of these regulations that the general public health of the county be safeguarded from the proliferation of septic tank systems and individual wells in higher density developments.
6-4.2.
Where public sanitary sewage and/or public water is available within 1,000 feet of any portion of the subdivider's property, the subdivider shall provide every lot of the subdivision with public sewer and public water in accordance with applicable governmental (either city or county) specifications. Said facilities are to be dedicated to Lowndes County (or applicable city) for public maintenance and operation prior to recording of the plat.
6-4.3.
Where a public water supply and/or public sewerage system is not accessible, and where topography, soil characteristics, drainage, ground water or other physical conditions preclude safe on-site water supplies and/or sewerage disposal systems, the developer shall furnish through the county board of health plans and specifications for community water supply and/or community sewerage disposal system for the subdivision.
6-4.4.
For lots served by either an individual water supply or an individual sewage disposal system, the minimum lot size shall be 15,000 square feet with a minimum lot width of 100 feet.
6-4.5.
For lots served by both an individual water supply and an individual sewage disposal system, the minimum lot size shall be one acre with a minimum lot width of 120 feet.
6-5.
Storm Water Drainage. The subdivider shall provide adequate storm water drainage in accordance with these regulations and adopted city specifications on file in the city engineer's office. The subdivider shall also provide for adequate drainage for springs or other ground water drainage.
6-6.
Buffer Strips. The subdivider shall provide adequate buffer strips, which consist of plantings and/or visual blinds as detailed in these regulations. Those buffer strips or zones required by these regulations shall be governed by sections 5-3.4, and 5-5.1.
6-7
Street Signs. The developer shall pay for all street signs required for the subdivision at a cost established by the City of Hahira Public Works Department. These fees shall be paid to the city prior to release of the plat for recording.
(Ord. No. 08-01, § 6-7, 2-7-2008)
6-8.
Installation of Improvements. Following approval of the preliminary plat by the Planning Commission, the developer shall request approval of the construction drawings by the city engineer. Said developer can begin installation of the minimum improvements, including grading, paving, installation of utilities, etc., upon approval of the construction drains. Final plat approval by the Planning Commission can be requested during or following the installation of minimum improvements.
6-9.
Street Lights. The subdivider or developer shall install street lights with underground utilities in all subdivisions.
6-9.1.
Street Light Plan. The County Engineer and the electrical utility company servicing the subdivision shall determine adequate street lighting. A copy of the Street Light Plan shall be forwarded to the City Manager for approval prior to preliminary plat approval. The Street Light Plan shall include at a minimum:
a.
Adequate street lighting at street intersections, and dead-ends, including cul-de-sacs, and;
b.
Location of each street light fixture and transformer; and
c.
Material specifications describing poles and fixtures. Material specifications shall identify fixture type: Open Bottom, Cobra Head, Decorative Post Top, etc. Material specifications shall identify pole type: Wood, Aluminum, Steel, etc.
d.
Minimum fixture heights shall not be less than 16 feet above grade. Maximum fixture heights shall not exceed 28 feet above grade. Adjustment in spacing and fixture height may be made due to street curvature, topography, natural foliage and fixture type. A design in compliance with minimum/maximum fixture height shall be considered for approval that produces an effective horizontal illumination of 0.2 foot-candles.
6-9.2.
Installation. The developer shall pay the cost of installing street lights to the City Manager who shall pay same to the electric utility service provider.
6-9.3.
Monthly Payments. The developer shall pay the monthly cost of street light operation to the City Manager until the city accepts street light infrastructure. The City of Hahira shall assume monthly payment for energy usage and maintenance at the time of:
a.
Final plat approval; and
b.
Build-out of subdivision or build-out of each phase.
6-9.4.
Maintenance and Monthly Energy Usage Agreement. The city shall enter into a maintenance and monthly usage agreement with the electric utility provider.
6-9.5.
Street Light District. The city shall establish an appropriately named street light district upon acceptance of street lights, assumption of monthly energy payments and establishment of a maintenance and monthly energy usage agreement with the electric utility provider.
6-10.
Utilities. The installation of utilities shall be as follows:
6-10.1.
Communication Distribution Systems: All communication distribution systems installed solely for the purpose of extending communications service within a development and within the property limits of such development shall be placed underground. Incidental communication terminal boxes may be placed above ground.
6-10.2.
Electric Power Distribution Systems: All electric distribution systems of 25,000 volts or less installed solely for the purpose of extending electric service to a development and within the property limits of such development shall be placed underground.
6-10.3.
Easements: Developers shall allocate necessary easements with future maintenance access.
6-10.4.
Location of Underground Installations: The plans submitted to the city engineer will set forth the anticipated location of all underground installations.
6-11.
Sidewalks.
a.
When any parcel of land within the corporate limits of the city abutting existing public streets is developed with new construction, or over half of an existing structure is remodeled or renovated, the owner or developer shall install a four-foot-wide sidewalk along the entire frontage of said parcel. Said sidewalk shall be installed within the city right-of-way in accordance with plans and specifications approved by the City Engineer. Compliance with this section shall not be required for single-family residential lots of record prior to the date of adoption of this section.
b.
In new subdivisions where the developer or owner is installing public streets, sidewalks shall be installed at the time of construction of residential dwellings or other structures. Said sidewalks shall be installed within the city right-of-way in accordance with the requirements set forth in subsection (a) hereof. On residential streets, sidewalk installations shall be required only on the northern right-of-way of east-west residential streets and only on the eastern right-of-way of north-south streets. Installation shall be required on both sides of collector or higher classified roads.
c.
No certificate of occupancy shall be granted if the provisions of this section have not been complied with and construction of the sidewalks have not been completed.
(Ord. No. 08-01, § 6-10, 2-7-2008)
ARTICLE VII. - ACCEPTANCE AND GUARANTEE OF COMPLETED MINIMUM IMPROVEMENTS
7-1.
Completion of Improvements. Before the plat is signed by the director of the Greater Lowndes County Planning Commission, all developers shall be required to complete, in accordance with the Planning Commission's decision and to the satisfaction of the City Engineer, all minimum improvements as required by section 6 of these regulations, specified on the final plat, and as approved by the Planning Commission, and to dedicate same to the City of Hahira.
7-2.
Acceptance. Upon written notification of completion of Minimum Improvements, the City Engineer shall within 30 days after such notice accept or reject, in writing, the completed improvements stating the deficiencies, if any.
7-2.1.
The required minimum improvements shall not be accepted unless they conform to these regulations and officially adopted city specifications.
7-3.
Guarantee. The subdivider shall guarantee to the city, for a period of one year, after completion and acceptance of the improvement, all material and workmanship going into such improvement. The subdivider shall post bond with the city, conditioned upon the faithful performance of such guaranty. In lieu of furnishing the subdivider's bond, the subdivider may assign to the county an approved contractor's guaranty and bond. Such guaranty and bond shall be posted prior to approval by the city of the subdivision plat. Cash shall be accepted in lieu of bond. This guaranty shall be in the amount of ten percent of the total improvements cost.
7-4.
Recording of Plat. Upon acceptance of all improvements installed by the developer and posting of the required guarantee, the office of the City Manager shall release the final plat for recording. Said plat shall be returned to the Director of the Greater Lowndes County Planning Commission, who shall record said plat in a timely manner and distribute appropriate copies thereof in accordance with the directives of section 4-2.9.
7-5.
Duration and Release of Guarantee. Bonds and/or cash posted pursuant to section 7-3 of these regulations shall be released or returned at such time as the improvements guaranteed thereby have received final inspection after the guaranty period.
ARTICLE VIII. - VIOLATION AND PENALTIES
8-1.
Violations.
8-1.1.
It shall be unlawful to convey or improve property by the construction of buildings on lots of any land subdivision which has not been approved and recorded as provided in these regulations, except those parcels recorded prior to the effective date of these regulations.
8-1.2.
It shall be unlawful to record a subdivision plat or once recorded, to make any changes thereon whatsoever which have not been approved by the Planning Commission and the city engineer, in accordance with the provisions of these regulations.
8-1.3.
Each Day's Violation a Separate Offense. After due notice has been given, each and every day's violation of any provision of this resolution shall constitute a separate offense.
8-2.
Violation and Penalty. Any person who violates any provision of these subdivision regulations shall, upon conviction in the City Recorder's Court, be penalized by the imposition of a fine not exceeding $500.00 and/or imprisonment in the county jail for a period not greater than 60 days.
ARTICLE IX. - LEGAL STATUS
9-1.
Effect of Invalidity of Part of Resolution. Should any section or provision of this resolution be decided by the courts to be invalid, such decision shall not affect the validity of this resolution as a whole or any other part thereof.
9-2.
Conflict With Other Laws. All resolutions or parts of resolutions in conflict herewith are hereby repealed.
9-3.
Amendment. The City Council shall have the authority to amend these regulations after a public hearing thereon. Notice of the time and place of such public hearing shall be published in a newspaper of general circulation in Lowndes County at least 15 days prior to such meetings.
9-4.
Variances. In cases of undue hardship under this ordinance, any property owner may petition the Planning Commission for a variance, and where the Planning Commission concurs, it will prepare and send to the City Council a recommendation for a variance when considered necessary and equitable. In case the Planning Commission fails to concur, the property owner may appeal to the City Council for relief. All variance requests will require a public hearing in the same manner as an amendment.
9-5.
Effective Date. These regulations shall take effect and be in force from and after the date of adoption.
Appendix C - FRANCHISES[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Editor's note— Printed herein are the gas light ordinances for the City of Hahira, Georgia, as adopted by the City Council. Amendments to such ordinances are indicated by parenthetical history notes following amended provisions. Obvious misspellings and punctuation errors have been corrected without notation. For stylistic purposes, headings and catchlines have been made uniform, and the same system of capitalization, citation to state statutes, and expression of numbers in text as appears in the Code of Ordinances has been used. Additions made for clarity are indicated by brackets [ ].

ARTICLE I. - ATLANTA GAS LIGHT COMPANY[2]
AN ORDINANCE, GRANTING TO ATLANTA GAS LIGHT COMPANY, A GEORGIA CORPORATION, HEREINAFTER DESIGNATED AS "GRANTEE," ITS SUCCESSORS AND ASSIGNS, THE EXCLUSIVE RIGHT AND FRANCHISE TO USE AND OCCUPY THE STREETS, AVENUES, ROADS, PUBLIC HIGHWAYS, ALLEYS, LANES, WAYS, PARKS, AND OTHER PUBLIC PLACES OF THE CITY OF HAHIRA, GEORGIA, FOR CONSTRUCTING, MAINTAINING, RENEWING, REPAIRING, AND OPERATING A GAS WORKS AND GAS DISTRIBUTION SYSTEM, AND OTHER NECESSARY MEANS FOR MANUFACTURING, TRANSMITTING, DISTRIBUTING AND SELLING OF MANUFACTURED, NATURAL OR COMMINGLED GAS WITHIN AND THROUGH THE CITY OF HAHIRA, GEORGIA; AND FIXING THE TERMS AND CONDITIONS OF SUCH GRANT.
WHEREAS, the City of Hahira, Georgia, hereinafter referred to as "city," and the undersigned warrant and represent that, with the exception of the franchise granted to Atlanta Gas Light Company, its successors and assigns, by ordinance passed May 13, 1964, for a period of 20 years, which franchise was accepted by Atlanta Gas Light Company, grantee, there is no franchise granted by the city in force and effect, to any other person, firm or corporation, and that the city is under no contract or obligation to any other person, firm or corporation, in anyway relating to the installation of gas service in the City of Hahira, Georgia; now, therefore:
BE IT ORDAINED by the mayor and council of the City of Hahira, Georgia, as follows:

Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
Editor's note— Printed herein is the franchise granted to the Atlanta Gas Light Company of Georgia as adopted by Ordinance No. 3-94 on July 7, 1994. Amendments to the ordinance are indicated by parenthetical history notes following amended provisions. Obvious misspellings and punctuation errors have been corrected without notation. For stylistic purposes, headings and catchlines have been made uniform and the same system of capitalization, citation to state statutes, and expression of numbers in text as appears in the Code of Ordinances has been used. Additions made for clarity are indicated by brackets.

Sec. 1. - Grant of exclusive right.
The exclusive right is hereby granted to the grantee, its successors and assigns, to lay, construct, extend, maintain, renew, replace and repair gas pipes, valves, manholes, service boxes, posts, lamps, structures, appliances and all appurtenances and appendages under, along, through and across any streets, avenues, roads, public highways, alleys, lanes, ways, parks and other public places within the territorial limits of the city, and to use and occupy the said streets, avenues, roads, public highways, alleys, lanes, ways, parks and other public places for the purpose of therein laying, constructing, extending, maintaining, renewing, replacing and repairing mains, pipes, valves, manholes, service boxes, posts, lamps, structures, appliances and all appurtenances and appendages thereto, used and useful for the manufacture, transmission, distribution and sale of gas within and through the present or future territorial limits of the city, such exclusive right, when exercised as herein provided, to continue for 20 years after date of approval of this ordinance.
Sec. 2. - Rates and charges.
[The] grantee shall be entitled to charge for gas furnished by it such rates as are prescribed by the public service commission or other lawful regulatory body of the State of Georgia.
Sec. 3. - Gas sales receipts.
[The] grantee hereby agrees and covenants, for and in consideration of the rights and privileges herein granted to it, to pay within 60 days following the end of each quarterly period to the city three percent of the gas sales receipts received by [the] grantee from customers served under all rate schedules except for interruptible rate schedules or interruptible contracts as defined and approved by the Georgia Public Service Commission (or any successor state regulatory group) within the territorial limits of the city during the preceding quarterly period. The city shall notify [the] grantee of any annexations, de-annexations or other changes of the territorial limits of the city. Said notice shall be made within 30 days of any such change.
It is provided, however, that should the city require [the] grantee to pay any license fee or tax, excise tax, indirect tax, occupation tax, franchise tax, privilege tax, regulation charge or related fees, taxes or charges, excepting ad valorem taxes and business license taxes for appliance sales, the aggregate amount of such fees, taxes and charges shall be deducted in full by [the] grantee from the quarterly payment or payments subsequently accruing to the city. The quarterly periods for which such payments shall be made shall commence upon the first day of the month immediately following proper adoption, acceptance and effectiveness of this franchise ordinance. The mayor and council of the city through its authorized representative or representatives shall have the right to inspect and audit the books and records of [the] grantee for the purpose of determining the amount of its revenues received from the sale of gas as set forth above within said territorial limits.
Sec. 4. - Rights.
All rights herein granted and authorized shall be subject to and governed only by this ordinance; provided, however, that the city expressly reserves unto itself all of its police power to adopt general ordinances necessary to protect the safety and welfare of the general public in relation to the rights hereby granted not inconsistent with the provisions of this ordinance.
Sec. 5. - Excavations; restoration of public ways; obstructions.
[The] grantee, upon making an opening upon any of the streets, avenues, roads, public highways, alleys, lanes, ways, parks and other public places in the city, for the purpose of laying, repairing or maintaining gas mains, shall use due care and caution to prevent injury to persons, and shall replace and restore all public ways to their former condition as nearly as practicable, and within a reasonable time, and shall not unnecessarily obstruct or impede traffic upon the streets, avenues, roads, public highways, alleys, lanes, ways, parks and other places of said city.
Sec. 6. - Liability.
[The] grantee shall save and keep harmless the city from any and all liability by reason of damage or injury to any person or persons whomsoever, on account of negligence of the grantee in the installation, maintenance and repair of its mains and pipe lines along said streets, avenues, roads, public highways, alleys, lanes, ways, parks and other public places in the city, provided [that] the grantee shall have been notified in writing of any claim against the city on account thereof and shall have been given ample opportunity to defend the same.
Sec. 7. - Effective date.
This ordinance, after its passage according to law, in writing duly filed with the city clerk, shall be effective and in full force after the date of acceptance by Atlanta Gas Light Company.
Sec. 8. - Conflicts.
All ordinances or parts of ordinances in conflict herewith are hereby repealed.
ARTICLE II. - ATLANTA GAS LIGHT COMPANY FRANCHISE FEE[3]
An ordinance to amend an ordinance dated October 8, 1998, granting Atlanta Gas Light Company (hereafter "company") a franchise for the use of rights-of-way and other public property for the purpose of distributing gas within the City of Hahira, Georgia, so as to modify the franchise fee calculation provisions; to repeal conflicting laws; to provide an effective date; and for other purposes.
BE IT ORDAINED BY THE MAYOR AND COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF HAHIRA, GEORGIA:

Footnotes:
--- (3) ---
Editor's note— Printed herein is the franchise originally granted to the Atlanta Gas Light Company of Georgia, as adopted by Ordinance of October 8, 1998, and as amended by Ordinance of June 3, 1999. The absence of a history note indicates that the provision remains unchanged from the original ordinances. Obvious misspellings and punctuation errors have been corrected without notation. For stylistic purposes, headings and catchlines have been made uniform and the same system of capitalization, citation to state statutes, and expression of numbers in text as appears in the Code of Ordinances has been used. Additions made for clarity are indicated by brackets.

Sec. 1. - [Grant of franchise.]
An ordinance dated October 8, 1998, granting Atlanta Gas Light Company a franchise for the use of rights-of-way and other public property for the purpose of distributing gas within the City of Hahira, Georgia, is hereby amended by inserting the following:
"Section 1.
Definitions.
(a)
Base year means the fiscal year ending September 30, 1998.
(b)
Base year franchise fee factor means the total franchise fees paid during the base year divided by the design day capacity as recorded by the company on the last day of the base year.
(c)
Design day capacity means the sum of the individual capacity in dekatherms (Dt) attributable to all firm customers located within the city limits of the city, as of the last day of the previous fiscal year.
(d)
Firm customers means all residential and business customers who purchase gas service that ordinarily is not subject to interruption or curtailment.
(e)
Fiscal year means the 12 months ending September 30, of each year.
(f)
Inflation index means the percentage change in the Consumer Price Index for all urban consumers as published by the Bureau of Labor Statistics, or any successor index, for the period from September 30, 1997, to the beginning of the then current fiscal year. The percentage shall be reduced by any productivity factor adjustment for the same time period determined by the Georgia Public Service Commission for the company.
Section 2.
Franchise fee.
[(a)]
The total dollar amount of franchise fees paid by the company to the city shall be calculated as follows:
[(b)]
The current fiscal year total franchise fee shall equal the product of the design day capacity and the current franchise fee factor. The current franchise fee factor shall be equal to the product of the base year franchise fee factor and one plus the inflation index expressed as a decimal to three significant digits.
[(c)]
The following formula quantifies this payment:
FF c = FFF by × (1 + (CPI - PFA)) × DDC c
Where FF c = total franchise fees due the city for the current fiscal year
FFF by = the base year franchise fee factor
CPI - PFA = the inflation index based on the cumulative change in the Consumer Price Index less the productivity factor adjustment determined by the Georgia Public Service Commission.
DDC c = the design day capacity as of the last day of the previous fiscal year.
FFF by = FF by /DDC by where
FF by = the total franchise fees paid in the base year
and DDC by = the design day capacity of the base year.
Section 3.
Responsibility for payment of franchise fee.
[(a)]
The company as the holder of the franchise privilege hereunder is responsible for the payment of all franchise fees payable hereunder, and shall file such reports and returns as required by the franchise ordinance as modified by this amendment. In addition, the company shall report annually the names of all gas marketers for which company is transporting natural gas on the distribution system within the city.
[(b)]
The franchise fee payments required hereunder shall be in lieu of any franchise fee license fee, occupation tax or other payment for use of the rights-of-way by the company for the provision of gas service, but shall not prohibit imposition of a license fee or an occupation tax on gas marketers.
Section 4.
Quarterly payments.
[(a)]
Effective for the fiscal year 1999, and for each fiscal year thereafter during the term of the franchise ordinance, the company shall remit to the city quarterly franchise fee installments. The installments shall equal to one-fourth of the total annual franchise fee calculated in accordance with this ordinance.
[(b)]
The quarterly payment is due and payable on or before the 30th day following the last day of each calendar quarter.
Section 5.
Annual return.
The company shall file a return with its first quarterly installment in each fiscal year showing the details of the calculation of the annual franchise fee.
Section 6.
Delay of inflation adjustment.
Notwithstanding any other provision in this ordinance, any inflation adjustments shall be made to the franchise fee only when the company changes its rates.
Section 7.
Conflicts.
In the event of a conflict between this ordinance and the original franchise dated July, 1994, this ordinance shall control. All terms, conditions and stipulations contained in such franchise ordinance shall remain in full force and effect to the extent that they do not conflict with this ordinance." and by renumbering the remaining sections accordingly.
Sec. 2. - [Conflicts.]
All ordinances and parts of ordinances in conflict with this ordinance are repealed.
Sec. 3. - [Effective date.]
This ordinance shall become effective on the first day of the month following its approval by the mayor and council and its acceptance by Atlanta Gas Light Company.
[ARTICLE III.] - AN ORDINANCE OF THE CITY OF HAHIRA, GEORGIA[4]
To amend certain provisions of the Hahira city Code concerning water and wastewater rates and surcharges, and for other purposes,
BE IT ORDAINED by the Mayor and Council of the City of Hahira and it is hereby ORDAINED by the authority thereof:

Footnotes:
--- (4) ---
Editor's note— First Reading: December 4, 2014. Second Reading: January 8, 2015. Third Reading: February 5, 2015.

[Sec.] I.
The existing Water and Wastewater Rate and Fee Schedule is hereby deleted in its entirety and replaced by the Water and Wastewater Rates and Charges Schedule attached hereto as Attachment "A."
(Ord. of 2-5-2015, § I)
[Sec.] II.
A policy for a low-income senior citizen discount is hereby adopted. Details governing its implementation are attached hereto as Attachment "B." A form to assist its implementation is attached hereto as Appendix "A."
(Ord. of 2-5-2015, § II)
[Sec.] III.
A policy for perpetual annual water and sewer rate increases is hereby adopted as detailed hereto as Attachment "C."
(Ord. of 2-5-2015, § III)
[Sec.] IV.
This Ordinance shall become effective on the 6 th day of February, 2015.
(Ord. of 2-5-2015, § IV)
[Sec.] V.
All Ordinances and parts of Ordinances in conflict with this Ordinance are hereby repealed.
(Ord. of 2-5-2015, § V)
ORDAINED this 5th day of February, 2015.
___________
Bruce Cain, Mayor
ATTEST:
___________
City Clerk
ATTACHMENT "A"
WATER AND SEWER RATE SCHEDULE

[Sec.] I.
The scheduled rates for residential and commercial water and wastewater service shall be as follows:
EXPAND
GALLONS CURRENT Effective 4/1/15: Effective 7/1/15: Effective 10/1/15:
RESIDENTIAL WATER - INSIDE CITY LIMITS
First 3,000 (min.) $8.00 $10.00 $12.25 $14.50
Per thousand after 3,000 $3.60 $3.60 $3.60 $3.60
RESIDENTIAL WATER - OUTSIDE CITY LIMITS
First 3,000 (min.) $15.00 $17.00 $19.25 $21.50
Per thousand after 3,000 $3.60 $3.60 $3.60 $3.60
COMMERCIAL WATER
First 3,000 (min.) $20.00 $22.00 $24.25 $26.50
Per thousand after 3,000 $3.60 $3.60 $3.60 $3.60
RESIDENTIAL SEWER
First 3,000 (min.) $12.00 $14.00 $16.25 $18.50
Per thousand after 3,000 $5.15 $5.15 $5.15 $5.15
COMMERCIAL SEWER
First 3,000 (min.) $19.00 $21.00 $23.25 $25.50
Per thousand after 3,000 $5.40 $5.40 $5.40 $5.40
  (Ord. of 2-5-2015, att. A, § I)
_____
ATTACHMENT "B"
LOW-INCOME SENIOR CITIZEN UTILITY DISCOUNT

[Sec.] I. - Granted.
Each resident of the city or each resident receiving residential water and sewer service from the city who is the head of the household of the residential dwelling unit in which such person resides and upon whom is imposed a monthly residential water and/or sewer service charge for the residential dwelling unit in which such person resides, and who is 65 years of age or older and who has a gross income from all sources, including the income of all members of such person's family residing within such residential dwelling unit, not exceeding $23,340.00 per annum, is hereby granted an exemption on the monthly bill for such service charge, which exemption shall be in the amount of the water and sewer base charge above $20.00. This amount, not to exceed $23,340.00, is a ceiling set by Georgia Power for its Senior Discount Program via the Public Service Commission, and shall be modified from time to time as these agencies determine new income data.
(Ord. of 2-5-2015, att. B, § I)
[Sec.] II. - Charges for domestic water and sewer for low-income senior citizens.
A.
A low-income senior citizen domestic water and sewer rate is available to individuals who meet the eligibility requirements established in section III below, subject to the terms and conditions as set forth therein.
B.
Exclusion. A low-income senior citizen domestic water and sewer rate will be given only for a single residence served by one meter. Multiple living units serviced by one meter are specifically excluded from the low-income senior citizen domestic water and sewer charge rates.
C.
Character of Service. Service shall be for single-family residential purposes only through a three-fourths-inch or a one-inch line.
D.
Rates. The monthly base rate for low-income senior citizen domestic water and sewer shall be $20.00. There shall be no reduction in the consumption charge for all water and sewer usage in excess of 3,000 gallons per month.
(Ord. of 2-5-2015, att. B, § II)
[Sec.] III. - Eligibility for low-income senior citizen rate.
A.
The low-income senior citizen water and sewer rate ("the low-income senior rate") is available to city water/sewer customers who are 65 years of age or older and who have a gross income from all sources, including the income of all members of such person's family residing within such residential dwelling unit, not exceeding $23,340.00 per annum.
B.
To apply for the low-income senior rate, the applicant must submit an affidavit, prepared upon forms prescribed and provided under Appendix A of this ordinance, to the city/Utilities Clerk. Such affidavit shall show the age of the person claiming the exemption on the date of the filing of such affidavit, the total amount of income received by such person's household from all sources during the immediately preceding calendar year from all sources by each other family member residing in the claimant's residential dwelling unit, together with a statement that such claimant's income, when added to the income of each other family member residing in such residential dwelling unit, will not exceed $23,340.00 in the calendar year in which such affidavit is filed, the exact address of the residence of such claimant and such other information as may be required by the city/Utilities Clerk.
C.
Income verification must be provided each year that the discounted rate is requested. The city utilities clerk or his/her designee, may require copies of the federal income tax return for the applicant, and the applicant's spouse or co-tenants living at the same location.
D.
The discount is granted for the duration of the calendar year, with the provision of a grace period at the beginning of the year to accommodate renewals. On April 1st of each year, all accounts without a current approved application on file at the city will be returned to the full rate schedule effective with the period beginning with the April billing cycle.
E.
Furnishing false information to obtain discounted rate is deemed unlawful. It shall be unlawful for any person to willfully furnish any false information in order to qualify for a reduced water and sewer rate.
F.
The procedure upon recipient's disqualification is stipulated in this section. In the event that any person has qualified under this ordinance for a reduced water and sewer service charge and, subsequent thereto, such person becomes disqualified therefor, it shall be the duty of such person to immediately so notify the city/Utilities Clerk, who shall remove such person's name from the list of those receiving such exemption. In the event that any such person fails to so notify the city/Utilities Clerk and continues to receive such exemption after being no longer qualified therefor, such person shall be immediately liable to the city for the difference the amount actually paid for water and sewer service by such person and the amount that would have been required to be paid by such person without such exemption. Upon the refusal of such person to pay such difference, the city/Utilities Clerk shall cause all city utility service to be discontinued as to such person's residence until such time as they have paid the difference in full.
G.
Any person who violates any provision of this ordinance shall, upon conviction, be punished as provided for in this ordinance and, in addition thereto, if such person has obtained an exemption under this ordinance when not entitled thereto, such person shall be required to pay, in full, the amount of exemption obtained by such person to which such person was not entitled. Upon the failure of such person to make such payment, the city/Utilities Clerk shall cause all city utility services to be discontinued as to such person's residence until such time as the improperly obtained exemption is paid in full.
(Ord. of 2-5-2015, att. B, § III)
ATTACHMENT "C"
PERPETUAL WATER AND SEWER RATE INCREASES
[Sec.] I.
On January 1, 2016, and on every January 1 thereafter, all base rates for water and sewer shall be increased by three percent.
(Ord. of 2-5-2015, att. C, § I)
_____
APPENDIX A - CITY OF HAHIRA APPLICATION FOR SENIOR CITIZEN-LOW INCOME WATER/SEWER SERVICE CHARGE APPLICATION
Personally appeared before the undersigned attesting officer,
___________
(PRINTED Name as shown on City Utility Bill)
Who, upon being duly sworn, did depose and say that deponent is _____ years of age.
(Date of birth: ________), and resides at:
___________
(Complete Street and City Address)
And that deponent is the head of household at such residence and liable for a residential water and sewer service charge at such residence; that the following named persons are all of the members of the deponent's family who reside in said residence with deponent at that the income for each of said named persons for the immediately preceding calendar year is set forth immediately beside each person's name:
EXPAND
NAME: AGE: INCOME:
1. ___________ _____ _____
2. ___________ _____ _____
3. ___________ _____ _____
4. ___________ _____ _____
5. ___________ _____ _____
  When requested by the city/Utilities Clerk, the deponent agrees to provide such written proof as to income as necessary to verify this application.
Deponent further says on oath that the deponent's total income from all sources will not, when added to the income of all said family members who reside in said residence with deponent, exceed $_____ for the year 20___.
Deponent further says on oath that deponent fully believes that deponent is entitled to the senior citizen-low income water and sewer service exemption provided by ordinance.
Deponent understands that it is unlawful to furnish false information to the city to obtain this exemption.
(Ord. of 2-5-2015, app. A)
This _____ day of ________, 20___.
Signature of Deponent: ___________
Mailing Address: _______
Sworn to and subscribed before me:
___________
Notary Public
SEAL
My Commission Expires:________
ARTICLE IV. - COLQUITT EMC
ORDINANCE GRANTING PERMISSION AND CONSENT to Colquitt EMC, a Georgia corporation, and its successors, lessees, and assigns (hereinafter referred to collectively as the "Company") to occupy the streets and public places of the City of Hahira, Georgia, a municipality and political subdivision of the State of Georgia (hereinafter referred to as the "City"), in constructing, maintaining, operating, and extending poles, lines, cables, equipment, and other apparatus for transmitting and distributing electricity and for other purposes.

Sec. I.
Be it ordained by the governing authority of the City that the authority, right, permission, and consent are hereby granted to the Company, for a period of thirty (30) years from the date of the Company's acceptance hereof, to occupy and use the streets, alleys, and public places of the City within the present and future corporate limits of the City as from time to time the Company may deem proper or necessary for the overhead or underground construction, maintenance, operation, and extension of poles, towers, lines, wires, cables, conduits, insulators, transformers, appliances, equipment, connections, and other apparatus (hereinafter referred to collectively as the "Company's Facilities") for the business and purpose of transmitting, conveying, conducting, using, supplying, and distributing electricity for light, heat, power, and other purposes for which electric current may be or become useful or practicable for public or private use, and to re-enter upon such streets, alleys, and public places from time to time as the Company may deem proper or necessary to perform these functions, and to cut and trim trees and shrubbery when and where necessary, in the judgment of the Company, to insure safe and efficient service.
Sec. II.
Be it further ordained that the rights, permission, and consents herein contained are granted for the following considerations and upon the following terms and conditions:
1.
The Company shall pay into the treasury of the City on or before the first day of February in each year following the granting of this franchise, a sum of money equal to four percent (4%) of the gross sales of electric energy to customers served under residential, commercial, and industrial rate schedules within the corporate limits of the City. The Company will pay franchise fees for the entirety of the prior year. The Company shall implement the franchise fee within forty-five days from the date of acceptance of the Franchise. If any payment required by this Agreement is not actually received by the City on or before the applicable date fixed in this Agreement, the Company shall pay interest thereon, from the due date to the date paid, at a rate of one percent (1 %) per month. Upon agreement of the Parties, Company may pay franchise fee by electronic funds transfer and in such event, City agrees to provide to Company bank routing and account information for such purpose upon request of Company. No acceptance of any payment by the City shall be construed as an accord and satisfaction that the amount paid is in fact the correct amount or a release of any claim that the City may have for further or additional sums under this Agreement. The City may conduct an audit to ensure payments have been made in accordance with the Agreement and the audit period will be limited to three (3) years preceding the end of the quarter of the most recent payment.
2.
The amount, if any, of any tax, fee, charge, or imposition of any kind required, demanded, or exacted by the City on any account, other than ad valorem taxes on property, shall operate to reduce to that extent the amount due from the percentage of gross sales provided for in paragraph 1 of this Section II.
3.
The Company shall fully protect, indemnify, and save harmless the City from all damages to persons or property caused by the construction, maintenance, operation, or extension of the Company's Facilities, or conditions of streets, alleys, or public places resulting therefrom, for which the City would otherwise be liable.
4.
The Company shall, in constructing, maintaining, operating, and extending the Company's Facilities, submit and be subject to all reasonable exercises of the police power by the City. Nothing contained herein, however, shall require the Company to surrender or limit its property rights created hereby without due process of law, including adequate compensation, for any other purpose at the instance of the City or for any purpose at the instance of any other entity, private or governmental.
5.
For purposes of paragraph 6 of this Section II, the term "Distribution Facilities" means poles, lines, wires, cables, conductors, insulators, transformers, appliances, equipment, connections, and other apparatus installed by or on behalf of the Company (whether before or after the adoption of this ordinance) in the streets, alleys, or public places of the City for the purpose of distributing electricity within the present and future corporate limits of the City. Distribution Facilities do not include any of the following: (i) electric transmission lines with a design operating voltage of 46 kilovolts or greater (hereinafter referred to as "Transmission Lines"); (ii) poles, towers, frames, or other supporting structures for Transmission Lines (hereinafter referred to as "Transmission Structures"); (iii) Transmission Lines and related wires, cables, conductors, insulators, or other apparatus attached to Transmission Structures; (iv) lines, wires, cables, or conductors installed in concrete-encased ductwork; or (v) network underground facilities.
6.
In the event that the City or any other entity acting on behalf of the City requests or demands that the Company relocate any Distribution Facilities from their then-current locations within the streets, alleys, and public places of the City in connection with a public project or improvement to secure the public health and welfare or is otherwise required by the City in the exercise of a government function, then the Company shall relocate, at its expense, the Distribution Facilities affected by such project or improvement. The Company's obligations under this paragraph 6 shall apply without regard to whether the Company has acquired, or claims to have acquired, an easement or other property right with respect to such Distribution Facilities and shall not affect the amounts paid or to be paid to the City under the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section II. Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this paragraph 6, the Company shall not be obligated to relocate, at its expense Distribution Facilities that are located on private property at the time relocation is requested or demanded.
7.
The City and the Company recognize that both parties benefit from economic development within the City. Accordingly, when it is necessary to relocate any of the Company's Facilities (whether Distribution Facilities, Transmission Lines, Transmission Structures, or other facilities) within the City, the City and the Company shall work cooperatively to minimize costs, delays, and inconvenience to both parties while ensuring compliance with applicable laws and regulations. In addition, the City and the Company shall communicate in a timely fashion to coordinate projects included in the City's five-year capital improvement plan, the City's short-term work program, or the City's annual budget in an effort to minimize relocation of the Company's Facilities. Such communication may include, but is not limited to, (i) both parties' participation in the Georgia Utilities Coordinating Council, Inc. (or any successor organization) or a local utilities coordinating council (or any successor organization) and (ii) both parties' use of the National Joint Utility Notification System (or any successor to such system mutually acceptable to both parties).
Sec. III.
Be it further ordained that nothing contained in this ordinance shall limit or restrict the right of customers within the corporate limits of the City to select an electric supplier as may hereafter be provided by law.
Sec. IV.
Be it further ordained that from time to time after the approval of this ordinance, the Company and the City may enter into such additional agreements as the Company and the City deem reasonable and appropriate; provided, however, that such agreements shall not be inconsistent with the terms and conditions of the franchise granted in this ordinance, shall not extend beyond the term of the franchise, and shall be enforceable separate and apart from the franchise.
Sec. V.
Be it further ordained that the Company shall, within thirty (30) days from the approval of this ordinance, file the Company's written acceptance of the franchise granted in this ordinance with the Clerk of the City, so as to form a contract between the Company and the City.
Sec. VI.
Be it further ordained that upon such acceptance all agreements that may exist between the Company and the City with respect to the Company's use of the City's streets, alleys, and public places the provisions of this Franchise shall be controlling.
(Ord. No. 2019-06-06 , 6-6-2019)
