Chapter 100 - GENERAL AND ADMINISTRATIVE PROVISIONS
ARTICLE I. - INTRODUCTORY PROVISIONS

Sec. 101-1. - Title.
This subpart shall be known as "The Unified Development Ordinance ("UDO") of Norcross, Georgia." It consists of four chapters: chapter 100, "General and Administrative Provisions"; chapter 200, "Land Use and Zoning"; and chapter 300, "Buildings and Building Regulations"; and chapter 400, "Land Development." Chapter 100 is intended to implement regulations generally applicable to the city and to specifically address administrative regulations, including definitions, enforcement and penalties applicable to chapters 200, 300, and 400. Chapter 200 will serve as the city's zoning ordinance and is intended to constitute a zoning ordinance within the meaning of state law. Chapter 300 is intended to regulate building construction activity in the city. Chapter 400 is intended to regulate land development activities in the city. Chapters 100, 300 and 400 are not intended to constitute a zoning ordinance or zoning regulations.
(Ord. No. 08-2019 , § I, 6-3-2019)
Sec. 101-2. - Legal provisions.
(a)
Purpose. The unified development ordinance is enacted by the Mayor and City Council to promote the public health, safety, morals, convenience, order, prosperity, comfort, and general welfare of the present and future inhabitants, residents, businesses and visitors of the city. It is intended to achieve the following purposes:
(1)
Regulating the location, height, number of stories and size of buildings and other structures;
(2)
Regulating the density of population;
(3)
Regulating the size of yards and other open spaces;
(4)
Regulating the uses of land, buildings and structures for industry, commerce, conservation, recreation, residence, public activities and other purposes;
(5)
Creating districts for said purposes and establishing the boundaries thereof;
(6)
Defining certain terms used herein;
(7)
Providing for the method of administration, amendment and enforcement and for the imposition of penalties for violation;
(8)
Providing for a Planning and Zoning Board, a Zoning Board of Appeals, an Architectural Review Board, an Historic Preservation Commission, and a Tree Preservation Board and defining their powers and duties;
(9)
Implementing the vision, goals, and policies of the city comprehensive plan, and
(10)
Repealing conflicting ordinances and resolutions; and other matters.
(b)
Authority. This set of regulations is adopted under the authority of article 9, section 2, paragraphs 3 and 4 of the state constitution and the City Charter, and pursuant to the zoning procedures law (O.C.G.A § 36-66-1 et seq.) and other applicable laws enacted by the General Assembly.
(c)
Applicability. All development and redevelopment shall comply with the standards, criteria and procedures of this UDO. Development or redevelopment may not occur without official authorization pursuant to the processes and procedures of this UDO.
(1)
Applicability to property. This UDO applies to all land within the city limits. The application of regulations in this UDO to specific parcels of land is governed by the official zoning map, which is incorporated and adopted herein by reference.
(2)
Compliance with UDO. Land may not be used, divided or subdivided, and structures may not be constructed, enlarged, altered or occupied except in compliance with the provisions of this UDO.
(3)
Conflict with other regulations. Where conflict occurs between the provisions of this UDO and any other city code or ordinance, resolution, or guideline, the more restrictive provision shall control, unless otherwise specified in this UDO.
(Ord. No. 08-2019 , § I, 6-3-2019)
Sec. 101-3. - Transitional provisions.
The zoning district names and designations in effect prior to the effective date of this UDO are converted as follows:
EXPAND
Previous Zoning UDO Zoning
R100 R100
R75 R75
R65 R60
R60
RMD RD
RTH RTH
RM PRD
RM6
RM8
RM10
RZT
C1 C1
C2 C2
PIB-HBR Overlay CX
C3 HX
DCD NX
ODW M1
M1
M2 M2
OI OI
RAOD Overlay BH
(new) CAR
(new) P
Historic District Overlay Historic District Overlay
CSO CSO
  (Ord. No. 08-2019 , § I, 6-3-2019)
Sec. 101-4. - Severability clause.
If the provisions of any article, section, subsection, paragraph, subdivision or clause of this UDO shall be adjudged invalid for any reason by a court of competent jurisdiction, such judgment shall not affect or invalidate the remainder of any section, subsection, paragraph, subdivision or clause of this article, which shall remain in full force and effect as if such portion so adjudged invalid were not originally part of the UDO.
(Ord. No. 08-2019 , § I, 6-3-2019)
Sec. 101-5. - Amendments.
Amendments to the text or map of this UDO shall follow the process and procedures outlined in chapter 100, article IV, "Procedures."
(Ord. No. 08-2019 , § I, 6-3-2019)
Sec. 101-6. - Interpretation and rules applying to text.
(a)
Intent in interpretation. The provisions of this UDO are the minimum requirements necessary to promote the public health, safety, convenience, order, prosperity, comfort and general welfare.
(b)
Rules applying to text. For this article certain rules of construction apply to the text as follows unless the context of a word or phrase clearly indicates contrary:
(1)
Term and words used in the singular include the plural and terms used in the plural include the singular.
(2)
Words used in the present tense include the future tense; and the singular includes the plural, unless the context clearly indicates contrary.
(3)
The term "building" includes the term "structure".
(4)
The term "erected" includes the terms "constructed", "moved", "located" and "relocated".
(5)
The term "lot" includes the term "plot" or "parcel".
(6)
The term "map" or "zoning map" means the official zoning map of the city.
(7)
The term "person" includes the terms "individuals", "firms", "partnerships", "corporations", "associations", "governmental bodies", and all other legal entities.
(8)
The term "used" and "occupied" include the terms "intended, arranged or designed to be used or occupied."
(9)
The word "shall" is always mandatory and is never discretionary.
(10)
The word "may" is permissive.
(11)
All words and phrases are to be interpreted within the context of the sentence, subparagraph, paragraph, subsection, section and article in which they occur.
(12)
Words and phrases defined in this UDO shall be interpreted as defined without regard to other meanings in common or ordinary use, unless the context of the word or phrase indicates otherwise.
(13)
Words and phrases not defined in this UDO or in any other ordinance of the city shall be construed to have the meaning given by common and ordinary use as defined by the latest edition of Webster's Third New International Dictionary.
(Ord. No. 08-2019 , § I, 6-3-2019)
Sec. 101-7. - Relation to comprehensive plan.
(a)
Role of the comprehensive plan. The city comprehensive plan, consisting of its future development map and related policies, as may be amended from time to time, is hereby established as the official policy of the city concerning designated future land uses, and as a guide to decisions regarding the appropriate manner in which property may be zoned in the incorporated areas of the city. A copy of the city comprehensive plan, as may be amended from time to time, shall be maintained at the Community Development Department and be available for inspection by the public.
(b)
Relationship between the comprehensive plan and zoning. The city comprehensive plan does not change the existing zoning districts in the city, and does not itself permit or prohibit any existing or future land uses. Instead, the comprehensive plan establishes broad planning policy for current and future land uses and will be consulted as a guideline for making decisions about applications to amend the official city zoning map and text of the zoning ordinance.
(c)
Consistency with comprehensive plan character areas. Any applicant seeking to rezone property to a classification that is inconsistent with the adopted comprehensive plan must first obtain approval of an amendment to the comprehensive plan from the Mayor and City Council, following the procedures in this UDO.
(d)
Amendments to the comprehensive plan. The comprehensive plan shall be reviewed and updated or amended (as appropriate) according to a schedule approved by the Mayor and City Council, and as required by the DCA in compliance with the Rules of DCA, Chapter 110-12-1, Minimum Standards and Procedures for Local Comprehensive Planning. However, exceptions may be granted by the Mayor and City Council in between the regular review and update cycle in cases of demonstrated hardship, or in cases of large-scale developments that may provide special economic benefits to the community. Requests for exceptions shall be subject to approval by Mayor and City Council during a regular meeting.
(Ord. No. 08-2019 , § I, 6-3-2019)
Sec. 101-8. - Duties to administer, interpret and enforce this udo.
(a)
Unless otherwise specified in any article, chapter, or section of this UDO, it shall be the duty of the Community Development Director of the city to administer, interpret, and enforce this UDO.
(b)
The Community Development Director shall also enforce all adopted codes relating to ADA compliance, as adopted by the state.
(c)
It shall be the duty of the county Fire Marshal to enforce all state, county, and city fire codes.
(Ord. No. 08-2019 , § I, 6-3-2019)
Sec. 101-9. - Fees.
(a)
Fees for permits and other approvals required under this UDO shall be established from time to time by resolution of the Mayor and Council.
(b)
Application and plan review fees shall be submitted with the application, and upon acceptance of said submission for review and consideration, shall not be refundable. Failure to pay a required application fee shall cause the application to be returned to the applicant without acceptance for review or consideration by the city.
(c)
Permit fees, if any, shall be submitted as a prerequisite to issuance of the permit.
(d)
Prior to approval of a final plat or certificate of occupancy, the applicant shall pay to the city such fees and performance and maintenance bonds as shall be required by this UDO or established by the City Council.
(Ord. No. 08-2019 , § I, 6-3-2019)
Sec. 101-10. - Adoption of certain codes.
(a)
Adoption of technical building and construction codes. It is the intent of the city to enforce the latest editions of the following state minimum standard codes, as adopted and amended by the state Department of Community Affairs, including:
(1)
International Building Code;
(2)
International Residential Code for One- and Two-Family Dwellings;
(3)
International Fire Code;
(4)
International Plumbing Code;
(5)
International Mechanical Code;
(6)
International Fuel Gas Code;
(7)
National Electrical Code;
(8)
International Energy Conservation Code;
(9)
International Swimming Pool and Spa Code; and
(10)
International Existing Building Code.
(11)
International Property Maintenance Code (IPMC).
(b)
Georgia Accessibility Code compliance. In addition to the regulations of the UDO, the Georgia Accessibility Code for buildings and facilities shall also apply. In the case of conflict between the UDO and the Georgia Accessibility Code, the more stringent provisions will govern.
(Ord. No. 08-2019 , § I, 6-3-2019; Ord. No. 05-2021 , § I, 5-3-2021)
ARTICLE II. - DEFINITIONS

Sec. 102-1. - General.
Except as specifically defined in this article or in this UDO, words and phrases not defined in this UDO or in any other ordinance of the city shall be construed to have the meaning given by common and ordinary use as defined by the latest edition of Webster's Third New International Dictionary and as identified in Section 101-6(b), rules applying to text.
(Ord. No. 08-2019 , § I, 6-3-2019)
Sec. 102-2. - Defined terms.
modified
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this UDO, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning. Note that for flood-plain management, specific definitions exist in chapter 400 article IV which only relate to items applicable to that section.
A
Abutting property means two pieces of property touching at one point or along a common side, boundary, or property line. Two pieces of property that are separated by a railroad, street or right-of-way, or natural feature, such as, a naturally occurring body of water, are considered abutting.
Access means a way or means of approach that provides a physical entrance to a property.
Accessory building (also outbuilding) or use means a building or use customarily incidental and subordinate to the principal use or building and located on the same lot with such principal use or building.
Accidental discharge means a discharge prohibited by this UDO that occurs by chance and without planning or thought prior to occurrence.
Addition (to an existing building) means any walled and roofed expansion to the perimeter of a building in which the addition is connected by a common load-bearing wall other than a firewall. Any walled and roofed addition which is connected by a firewall or is separated by an independent perimeter load-bearing wall shall be considered new construction.
Adjacent property means the same as abutting property.
Agent means an individual with a place of business in this state at which he or she is authorized to accept inquires, notices, and service of process on behalf of a vacant or foreclosed real property owner.
Alley means a public or private right-of-way that provides vehicular access to the rear of abutting properties.
Alternative tower structure means manmade trees, clock towers, bell steeples, light poles, and similar alternative-design mounting structures.
Antenna means any exterior apparatus designed for telephonic radio, or television communication through the sending of electromagnetic waves.
Animal care, indoor means any facility designed or arranged for the care of animals without any outdoor activity. No outdoor activity associated with care of animals is allowed. Includes animal grooming, animal hospital, veterinary clinic, pet clinic, animal boarding, animal shelter, cattery, commercial kennel (11 or more dogs) and doggy day care.
Animal care, outdoor means any facility designed or arranged for the care of animals that includes outdoor activity. Includes animal grooming, animal hospital, veterinary clinic, pet clinic, animal boarding, animal shelter, cattery, commercial kennel (11 or more dogs) and doggy day care.
Appeal means a request for a review of the interpretation of any provision of this UDO.
Applicant means a person submitting an application or plan for review or approval.
Aquifer means any stratum (rock layer) or zone of rock beneath the surface of the earth capable of containing or producing water from a well.
Arboricultural prescription means any type of site or tree instruction developed by an arborist certified by the International Society of Arboriculture or state registered forester that is aimed at preserving trees. It is required for trees with 20 percent or greater CRZ/SRP impact.
Area of shallow flooding means a designed AO or AH zone on a community's flood insurance rate map (FIRM) with base flood depths from one to three feet, where a clearly defined channel does not exist, where the path of flooding is unpredictable and indeterminate, and where velocity flow may be evident.
Area of special flood hazard means the land subject to a one percent or greater chance of flooding in any given year. This includes all floodplain and floodprone areas at or below the base flood elevation (including A, A1-30, A-99, AE, AO, AH, and AR on the FHBM or the FIRM), all floodplain and floodprone areas at or below the future-conditions flood elevation, and all other floodprone areas as referenced in section 107-7. All streams with a drainage area of 100 acres or greater shall have the area of special flood hazard delineated.
B
Banner means a temporary sign constructed of canvas, plastic, fabric or other similar lightweight, non-rigid material that can be mounted to a structure with cord, rope, cable, or fasteners.
Base flood means the flood having a one percent chance of being equaled or exceeded in any given year, also known as the 100-year flood.
Base flood elevation means the highest water surface elevation anticipated at any given point during the base flood.
Basement means a story that is not a story above grade plane.
Bed and breakfast inn means a business operated in an owner-occupied, single-family detached dwelling with up to six guestrooms where overnight accommodations and a morning meal are provided to transients for compensation, and where the bed and breakfast inn is operated as subordinate and incidental to the main residential use of the building.
Best management practices (BMPs) means sound conservation and engineering practices to prevent and minimize erosion and resultant sedimentation, which are consistent with, and no less stringent than, those practices contained in the Manual for Erosion and Sediment Control in Georgia published by the Commission as of January 1 of the year in which the land-disturbing activity was permitted.
Boundary tree means a tree six inches DBH or larger located on a property adjacent to a permitting property whose critical root zone or canopy extends into that permitting property.
Buffer means:
(1)
Land used to visibly separate one use from another through screening and distance, to shield or block noise, light, glare, physical or visual or other nuisances, to block physical passage to dangerous or undesirable areas; or to reduce air pollution, dust, dirt and litter or otherwise to promote the public safety and welfare; or
(2)
An area within the area of land immediately adjacent to the banks of a stream in its existing or enhanced state of vegetation; or
(3)
A natural or enhanced vegetated area located adjacent to a reservoir or perennial stream within a water supply watershed.
Building means any structure, attached to the ground, which has a roof, and which is designed for the shelter, housing or enclosure of persons, animals or property of any kind.
Building face means the wall of a building that most closely parallels the front setback line regardless of where the main entrance is located. A building may have more than one building face if a front setback is maintained from more than one right-of-way.
Building official or building inspector means the officer or designated authority charged with the administration and enforcement of the construction codes as set forth in chapter 100, article III.
Bus station means a building in which patrons may purchase tickets for passage on a motor carrier (bus), may board and disembark the bus, but which does not allow any bus to remain on the premises for more than two hours at a time, except under extraordinary circumstances, such as inclement weather or mechanical failure. All buses located on bus station property shall have the driver or chauffeur present and in charge of the bus while located on bus station property. The bus shall not be idling at the bus station for more than 15 minutes.
Bus terminal means a building in which patrons of a for-pay motor carrier (bus) may purchase tickets for passage on the bus, may board and disembark the bus, and which allows buses to remain in a secured area for more than 12 hours at a time. All buses located on the bus terminal property shall have the driver or chauffeur or designated company personnel present and in charge of such bus while it is located on bus terminal property unless the bus is being stored behind a secure fence.
Business park means a master planned development that is predominantly office in use, with multiple buildings of like architecture and landscaping that provides internal access, private utilities and parking. The overall development is within a campus-like atmosphere and like uses being business and professional offices.
C
Caliper means the diameter of the trunk of a replacement tree (new nursery stock) measured six inches above the ground line for trees of four-inch caliper or smaller and measured 12 inches above the ground line for trees larger than four inches in caliper.
Canopy coverage means an area of healthy tree cover, measured in square feet of projection of the healthy tree canopy onto the ground.
Certificate of appropriateness means a document evidencing approval as follows:
(1)
By the Architectural Review Board for the review and approval of facades of new residential construction, new or modification to existing commercial facades, public building facades, public monuments, and solar panels.
(2)
By the Community Development Director of an application for an administrative approval to minor architectural modifications; or
(3)
By the Historic Preservation Commission of an application to make a material change in the appearance of a designated historic property or of a property located within a designated historic district.
Certified arborist means an arborist certified by the International Society of Arboriculture as possessing the minimum level of competency required to practice arboriculture.
Certified personnel mean a person who has successfully completed the appropriated certification course approved by the Georgia Soil and Water Conservation Commission.
Channel means a natural or artificial watercourse with a definite bed and banks that conducts continuously or periodically flowing water.
Chattahoochee corridor means all land within 2,000 feet of the banks of the Chattahoochee River, including any impoundments thereon, or within the floodplain, whichever is greater, from directly below Buford Dam downstream to the downstream limits of Fulton and Douglas Counties, including the entire bed of the river and any improvements and all islands therein.
Chattahoochee River Tributary Protection Area, also referred to as the protection area in chapter 400 means the stream channel and the land area extending outward 35 horizontal feet from the banks on either side of all flowing streams in the drainage basin of all tributaries of the Chattahoochee River which enter the Chattahoochee River downstream from Buford Dam and upstream from Peachtree Creek, except for such land within the Chattahoochee Corridor, as defined in O.C.G.A. § 12-5-441.
City means the city of Norcross, Georgia.
City arborist means the individual authorized by the Director of the Department of Community Development to administer and enforce the requirements and standards as set forth in the tree preservation ordinances.
City separate storm sewer system means any conveyance or system of conveyances which is:
(1)
Owned or operated by the city;
(2)
Not a combined sewer; and
(3)
Not part of a publicly owned treatment works.
Clean Water Act means the Federal Water Pollution Control Act (33 USC 1251 et seq.), and any subsequent amendments thereto.
Commission means the Georgia Soil and Water Conservation Commission.
Common area means land, amenities, accessory structures and improvements which are not individually owned and are not dedicated for a public use but which are integral to a development that encourage pedestrian connectivity to adjacent lots or parcels. Common areas include spaces such as arcades, greenways, sidewalks, public spaces that are clearly intended for gathering spaces (including rooftop recreational amenities and gardens in high-rise buildings) or that act as connectors to adjacent buildings, or such land and amenities, that are otherwise designed and intended for the common use or enjoyment of the residents, tenants, and guests of the development.
Compatible means the design of structures or landscapes that are consistent with structures and landscapes that are located on the same property of which they are a part, based on an objective comparison of identified physical elements such as architectural form, building mass, height, scale, land uses, materials and landscape architecture.
Complementary uses means land uses that serve mutually supportive functions that encourage frequent interactions, and do not cause excessive conflicts with one another in terms of noise, access, traffic, parking, services or utility demands.
Comprehensive plan means, unless otherwise stated, the general plan for land use, transportation and community facilities prepared for and maintained by the City Council. The term comprehensive plan includes component or functional plans for the city including, but not limited to, a plan for land use. The term comprehensive plan shall also have the same meaning set forth in O.C.G.A. § 50-8-2(a).
Concept plan means a generalized plan indicating the proposed nature of a land subdivision project. It indicates how a proposed subdivision will conform to the requirements of the UDO, showing proposed tract boundaries, land use, land-use intensity, and relationship to the public right-of-way.
Connectivity means the degree to which streets, sidewalks, trails, and bike paths form a continuous and interconnected system that allows full mobility and convenient access between all origins and destinations as they may be distributed throughout a developed area.
Conservation easement means an agreement between a landowner and the city or other government agency, land trust or other qualified entity that permanently protects open space or greenspace on the owner's land by limiting the amount and type of development that can take place but that continues to leave the remainder of the fee interest in private ownership.
Conservation space means permanently protected land and water, including agricultural and forestry land, that is in its undeveloped, natural state or that has been developed only to the extent consistent, or is restored to be consistent, with one or more of the following goals:
(1)
Water quality protection for rivers, streams and lakes;
(2)
Flood protection;
(3)
Wetlands protection;
(4)
Reduction of erosion through protection of steep slopes, areas with erodible soils and stream banks;
(5)
Protection of riparian buffers and other areas that serve as natural habitat and corridors for native plant and animal species;
(6)
Scenic protection;
(7)
Protection of archaeological and historic resources;
(8)
Provision of recreation in the form of boating, hiking, camping, fishing, running, jogging, biking, walking and similar outdoor activities; and
(9)
Connection of existing or planned areas contributing to the goals set out in this definition.
Construction activity means activities subject to the Georgia Erosion and Sedimentation Control Act or National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System (NPDES) general construction permits. These activities include construction projects resulting in land disturbance. Such activities include but are not limited to clearing and grubbing, grading, excavating, and demolition.
Conveyance means an aboveground or underground natural or manmade drainage feature, that provides for the collection and movement of stormwater, and shall include but not be limited to concrete or metal pipes, ditches, depressions, swales, roads with drainage systems, highways, city streets, curbs, gutters, inlets, catch basins, piped storm drains, pumping facilities, structural stormwater controls, drainage channels, reservoirs, rights-of-way, storm drains, culverts, street gutters, oil/water separators, modular pavements and other similar drainage structures.
Corridor means all land within the buffer areas established adjacent to reservoirs or perennial streams within a water supply watershed.
Corridor, transportation means all land within an established linear right-of-way used for motorized or pedestrian movement.
CPESC means certified professional in erosion and sediment control with current certification by EnviroCert, Inc., which is also referred to as CPESC or CPESC, Inc.
Critical root zone (CRZ) means a circular area surrounding a tree whose radius is equivalent to one foot for every inch in DBH.
The Critical Root Zone - Development Impact Zones
Cut means a portion of land surface or area from which earth has been removed, or will be removed, by excavation; the depth below original ground surface to the excavated surface. Also known as excavation.
D
Damaged tree means a tree that has 25 percent or more of the critical root zone disturbed.
Demolition means the removal of structural members.
Density bonus refers to a provision of this UDO that allows a parcel to accommodate additional square footage or additional residential units beyond the maximum otherwise permitted, in exchange for the provision of an amenity specified in this UDO that provides a public benefit.
Density, gross, refers to the number of square feet of a building, or number of lots or dwelling units on a tract of land divided by the total acres of a parcel or tract of land prior to development or subdivision, including all streets or rights-of-way, open space, floodplain, and other unsubdivided or unused portions of the tract of land.
Density, net, refers to the number of square feet, lots, or dwelling units on a tract of land, less area for, open space, floodplain, wetland, and other unusable portions of the tract of land.
Department means the Community Development Department of the city of Norcross, Georgia.
Design professional means a professional licensed by the state in the field of engineering, architecture, landscape architecture, forestry, geology, or land surveying; or a person that is a certified professional in erosion and sediment control (CPESC) with a current certification by EnviroCert, Inc. Design professionals shall practice in a manner that complies with applicable state law governing professional licensure.
Destroyed tree means a tree which has damage to any of its parts causing the tree's survival beyond three growing seasons to be unlikely as determined by the city arborist.
Destruction (related to trees) includes, but is not limited to, excessive topping out, girdling, limbing, chopping or otherwise cutting a tree to the extent that its demise is imminent. Any actions resulting in the death of a tree.
Detention means the temporary storage of stormwater runoff in a stormwater management facility for the purpose of controlling the peak discharge.
Detention facility means a detention basin or structure designed for the detention of stormwater runoff and gradual release of stored water at controlled rates.
Developer means a person who undertakes land development activities.
Development means any manmade change to improved or unimproved real estate including but not limited to buildings or other structures, mining, dredging, filling, cleaning, grubbing, grading, paving, any other installation of impervious cover, excavation or drilling operations or storage of equipment or materials.
Diameter at breast height (DBH) means the diameter of a tree trunk measured in inches at a height of 4.5 feet above the ground line for individual trunks, and at the narrowest point below the fork for trees forked below 4.5 feet.
Director means the Director of the Community Development Department, or his or her designee, of the city of Norcross.
Discretionary development proposal means any application for a change of land use district, preliminary plat, conditional use permit, development permit, or certificate of appropriateness, special use permits, zone changes and zoning map amendments. For purposes of this UDO, a determination of applicability shall be made at the first discretionary development proposal encountered.
Discharge means the direct or indirect release of water, fluid, materials or other matter to a conveyance or surface that drains to a conveyance.
District means the Gwinnett County Soil and Water Conservation District.
Division means the Environmental Protection Division (EPD) of the Georgia Department of Natural Resources.
Drainage easement means an easement appurtenant or attached to a tract or parcel of land allowing the owner of adjacent tracts or other persons to discharge stormwater runoff onto the tract or parcel of land subject to the drainage easement.
Drainage structure means a device composed of a virtually non-erodible material such as concrete, steel, plastic or other such material that conveys water from one place to another by intercepting the flow and carrying it to a release point for storm water management, drainage control, or flood control purposes.
Dripline means a vertical line extending downward from the outermost tips of a tree's branches, creating a more or less circular projection on the ground.
Drive-in restaurant means a building or portion thereof where food or beverages are sold in a form ready for consumption and where all or a significant portion of the consumption takes place or is designed to take place outside the confines of the building, often in a motor vehicle on the site. Note: a drive-thru pick-up window does not necessarily indicate a drive-in restaurant.
Driveway means a privately owned and maintained path, appropriately surfaced with asphalt, concrete (pervious or impervious), gravel as allowed or other hard durable surface, connecting directly with a public thoroughfare, and used for accessing a structure or an improved area such as a garage, carport or exterior parking pad; such area primarily designated for vehicular parking, stopping, standing or turnaround.
Duplex means a residential structure designed for two-family occupancy.
Dwelling means one or more rooms designed for the occupancy, cooking and sleeping of one or more persons living as a family.
Dwelling, duplex means a building designed for two families, or housekeeping units, living independently of each other in separate dwelling units connected by a common firewall or floor/ceiling.
Dwelling, multi-family means a single building containing three or more dwelling units or in the case of a duplex, two dwelling units, each of which has direct access to the outside or a common hallway leading outside.
Dwelling, single-family attached means a dwelling built on the ground floor and sharing a common wall, usually on both sides of the property, such as in the case of a townhome. This does not include stacked units, where some dwelling units are built above others.
Dwelling unit, accessory (ADU) means a room or set of rooms that has been designed or configured to be used as a separate dwelling unit and has that been established by permit. An ADU can be attached or detached or constructed as a live/work unit. A detached ADU is the same concept, but the living area is in a separate accessory structure, normally a backyard cottage or garage flat.
E
Easement means an area of land on which the property owner has granted to another entity the right to use such land for specific purposes.
Elevated building means a non-basement building built to have the lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area elevated above the ground level by means of fill, solid foundation perimeter walls, pilings, columns, piers, or shear walls adequately anchored so as not to impair the structural integrity of the building during a base flood event.
Environmental site assessment (phase one) means a written report that documents the process by which a person or entity determines if a parcel of real property is subject to recognized environmental conditions. The report itemizes and assesses the environmental and historical features to be identified or delineated on an existing features site analysis plan. The assessment and report shall be conducted in a methodical manner and in accordance with accepted practice as contained in the latest published edition of the American Society for Testing and Materials Standard ASTM 1527.
Erosion means the process by which the land surface is worn away by the action of wind, water, ice or gravity.
Erosion and sediment control plan means a plan required by the Erosion and Sedimentation Act, O.C.G.A. title 12, chapter 12-7, that includes, at a minimum, protection at least as stringent as the state general permit, best management practices, and requirements as may be outlined in this UDO regarding erosion and sediment control.
Event hall means a commercial business at which 50 percent of its business involves the leasing or providing of space for events, celebrations, ceremonies, etc., to celebrate a particular event, anniversary, or holiday (i.e. birthday parties, weddings, etc.) that:
(1)
Provides a gathering space for rental purposes.
(2)
Charges a rental fee pursuant to a written agreement for the use of the event hall for events.
(3)
Does not allow sexually related adult entertainment to be performed in the event hall.
Existing construction refers to a property that has been 100 percent complete for over one year or has been completed for less than one year and was previously occupied.
Exotic plant means a plant that does not meet the definition of native plant.
Expansion to an existing manufactured home park or subdivision means the preparation of additional sites by the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on which the manufactured homes are to be affixed, including the installation of utilities the construction of streets, and whether final site grading or the pouring of concrete pads.
Extended detention means the detention of stormwater runoff for an extended period, typically 24 hours or greater.
Extreme flood protection means measures taken to prevent adverse impacts from large low-frequency storm events with a return frequency of 100 years or more.
Exterior architectural features mean the architectural style, general design and general arrangement of the exterior of a building, structure or object, including but not limited to the kind or texture of the building material and the type and style of all windows, doors, signs and other appurtenant architectural fixtures, features, details or elements relative to the forgoing.
Exterior environmental features mean all aspects of the landscape or the development of a site which affect the historic character of the property.
F
Family means an individual or two or more persons living together as a household sharing common use of and access to all living and eating areas, bathrooms, and food preparation areas, who mutually combine their efforts and share responsibilities for domestic chores such as child rearing, cleaning and cooking in a permanent and long-term relationship, as contrasted to one in a transient relationship who pays for lodging such as a boarder. The term family does not include any organization or institutional group.
Fill means a portion of land surface or area to which soil or other solid material has been added; the depth above the original ground or an excavation.
Final stabilization means all soil-disturbing activities at the site have been completed, and that for unpaved areas and areas not covered by permanent structures and areas located outside the waste disposal limits of a landfill cell that has been certified by EPD for waste disposal, 100 percent of the soil surface is uniformly covered in permanent vegetation with a density of 70 percent or greater, or equivalent permanent stabilization measures (such as the use of rip rap, gabions, permanent mulches or geotextiles) have been used. Permanent vegetation shall consist of planted trees, shrubs, perennial vines; a crop of perennial vegetation appropriate for the time of year and region; or a crop of annual vegetation and a seeding of target crop perennials appropriate for the region. Final stabilization applies to each phase of construction.
Fixed public transportation station means a passenger loading area that serves an express form of public transportation such as express bus, bus rapid transit (BRT), light rail, trolley, heavy rail rapid transit, or commuter rail, but not including local bus service or shuttle bus service.
Flag means a piece of fabric or other flexible material solely containing distinctive colors, patterns, standards, words or emblems used as the symbol of an organization or entity.
Flood means a general and temporary condition of partial or complete inundation of normally dry land areas from:
(1)
The overflow of inland or tidal waters; or
(2)
The unusual and rapid accumulation or runoff or surface waters from any source.
Flood hazard boundary map (FHBM) means an official map of a community, issued by the Federal Insurance and Mitigation Administration, where the boundaries of areas of special flood hazard have been defined as zone A.
Flood insurance rate map or FIRM means an official map of a community, issued by the Federal Insurance and Mitigation Administration, delineating the areas of special flood hazard and/or risk premium zones applicable to the community.
Flood insurance study (FIS) means the official report by the Federal Insurance Administration evaluating flood hazards and containing flood profiles and water surface elevations of the base flood.
Flooding means a volume of surface water that is too great to be confined within the banks or walls of a conveyance or stream channel and that overflows onto adjacent lands.
Floodplain means those lands subject to flooding, which would have at least a one percent probability of flooding occurrence in any calendar year based on the basin being fully developed as shown on the currently adopted land use plan; e.g., the regulatory flood.
Flowing stream means any stream which is designated and shown as a permanent stream on the 7.5-minute quadrangle maps of the U.S. Department of the Interior, U.S. Geological Survey, plus any stream which the Mayor and Council may determine to be, and designate as, a flowing stream.
Floor area ratio (FAR) means the relationship between the amount of useable floor area permitted in a building and the area of the lot on which the building stands. FAR is computed by dividing the gross floor area of a building or buildings by the total area of the lot. For purposes of this calculation, floor area of parking structures shall not be included in floor area.
Floodproofing means any combination of structural and non-structural additions, changes, or adjustments to structures which reduce or eliminate flood damage to real estate or improved real property, water and sanitary facilities, structures and their contents.
Floodway or regulatory floodway means the channel of a stream or other watercourse and the adjacent areas of the floodplain which is necessary to contain and discharge the base flood flow without cumulatively increasing the base flood elevation more than one foot.
Footcandle means a unit of measure for illumination. A unit of illumination on a surface that is one foot from a uniform point source of light of one candle and equal to one lumen per square foot.
Foreclosed real property means improved or unimproved real property that is held pursuant to a judicial or non-judicial foreclosure of a mortgage, deed of trust, security deed, deed to secure debt, or other security instrument securing a debt or obligation owed to a creditor or a deed in lieu of foreclosure in full or partial satisfaction of a debt or obligation owed to a creditor.
Full cut-off fixture means a light fixture that, by design of the housing, does not allow any light dispersion or direct glare to shine above a 90 degree horizontal plane from the base of the fixture.
Functionally dependent use means a use which cannot perform its intended purpose unless it is located or carried out in close proximity to water.
Future-conditions flood means the flood having a one percent chance of being equaled or exceeded in any given year based on future-conditions hydrology. Also known as the 100-year future-conditions flood.
Future-conditions flood elevation means the flood standard equal to or higher than the base flood elevation. The future-conditions flood elevation is defined as the highest water surface anticipated at any given point during the future-conditions flood.
Future-conditions floodplain means any land area susceptible to flooding by the future-conditions flood.
Adjacent to the future conditions floodplain means those areas that are at or lower in elevation than either three feet above the base flood elevation or one foot above the future-conditions flood elevation, whichever is higher, unless the area is hydraulically independent (meaning absolutely no connection to the flooding source such as through pipes, sewer laterals, down drains, foundation drains, ground seepage, overland flow, gated or valved pipes, excavated and backfilled trenches, etc., with no fill or other manmade barriers creating the separation).
Future-conditions hydrology means the flood discharges associated with projected land-use conditions based on a community's zoning map, comprehensive land-use plans, and/or watershed study projections, and without consideration of projected future construction of flood detention structures or projected future hydraulic modifications within a stream or other waterway, such as bridge and culvert construction, fill, and excavation.
G
Goods and merchandise means tangible or movable personal property, other than money.
Grade plane, average means a reference plane representing the average of the finished ground level adjoining the building at its exterior walls.
Grade, finished means the final elevation and contour of the ground after cutting or filling and conforming to the proposed design approved by the Department.
Grading means altering the shape of ground surfaces to a predetermined condition; this includes stripping, cutting, filling, stockpiling and shaping or any combination thereof and shall include the land in its cut or filled condition.
Greenspace or open space means permanently protected areas of the site that are preserved in a natural state.
Gross floor area, (GFA) means the sum of the heated floor area of all the habitable stories of a building, measured from the exterior faces of exterior walls. The measurement of GFA excludes unenclosed balconies and porches, unheated stairwells, and floor area of parking structures.
Ground elevation means the original elevation of the ground surface prior to cutting or filling.
Groundwater recharge area means an area of the earth's surface where water infiltrates the ground, thereby replenishing the groundwater supplies within an aquifer.
H
Hazardous material/waste means any substance defined as hazardous waste by the Georgia Department of Natural Resources pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 12-8-60 et seq., as amended.
Height of building means the vertical distance measured from the average grade plane to the highest finished roof surface in the case of flat roofs, or to a point at the average height of the highest roof in the case of a roof having a pitch.
Height of tower means the distance measured from ground level to the highest point on the tower or other structure, even if said highest point is an antenna.
Highest adjacent grade means the highest natural elevation of the ground surface, prior to construction, adjacent to the proposed foundation of a building.
Historic district means a geographically definable area, possessing a significant concentration, linkage, or continuity of sites, buildings, structures or objects united by past events or aesthetically by plan or physical development. A district may also comprise individual elements separated geographically but linked by association or history. A historic district shall further mean an area designated by the City Council as a historic district pursuant to the criteria established in this UDO.
Historic property means an individual building, structure, site, or object including the adjacent area necessary for the proper appreciation thereof designated by the City Council as a historic property pursuant to the criteria established in this UDO. For the purposes of this UDO, projects within a designated national historic district will be reviewed by the Architectural Review Board while projects within a designated local historic preservation district will be reviewed by the Historic Preservation Board.
Historic structure means any structure that is:
(1)
Listed individually in the National Register of Historic Places (a listing maintained by the U.S. Department of Interior) or preliminarily determined by the Secretary of the Interior as meeting the requirements for individual listing on the National Register;
(2)
Certified or preliminarily determined by the Secretary of the Interior as contributing to the historical significance of a registered historic district or a district preliminarily determined by the Secretary to qualify as a registered historic district;
(3)
Individually listed on a state inventory of historic places and determined as eligible to states with historic preservation programs which have been approved by the Secretary of the Interior; or
(4)
Individually listed on a local inventory of historic places and determined as eligible by communities with historic preservation programs that have been certified:
a.
By an approved state program as determined by the Secretary of the Interior;
b.
Directly by the Secretary of the Interior in states without approved programs; or
c.
By the city as a local historic preservation district.
Holiday activities mean seasonal activities associated with federally-recognized holidays and Halloween.
Home occupation means any activity carried out for profit by the resident and conducted as an accessory use in the resident's dwelling unit and meeting the review criteria set forth in this UDO.
Horizon year means 20 years into the future from the year during which a traffic impact study is being prepared, unless otherwise specified or approved by Community Development Department staff.
Horizontal footcandle or luminance means the measurement of brightness from a light source, usually measured in footcandles or lumens, which is taken through a light meter's sensor at a horizontal position.
Hospital means the use of a building or premises that provides diagnostic health services and medical or surgical care to inpatients and outpatients suffering from illness, disease, injury, deformity and other physical or mental afflictions, and including as an integral part of the institution, related facilities such as laboratories, outpatient facilities or training facilities.
Hotel means any structure consisting of one or more buildings, with more than five short term occupancy units that are accessed from an interior corridor, with provisions for transient living, sanitation, and sleeping, that is specifically constructed, kept, used, maintained, advertised, and held out to the public to be a place where temporary lodging of 14 days or less is offered for pay to persons, and that is not intended for long-term occupancy.
Hotspot means an area where the use of the land has the potential to generate highly contaminated runoff, with concentrations of pollutants more than those typically found in stormwater.
Hydrologic soil group (HSG) means a Natural Resource Conservation Service classification system in which soils are categorized into four runoff potential groups. The groups range from group A soils, with high permeability and little runoff produced, to group D soils, which have low permeability rates and produce much more runoff.
I
Illegal connection means any of the following:
(1)
Any pipe, open channel, drain or other conduit, whether natural or manmade, which is used exclusively to drain a non-stormwater discharge to the city's separate storm sewer system;
(2)
Any pipe, open channel, drain or other conduit, whether natural or manmade, that was designed, installed or redirected for the purpose of draining a non-stormwater discharge into the city's separate storm sewer system; or
(3)
Any pipe, open channel, drain or other conduit, whether natural or manmade, which is connected to the city separate storm sewer system and which has not been documented in plans, maps, or equivalent records and approved by the city regardless of whether such pipe, open channel, drain or other conduit, whether natural or manmade, was permissible under law or practices applicable or prevailing at the time the connection was made, or has been previously allowed, permitted, or approved by the city or any other authorized enforcement agency. The term illegal connection expressly includes, without limitation, those connections made in the past.
Illicit discharge means any direct or indirect non-stormwater discharge to the city's separate storm sewer system.
Impervious surface means any surface that prevents the infiltration of stormwater into the ground below the structure or surface. Examples of impervious surface include buildings, roads, driveways, parking lots, streets, roads, decks, swimming pools and patios.
Industrial activity means activities subject to NPDES industrial permits as defined in 40 CFR 122.26(b)(14).
Industrial park means a campus-like master planned development that is predominately industrial in use, with multiple buildings of similar architecture and landscaping that provides internal access, private utilities and off-street parking.
Industrial stormwater permit means a National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System (NPDES) permit issued to an industry or group of industries which regulates the pollutant levels associated with industrial stormwater discharges or specifies on-site pollution control strategies.
Infiltration means the process of percolating stormwater runoff into the subsoil.
Inspection and maintenance agreement means a written agreement providing for the long-term inspection and maintenance of stormwater management facilities and practices on a site or with respect to a land development project, which when properly recorded in the deed records constitutes a restriction on the title to a site or other land involved in a land development project.
Invasive exotic plant means a plant that can proliferate and aggressively alter or displace indigenous biological communities.
J
Junkyard means property used for indoor or outdoor storage, keeping or abandonment, whether or not for sale or resale, of junk including, but not limited to: scrap metal, rags, paper or other scrap materials, used lumber, salvaged house-wrecking demolition and structured steel materials and equipment or property used for the dismantling, or abandonment of automobiles or other vehicles or machinery or parts thereof.
Jurisdictional wetland means an area that is inundated or saturated by surface water or groundwater at a frequency and duration sufficient to support a prevalence of vegetation typically adapted for life in saturated soil conditions, commonly known as hydrophytic vegetation.
L
Land development means any land change, including, but not limited to, clearing, digging, grubbing, stripping, removal of vegetation, dredging, grading, excavating, transporting and filling of land, construction, paving, and any other installation of impervious cover.
Land development activities means those actions or activities which comprise, facilitate or result in land development.
Land development project means a discrete land development undertaking.
Land-disturbing activity means scraping, plowing, clearing, dredging, grading, excavating, transporting, or filling of land or placement of any structure or impervious surface, dam, obstruction, or deposit.
Large tree means a tree expected to grow to a minimum height of 40 feet at maturity under urban conditions.
Larger common plan of development or sale means a contiguous area where multiple separate and distinct construction activities are occurring under one plan of development or sale. For the purposes of this definition, the term "plan" means an announcement or other piece of documentation such as a sign, public notice or hearing, sales pitch, advertisement, drawing, permit application, zoning request, or computer design, or physical demarcation such as boundary signs, lot stakes, or surveyor markings, indicating that construction activities may occur on a specific plot.
Level of service (LOS) means a quantitative and qualitative measure of how well traffic flows on a given street or highway. Level of service relates to such factors as highway width, number of lanes, percentage of trucks, total traffic volume, turning movements, lateral clearances, grades, sight distance, capacity in relation to volume, travel speed and other factors which affect the quality of flow. Level of service is typically summarized by letter grades described as follows:
(1)
Level "A" is a condition with low traffic volumes, high speeds and free-flow conditions.
(2)
Level "B" is a condition with light traffic volumes, minor speed restrictions and stable flow.
(3)
Level "C" is a condition with moderate traffic volumes, where speed and maneuvering are restricted to a limited degree by the amount of traffic.
(4)
Level "D" is a condition with heavy traffic operating at tolerable speeds, although temporary slowdowns in flow may occur.
(5)
Level "E" is a condition of very heavy flow and relatively low speeds. Under level "E" the traffic is unstable and short stoppage may occur.
(6)
Level "F" is a condition of extremely heavy flow, with frequent stoppage and very slow speeds. It is an unstable traffic condition under which traffic often comes to a complete halt.
Light-emitting diode (LED) means a semiconductor device that emits visible light when an electric current passes through it. The light is not particularly bright, but in most LEDs, it is monochromatic, occurring at a single wavelength. The energy efficient nature of LEDs allows them to produce brighter light than other types of bulbs while using less energy.
Light trespass means light from an artificial light source that is intruding into an area where it is not wanted or does not belong.
Livestock means and includes the following farm animals that are owned, raised and kept for pleasure, utility or sale:
(1)
Cattle, horses, goats, sheep, swine and other hoofed animals;
(2)
Poultry, chicken, ducks, geese and other live fowl;
(3)
Rabbits, mink, foxes and other fur or hide-bearing animals customarily bred or raised in captivity for the harvesting of their skins;
(4)
Pets, as defined in this article, and wild animals, shall not be deemed livestock.
Local issuing authority (LIA) means the governing authority of any county or municipality which is certified pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 12-7-8(a), in this UDO, the city Community Development Department.
Lot means a developed or undeveloped tract of land in one ownership, legally transferable as a single unit of land.
(1)
Corner lot: Any lot bounded by two streets at their intersection.
(2)
Interior lot: A lot having frontage on only one street.
(3)
Panhandle lot (flag lot): A lot which utilizes a narrow strip of land, which does not meet frontage requirements, to provide access to a street. The strip of land is not counted towards calculating the lot area. Panhandle lots are not permitted in the city.
Lot, through, means a lot having frontage on two streets that are approximately parallel.
Lot width means the horizontal distance between the side lines of a lot measured at the minimum required front yard (building setback) line.
Lot width (cul-de-sac) means, for a lot having the majority of its frontage on a cul-de-sac, the horizontal distance between the side lines of the lot, measured at the minimum required front yard (building setback) line or at a line parallel to said setback line, which is no more than twice the minimum front yard setback distance from the street.
Lowest floor means the lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area, including basement. An unfinished or flood resistant enclosure, used solely for parking of vehicles, building access, or storage, in an area other than a basement, is not considered a building's lowest floor, provided that such enclosure is not built so as to render the structure in violation of other provisions of this UDO.
Lumens means a unit of illumination, being the amount of illumination of a unit area of spherical surface, due to a light of unit intensity placed at the center of the sphere.
M
Manufactured home means a building, transportable in one or more sections, built on a permanent chassis and designed to be used with or without a permanent foundation when connected to the required utilities. The term manufactured home includes any structure commonly referred to as a mobile home regardless of the date of manufacture. The term manufactured home also includes parked trailers, travel trailers and similar transportable structures placed on a site for 180 consecutive days or longer and intended to be improved property.
Massing refers to the exterior form of a building, a structure or a series of buildings seen as a whole, encompassing bulk, shape, height, width, scale, proportion, and the spatial relationships of buildings, landscaping, and open space.
Material change in appearance means a change that will affect either the exterior architectural or environmental features of a historic property or any building, structure, site, object, or landscape feature within a historic district, such as:
(1)
A reconstruction or alteration of the size, shape or facade of a historic property, including relocation of any doors or windows or removal or alteration of any architectural features, details or elements;
(2)
Demolition or relocation of a historic structure;
(3)
Commencement of excavation for construction purposes;
(4)
A change in the location of advertising visible from the public rights-of-way; or
(5)
The erection, alteration, restoration or removal or any buildings or other structure within a historic property or district, including walls, fences, steps and pavements, or other appurtenant features, except exterior paint alterations.
Mean sea level means the average height of the sea for all stages of the tide. It is used as a reference for establishing various elevations within the floodplain. For purposes of this chapter, the term is synonymous with National Geodetic Vertical Datum (NGVD) and the North American Vertical Datum (NAVD) of 1988.
Medium tree means a tree expected to grow to a maximum height of 25 to 40 feet at maturity under urban conditions.
Metropolitan River Protection Act means a state law referenced as O.C.G.A. § 12-5-440 et seq., which addresses environmental and developmental matters in certain metropolitan river corridors and their drainage basins.
Mini-warehouse means a structure containing separate storage spaces of varying sizes leased, rented or owned on an individual basis. No storage of chemicals or flammable goods is allowed.
Mixed-use development means development of a single building or single parcel to contain two or more of the following types of uses: residential, retail/commercial, office, or institutional, and in which each of such uses constitute at least 20 percent of the gross floor area, excluding accessory uses. Mixed uses may be combined vertically within the same building or placed side by side on the same parcel; provided they are in close proximity, planned as a unified and complementary whole, and functionally integrated with interconnected vehicular and pedestrian access and parking areas.
Mobile home or mobile building means a detached, single-family dwelling or other use type factory-manufactured structure with tongue, axles and wheels when originally built designed for occupancy; made to be transported after fabrication on wheels. Removal of the wheels and placement on a foundation do not change its classification. Travel trailers and recreational vehicles are not mobile homes.
Modular home or modular building means a factory fabricated transportable building consisting of units designed to be assembled at a building site on a permanent foundation into a structure to be used for residential or commercial purposes.
Motel means any structure consisting of one or more buildings, with more than five short term occupancy units that are directly accessed from an exterior door, with provisions for transient living, sanitation, and sleeping, that is specifically constructed, kept, used, maintained, advertised, and held out to the public to be a place where temporary lodging of 14 days or less is offered for pay to persons, is not intended for long-term occupancy.
Motor vehicle related retail means any retail facility that primarily sells parts, accessories, tools, equipment, oils, and fluids for the maintenance of automobiles, motorcycles, trucks, and trailers.
Motor vehicle related use refers to any use primarily involving motor vehicle related retail (see definition), vehicle repair, vehicle service, vehicle maintenance, or vehicle sales.
Motor vehicle repair means any building, structure, improvements, or land used for the repair, service, and maintenance of automobiles, motorcycles, trucks, trailers, or similar vehicles, not including body work or vehicle painting.
Motor vehicle sales means a facility that sells, rents, or leases new or used passenger vehicles, trucks, and other consumer motor vehicles such as motorcycles, boats, and recreational vehicles. Motor vehicle sales include auto broker businesses.
Multi-tenant building means a single building containing multiple uses or tenants where there are specific exterior entrance ways for individual uses.
Multi-tenant development means a single development containing multiple buildings where there are specific exterior entrance ways for the individual buildings.
N
National Geodetic Vertical Datum (NGVD), as corrected in 1929, means a vertical control used as a reference for establishing varying elevations within the floodplain.
National pollutant discharge elimination system (NPDES) stormwater discharge permit means a permit issued by the Georgia EPD under authority delegated pursuant to 33 USC 1342(b) that authorizes the discharge of pollutants to waters of the United States, whether the permit is applicable on an individual, group, or general area-wide basis.
Native plant means a plant that occurs naturally in a particular region, state, ecosystem, and habitat without direct or indirect human actions (Federal Native Plant Conservation Committee, 1994).
Natural ground surface means the ground surface in its original state before any grading, excavation or filling.
Nephelometric turbidity units (NTUs) means numerical units of measure based upon photometric analytical techniques for measuring the light scattered by finely divided particles of a substance in suspension. This technique is used to estimate the extent of turbidity in water in which colloidally dispersed or suspended particles are present.
New construction means any structure for which the start of construction commenced after October 24 1974 and includes any subsequent improvements to the structure.
New development means a land development activity on a previously undeveloped site.
New manufactured home park or subdivision means a manufactured home park or subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including at a minimum, the installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed on or after October 24, 1974.
Nonconforming use means any building or land lawfully used at the time of passage or amendment of this UDO or the predecessor zoning ordinance and which does not conform, after the passage or amendment of this UDO or the predecessor zoning ordinance, with the use regulations of the district in which it is located.
Nonpoint source pollution means a form of water pollution that does not originate from a discrete point such as a sewage treatment plant or industrial discharge, but involves the transport of pollutants such as sediment, fertilizers, pesticides, heavy metals, oil, grease, bacteria, organic materials and other contaminants from land to surface water and groundwater via mechanisms such as precipitation, stormwater runoff, and leaching. Nonpoint source pollution is a by-product of land use practices such as agricultural, silvicultural, mining, construction, subsurface disposal and urban runoff sources.
Non-stormwater means any surface flow, runoff, drainage, or discharge that is not composed entirely of stormwater and which may include pollutants, but that excludes:
(1)
Water from those sources described in chapter 400, land development, article II, environmental standards; or
(2)
Any discharge permitted under NPDES permit or order issued to the discharger and administered under the authority of the state and the federal Environmental Protection Agency, provided that the discharger is in full compliance with all requirements of the permit, waiver, or order and other applicable laws and regulations, and provided that written approval has been granted for any discharge to the city separate storm sewer system.
Nonstructural stormwater management practice or nonstructural practice means any natural or planted vegetation or other nonstructural component of the stormwater management plan that provides for or enhances stormwater quantity or quality control or other stormwater management benefits, and includes, but is not limited to, riparian buffers, open and greenspace areas, overland flow filtration areas, natural depressions, and vegetated channels.
North American Vertical Datum (NAVD) of 1988 means a vertical control used as a reference for establishing varying elevations within the floodplain.
O
Object means a material thing of functional, aesthetic, cultural, historical or scientific value that may be, by nature or design, movable yet related to a specific setting or environment.
Office means structures, or portions of structures, in which professional or administrative business activities take place on a regular basis, but where goods are not produced physically, sold or repaired. These include, but are not limited to: banks, general offices; governmental offices; insurance offices and real estate offices.
Off-site facility means a stormwater management facility located outside the boundaries of the site.
On-site facility means a stormwater management facility located within the boundaries of the site.
Operator means the party that has:
(1)
Operational control of construction project plans and specifications, including the ability to make modifications to those plans and specifications; or
(2)
Day-to-day operational control of those activities that are necessary to ensure compliance with storm water pollution prevention plan for the site or other permit conditions, such as a person authorized to direct workers at a site to carry out activities required by the storm water pollution prevention plan or to comply with other permit conditions.
Outdoor display refers to an outdoor portion of a lot where merchandise, goods or other items are placed in public view for the purpose of customer selection or direct sale or lease to customers.
Outdoor storage means the keeping within an unroofed area of any goods, material, merchandise, or vehicles in the same place for more than 24 hours for the primary purpose of storage.
Outfall means the location where stormwater in a discernible, confined and discrete conveyance leaves a facility or site or, if there is a receiving water on site, becomes a point source discharging into that receiving water.
Overbank flood protection means measures taken to prevent an increase in the frequency and magnitude of out-of-bank flooding (i.e., flow events that exceed the capacity of the channel and enter the floodplain), and that are intended to protect downstream properties from flooding for the two-year through 25-year frequency storm events.
Owner means any person, agent, operator, firm, partnership, corporation, limited liability company, or trust that has a legal or equitable interest in a parcel of real property, or the improvements thereon.
P
Parcel means any plot, lot or acreage shown correctly as a unit on the latest county tax assessment records.
Parking, bicycle, means an area in a parking lot or a designated area along a sidewalk that is designed and marked for the purpose of securing bicycles in an upright fashion, using a locker or open framework that is permanently attached to the ground and providing secure anchorage for two or more bicycles.
Parking, on-street, means areas along curbs of a street that are authorized for temporary (less than 48 hours) storage of automobiles belonging to owners, tenants, customers, or visitors of adjacent or nearby properties.
Parking structure means decks placed above ground or underground in a structure designed principally for the temporary storage and circulation of motor vehicles that includes and at least one level. A parking structure may be either freestanding or incorporated in a structure along with other uses, such as office, residential or commercial uses.
Path, multi-use, means a corridor designed for one or more alternative forms of transportation, including pedestrians, joggers, skaters, and slow-moving vehicles such as strollers, bicycles, and golf carts.
Perennial stream means a watercourse having a source, terminus, banks and channel through which water flows on a continuous basis as depicted on the most recent United States Geological Survey 7.5-minute quadrangle map (scale 1:24,000).
Permit means the authorization document issued by the Community Development Department to the applicant which is required prior to undertaking any development activity.
Person means any individual, partnership, firm, association, joint venture, public or private corporation, trust, estate, commission, board, public or private institution, utility, cooperative, state agency, municipality or other political subdivision of the state, interstate body or any other legal entity.
Personal service means any non-medical, for profit enterprise which primarily offers services to the general public including, but not limited to, shoe repair, barbershop, beauty parlor, health club, self-serve laundromat facility, nail salon, tailor or tanning salon. These uses may also include accessory retail sales of products related to the services provided.
Pervious paving or pervious pavement means materials used for surfacing parking lots and driveways such as porous concrete or modular porous paver systems that are designed to allow infiltration of stormwater and are consistent with stormwater BMPs. Pervious paving areas are not considered as impervious surface areas for the purpose of calculating impervious surface coverage.
Pet (household pet) means any animal owned or kept for pleasure rather than sale, which is an animal of a species customarily bred and raised to live in the habitat of humans and is dependent upon them for food and shelter. Livestock and wild animals shall not be deemed pets for the purposes of this UDO.
Phase or phased means subparts or segments of construction projects where the subpart or segment is constructed and stabilized prior to completing construction activities on the entire construction site.
Places of public assembly means churches, synagogues, temples, mosques, and other places of worship, along with similar places where groups of people gather, including but not limited to church schools, recreational facilities, and training centers.
Planned development means an area of not less than five acres, developed according to a development plan containing structures to be sold as fee simple units with all streets, recreational areas, and other property amenities included.
Planned residential development means a residential development built proposed to or built to the standards of an approved sketch plan. Such a development may contain a variety of housing types either single or multi-family as long the development meets the character area requirements of the comprehensive plan and the provisions of this UDO.
Plat, combination means the joining of two recorded parcels into one.
Plat, exemption means the division of one lot into two separately recorded lots where the property owner does not have to go through the subdivision process of this UDO. The parcels of land subdivided that resulted in the exemption plat shall not be further subdivided for two calendar years after the initial subdivision.
Plat, final means a plat of all or part of a subdivision in substantial conformance with the revised preliminary plat, prepared by a civil engineer or a land surveyor, and submitted for dedication of public improvements in accordance with this UDO.
Plat, preliminary means a tentative plat, including supporting data, indicating a proposed subdivision design, prepared by a professional engineer, land surveyor or landscape architect professionally familiar with land development and project construction activities.
Pocket park or neighborhood green means a relatively flat, level and landscaped area, larger than 0.33 acres, and constructed for community gathering or play, or visual enhancement.
Pollutant means anything that causes or contributes to pollution. Pollutants may include, but are not limited to: paints, varnishes, and solvents; petroleum hydrocarbons; automotive fluids; cooking grease; detergents (biodegradable or otherwise); degreasers; cleaning chemicals; nonhazardous liquid and solid wastes and yard wastes; refuse, rubbish, garbage, litter, or other discarded or abandoned objects and accumulations, so that same may cause or contribute to pollution; floatables; pesticides, herbicides, and fertilizers; liquid and solid wastes; process wastewater and wash water; sewage, fecal coliform and pathogens; dissolved and particulate metals; animal wastes; wastes and residues that result from constructing a building or structure; concrete and cement; and noxious or offensive matter of any kind.
Pollution means the manmade or man-induced alteration of the chemical, physical, biological, thermal and radiological integrity of water or air.
Pollution susceptibility means the relative vulnerability of groundwater to pollution from chemical spills, leaching of pollutants from dump sites, animal waste from agricultural operations or pollution generated by other human activities.
Pollution susceptibility map means the map prepared by the Georgia Department of Natural Resources that shows the relative susceptibility of groundwater to pollution. Pollution susceptibility maps categorize the land areas of the state into areas of high, medium and low groundwater pollution potential.
Portable structure means a structure or building designed to be moved from one location to another and which is not designed to be permanently attached or permanently anchored to the ground. Portable structure does not include modular homes, modular buildings, mobile homes, mobile buildings, pushcarts, bicycle carts, motorized carts, or tents for the purposes of this UDO.
Post-development means the time period, or the conditions that may reasonably be expected or anticipated to exist, after completion of the land development activity on a site as the context may require.
Pre-development means the time period, or the conditions that exist, on a site prior to the commencement of a land development project and at the time that plans for the land development of a site are approved by the plan approving authority. Where phased development or plan approval occurs (preliminary grading, roads and utilities and other required improvements), the existing conditions at the time prior to the first item being approved or permitted shall establish pre-development conditions.
Premises means any building, lot, parcel of land, or portion of land whether improved or unimproved including adjacent sidewalks and parking strips.
Primary conservation areas mean areas of conservation space required to be permanently protected and undeveloped with the exception of road crossings and sanitary sewer lines. Wetland and stream bank mitigation projects are permitted in primary conservation areas. Stormwater drainage systems are allowed in primary conservation areas except that they shall not be counted toward the minimum required amount of conservation space. Because permanently protecting wetlands, riparian areas and floodplains will provide significant long-term benefits ranging from protection of water quality to wildlife habitat to quality of life for individuals resulting from natural spaces available for passive recreation, these features must be permanently protected. The inclusion of uplands, undeveloped slopes and forested areas in conservation space is encouraged.
Procedure means a process to implement a regulation or regulation adopted under this UDO, or to carry out other responsibilities as may be required by this Code or other UDO, ordinances or resolutions of the city or other agencies.
Project means a land development project.
Properly designed means designed in accordance with the design requirements and specifications contained in the Manual for Erosion and Sediment Control in Georgia published by the Georgia Soil and Water Conservation Commission as of January 1 of the year in which the land-disturbing activity was permitted and amendments to the manual as approved by the commission up until the date of NOI submittal.
Protected tree means any tree six inches DBH or larger that is healthy and structurally sound and has been conserved or planted to meet the tree ordinance requirements.
Protection area or stream protection area means, with respect to a stream, the combined areas of all required buffers and setbacks applicable to such stream.
Public art display means a work of visual art intended for the enjoyment of the general public and adornment of public space that is placed where it is accessible to view. Examples may include, but are not limited to, one or more of the following: sculptures, monuments, statuary, murals, mosaics, and mobiles.
Q
Qualified professional means, for purposes of conducting traffic impact studies as may be required by this UDO, a registered professional engineer with experience in traffic engineering. For purposes of conducting peak hour trip generation studies, a qualified professional shall mean a registered professional engineer with experience in traffic engineering, or another professional approved by Community Development Department staff based on education and experience to conduct such trip generation studies.
R
Recovered materials means those materials which have known use, reuse, or recycling potential; can be feasibly used, reused or recycled; and have been diverted or removed from the solid waste stream for sale, use, reuse, or recycling, whether or not requiring subsequent separation and processing.
Recovered materials processing means any lot, land, structure, or facility, or part thereof, utilized for the purpose of collecting, sorting, processing for resale, and transport of materials to be recycled or reused, including: plastics, glass, paper, aluminum and scrap metals. Recovered materials processing does not include any operation which changes the nature of a material, its chemical composition or its physical qualities.
Recreational vehicle means a vehicle which is:
(1)
Built on a single chassis;
(2)
400 square feet or less when measured at the largest horizontal projection;
(3)
Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by light-duty truck; and
(4)
Designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling but as temporary living quarters for recreational, camping, travel, or seasonal use.
Recycling means the process by which recovered materials and waste products are reduced to raw materials and transformed into new and often different products.
Redevelopment means a land development project on a previously developed site, but excludes ordinary maintenance activities, remodeling of existing buildings, resurfacing of paved areas, and exterior changes or improvements which do not materially increase or concentrate stormwater runoff, or cause additional nonpoint source pollution.
Regional stormwater management facility refers to stormwater management facilities designed to control stormwater runoff from multiple properties, where the owners or developers of the individual properties may assist in the financing of the facility, and the requirement for on-site controls is either eliminated or reduced.
Repetitive loss means flood-related damages sustained by a structure on two separate occasions during a ten-year period for which the cost of repairs at the time of each such flood event, on the average, equals, or exceeds 25 percent of the market value of the structure before the damage occurred.
Residential/business dwelling means a type of attached dwelling in which a commercial business or office may be operated in the basement or first floor/story of the structure. The business need not be operated by the resident of the dwelling.
Residential property means:
(1)
Any lot or other tract of land zoned in any of the following districts under this UDO: R100, R75, R60, RTH, or PRD;
(2)
Any lot or other tract of land adjoining, abutting or within 1,000 feet of the city limits in any district, as defined as residential in the unified development ordinance.
Restaurant, custom service means an establishment where food and drink are prepared to individual order, ordered and served at the table, and consumed primarily within the principal building or in an established outdoor dining area, as contrasted to a fast food restaurant. Any restaurant that provides drive-in or drive-through service to customers in their cars is considered a fast-food restaurant.
Restaurant, family means a custom service restaurant primarily oriented to sit-down service, occasionally with take-out service but with no drive-in or drive-through facilities and having an average turnover rate generally of less than one hour. Family restaurants are usually moderately priced and frequently belong to chains.
Restaurant, fast food means any establishment, building or structure where food or drink is served for consumption, either on or off the premises, by order from or service to persons either over an interior counter, outside the structure or from an outdoor service window or automobile service window, or by delivery. This definition shall not include otherwise permitted restaurants where outdoor table service is provided to customers in established outdoor dining areas or where take-out service is provided incidental to a custom service restaurant.
Restaurant, quality means a custom service restaurant primarily oriented to fine dining and often associated with a particular cuisine. Quality restaurants are characterized by table settings of better silverware, china, glassware and cloth tablecloths, and have average turnover rates generally of one hour or more.
Riparian means belonging or related to the bank of a river, stream, lake, pond or impoundment.
Roadway drainage structure means a device such as a bridge, culvert, or ditch composed of a virtually non-erodible material such as concrete, steel, plastic, or other such material that conveys water under a roadway by intercepting the flow on one side of a traveled way consisting of one or more defined lanes, with or without shoulder areas, and carrying water to a release point on the other side.
Rooming or boarding house means a dwelling within which a resident family or resident manager offers lodging or lodging and meals to two or more persons not under the resident's parental or protective care in exchange for monetary compensation or other consideration.
Runoff means stormwater runoff.
S
Secondary conservation areas mean areas that are desirable to be included in conservation space, but which may or may not be suitable to be permanently protected. Examples are pocket parks, neighborhood greens and stormwater management facilities that may revert to a relatively natural state.
Security lighting means any light source used to illuminate a building, structure or property during evening hours that seeks to deter criminal activity.
Sediment means solid material, both organic and inorganic, that is in suspension, is being transported, or has been moved from its site of origin by air, water, ice or gravity as a product of erosion.
Sedimentation means the process by which eroded material is transported and deposited by the action of water, wind, ice or gravity.
Setback means:
(1)
With respect to a stream, the distance that defines the width of a protective buffer, measured from the boundary of the feature of the landscape (e.g., a wetland or streambank) that the buffer is designed to protect.
(2)
With respect to buildings and structures, the mandatory clear distance between a lot line and a building or structure.
Sign: for all sign related definitions see Section 204-3.
Significant groundwater recharge areas mean areas mapped by the Georgia Department of Natural Resources in Hydrologic Atlas 18, 1989 edition. Mapping of recharge areas is based on outcrop area, lithology (chemical nature and form of the rock), soil type and thickness, slope, density of lithologic contacts, geologic structure, presence of karst topography (sinkholes, caves and fissures associated with limestone and other carbonate rocks), and potentiometric surfaces.
Single building means a single building containing a single use or tenant where there are one or more entrance ways for the individual use or tenant.
Single development means a single development containing a single use or tenant where there are one or more entrance ways for the individual use or tenant.
Site means the parcel of land being developed, or the portion thereof on which the development project is located.
Site plan means a plan, drawn to scale, showing uses and structures proposed for a parcel of land as required by this UDO. Required details may include, but are not limited to lot lines, streets, buildings, major landscape features, and utility lines.
Sketch plan means an informal plan indicating salient existing features of a tract and its surroundings, including the general layout of a proposed subdivision or land development; submitted as a part of a pre-filing conference. Sketch plans are submitted as a required attachment to rezoning and special use permit applications to indicate conformance to this UDO.
Soil and Water Conservation District approved plan means an erosion and sedimentation control plan approved in writing by the county Soil and Water Conservation District.
Small tree means a tree expected to grow to a maximum height of 25 feet at maturity under urban conditions.
Special exception refers to a request to approve a use, site configuration, or construction method that is not currently covered by the provisions of the UDO and cannot be remedied by granting a special use permit or variance, such exceptions can only be granted by Mayor and City Council review and approval.
Specimen tree means any tree, excluding loblolly pines, which qualifies for special consideration for conservation due to its size, type, condition, location or historical significance. The following two criteria are used by the Community Development Director to identify specimen trees. Both the size and condition criteria must be met for a tree to qualify.
(1)
Size criteria.
a.
Overstory tree: 28-inch diameter or larger.
b.
Understory tree: 12-inch diameter or larger.
(2)
Condition criteria. Life expectancy of greater than 15 years. Relatively sound and solid trunk with no excessive decay. No more than one major and several minor dead limbs. No major insect or pathological problem.
Stabilization means the process of establishing an enduring soil cover of vegetation by the installation of temporary or permanent structures for the purpose of reducing to a minimum the erosion process and the resultant transport of sediment by wind, water, ice or gravity.
Start of construction means the date the permit was issued, provided the actual start of construction, repair, reconstruction, or improvement was within 180 days of the permit date. The actual start means the first placement of permanent construction of the structure such as the pouring of slabs or footings, installation of piles, construction of columns, or any work beyond the stage of excavation, and includes the placement of a manufactured home on a foundation. Permanent construction does not include initial land preparation, such as clearing, grading and filling; nor does it include the installation of streets or walkways; nor does it include excavation for a basement, footings, piers or foundations or the erection of temporary forms; nor does it include the installation on the property of buildings appurtenant to the permitted structure, such as garages or sheds not occupied as dwelling units or part of the main structure. (Note: accessory structures are not exempt from any requirements of this UDO). For a substantial improvement, the actual start of construction means the first alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor, or other structural part of a building, whether or not that alteration affects the external dimensions of the building.
State general permit means the National Pollution Discharge Elimination System general permit for storm water runoff from construction activities as is now in effect or as may be amended or reissued in the future pursuant to the state's authority to implement the same through federal delegation under the Federal Water Pollution Control Act, as amended, 33 USC 1251 et seq., and O.C.G.A. § 12-5-30(f).
State waters means any and all rivers, streams, creeks, branches, lakes, reservoirs, ponds, drainage systems, springs, wells, and other bodies of surface and subsurface water, natural or artificial, lying within or forming a part of the boundaries of the state which are not entirely confined and retained completely upon the property of a single person single individual, partnership or corporation.
Stormwater means any surface flow, runoff, and drainage consisting entirely of water from any form of natural precipitation, and resulting from such precipitation, but which also includes:
(1)
Water from those sources described in chapter 400, land development, article II, environmental standards; or
(2)
Any discharge permitted under NPDES permit or order issued to the discharger and administered under the authority of the state and the federal Environmental Protection Agency, provided that the discharger is in full compliance with all requirements of the permit, waiver, or order and other applicable laws and regulations, and provided that written approval has been granted for any discharge to the city separate storm sewer system.
Stormwater better site design means nonstructural site design approaches and techniques that can reduce a site's impact on the watershed and can provide for nonstructural stormwater management. Stormwater better site design includes conserving and protecting natural areas and greenspace, reducing impervious cover and using natural features for stormwater management.
Stormwater management means the collection, conveyance, storage, treatment and disposal of stormwater runoff in a manner intended to prevent increased flood damage, streambank channel erosion, habitat degradation and water quality degradation, and to enhance and promote the public health, safety and general welfare.
Stormwater management design manual means the most recent version of the stormwater design manual as published by the Atlanta Regional Commission (ARC).
Stormwater management facility means any infrastructure that controls or conveys stormwater runoff.
Stormwater management measure means any stormwater management facility or nonstructural stormwater practice.
Stormwater management plan means a document describing how existing runoff characteristics will be affected by a land development project and containing measures for complying with the provisions of this UDO.
Stormwater management system means the entire set of structural and nonstructural stormwater management facilities and practices that are used to capture, convey and control the quantity and quality of the stormwater runoff from a site.
Stormwater retrofit means a stormwater management practice designed for a currently developed site that previously had either no stormwater management practice in place or a practice inadequate to meet the stormwater management requirements of the site.
Stormwater runoff means the flow of surface water resulting from precipitation.
Stream means any stream, beginning at:
(1)
The location where the normal stream flow has wrested the vegetation. The normal stream flow is any flow that consists solely of base flow or consists of both base flow and direct runoff during any period of the year. Base flow results from the groundwater that enters the stream channel through the soil. This includes spring flows into streams. Direct runoff is the water entering stream channels promptly after rainfall or snow melts;
(2)
A point in the stream channel with a drainage area of 20 acres or more; or
(3)
Where evidence indicates the presence of a stream in a drainage area of other than 20 acres, the Public Works Department may require field studies to verify the existence of a stream.
Stream bank means the confining cut of a stream channel.
Stream channel means the portion of a watercourse that contains the base flow of the stream.
Street means a thoroughfare that affords the principal means of access to abutting property.
Street, classification, means the designation of a street as shown on the Long Range Road Classification Map as adopted in the city comprehensive plan.
Street address means the street or route address. Such term shall not mean or include a post office box.
Structural erosion, sedimentation and pollution control practices means practices for the stabilization of erodible or sediment-producing areas by utilizing the mechanical properties of matter for the purpose of either changing the surface of the land or storing, regulating or disposing of runoff to prevent excessive sediment loss. Examples of structural erosion and sediment control measures are riprap, sediment basins, dikes, level spreaders, waterways or outlets, diversions, grade stabilization structures, and sediment traps, etc. Such measures are found in the publication Manual for Erosion and Sediment Control in Georgia.
Structural root plate (SRP) means the zone of rapid root taper that provides the tree stability against wind throw. The radius of the root plate is proportional to the diameter (DBH) of a tree, using standard root plate measurements/calculations.
Structure means anything constructed or erected on the ground or attached to something on the ground.
Structural stormwater control means a structural stormwater management facility or device that controls stormwater runoff and changes the characteristics of that runoff including, but not limited to, the quantity and quality, the period of release or the velocity of flow.
Subdivision means the division of a tract or parcel of land resulting in one or more new lots or building sites for the purpose, whether immediately or in the future, of sale, other transfer of ownership or land development, and includes divisions of land resulting from or made in connection with the layout or development of a new street or roadway or a change in an existing street or roadway.
Subdivision, minor means more than two lots, but less than four lots, in which no public improvements, such as streets, stormwater drainage facilities or public utilities, are to be made.
Substantial damage means damage of any origin sustained by a structure whereby the cost of restoring the structure to its before damaged condition would equal or exceed 50 percent of the market value of the structure before the damage occurred.
Substantial improvement means any combination of repairs, reconstruction, alteration, or improvements to a building, taking place during a ten-year period, in which the cumulative cost equals or exceeds 50 percent of the market value of the structure prior to the improvement. The market value of the building means:
(1)
The appraised value of the structure prior to the start of the initial repair or improvement; or
(2)
In the case of damage, the value of the structure prior to the damage occurring.
This term includes structures, which have incurred repetitive loss or substantial damage regardless of the actual amount of repair work performed. For the purposes of this definition, substantial improvement is considered to occur when the first alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor, or other structural part of the building commences, whether or not that alteration affects the external dimensions of the building. The term does not, however, include those improvements of a building required to comply with existing health, sanitary, or safety code specifications which are solely necessary to assure safe living conditions, which have been pre-identified by the Code Enforcement Officer, building official or building inspector, and not solely triggered by an improvement or repair project.
Substantially improved existing manufactured home park or subdivision means the repair, reconstruction, rehabilitation or improvement of the streets, utilities and pads equals or exceeds 50 percent of the value of the streets, utilities and pads before the repair, reconstruction or improvement commenced.
Surface, improved, means an area no less than nine feet by 19 feet in size, constructed roughly on or slightly above level grade, comprised of a veneer of hard material installed over a compacted sub-base of foundation material.
T
Targeted business means a preferred business or industry type, as identified by Partnership Gwinnett or a special impact project of such magnitude as may be identified by the city.
Temporary means for a period not to exceed ten consecutive days. A second permit for a temporary outdoor activity on the same property may not be applied for or renewed within six months from the date of any prior approval of a temporary outdoor activity.
Temporary outdoor activity means for-profit activities involving the temporary outside sale of goods and merchandise in association with an existing business located on the premises as the principal use of the premises. The term shall include the sale of farm produce, carnivals, or the sale of Christmas trees from property which is vacant or which contains a separate and distinct primary use, such activities continuing for a period not exceeding ten consecutive days. Temporary outdoor activities shall occur in non-enclosed areas.
Temporary outdoor activity permit means written authorization by the Community Development Director, or their designee, for the applicant to engage in temporary outdoor activities at a specified, fixed location meeting all requirements of this article.
Temporary shelter means a nonprofit, institutional-residential use, generally utilized to remediate crisis or duress, which provides supervised, nonpermanent room, board and other related services to an undetermined number of residents for a period of time presumed to be temporary in nature, and for a maximum of six months. Supervision will be conducted by a manager or other adult person who is/are responsible for specified duties associated with the use. Related services include, but are not limited to:
(1)
Feeding and food preparation, provided food is prepared in a central kitchen and not in individual rooms or suites;
(2)
Clothing; counseling; job training; mentoring; health and medical education and awareness programs; legal assistance; social services; child care.
Temporary shelter uses will not be otherwise regulated by local government ordinances referencing the housing of unrelated individuals.
Tower means any structure that is designed and constructed primarily for the purpose of supporting one or more antennas, including self-supported lattice towers, guy towers, or monopole towers. The term tower includes radio and television transmission towers, microwave towers, common-carrier towers, and cellular telephone towers.
Townhouse means a building containing three or more single family dwellings, each being separated from the adjoining dwelling by fire resistive walls without openings and each dwelling having independent access to the exterior of the building in the ground story.
Trade official means the Building Official, Electrical Official, Gas Official, Plumbing Official, or Housing Official.
Traffic impact study means an analysis and assessment, conducted by a qualified professional, that assesses the effects that a discretionary development proposal's traffic will have on the transportation network in a community or portion thereof. Traffic impact studies vary in their range of detail and complexity depending on the type, size and location of the proposed development.
Tree disturbance means any land activity that has the potential to change the characteristics of soil, vegetation, growing space or environment within a tree protection zone or any activity that has the potential to damage a tree's roots trunk or crown. Tree impact means any disturbance that proposes or has the potential to affect 25 percent or more of the tree protection zone.
Tree protection zone (TPZ) means the area encompassing the entirety of a protected tree, including the soil to a depth of three feet within the CRZ and the tree's trunk and crown.
Trout streams means all streams or portions of streams within the watershed as designated by the Game and Fish Division of the Georgia Department of Natural Resources under the provisions of the Georgia Water Quality Control Act (O.C.G.A. § 12-5-20 et seq.). Streams designated as primary trout waters are defined as water supporting a self-sustaining population of rainbow, brown or brook trout. Streams designated as secondary trout waters are those in which there is no evidence of natural trout reproduction but are capable of supporting trout throughout the year. First order trout waters are streams into which no other streams flow except springs.
Truck terminal refers to a building or premises where trucks load and unload cargo and freight and where the cargo and freight may be broken down or aggregated into smaller or larger loads for transfer to other vehicles or modes of transportation.
U
UDO Administrator means a member of the Norcross Community Development Department designated by and including the Director with review and approval authority to interpret and administer the provisions of the UDO. Such community development personnel include the Zoning Administrator, the Building Official and the City Engineer.
Uplighting means any light source that distributes illumination above a 90-degree horizontal plane.
Use means the purpose for which land, premises or a building thereon is designated, arranged or intended, or for which it is or may be occupied, used or maintained.
Use, accessory, means a use or building customarily incidental and subordinate to the principal use or building and located on the same lot as the principal use or building.
Use, permitted, means a use which is lawfully established in a particular district and which conforms to all requirements, regulations and performance standards of such district. A permitted use may be a principal use or an accessory use.
Use, principal, means a use or structure which determines the predominant or major use of the lot on which it is located. A principal use may be either a permitted or a special use.
Use, protected, refers to:
(1)
A church, mosque, synagogue or other place of worship;
(2)
A public or private nursery school or any other public or private school serving any one or more grades K through 12;
(3)
A child care facility, licensed by the Georgia Department of Human Resources;
(4)
A public park, playground or playing field;
(5)
A public or private cemetery.
Use, special, means a use which, because of its unique characteristics, cannot be properly classified as a permitted use in a particular district. After consideration of the public need for the particular use at the specific location, a permit for such special use may be granted by the City Council or the Community Development Director. A special use may be a principal use or an accessory use.
Utility means public or private water or sewer piping systems, water or sewer pumping stations, electric power lines, fuel pipelines, telephone lines, stormwater systems, or other utilities identified by the city.
V
Vacant real property means real property that:
(1)
Is intended for habitation, has not been lawfully inhabited for at least 60 days, and has no evidence of utility usage within the past 60 days; or
(2)
Is partially constructed or incomplete, without a valid building permit.
This term shall not include a building or structure containing multiple units with common ownership that has at least one unit occupied with evidence of utility usage.
Variance means a grant of relief from the requirements of this chapter which permits construction in a manner otherwise prohibited by this UDO.
Vegetative erosion and sedimentation control measures means:
(1)
Measures for the stabilization of erosive or sediment-producing areas by covering the soil with the following:
a.
Permanent seeding, sprigging or planting, producing long-term vegetative cover;
b.
Temporary seeding producing short term vegetative cover; or
c.
Sodding, covering areas with a turf of perennial sod-forming grass.
(2)
Such measures are found in the publication Manual for Erosion and Sediment Control in Georgia.
Violation means the failure of a structure or other development to be fully compliant with rules and regulations of this UDO. A structure or other development without the elevation certificate, other certifications, or other evidence of compliance required in this UDO is presumed to be in violation until such time as that documentation is provided.
W
Water supply watershed means the drainage area (watershed) of lands upstream of a governmentally owned public drinking water intake or water supply reservoir.
Watercourse means any natural or artificial waterway, stream, river, creek, channel, ditch, canal, conduit, culvert, drain, gully, ravine, or wash in which water flows either continuously or intermittently, having a definite channel, bed and bank, and including any area adjacent thereto which is subject to inundation by reason of overflow or floodwater.
Watershed means the land area that drains into a particular stream.
Wetlands mean those areas that are inundated or saturated by surface water or groundwater at a frequency and distribution sufficient to support, and under normal circumstances does support a prevalence of vegetation typically adapted for life in saturated soil conditions, commonly known as hydrophytic vegetation. Wetlands generally include swamps, marshes, bogs and similar areas.
Y
Yard means an open space on a lot situated between the principal building or use on the lot and a lot line and unoccupied by any structure, except as otherwise provided herein.
Yard, front, means an open, unoccupied space on the same lot with a principal building or use, extending the full width of the lot and located between the street line and the front line of the building projected to the side lines of the lot.
Yard, rear, means an open space on the same lot with a principal building or use, unoccupied except by an accessory building or use, extending the full width of the lot and located between the rear line of the lot and the rear line of the building or use projected to the side lines of the lot.
Yard, side, means an open, unoccupied space on the same lot with a principal building or use, located between the building or use and the side line of the lot and extending from the rear line of the front yard to the front line of the rear yard.
(Ord. No. 08-2019 , § I, 6-3-2019; Ord. No. 03-2020 , § I, 4-6-2020; Ord. No. 06-2023 , § I, 7-10-2023)
Sec. 102-3. - Acronyms.
ADU: Accessory dwelling unit
ARB: Architectural Review Board of Norcross
ARC: Atlanta Regional Commission
BMP: Best management practice
CBA: Construction Board of Appeals of Norcross
CO: Certificate of occupancy
CRZ: Critical root zone
CPESC: Certified professional in erosion and sediment control
DBH: Diameter breast height
DCA: Georgia Department of Community Affairs
DDA: Downtown Development Authority of Norcross
DUA: Dwelling units per acre
EPD: Environmental Protection Division of the Georgia Department of Natural Resources
FAA: Federal Aviation Administration.
FCC: Federal Communications Commission.
FDOT: Federal Department of Transportation
FEMA: Federal Emergency Management Agency.
FHBM: Flood hazard boundary map
FIRM: Flood insurance rate map
FIS: Flood insurance study
GCT: Gwinnett County Transit
GDOT: Georgia Department of Transportation
GRTA: Georgia Regional Transportation Authority
HPC: Historic Preservation Commission
IBC: International Building Code
LED: Light emitting diode
LEED: Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design.
LIA: Local issuing authority
LOS: Level of service
MARTA: Metropolitan Atlanta Rapid Transit Authority
MCC: Mayor and City Council of Norcross
NOI: Notice of intent form provided by EPD for coverage under the state general permit.
NOT: Notice of Termination form provided by EPD to terminate coverage under the state general permit.
O.C.G.A.: Official Code of Georgia, Annotated
P&Z: Planning and Zoning Board of Norcross
SF: Unit of measure, representing square foot (or feet)
SRP: Structural root plate
TPB: Tree Preservation Board of Norcross
TPZ: Tree protection zone
ZBA: Zoning Board of Appeals of Norcross
(Ord. No. 08-2019 , § I, 6-3-2019)
ARTICLE III. - REVIEW AUTHORITY

Sec. 103-1. - Purpose.
This article establishes and describes the various review bodies and officials that implement and administer the UDO. This article defines the powers, membership and terms, and rules and standards, for decisions of each board, committee, task force or commission (each a review authority) that has review authority in interpreting and administering the UDO.
(Ord. No. 08-2019 , § I, 6-3-2019; Ord. No. 08-2022 , § I, 8-1-2022)
Sec. 103-2. - General membership standards.
(a)
Application.
(1)
Persons interested in serving on a board, commission or committee must fill out the form: "application for board or commission appointment".
(2)
Applications for appointment and orientation packets specific to the board or commission of choice are made available at the office of the City Clerk. Applicants are required to review the orientation packet prior to submission of their application and return a signed application and supporting information to the City Clerk by the required deadline, if applicable.
(3)
The City Clerk retains applications for up to two years. The City Clerk also maintains a list of all individuals who have volunteered for a position. The City Clerk will maintain the applications of appointed volunteers on file for the duration of their service.
(b)
Ad-hoc committees and task forces. The Mayor or Council may from time to time wish to set up an ad hoc committee or task force to study a specific topic and make recommendations for action. These are typically short duration efforts, and as such these appointments may not follow the notification and selection process described below.
(c)
Notification.
(1)
Prior to the expiration of a volunteer's term or upon notice of a resignation, the City Clerk prepares and distributes a notice to the city website and social media at least two weeks prior to the Council policy meeting before the appointment for all vacancies on city boards and commissions, including partial terms.
(2)
If there is little or no response to the notice, the City Clerk will re-advertise the position and extend the application deadline.
(d)
Objectives.
(1)
Applicants may apply for more than one board or commission by indicating preferences on the application form. Individuals currently serving on a city board or commission are not prevented from applying for a different board or commission.
(2)
The City Council desires to give as many citizens as possible an opportunity to serve on the various boards and commissions, so a citizen will not typically serve on more than one board or commission at a time. However, a citizen may serve on any number of committees or task forces, provided the multiple appointments do not create a conflict of interest.
(3)
The City Council will, whenever possible, assign a council member as an ex-officio member of each board and commission, both to provide a direct liaison to council and to keep board and commission members informed of council issues and concerns.
(Ord. No. 08-2019 , § I, 6-3-2019)
Sec. 103-3. - General rules of procedure; meetings; minutes and records.
All review authorities, boards, committees, task forces and commissions, except UDO Administrators, will utilize the following policies and rules of procedure to govern the calling and conducting of their meetings.
(1)
The presiding official of the meeting or hearing shall be the chairperson of the review authority, board, committee, task force or commission, or in his or her absence the Vice-Chair. In the case of a meeting and hearing of the Mayor and City Council, the Mayor will serve as the presiding official, or in the Mayor's absence, the Mayor-Pro Tempore.
(2)
Unless otherwise provided by ordinance, rules of procedure for meetings of all city review authorities, board, committees, task forces and commissions shall follow Rosenberg's Rules of Order.
(3)
Meetings and hearings shall be at the call of the presiding official and at such other times as the members of the review authority, board, committee, task force or commission may determine.
(4)
The review authority, board, committee, task force or commission shall keep minutes of its proceedings, showing the vote of each member upon each question or, if absent or failing to vote, indicating such fact. Records of its examinations and other official actions will be immediately filed in the office of the City Clerk and shall be a public record.
(5)
All individuals present at a public hearing shall be allowed to voice their opinions at a hearing unless there is a spokesperson representing a particular individual. The review authority shall allow a maximum time period for presentation of data, evidence, and opinion by proponents of each decision and an equal maximum time period for presentation by opponents of each proposed decision, such time period shall be no less than ten minutes per side. The presiding official shall have the right to increase the maximum time limit for the presentation of data, evidence, and opinion by proponents and opponents of each decision, provided the maximum time for such presentations is the same for proponents and opponents.
(6)
Applications shall be considered in the order of filing. However, if such order of consideration would exhibit a hardship on the applicant, the review authority, board, committee, task force or commission, or the opponents, the presiding official has the authority to alter the order of consideration.
(Ord. No. 08-2019 , § I, 6-3-2019; Ord. No. 08-2022 , § I, 8-1-2022)
Sec. 103-4. - UDO Administrators.
(a)
UDO Administrators and their powers.
(1)
Community Development Director. The Community Development Director position is established as the head of the Community Development Department, as authorized in chapter 2, administration, article IV, departments, section 2-122 of this Code. The Community Development Director has those powers and duties as expressly identified in this UDO and this Code. Though the Community Development Director may designate UDO review and approval authority to other responsible persons in the Community Development Department, he or she remains responsible for the actions taken by the designee.
(2)
Zoning Administrator. The Zoning Administrator serves as the primary administrator of chapter 200 of this UDO and has primary review authority over the articles in that chapter.
(3)
Building Official. The Building Official serves as the primary administrator of chapter 300 of the UDO and has primary review authority over the articles in that chapter.
(4)
City Engineer. The City Engineer serves as the primary administrator of chapter 400 of the UDO and has primary review authority over the articles in that chapter.
(b)
UDO Administrator membership and terms. All UDO Administrators are city employees and serve at the direction of the City Manager. Policies concerning the terms of their employment and code of conduct are administered by the city Human Resources Director.
(c)
UDO Administrator rules and standards. Article IV of this chapter lays out the procedures by which UDO Administrators process and review requests related to the administration of this UDO.
(d)
Appeals of decisions made by UDO Administrators. Appeals of administrative review decisions made by a UDO Administrator can made to an appellate board, as specified herein and in article IV. Procedures of this chapter:
(1)
Appeals of administrative decisions concerning tree removal permits can be made to the Tree Preservation Board.
(2)
Appeals of all other administrative decisions (those not dealing with tree removal permits), can be made to the Zoning Board of Appeals.
(Ord. No. 08-2019 , § I, 6-3-2019)
Sec. 103-5. - Architectural Review Board (ARB).
(a)
ARB powers.
(1)
The Architectural Review Board (ARB) is hereby created.
(2)
The ARB shall be the review authority of permit applications related to the following:
a.
New construction residential facades, including paint color;
b.
New construction commercial facades;
c.
Modifications to existing commercial facades;
d.
Public building facades;
e.
Public monuments and pavilions;
f.
Solar panel landscape screening and any other applicable landscape regulations in this UDO.
(3)
The authority of the ARB shall encompass all areas within the city limits except where the property in question fall under the authority of the Historic Preservation Commission.
(b)
ARB membership and terms.
(1)
The ARB shall consist of five members appointed by the Mayor and City Council. A minimum of three members must be citizens of the city.
(2)
The ARB membership shall include at least one architect or engineer, and one citizen at large.
(3)
The ARB shall elect its chairperson and vice-chairperson from among its members. The chairperson and vice-chairperson shall serve for one year or until they are re-elected, or their successors are elected.
(4)
The term of office of each member of the ARB shall be three years with staggered terms, as determined by the Council upon initial appointment. Members shall serve at the pleasure of the City Council.
(5)
Any member of the ARB shall be disqualified to act upon a matter in which the member has an interest.
(c)
ARB rules and standards.
(1)
The ARB shall set a meeting date which will recur each month for the purposes of reviewing applications for certificate of appropriateness.
(2)
The standards that the ARB shall use as the basis of its approvals are the architectural design guidelines of the city, and the policies of the adopted comprehensive plan. Current copies of such standards shall be printed and maintained at the Community Development Department and shall be made available to the public for distribution, inspection and copying to the general public during normal business hours.
(3)
The rules governing the calling and conducting of ARB meetings are set forth in section 103-3, general rules of procedure; meetings; minutes, and records.
(d)
Appeal of ARB decision. Appeals of decisions of the ARB shall be taken to the City Council in the following manner.
(1)
Any person, jointly or severally, aggrieved or adversely affected by any decision of the ARB may within 30 calendar days of the decision request in writing an appeal to the City Council.
(2)
The city shall fix a reasonable time for the hearing of the appeal by the City Council and give at least 15 calendar days public notice thereof and due notice to the parties in interest.
(3)
City Council shall decide within 30 calendar days from the date of the hearing unless such time is extended with the approval of the appealing party.
(Ord. No. 08-2019 , § I, 6-3-2019)
Sec. 103-6. - Historic Preservation Commission (HPC).
(a)
HPC powers. The Historic Preservation Commission (HPC) is hereby established and created, and is authorized to:
(1)
Prepare and maintain an inventory of all property within the city of Norcross having the potential for designation as historic property;
(2)
Recommend to the City Council specific districts, sites, buildings, structures, or objects to be designated by ordinance as historic properties or historic districts;
(3)
Review application for certificates of appropriateness, and grant or deny same in accordance with the provisions of this UDO;
(4)
Recommend to the City Council that the designation of any district, site, building, structure or object as a historic property or as a historic district be revoked or removed;
(5)
Restore or preserve any historic properties acquired by the city;
(6)
Promote the use of facade easements and conservation easements, as appropriate, in accordance with the provisions of the Georgia Uniform Conservation Easement Act (O.C.G.A., § 44-10-1 et seq.)
(7)
Conduct educational programs on historic properties located within the city and on general historic preservation activities;
(8)
Make such investigation and studies of matters relating to historic preservation, including consultation with historic preservation experts, the City Council or the HPC itself may, from time to time, deem necessary or appropriate for the purposes of preserving historic resources;
(9)
Seek out local, state, federal or private funds for historic preservation and seek pre-approval from City Council for any grant request and make recommendations on the findings to the City Council concerning the most appropriate uses of any funds acquired;
(10)
Consult with historic preservation experts in the Division of Historic Preservation of the Department of Natural Resources or its successor and the Georgia Trust for Historic Preservation, Inc.;
(11)
Submit to the Historic Preservation Division of the Department of Natural Resources (or its successor) a list of historic properties of historic districts designated;
(12)
Perform historic preservation activities as the official agency of the city historic preservation program;
(13)
Employ persons, if necessary, to carry out the responsibilities of the HPC;
(14)
Receive donations, grants, funds, or gifts of historic property and acquire and sell historic properties. The HPC shall not obligate the city without prior consent;
(15)
Review and make comments to the Historic Preservation Division of the Department of Natural Resources concerning the nomination of properties within its jurisdiction to the National Register of Historic Places; and
(16)
Participate in private, state and federal historic preservation programs and with the consent of the City Council, enter into agreements to do the same.
(b)
HPC Membership and terms.
(1)
The HPC shall consist of five members appointed by the City Council. All members shall be residents of the city, or the owner of a property in the historic district, and a majority of the members shall be persons who have demonstrated special interest, experience or education in history, architecture or the preservation of historic resources.
(2)
To the extent available in the city, at least three members shall be appointed from among professionals in the disciplines of architecture, history, architectural history, planning, archaeology or related professions.
(3)
Members shall serve three-year terms.
(c)
HPC rules and standards.
(1)
The HPC shall adopt rules and standards for the transaction of its business and for consideration of application for designation of certificates of appropriateness, such as by-laws, removal of membership provision, and design guidelines and criteria. The HPC shall have the flexibility to adopt rules and standards without amendment to this chapter.
(2)
The HPC shall provide for the time and place of regular meetings and a method for the calling of special meetings.
(3)
The HPC shall select such officers as it deems appropriate from among its members.
(4)
A quorum shall consist of a majority of the members.
(5)
The HPC shall be subject to all conflict of interest laws set forth in the state statutes and in the City Charter.
(6)
The HPC shall have the authority to accept donations and to augment existing commission budgets.
(7)
A public record shall be kept of the HPC proceedings and actions.
(d)
Appeals of HPC decisions. Appeals of decisions of the HPC shall be taken to the City Council in the following manner.
(1)
Any person, jointly or severally, aggrieved or adversely affected by any decision of the HPC may, within 30 calendar days of the decision, or, in the case of a failure of the HPC to act, within 15 days of the expiration of the 45 day period allowed for the HPC action, request in writing an appeal to the City Council.
(2)
The city shall fix a reasonable time for the hearing of the appeal by the City Council and give at least 15 calendar days public notice thereof and due notice to the parties in interest.
(3)
City Council shall decide within 30 calendar days from the date of the hearing unless such time is extended with the approval of the appealing party.
(4)
City Council may approve, modify and approve, or reject the determination made by the HPC, if the City Council finds that the HPC abused its discretion in reaching its decision.
(5)
In reviewing a decision of the HPC, the City Council may remand the matter to the HPC for further action. When a decision is made by the City Council on appeal to approve a plan, said approval shall constitute final plan approval for purposes of this article.
(6)
Decisions shall be made based on the record presented to the HPC and the substantial evidence standard shall apply.
(7)
All decisions of the City Council regarding appeals of decisions of the HPC shall be final and shall in all instances be subject to judicial review in the manner prescribed by law.
(Ord. No. 08-2019 , § I, 6-3-2019; Ord. No. 09-2021 , § II, 9-7-2021)
Sec. 103-7. - Planning and Zoning Board (P&Z).
(a)
P&Z powers. The Planning and Zoning Board shall have all the powers, duties and responsibilities set forth by state law, City Charter and this UDO. The Planning and Zoning Board shall be advisory in nature and will review all matters before them in full recognition of the criteria set forth in the city comprehensive plan. The Planning and Zoning Board shall make appropriate recommendations for approval, approval with conditions, or denial to the Mayor and City Council for their consideration and final action.
(b)
P&Z membership and terms.
(1)
The Planning and Zoning Board shall consist of five members, who shall be residents of the city, recommended by the Mayor and appointed by the City Council.
(2)
Any vacancy in membership shall be filled for the unexpired term in the same manner as the initial appointment.
(3)
The terms of the members shall be for four years. Members are eligible for reappointment.
(4)
Chairperson. The Planning and Zoning Board shall elect its chairperson and vice-chairperson from among its members. The chairperson and vice-chairperson shall serve for one year or until they are re-elected, or their successors are elected.
(5)
Secretary of the board. The Planning and Zoning Board shall appoint a secretary, who may be an officer or an employee of the city.
(6)
All members shall serve without compensation.
(c)
P&Z rules and standards.
(1)
The Planning and Zoning Board shall determine its time of meeting.
(2)
All meetings of the Planning and Zoning Board at which official action is taken shall be open to the public.
(3)
All records of the Planning and Zoning Board shall be a public record.
(4)
In reviewing text and map amendments to the UDO, P&Z will make recommendations based on the zoning standards prescribed in subsection 103-11(a), standards governing the exercise of zoning power.
(5)
In reviewing requests to amend the comprehensive plan, P&Z will make recommendations based on the standards prescribed in subsection 103-11(b), standards and factors governing review of proposed amendments to the Comprehensive Plan.
(6)
In reviewing requests for special use permits, P&Z will make recommendations based on the standards and factors governing review of special use permit request, subsection 103-11(c).
(d)
Appeals of P&Z recommendations. There are no appeals from this group's decisions as they are only a recommending body to the Mayor and City Council.
(Ord. No. 08-2019 , § I, 6-3-2019)
Sec. 103-8. - Tree Preservation Board (TPB).
(a)
TPB powers.
(1)
A Tree Preservation Board is hereby established to assist the Community Development Department in interpreting and enforcing the provisions of this UDO and to advise the Mayor and City Council on matters pertaining to the preservation of trees and the conservation of tree units within the city.
(2)
The Tree Preservation Board shall have the power to grant variances to this chapter 200, article V based on a hardship not created by the applicant.
(3)
The Tree Preservation Board shall have the power to hear appeals of any person aggrieved or adversely affected by an administrative decision made by the Community Development Director in the course of administering the provisions of this UDO pertaining to the preservation of trees and the conservation of tree-canopy cover within the city.
(b)
TPB membership and terms.
(1)
The Tree Preservation Board shall consist of five members appointed by the Mayor and City Council.
(2)
The members shall be residents or property owners of the city, except that up to two members may be nonresidents or non-property owners with professional expertise in arboriculture or horticulture or the land development/construction field.
(3)
Each member of the Tree Preservation Board shall serve for three years.
(c)
TPB rules and standards.
(1)
Meetings. The Tree Preservation Board shall meet not less frequently than quarterly and shall establish rules and regulations for its operations consistent with the provisions of this UDO and chapter 200.
(2)
The Tree Preservation Board shall have the power to adopt and promulgate such further administrative guidelines and standards as may be necessary or desirable to carry out the provisions of this UDO and chapter 200. The maintenance of the city's community tree species list shall be the responsibility of the Tree Preservation Board.
(3)
Current copies of the community tree species list and other such administrative guidelines, standards, or regulations shall be maintained at the Community Development Department and shall be made available to the public for inspection and copying during normal business hours.
(d)
Appeals of TPB decisions. Appeals of decisions of the TPB shall be taken to the City Council in the following manner.
(1)
Any person, jointly or severally, aggrieved or adversely affected by any decision of the TPB may within 30 calendar days of the decision request in writing an appeal to the City Council.
(2)
The city shall fix a reasonable time for the hearing of the appeal by the City Council and give at least 15 calendar days public notice thereof and due notice to the parties in interest.
(3)
City Council shall decide within 30 calendar days from the date of the hearing unless such time is extended with the approval of the appealing party.
(4)
In reviewing a decision of the TPB, the City Council may remand the matter to the TPB for further action. When a decision is made by the City Council on appeal to approve a plan, said approval shall constitute final plan approval for purposes of this article.
(5)
Decisions shall be made based on the record presented to the TPB and the substantial evidence standard shall apply.
(6)
All decisions of the City Council regarding appeals of decisions of the TPB shall be final and shall in all instances be subject to judicial review in the manner prescribed by law.
(Ord. No. 08-2019 , § I, 6-3-2019)
Sec. 103-9. - Zoning Board of Appeals (ZBA).
(a)
ZBA powers.
(1)
The ZBA shall have the following powers as it relates to the zoning portions of this UDO to:
a.
Hear and decide appeals when it is alleged there is error in any order, requirement, decision or determination made by the Community Development Director in the enforcement, administration and interpretation of this UDO;
b.
Hear and decide appeals of the decisions made by the Building Official in a quasi-judicial role;
c.
Hear and decide requests for variances to this UDO upon which the ZBA is required to pass; and
d.
Authorize, upon appeal in specific cases, such variances from the terms of this UDO as will not be contrary to the public interest where, owing to special conditions, a literal enforcement of this UDO will, in an individual case, result in unnecessary hardship, so that the spirit of this UDO shall be observed, public safety and welfare secured, and substantial justice done.
(2)
The following limitations shall apply to the exercise of the powers granted to the ZBA:
a.
Economic considerations may be taken into consideration as a hardship but shall not, of themselves, be the sole criteria upon which the ZBA may grant a variance.
b.
No relief may be granted or action taken under the terms of this section unless such relief can be granted without substantial detriment to the public. No relief that substantially changes the intent and purpose of the current City Comprehensive Plan, the official zoning map, or the UDO may be granted.
c.
For purposes of this section, the term "hardship" means the proposed use of the property and associated structures are not allowed by this UDO or its amendments and no other reasonable alternate use exists for the property. The request for a variance must be based upon the criteria that a physical condition, unique to the particular land, structure or building demands such a variance. If such unique condition exists, a variance may be granted.
d.
The ZBA has no authority to waive requirements of the building code.
(b)
ZBA membership and terms.
(1)
The ZBA shall consist of five members who reside within the corporate limits of the city, one of which shall be qualified by experience and training to pass judgment on matters pertaining to building construction.
(2)
The members shall be recommended by the Mayor and appointed by the City Council.
(3)
No member of the ZBA shall hold any other employment with or public office in the city.
(4)
The term of office of each member of the ZBA shall be for four years, or thereafter until his/her successor is appointed and qualified. Members may be reappointed. Any vacancy in the membership shall be filled for the unexpired term in the same manner as the initial appointment.
(5)
Members shall serve at the pleasure of the Mayor and City Council and may be removed for cause.
(6)
Any member of the ZBA shall be disqualified to act upon a matter in which the member has an interest.
(7)
Officers. The ZBA shall elect one of its members as chairperson and a second one as vice-chairperson. The chairperson and vice-chairperson shall serve for one year or until reelected or until successors are elected. The ZBA shall appoint a secretary who may be an employee of the city or of the ZBA.
(c)
ZBA rules and standards.
(1)
Before the ZBA acts upon an application for a variance, it shall hold a public hearing under the rules governing the calling and conducting of meeting are described in section 103-3, general rules of procedure; meetings; minutes, and records.
(2)
The notice of the time and place of such hearing shall be published at least 15 days prior to the hearing in a newspaper of general circulation within the territorial boundaries of the city. At the hearing any party may appear in person or by agent or attorney.
(3)
In addition, the Community Development Department shall at least 15 days prior to the hearing erect in a conspicuous place on the property involved a sign which shall contain information as to the variance applied for and the time and place of hearing.
(4)
In reviewing request for variance applications, the ZBA will make decisions based on the standards and factors governing review of proposed variance applications, section 103-11(d).
(5)
In reviewing appeals from decisions made by the Community Development Director or Building Official, the ZBA will be interpreting the provisions of the UDO and the International Building Code (IBC) to determine:
a.
Whether the decisions made by the Director was based on the true intent of the UDO or IBC; and
b.
Whether proper procedures for application review were followed.
(6)
All ZBA decisions shall be in writing. Decisions shall be mailed to the applicant and any interested parties who make a written request for a copy of the written decision without unreasonable delay after the close of the hearing.
(Ord. No. 08-2019 , § I, 6-3-2019; Ord. No. 08-2022 , § I, 8-1-2022)
Sec. 103-10. - Mayor and City Council.
(a)
Power. As the governing body for the city, the Mayor and City Council is the final authority on all policy matters related to the comprehensive plan and UDO. In particular, they are responsible for making final decisions on requests for amendments to the comprehensive plan, and to the UDO, as well as requests for special exceptions, and special use permits. A complete description of governing powers of the Mayor and City Council can be found in this Code, part I. Charter and related laws, subpart A, Charter, article II, governing body.
(b)
Membership and terms. The provisions regarding the membership and terms of the Mayor and each position on City Council can be found in this Code, part I, Charter and related laws, subpart A, Charter, article II, governing body.
(c)
Meeting rules and standards.
(1)
The rules governing the calling and conducting of meeting are described in section 103-3, general rules of procedure; meetings; minutes, and records.
(2)
In reviewing requests for text or map amendments to the UDO, the mayor and city council will make decisions based on the zoning standards prescribed in subsection 103-11(a), standards governing the exercise of zoning power.
(3)
In reviewing requests to amend the comprehensive plan, the Mayor and City Council will make decisions based on the standards prescribed in subsection 103-11(b), standards and factors governing review of proposed amendments to the comprehensive plan.
(4)
In reviewing requests for special use permits, the Mayor and City Council will make decisions based on the standards and factors governing review of special use permit request, subsection 103-11(c).
(5)
In reviewing request for special exception applications, the Mayor and City Council will make decisions based on the standards and factors governing review of proposed or special exceptions, subsection 103-11(d).
(6)
Standards and factors governing an appeal of an ARB decision.
a.
Appellate decisions made by the Mayor and City Council shall be made based on the record presented to, and reviewed by, the ARB and the minutes and proceedings of the ARB hearing. The substantial evidence standard shall apply.
b.
All decisions of the City Council regarding appeals of decisions of the ARB shall be final and shall in all instances be subject to judicial review in the manner prescribed by law.
c.
In reviewing a decision of the ARB, the City Council may remand the matter to the ARB for further action. When a decision is made by the City Council on appeal to approve a plan, said approval shall constitute final plan approval for purposes of this article.
(7)
Conditional approvals. In adopting an amendment to the official zoning map, or approving a special use permit or special exception, the Mayor and City Council may impose special conditions which they deem necessary to make the requested action acceptable and consistent with the purposes of the district(s) involved and to further the goals and objectives of the comprehensive plan. Such conditions may consist of (but are not limited to):
a.
Restrictions as to what land uses or activities shall be permitted;
b.
Permitted hours of operation;
c.
Setback requirements from any lot line;
d.
Specified or prohibited locations for buildings, parking, loading or storage areas or other land uses;
e.
Maximum building heights or other dimensions;
f.
Architectural style, or exterior treatments;
g.
Driveway curb cut restrictions, or inter-parcel access requirements;
h.
Landscaping or planted areas which may include the location, type and maintenance of plant materials;
i.
Preservation of existing trees or other vegetation;
j.
Fences, walls, berms, or other buffering provisions or protective measures;
k.
Special measures to alleviate undesirable views, light, glare, noise, dust or odor;
l.
A requirement that the existing building(s) be removed or retained, or a limitation on exterior modifications of existing buildings;
m.
Special drainage or erosion provisions;
n.
A requirement that developers must build according to the site plans as adopted;
o.
Any other requirement that the Mayor and City Council may deem appropriate and necessary as a condition of rezoning or issuance of a special use permit.
(8)
Conditions requirements. Such conditions shall:
a.
Only be valid if they are included in the motion approving the amendment, special use permit or special exception for adoption;
b.
Be recorded in the ordinance or resolution of the Mayor and City Council if enacted pursuant to an amendment of the text of the UDO or the official zoning map.
c.
Be continually in effect, or for the period of time specified in the amendment, special use permit, or special exception.
d.
Be required of the property owner and all subsequent owners as a condition of their use of the property.
e.
Be interpreted and continually enforced by the Community Development Director in the same manner as any other provision of this UDO.
(9)
Violations of conditions. Notwithstanding any other remedies available in this UDO and under local and state law, violations of conditions imposed pursuant to this section shall be handled in accordance with the enforcement and penalties provisions stated in chapter 100, article VI, enforcement.
(10)
Action by Mayor and City Council. Following its public hearing the Mayor and City Council may:
a.
Approve, by ordinance, as presented;
b.
Approve, by ordinance, with conditions;
c.
Approve, by ordinance, a similar or less intense use (including special uses), with or without conditions, in the case of a rezoning of property;
d.
Deny the request in whole or in part;
e.
Refer, by motion and majority vote, the matter back to lesser review board, committee, task force or commission for reconsideration;
f.
By motion, table final action to a future regularly scheduled business session or public hearing.
(Ord. No. 08-2019 , § I, 6-3-2019; Ord. No. 08-2022 , § I, 8-1-2022)
Sec. 103-11. - Standards governing review.
(a)
Standards governing the exercise of zoning power.
(1)
It is declared the intention of the Mayor and Council that this section shall constitute the standards required under O.C.G.A. § 36-66-5, and such standards shall be printed, and copies thereof shall be available for distribution to the general public by the Community Development Director.
(2)
The Mayor and City Council find that the following standards are relevant and shall be used in balancing the interest in promoting the public health, safety, morality, or general welfare against the right to the unrestricted use of property and shall govern the exercise of zoning power:
a.
Whether the zoning proposal will permit a use that is suitable in view of the use and development of adjacent and nearby property;
b.
Whether the zoning proposal will adversely affect the existing use or usability of adjacent or nearby property;
c.
Whether the property to be affected by the zoning proposal has a reasonable economic use as currently zoned;
d.
Whether the zoning proposal will result in a use which will or could cause an excessive or burdensome use of existing streets, transportation facilities, utilities, or schools;
e.
Whether the zoning proposal is in conformity with the policy and intent of the comprehensive plan; and
f.
Whether there are other existing or changing conditions affecting the use and development of the property which give supporting grounds for either approval or disapproval of the zoning proposal.
(b)
Standards and factors governing review of proposed amendments to the comprehensive plan. The following standards and factors are found to be relevant and shall be used for evaluating applications for amendments to the comprehensive plan and shall govern the review of all proposed amendments to the comprehensive plan:
(1)
Whether the proposed land use change will permit uses that are suitable in consideration of the use and development of adjacent and nearby property or properties.
(2)
Whether the proposed land use change will adversely affect the existing use or usability of adjacent or nearby property or properties.
(3)
Whether the proposed land use change will result in uses which will or could cause excessive or burdensome use of existing streets, transportation facilities, utilities, or schools.
(4)
Whether the amendment is consistent with the written policies in the comprehensive plan text and any applicable small areas studies.
(5)
Whether there are potential impacts on property or properties in an adjoining governmental jurisdiction, in cases of proposed changes near municipal boundary lines.
(6)
Whether there are other existing or changing conditions affecting the use and development of the affected land areas which support either approval or denial of the proposed land use change.
(7)
Whether there will be an impact on historic buildings, sites, districts or archaeological resources resulting from the proposed change.
(c)
Standards and factors governing review of special use permit requests. The purpose of a special use permit is to provide a process for a use that is generally compatible with the use characteristics of a zoning district, but requires individual review of its location, design, height, intensity, configuration and public facility impact to determine the appropriateness of the use for any particular site and its compatibility with adjacent uses. A special use permit allows the Mayor and City Council to approve a special use on a particular parcel without changing the general zoning district. When considering a special use permit application, and in addition to standards governing the exercise of zoning power in section 103-11(a), the Planning and Zoning Board and Mayor and City Council shall consider:
(1)
Whether the policies and objectives of the comprehensive plan, particularly in relationship to the proposed site and surrounding area align and support the proposal, and
(2)
Whether the proposal has the potential for adverse impacts on the surrounding area, regarding but not limited to traffic, storm drainage, land values and compatibility of land use activities.
(3)
In the case of a telecommunications antenna's and towers, the proposal will need to meet the standards listed in subsection 202-2(z)(5), special use permits.
(d)
Standards and factors governing review of proposed variance applications or special exceptions.
(1)
The purpose of a variance or special exception is to provide a mechanism when, owing to special conditions, the strict application of the UDO would impose on a landowner exceptional and undue hardship that can be mitigated without conferring on the applicant special privilege. A special exception differs from a variance in that it involves a request for a land use, site configuration, or construction method that is not currently covered by the provisions of the UDO and cannot be remedied by the granting of a special use permit or variance. Typically, a special exception is the result of new emerging technologies resulting in circumstances not foreseen at the time of the UDO's preparation. Whereas variances can be approved by the ZBA, special exceptions are a matter of policy and can only be approved by the Mayor and City Council.
(2)
The following standards and factors are found to be relevant and shall be used for evaluating applications for variances or special exceptions to the standards of the UDO:
a.
Whether there are extraordinary and exceptional conditions pertaining to the particular property in question because of its size, shape, or topography;
b.
Whether the application of UDO to this particular piece of property would create an unnecessary hardship;
c.
Whether such conditions are peculiar to the particular piece of property involved;
d.
Whether such conditions are the result of any actions of the property owner; and
e.
Whether the requested relief, if granted, would cause substantial detriment to the public good or impair the purposes or intent of the UDO.
(3)
No variance or special exception may be granted for a use of land, building or structure that is explicitly prohibited by the UDO or which would result in a greater intensity of development on a property than would otherwise be allowed if no variance or special exception were involved.
(Ord. No. 08-2019 , § I, 6-3-2019)
Sec. 103-12. - Appeals of legislative, quasi-judicial, and administrative actions.
(a)
Requirement that litigant exhaust its remedies before seeking appeal under O.C.G.A. tit. 5 or by other relief. The following provisions concern appeals of final legislative, quasi-judicial, and administrative actions. For the purposes of this section, an action is final when the applicant or interested party has exhausted those appellate mechanisms provided in this UDO and a decision has been rendered by the final decision-making body. An aggrieved party must exhaust such inter-city administrative, judicial, and legislative avenues for review before seeking an adjudication by a court of competent jurisdiction in accordance with applicable law.
(b)
Appeals of Legislative Actions.
(1)
Except as provided herein, legislative actions, as defined subsection 104-3(a)(1) and elsewhere in the UDO, shall be appealed in the manner provided by O.C.G.A. § 36-66-5.1(a)(1).
(2)
Appeals shall be brought by a party in interest within 30 days of the written decision of the challenged or appealed action.
(3)
Service shall be effectuated upon the party against whom declaratory or equitable relief is sought and the party defendant shall be named and sued in accordance with applicable state law.
(b)
Appeals of quasi-judicial actions.
(1)
Quasi-judicial actions, as defined in subsection 104-3(a)(2) and elsewhere in the UDO, and all actions concerning the grant or denial of a permit relating to a special use of property within the jurisdiction of the city shall be appealed in the manner provided by O.C.G.A. § 36-66-5.1(a)(1).
(2)
Appeals shall be brought by a party in interest within 30 days of the written decision of the challenged or appealed action.
(3)
Service of an appeal or petition under O.C.G.A. tit. 5 concerning any quasi-judicial action made by any individual or quasi-judicial board or agency may be effectuated upon the City Manager as a designee for the city in the manner provided by state law. Service may be effectuated at City Hall during normal business hours.
(4)
Community Development Director shall have the authority, without additional board or agency action, to approve or issue any form or certificate necessary to perfect a petition and/or appeal under O.C.G.A. tit. 5.
(c)
Appeals of administrative actions.
(1)
Except where state law directs a litigant to seek alternative procedural mechanisms for relief, administrative actions, as defined in subsection 104-3(a)(3) and elsewhere in the UDO, shall be appealed in the manner provided by O.C.G.A. § 36-66-5.1(a)(1).
(2)
Appeals shall be brought by a party in interest within 30 days of the written decision of the challenged or appealed action.
(3)
Service of an appeal or petition under O.C.G.A. tit. 5 concerning any administrative action made by any individual or quasi-judicial board or agency may be effectuated upon the City Manager as a designee for the city in the manner provided by state law. Service may be effectuated at City Hall during normal business hours.
(4)
Community Development Director shall have the authority, without additional board or agency action, to approve or issue any form or certificate necessary to perfect a petition and/or appeal under O.C.G.A. tit. 5.
(d)
Effect of an appeal. An appeal shall stay all legal proceedings in furtherance of the action appealed as provided in O.C.G.A. § 36-66-5.1(d). The city may seek relief from such a stay where the circumstances indicate that a stay would cause imminent peril to life or property.
(Ord. No. 08-2022 , § I, 8-1-2022)
ARTICLE IV. - PROCEDURES

Sec. 104-1. - Purpose.
(a)
This article describes the process through which a rezoning or special use may be approved on a property, the procedures for amendments to the comprehensive plan's future development map, the approval process for construction of subdivisions and other land development projects, and steps required for filing and processing applications for permits and certificates required under this UDO.
(b)
The provisions of this chapter are designed to implement the policies of the comprehensive plan, and to balance the city's interest in promoting the public health, safety, morality, aesthetics, and general welfare against the right to the unrestricted use of property.
(Ord. No. 08-2019 , § I, 6-3-2019; Ord. No. 08-2022 , § I, 8-1-2022)
Sec. 104-2. - Generally.
(a)
No development or development activity is permitted unless all development approvals applicable to the proposed development are issued in accordance with this article. Unless otherwise stated, development approval is required for all development.
(b)
Whenever in this UDO a permit or certificate is required an application shall be made to the Community Development Department. Obtaining approvals required by such application shall be the responsibility of the applicant. Issuance of permits or certificates and the collection of fees shall be the responsibility of the General Government Administration (GGA).
(c)
The Zoning Procedures Law of Georgia.
(1)
This article is intended to comply with the provisions of The Zoning Procedures Law, O.C.G.A. § 36-66-1 et seq., which Act is incorporated by reference in its entirety into this UDO.
(2)
Where any provision of this article conflicts with any provision of state law, the state law controls. Where this article is incomplete in having failed to incorporate a provision necessarily required for the implementation of state law, the provision of state law must be fully complied with.
(Ord. No. 08-2019 , § I, 6-3-2019)
Sec. 104-3. - Decision making responsibilities.
(a)
There are three basic categories of development reviews and actions associated with such reviews pursuant to this UDO:
(1)
Legislative actions involve a change in land use policy or any final legislative action detailed in O.C.G.A. § 36-66-3(4). A public hearing is required, and final approval must be made by the Mayor and City Council. Examples include, but are not limited to, rezoning decisions, special use permits and comprehensive plan amendments.
(2)
Quasi-judicial actions involve the application of discretionary standards required by this UDO to an application other than a zoning decision as defined in O.C.G.A. § 36-66-3(4). It requires a public hearing, and procedural due process. Examples include variances, special use permits and appeals of administrative decisions, as well as design reviews that require interpretation of a set of design guidelines.
(3)
Administrative actions involve the application of the standards of the UDO to an application by a UDO Administrator (section 103-4, UDO Administrators). A public hearing is not required. An administrative approval typically occurs late in the development process. Examples include building permits, sign permits, and certificates of occupancy.
(b)
The following table summarizes the review and approval authority of various review bodies involved in Legislative reviews, for each associated approval processes.
Figure 104-3(b) Legislative Action Approval Processes
EXPAND
Approval Process
KEY:
R = Review & Recommendation
D = Final Decision
A = Appeal
PH = Public Hearing
PM = Public Meeting
Cross-reference
Review and Approval Authority
UDO Administrator
Architectural Review
Board
Historic Preservation
Commission
Planning and Zoning
Board
Mayor and City Council
Annexations Sec. 104-5K R R-PH D-PH
Concept plan approval submitted
with a rezoning application 1 Sec. 403-4 R/D R-PH D-PH
Concurrent variance request Sec. 104-5 R R-PH D-PH
Planned development approval submitted with a rezoning to a PRD district 2 Sec. 104-5 R R R-PH D-PH
Special exceptions Sec. 104-5 R D-PH
Special use permit Sec. 104-6G R R-PH D-PH
Telecommunications permit Sec. 104-5 R R-PH D-PH
Text amendment
(comprehensive plan or UDO) Sec. 104-5 R R-PH D-PH
Zoning map amendment
(rezoning) Sec. 104-5 R R-PH D-PH
  Note:
1 Sketch plans not requiring rezoning or special use permit approval can be approved by the Community Development Director as part of the preliminary plat review process. Whereas sketch plans submitted as part of a required rezoning will be reviewed as part of that rezoning.
2 Rezonings to or within the PRD district require an approved concept plan and architectural renderings of proposed buildings reviewed first by the Architectural Review Board, before the application is submitted to the Planning and Zoning Board.
(c)
The following table summarizes the review and approval authority of various review bodies involved in Quasi-Judicial reviews, for each associated approval processes.
Figure 104-3(c) Quasi-Judicial Action Approval Processes
EXPAND
Approval Process
KEY:
R = Review &
Recommendation
D = Final Decision
A = Appeal
PH = Public Hearing
PM = Public Meeting
Cross-reference
Review and Approval Authority
UDO Administrator
Architectural Review Board
Historic Preservation Commission
Tree Preservation Board
Zoning Board of Appeals
Planning and Zoning Board
Mayor and City Council
Design Review
Minor Design Plan* Sec. 104-6D D
Major Design Plan* Sec. 104-6D R D
Final major subdivision plat approval Sec. 403-8 R D-PH
Major Design Plan in
Local Historic District Sec. 104-6E R D
Historic Review—Cert.
of Appropriateness in
National Historic District Sec. 104-6F R D
Historic Review—Cert.
of Appropriateness in
Local Historic District Sec. 104-6E R D
Demolition permit in
national historic district Sec. 104-5 R R D-PH
Demolition permit in
local historic district Sec. 104-5 R R D-PH
Variances, Exceptions, and Appeals
Variance Sec. 104-6K R D-PH
Appeals of Administrative Decision other than Tree Removal Sec. 104-6C R A
Appeal of Administrative Decision regarding Tree Removal Sec. 104-6C R A
Appeals of decisions by the ARB, HPC, or TPB Sec. 104-6C R A
Stream buffer variance Sec. 104-5 R D-PH
  (d)
Permits that may be approved by a UDO Administrator through the administrative review process fall under three different review sub-categories: building review by the city Building Official, engineering review by the City Engineer, and zoning review by the Zoning Administrator. The following table summarizes the different administrative permits that may be granted under this UDO and which UDO Administrator review them.
Figure 104-3(d) Administrative Action Processes
EXPAND
Approval Process
Cross-reference
Review and Approval Authority
Building Official
City Engineer
Zoning Administrator
Administrative Variance Sec. 104-7A ■ ■
Building Permit 1 Sec. 104-7B ■ ■
Certificate of Appropriateness Sec. 104-7C ■
Certificate of Completion Sec. 104-7D ■
Certificate of Occupancy Sec. 104-7E ■
Change of Occupancy certificate Sec. 104-7F ■
Commercial Filming Permit Sec. 104-7G ■
Demolition Permit 2 Sec. 104-7H ■ ■ 3
Development Permit Sec. 104-7I ■ ■ ■
Exemption Plat Sec. 403-10 ■ ■ ■
Land Disturbance Permit Sec. 104-7J ■ ■
Plat Amendments ■ ■ ■
Preliminary Plat Sec. 403-5 ■ ■
Parking Waiver Sec. 104-7K ■
Sign Permits 4 Sec. 104-7L ■ ■
Temporary Outdoor Activities Permit Sec. 104-7M ■ ■ ■
Temporary Outdoor Retail Display Permit Sec. 104-7N ■ ■ ■
Trade Permits, both commercial and residential 5 Sec. 104.7P ■
Tree Removal, both commercial and residential Sec. 104-7O ■ ■
Utility Permits Sec. 104-7Q ■
Zoning verification letter Sec. 104-7R ■
  Notes:
1 Building Permits fall under the following categories: Single- family townhome; Single-family Detached Home; Duplex; Residential 4-plex; Condominium; New commercial construction; Residential remodel; and Residential Storage
2 Demolition Permits fall under the following categories: Residential demolition outside of the historic district; Residential demolition inside the historic district; Residential interior or limited demolition; Commercial interior or limited demolition; and Commercial demolition removal of entire building or section
3 Zoning Administrator reviews demolition permits inside the historic district only
4 Sign Permits fall under the following categories: Temporary sign; New monument sign; Building sign
5 Trade permits are first classified as being either residential or commercial, and then may be for electrical repairs and upgrades, gas line repairs and upgrades, HVAC repairs and upgrades, low voltage repairs and upgrades, plumbing repairs and upgrades, or re-roof
(Ord. No. 08-2019 , § I, 6-3-2019; Ord. No. 08-2022 , § I, 8-1-2022)
Sec. 104-4. - Common review provisions.
(a)
Applicability. The following requirements are common to the procedures in this article and apply to most applications submitted under its provisions. Applications seeking amendments to the zoning ordinance governed by O.C.G.A. § 36-66-4(h) et seq. shall be sought and noticed according to the provisions set forth therein. Notwithstanding the requirements under O.C.G.A. § 36-66-4(h), the general procedures for all applications have six common elements: the procedures for all applications have six common elements:
(1)
Pre-application inquiry or conference.
(2)
Submittal of a complete application, including fee payments and appropriate information and studies;
(3)
Review of the submittal by appropriate staff, commissions, and boards after proper public notice has been made, if necessary;
(4)
A decision is made to approve, approve with conditions, or deny together with a description of the actions authorized and the time period for exercising those development rights;
(5)
If necessary, amending or appealing the decision; and
(6)
Recording the decision.
(b)
Common application requirements.
(1)
Pre-application inquiry or conference.
a.
When an applicant desires to undertake a development project or make improvement to their property, they make inquiries to the Community Development Department about the approval process. Based on the nature of the proposal, staff either schedules a pre-application conference or provides the applicant with the proper forms for the appropriate review. Most application requests are handled under administrative review, and the applicant will likely just work with city staff during the review process.
b.
Any application requiring a legislative or quasi-judicial review process or that involves site or building plan approval will require a pre-application conference before submittal, and presentation of a sketch plan or concept plan illustrating the basic site layout and building configuration for the proposal. See concept plans standards in article V of this chapter.
c.
At the pre-application conference, the applicant will be informed of a preliminary determination of which review authorities will examine the application. Each application is unique and special circumstances may come to light later over the course of processing the application that will require the involvement of additional review authorities, see figure 104-3(d) for an overview of roles each review authority has in the application review process. Following are some basic rules as to how applications are routed to the appropriate authorities.
1.
If the property owner desires to undertake a development proposal involving a rezoning that is not consistent with the comprehensive plan future development map, a comprehensive plan amendment must first be approved through legislative review.
2.
If the application is for a project that qualifies as a development of regional impact (DRI) and is the first request for city action or is a revision to a previous DRI the proposal must be transmitted to the Atlanta Regional Commission for review, refer to subsection 104-4(d), developments of regional impact for details and procedures.
3.
If the subject property in the application is not appropriately zoned, improvements to uses on the property are limited by the grandfathered use provisions of the UDO (see section 206-1) or a request for rezoning or approval of a special use must be approved prior to development or construction through legislative review.
4.
If the applicant is seeking a certificate of appropriateness for a subject property within the historic district, or the possible removal or demolition of an historic structure, then the Architectural Review Board or Historic Preservation Commission will review the application, depending on the location of the property and the designated historic district is it located.
5.
If the applicant is seeking a variance from the tree preservation provisions of this UDO or wishes to appeal an administrative decision concerning the removal of trees, then the Tree Preservation Board will review the application.
6.
If the approval of the application will result in an alteration to an existing building façade, the installation of solar panels, or involves the construction of new buildings, then the Architectural Review Board will review the application.
7.
If the application is for an appeal of an administrative decision, then the application will need to be routed for quasi-judicial review.
(2)
Application submittal.
a.
All applications must be filed with the Community Development Department and must be submitted on forms and in such numbers as required by the Community Development Director.
b.
Application forms can be obtained from the Community Development Department offices and on the city website, and each form lists the information that must be submitted with the application.
c.
Fees
1.
Application fees have been established by the Mayor and City Council and are listed on an official fee schedule kept on file by the Community Development Department and available on the city website.
2.
Before review of an application, all application fees must be paid in full.
d.
Completeness determination.
1.
All applications must be complete before they can be filed and processed by the city.
2.
An application is considered complete when it contains all of the information necessary to decide whether or not the application will comply with all of the applicable requirements of the UDO.
3.
The presumption is that all the information listed as required on the city's application forms is necessary to satisfy the requirements of this UDO. However, it is recognized that each application is unique, and more or revised information may be required according to the specifics of an application. The applicant may rely on the Community Development Director to determine whether more or revised information must be submitted after application intake.
4.
No application will be considered complete if it fails to meet the requirements of subsection 104-5(d), lapse of time requirement for reapplication and will not be accepted.
(3)
Application intake and initial administrative review.
a.
Complete applications must be submitted in accordance with the published application schedule. Application schedules indicating submittal dates are developed each year and made available on-line on the city's website and to the public at the Community Development offices.
b.
In reviewing an application, the UDO Administrator may determine that some of the application materials need to be revised or additional information is needed to determine if the application is in compliance with city land use policies and the provisions of the UDO and will inform the applicant of these additional application requirements.
c.
Once an application has been filed, the UDO Administrator will assign a case number and review the application and attached information and determine what review authorities will initially examine it. The UDO Administrator will confirm with the applicant the proposed schedule for related upcoming meetings and hearings. Refer to the appropriate sections of this article for procedures pertinent to each type of application.
(4)
Revised application materials.
a.
All revised application materials must be submitted to the Community Development Department which will route the materials to the appropriate review bodies.
b.
No revised plans may be sent directly to any of the boards or commission described in article III of this chapter, or the Mayor or City Council by an applicant.
c.
No revised application materials, either hard copy or electronic, may be submitted to the Community Development Department less than 12 days prior to a scheduled public meeting or public hearing.
(5)
Withdrawal of an application.
a.
Any application may be withdrawn at any time at the discretion of the applicant by providing written notice to the Community Development Director.
b.
No portion of a required application fee will be refunded on any application withdrawn.
c.
For applications for legislative review, if a public hearing has been held by the Mayor and City Council, the withdrawn application will be announced at the hearing, and the application is subject to a refiling delay, as required in subsection 104-6(d), lapse of time requirement for reapplication.
d.
For applications for legislative review, if a public hearing has not been held by the Mayor and City Council, the withdrawn application is not subject to the refiling delay in subsection 104-5(d) Lapse of Time Requirement for Reapplication. But an application for Legislative Review affecting the same or any portion of property may not be refiled, except upon initiation of Mayor and City Council, for a period of at least 180 calendar days.
(6)
Notice.
a.
Within five business days after a decision is made, a copy of the decision must be sent to the applicant by the Community Development Director. In the case of permit issuance, the permit constitutes written notice of the decision.
b.
A record of the action taken on each application will be kept on file in the offices of the Community Development Department and each record of action is a matter of public record.
(c)
Public notice requirements.
(1)
The notice requirements for each type of application are prescribed in the individual subsections of this article.
(2)
When a public notice of a hearing is required, the fact that the notice is not received due to an error that was not the fault of the city does not prevent the public hearing from happening, change any decision made at the public hearing, or prevent the application from continuing to move forward through the review process.
(3)
There are three basic types of public notice:
a.
Published notice. Where published notice is required, notice of the public hearing must be published by the Community Development Director at least once in a newspaper of general circulation within the city at least 15 calendar days, but not more than 45 calendar days, prior to the date of the public hearing, or meeting.
b.
Mailed notice. Where a mailed notice is required, the city will notify by United States mail all owners of property included in the proposed application and all owners of abutting properties unless otherwise required elsewhere in the UDO, as shown on the county tax records. Notice must be mailed at least 15 calendar days, but not more than 45 calendar days, prior to the date of the public hearing or meeting.
c.
Posted notice (signage). Where posted notice is required, a sign must be placed in a conspicuous location on the property. In the case of multiple parcels, sufficient signs must be posted to provide reasonable notice to interested persons. Signs must be posted by the Community Development Department as per specifications approved by the City Council at least 15 calendar days prior to the date of the public hearing, or meeting, and will be removed by the Community Development Department within three days of the date of final action by the City Council. By filing an application for a review process that requires placement of a sign, the property owner and applicant are deemed to have given the Community Development Department license to enter onto the subject properties for the placement, replacement, maintenance and removal of all necessary signs.
(4)
Content of Notice. Required notice of a public hearing must provide at least the following:
a.
A case number;
b.
The address of the subject property (if available);
c.
The general location of the land that is subject of the application, which may include a location map;
d.
A description of the action requested and the purpose of the hearing or meeting;
e.
In the case of a proposed zoning map amendment (rezoning), the present zoning classification of the subject property and the proposed zoning classification of the subject property;
f.
The time, date and place of the public hearing or meeting; and
g.
A phone number to contact the Community Development Department.
(5)
The notice requirements for certain types of public hearings are established in the table 104-4(c).
Table 104-4(c)
EXPAND
Type of Public Hearing Published Mail Posted (Sign)
Amendments to the Comprehensive Plan
or the text of the UDO Yes No No
Appeals of an administrative decision 1 Yes No No
Building Permit or Land Disturbance
Permit No No No
Commercial Filming Permit 2 No No Yes
Final Plat, Major No No No
Rezoning < 25 Parcels Yes No Yes
Rezoning 25 or More Parcels Yes No Yes
Special Use Permit Yes No Yes
Stream Buffer Variance Yes No Yes
Historic Structure Removal or
Demolition 3 Yes Yes Yes
Zoning Variance Yes No Yes
  Notes:
1. Includes Board of Appeals hearings.
2. Commercial filming permit - A minimum notice of three days must be delivered to all businesses and residences in the within 300 feet of the subject property boundary of the proposed filming site. The notice may be given by mobile illuminated signs, leaflets, mailed notice, by temporary signage in the public right-of-way or any other means designed to effectuate the notice requirements of this subsection. The method of giving such notice shall be subject to the approval of the Community Development Director.
3. Includes Architectural Review Board and/or Historic Preservation Commission hearings, if appropriate.
(d)
Developments of regional impact.
(1)
Types of approvals covered. The provisions of this section apply to any type of governmental action requested by a private party related to a development project, such as a rezoning or special use approval, special exception or variance approval, and issuance of a permit.
(2)
Thresholds for regional review. Any development project for which any governmental action is requested that meets or exceeds any of the thresholds established by the Atlanta Regional Commission (ARC), as determined by the Community Development Director, shall be considered a Development of Regional Impact (DRI).
(3)
Process for DRI review.
a.
First request for project approval.
1.
Upon receipt by any City department of the first application for governmental action that meets or exceeds the thresholds for a development of regional impact (DRI), no further processing of the application shall proceed until the DRI process is completed. Such applicant is to be referred to the Community Development Director.
2.
The applicant will be notified by the Community Development Director that the project meets or exceeds the DRI thresholds and will be required to submit additional information about the project using forms available from the Georgia Department of Community Affairs (DCA).
3.
The Community Development Director, on behalf of the applicant, will submit an "initial DRI information" form simultaneously to the Atlanta Regional Commission (ARC), DCA and the State Road and Toll Authority (SRTA) or its successors responsible for regional transportation.
4.
Upon notification from ARC that the project is in fact a DRI, a pre-application conference will be scheduled by ARC. Attendance at the conference by the applicant or the applicant's representative is mandatory.
5.
The applicant shall submit to the Community Development Director such additional information as determined at the pre-review meeting. The Community Development will then submit such additional information along with the "DRI review initiation request" to ARC and GRTA, along with a "GRTA DRI review package" in accordance with the technical guidelines adopted by GRTA, to begin the formal review process. Additional information may be required of the applicant if ARC or GRTA determine that the DRI review request is incomplete.
6.
Coordination and resolution.
i.
If ARC determines that adverse interjurisdictional impacts, conflicts or other impacts on a Regionally Important Resource (as identified by DCA) will result from the project, the applicant shall participate in discussions with ARC to resolve such issues. Actions or conflicts related to DRIs are subject to mediation under the Georgia Planning Act (O.C.G.A. § 50-8-7.1(d)).
ii.
If GRTA determines that the project does not comply with GRTA's criteria for DRI review, the applicant shall cooperate with GRTA in the resolution of such determination, which may include GRTA's formal process for appeals.
7.
All DRIs shall proceed through review in accordance with the rules and regulations for developments of regional impact adopted by the Georgia Department of Community Affairs, and the procedures and principles for DRI review adopted by the Georgia Regional Transportation Authority. Nothing in this Code shall be deemed to have modified such rules and procedures in any way.
b.
Subsequent requests for project approval. Once the development project has been reviewed by ARC and GRTA and the first governmental action has been granted, no further reviews by ARC or GRTA of subsequent governmental actions need to be reviewed by ARC and GRTA unless the project is significantly or materially revised.
c.
Final action by the city.
1.
Approval of the first request for governmental action by the city shall not be made on a Development of Regional Impact until final determinations by ARC and GRTA have been received by the city.
2.
Upon completion of the DRI process and receipt by the city of final determinations by ARC and GRTA, processing of the application for governmental action may proceed. Such findings by ARC and GRTA shall accompany the application and action shall be required by the City Council following the adopted procedural provisions of DCA and GRTA regarding DRI reviews prior to approval of such application.
(Ord. No. 08-2019 , § I, 6-3-2019; Ord. No. 14-2019 , 11-4-2019; Ord. No. 08-2022 , § I, 8-1-2022)
Sec. 104-5. - Legislative review.
(a)
Applicability. The following requirements apply to processing of all applications that are subject to legislative review and action by the Mayor and City Council. These applications include, but are not limited to, requests for the following:
(1)
Text amendment. A request to amend the text of this UDO or to amend the text or maps of the comprehensive plan.
(2)
Zoning map amendments (rezonings). A request to amend the official zoning map from one zoning district to another, or to change the boundaries of an existing zoning district.
(3)
Concurrent variance. A concurrent request for a variance with a zoning map amendment as defined in O.C.G.A. § 36-66-3(4)(F).
(4)
Special exceptions and special use permits. A request to approve a use, site configuration, or construction method that is not currently covered by the provisions of the UDO and cannot be remedied by the granting of a special use permit or variance.
(5)
Annexations. A request by a property owner to the City Council to have the property annexed into the city limits and rezoned to a zoning classification comparable to the zoning district of the property in unincorporated county.
(6)
Concept plan approval. A concurrent request for the review and approval of the concept plan as a part of the subdivision process when submitted with a rezoning application.
(7)
Planned development approval. A request for review and approval by the Architectural Review Board, Planning and Zoning Board and Mayor and City Council for a development utilizing the planned development process through a concurrent request for rezoning to the PRD district.
(8)
Telecommunications permit. A request for review and approval by the Mayor and City Council for a telecommunications permit.
(b)
Initiation of a legislative review. Legislative review applications may be initiated (1) by resolution of the Mayor and City Council; (2) by motion of the Planning and Zoning Board; or (3) by petition of any property owner addressed to the Mayor and City Council by means of application. In the case of a petition of any property owner, such petition shall be submitted by the owner of record of said property, the owner's agent or by a contract purchaser with the owner's written consent.
(c)
Legislative review application requirements.
(1)
Before submitting a legislative review application, the applicant must schedule a pre-application conference with the Zoning Administrator to discuss the procedures, standards and regulations required for approval.
(2)
The Zoning Administrator will maintain a record of the pre-application conference to document the time and date of the conference, contact information of the applicant, a list of those in attendance, a summary of the request, and any information provided to the applicant.
(3)
Following the pre-application conference, the applicant may submit a complete application form and proposed site plan, along with the required fees to the Community Development Department.
(4)
General submittal requirements for all applications are listed in section 104-4.
(5)
Plans and Other Documents Showing Proposed Use and Impact Required.
a.
Concept plan. An application for an amendment to the official zoning map shall be accompanied by a concept plan at scale and such other surveys, plans, elevations or additional information as the Community Development Director and this UDO may require, showing the proposed development and its impact on natural and built systems. Additional information deemed necessary by the Community Development Director to evaluate a proposed use and its relationship to the surrounding area shall be submitted on the plans, including but not limited to square footage of the structure, number of parking spaces, days of operation, and number of employees. The information required to be shown on a concept plan is described in article V, section 105-2.
b.
Additional studies may also be required by the Community Development Director if it is determined that the proposed development may have significant impact on the surrounding community, such studies may include without limitation traffic studies, lighting plans, environmental analyses, utility studies, and drainage studies.
c.
Other required information. The following information must be included:
1.
A description of the extent to which the property value of the subject property is diminished by the existing zoning district classification;
2.
The existing value of the property contained in the application for rezoning under the existing zoning classification;
3.
The value of the property contained in the application for rezoning under the proposed zoning classification;
4.
A description of any existing use of the property, including a description of all structures presently occupying the property;
5.
The length of time the property has been vacant or unused as currently zoned; and
6.
A detailed description of all efforts taken by the property owners to use the property or sell the property under the existing zoning classification.
(6)
Standards analysis: If a proposed amendment is for the rezoning of property or is for a comprehensive plan amendment, then a standards analysis must be conducted in which:
a.
The applicant is required to file, with its application for amendment, a written, documented analysis of the impact of the proposed amendment with respect to each of the standards enumerated in section 103-11. Such a proposal and analysis shall be a public record.
b.
The Community Development Department shall, with respect to each such proposal, investigate and make a recommendation with respect to each of the standards enumerated in section 103-11. The Community Development Department shall make a written record of its investigation and recommendations, and this record shall be a public record.
(7)
Additional information required of concurrent variance applications:
a.
An applicant of a Concurrent Variance must prove to the Mayor and City Council that the proposed development will not be contrary to the public interest, where owing to special conditions, a literal enforcement of the UDO will, in an individual case, result in unnecessary hardship, so that the spirit of the UDO shall be observed, public safety and welfare secured, and substantial justice done. The applicant is required to file, with its application for amendment, a written, documented analysis of the impact of the proposed variance with respect to each of the standards enumerated in subsection 103-11(d) as applicable. Such a proposal and analysis shall be a public record.
(8)
Withdrawal of application.
a.
Once a legislative review application has been made, the applicant may withdraw such application without prejudice only within ten days of the first public hearing ("official withdrawal deadline").
b.
An application may not be withdrawn by an applicant or property owner under any circumstance after the official withdrawal deadline. Once past the official withdrawal deadline, all applications shall be considered by the Mayor and City Council or Zoning Board of Appeals, as appropriate, and shall receive final action.
(d)
Lapse of time requirement for reapplication. No application or reapplication for any zoning map amendment affecting the same land or any portion thereof shall be acted upon or otherwise considered by the city within 12 months from the date of last action by the Mayor and City Council that defeated a previous rezoning application unless such 12-month period is waived by the Mayor and City Council, and in no case may such an application or reapplication be considered in less than six months from the date of last action by the Mayor and City Council that defeated a previous rezoning application.
(e)
Legislative review public hearing requirements.
(1)
Legislative review first requires a public hearing in front of the Planning and Zoning Board, then a public hearing before the Mayor and City Council. Notice requirements for public hearings are specified in section 104-4.
(2)
Each public hearing will be conducted in accordance with the Georgia Open Meetings Law (O.C.G.A. § 50-14-1 et seq.) and O.C.G.A. § 36-66-1 et seq. At all hearings on proposed zoning decisions, the presiding officer shall allow a minimum of 10 minutes for the presentation of data, evidence, and opinion by proponents of each zoning decision, and a minimum of 10 minutes for the presentation of data, evidence, and opinion by opponents of each proposed zoning decision.
(3)
In cases involving extraordinary economic development opportunities for the community, the Mayor and City Council may pass a motion to hold a joint public hearing with the Planning and Zoning Board and any other required review boards or committees to expedite the review process.
(4)
Applications for amendments to the zoning ordinance governed by O.C.G.A. § 36-66-4(h) et seq. shall be noticed and public hearings held as required by applicable law.
(f)
Required planning and zoning board review.
(1)
No amendment to the UDO (including the official zoning map) or to the comprehensive plan text or map shall become effective unless it has been proposed by or first been submitted to the Planning and Zoning Board for review and recommendation.
(2)
If the Planning and Zoning Board fails to submit a report to the City Council within 30 days of its first meeting after it has received an amendment request complete in all respects, it shall be deemed to have given a recommendation of "no comment" on the proposed amendment. However, the Planning and Zoning Board and the applicant for an amendment may jointly agree to an extension of the 30-day period.
(3)
The Planning and Zoning Board shall, with respect to each request for a text amendment or rezoning, will investigate and make a recommendation with respect to each of the standards enumerated in subsection 103-11 (a), (b) or (c), as applicable. The Planning and Zoning Board shall make a written record of its investigation and recommendations, and this record shall be a public record.
(g)
Rules of procedure; meetings; minutes, records for public hearings. The Planning and Zoning Board and the Mayor and City Council will utilize the policies and rules of procedure to govern the calling and conducting their hearings as described in article III, section 103-3.
(h)
Limitation on permits related to zoning map amendments. Once a zoning map amendment is initiated by the Mayor and City Council, no application for a clearing, grubbing, grading, septic tank, building, development or other similar permit, and no application for a variance or special use permit for the affected property shall be accepted for processing or acted upon until final action is taken by the Mayor and City Council on the proposed map amendment. Provided, however, that if the Mayor and City Council do not take final action on the proposed map amendment within six months from the date of initiation, such other additional applications shall again be accepted and reviewed pursuant to existing zoning. And, further provided that such other additional applications shall be accepted during the map amendment process if the use or activity in the other additional application is authorized under the same conditions in both the existing and proposed zoning district.
(i)
Consistency with comprehensive plan character areas. Any applicant seeking to rezone property to a classification that is inconsistent with the adopted comprehensive plan must first obtain approval of an amendment to the comprehensive plan from the Mayor and City Council. The comprehensive plan shall be routinely reviewed and possibly amended according to a set schedule approved by the Mayor and City Council. However, exceptions may be granted by the Mayor and City Council in between the regular review cycle in cases of demonstrated hardship, or in cases of developments that may provide extraordinary benefits to the community. Requests for exceptions shall be subject to approval by Mayor and City Council during a Mayor and City Council meeting.
(j)
Standards governing legislative review. See article III, section 103-11 for the standards governing legislative review.
(k)
Annexations initiated by petition of the property owner.
(1)
Pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 36-66-4(d), the city will process an annexation request in conjunction with a rezoning request and will complete all rezoning procedures before taking action on the annexation except for the final vote, including zoning hearing prior to adoption of the annexation.
(2)
The rezoning request will not begin until after the city has given notice to the county of the proposed annexation and all other notices as required by state law.
(3)
The rezoning request will be for a use consistent or less intense than that granted to the property by the county.
(4)
The rezoning of an annexed parcel will remain in effect for at least one year after the effective date of the annexation. No rezoning request for the annexed property will be accepted during this period.
(l)
Change in conditions of an approved rezoning. Requests to change the conditions of an approved rezoning shall be subject to the same application, review and approval process as a new application, including the payment of relevant fees.
(m)
Actions to be taken if plans are not implemented within specified time limits.
(1)
For any zoning map amendment for which the Mayor and City Council or the Planning and Zoning Board is not the applicant, and upon which property no development permit, building permit, or certificate of occupancy has been issued within 12 months of the date of approval of said amendment, the Mayor and City Council may review the zoning district classification of the property or special use permit and determine whether it shall be continued or initiated for rezoning.
(2)
Such properties shall first be reviewed by the Planning and Zoning Board, which shall make such findings and recommendations to the Mayor and City Council as it deems appropriate, and the final decision on a rezoning shall be made by Mayor and City Council.
(3)
The procedure to be followed for the rezoning of such properties described in this subsection shall be the same as other rezoning initiated by the Planning and Zoning Board or the Mayor and City Council, and notice of such application, shall be given to the property owner of record and to the applicant of the original rezoning.
(n)
Limitation on accepting applications after a denied decision. Except as otherwise provided in the UDO, no application for legislative review affecting the same or any portion of property that was denied by the City Council will be accepted for filing within 12 months of the date the application was denied.
(o)
Planned development approval. Proposed developments in the PRD district go through a three-fold review process with architectural renderings to be presented first to the ARB, then on to P&Z, and finally to the M&CC for approval. Sketch plans must meet the requirements of section 105-2.
(p)
Special exceptions requiring UDO amendment. The approval of a special exception application by the Mayor and City Council will require a text amendment to the UDO that may be heard at the same time as the special exception hearing or within six months of the approval, after study and consideration by city officials.
(Ord. No. 08-2019 , § I, 6-3-2019; Ord. No. 08-2022 , § I, 8-1-2022)
Sec. 104-6. - Quasi-judicial review.
modified
(a)
Applicability. The following requirements apply to all applications that are subject to a quasi-judicial review, including appeals of decisions made by the Community Development Director, decisions on special use permits, or the seeking of variances from the provisions of the UDO. These include appeals and variance requests made to the Zoning Board of Appeals, and the Tree Preservation Board, referred to in this section as Appellate Boards, requests for special use permits made to the City Council, and certificates of appropriateness made to the HPC and ARB.
(b)
Burden of proof in appeals and variances.
(1)
Requirements. It shall be the responsibility of an applicant seeking an appeal or a variance to present facts and evidence to explain how the proposed appeal or variance is consistent with the general spirit and intent of the applicable code, and how the request conforms to the standards of review in the UDO.
(2)
Review. It is the duty of the appellate board to review such facts and evidence in light of the general spirit and intent of pertinent code to balance the public health, safety, morality, aesthetics, and general welfare against the injury to a specific applicant that would result from the strict application of the provisions of the code on the applicant's property, and to determine whether the request conforms to the standards of the review in the UDO.
(c)
Appeals to an Appellate Board.
(1)
Appeals to an appellate board may be taken by any person aggrieved or adversely affected, or by any official of the city affected by any decision of the Community Development Director.
a.
Such appeal shall be taken within 30 days after the decision appealed from by filing with the Community Development Director and with the City Clerk a notice of appeal specifying the grounds thereof.
b.
The Director shall forthwith transmit to the appropriate appellate board all the papers constituting the record upon which the action appealed from was taken.
(2)
An appeal shall stay all proceedings in furtherance of the action appealed from unless the Community Development Director certifies to the appellate board that, by reason of facts stated in the certificate, a stay would, in their opinion, cause imminent peril to life or property. In such a case, proceedings shall not be stayed other than by the appellate board or by a restraining order granted by a court of record on application and notice to the Community Development Director for good cause shown.
(3)
The appellate board shall meet upon notice from the chairperson, within ten business days of the filing of an appeal. Failure to hold a hearing related to any appeal within ten days of filing of the appeal shall result in a de facto approval of the applicant's appeal request at the next regularly scheduled appellate board meeting.
(d)
Standards for design review and certificates of appropriateness.
(1)
The City of Norcross Architectural and Site Design Standards, or as amended, incorporates the standards used by the Community Development Department, the ARB and the HPC in in reviewing site or construction plans for issuance of a certificate of appropriateness.
(e)
Process for obtaining a certificate of appropriateness in the local historic district.
(1)
Approval of material change in appearance in historic districts or involving historic properties. After the designation by ordinance of a historic property of a historic district, no material change in the appearance of such historic property, or of a contributing or non-contributing building, structure, site or object within such historic district, shall be made or be permitted to be made by the owner or occupant thereof, unless or until the application for a certificate of appropriateness has been submitted to and approved by the HPC. A building permit shall not be issued without a certificate of appropriateness. The HPC shall not approve applications for demolition without reviewing at the same time post-demolition plans. The HPC shall have exclusive jurisdiction to issue or to deny an application for a certificate of appropriateness within the historic district and over any designated historic property. The ARB shall not have any jurisdiction within the local historic district.
(2)
Submission of plans to HPC. An application for a certificate of appropriateness shall be accompanied by such drawings, photographs, plans and documentation as may be required by the HPC. The Historic Preservation HPC shall not require that the plans and specifications be prepared by professionals, but only that such documentation be prepared in such a way as to be easily understood by the HPC members.
(3)
Interior alterations. In its review of applications for certificates of appropriateness, the HPC shall not consider interior arrangement or use having no effect on exterior architectural features.
(4)
Technical advice. The HPC shall have the power to seek technical advice from outside its members on any application.
(5)
Public hearings on applications for certificates of appropriateness, notices, and right to be heard. The HPC shall hold a public hearing at which each proposed certificate of appropriateness is discussed. Notice of the hearing shall be published in the principal newspaper of local circulation in the city and written notice of the hearing shall be mailed by the HPC to all owners and occupants of the subject property. The written and published notice shall be provided in the same manner and time frame as notices are provided before a public hearing for rezoning.
The HPC shall give the property owner and/or applicant an opportunity to be heard at the certificate of appropriateness hearing.
(6)
Acceptable HPC reaction to applications for certificate of appropriateness. HPC action. The HPC may approve the certificate of appropriateness as proposed, approve the certificate of appropriateness with any modifications it deems necessary, or reject it.
a.
The HPC shall approve the application and issue a certificate of appropriateness if it finds that the proposed material change(s) in the appearance would not have a substantial adverse effect on the aesthetic, historic, or architectural significance and value of the historic property or the historic district. In making this determination, the HPC shall consider, in addition to any other pertinent factors, the following criteria for each of the following acts:
1.
Reconstruction, alteration, new construction or renovation. The HPC shall issue certificates of appropriateness for the above proposed actions if those actions conform in design, scale, building materials, setback and site features, and to the Secretary of Interior's standards for rehabilitation and guidelines for rehabilitating historic buildings.
2.
Relocation. A decision by the HPC approving or denying a certificate of appropriateness for the relocation of a building, structure, or object shall be guided by:
i.
The historic character and aesthetic interest the building, structure or object contributes to its present setting.
ii.
Whether there are definite plans for the area to be vacated and what the effect of those plans on the character of the surrounding area will be.
iii.
Whether the building, structure or object can be moved without significant damage to its physical integrity.
iv.
Whether the proposed relocation area is compatible with the historical and architectural character of the building, structure, site or object.
3.
Demolition. A decision by the HPC approving or denying a certificate of appropriateness for the demolition of buildings, structures, sites, judged to be 50 years old or older, or objects shall be guided by:
i.
The historic, scenic or architectural significance of the building, structure, site, or object.
ii.
The importance of the building, structure, site, or object to the ambiance of a district.
iii.
The difficulty or the impossibility of reproducing such a building, structure, site, object because of its design, texture, material, detail, or unique location.
iv.
Whether the building, structure, site, object is one of the last remaining examples of its kind in the neighborhood or the city.
v.
Whether there are definite plans for use of the property if the proposed demolition is carried out, and what the effect of those plans on the character of the surrounding area would be.
vi.
Whether reasonable measures can be taken to save the building, structure, site, or object from collapse.
vii.
Whether the building, structure, site, or object is capable of earning reasonable economic return on its value.
(7)
Undue hardship. When, by reason of unusual circumstances, the strict application of any provision of this chapter would result in the exceptional practical difficulty or undue economic hardship upon any owner of a specific property, the HPC, in passing upon applications, shall have the power to vary or modify strict provisions, so as to relieve such difficulty or hardship; provided such variances, modifications interpretations shall remain in harmony with the general purpose and intent of said provisions, so that the architectural or historical integrity, or character of the property, shall be conserved and substantial justice done. In granting variances, the HPC may impose such reasonable and additional stipulations and conditions as will, in its judgment, best fulfill the purpose of this chapter. An undue hardship shall not be a situation of the person's own making.
(8)
Deadline for approval or rejection of application for certificate of appropriateness.
a.
The HPC shall approve or reject an application for a certificate of appropriateness within 45 days after the filing thereof by the owner or occupant of a historic property, or of a building structure, site, or object located within a historic district. Evidence of approval shall be by a certificate of appropriateness issued by the HPC. Notice of the issuance or denial of a certificate of appropriateness shall be sent by United States mail to the applicant and all other persons who have requested such notice in writing filed with the HPC.
b.
Failure of the HPC to act within said 45 days shall constitute approval, and no other evidence of approval shall be needed.
(9)
Necessary action to be taken by HPC upon rejection of application for certificate of appropriateness.
a.
In the event the HPC rejects an application, it shall state its reasons for doing so, and shall transmit a record of such actions and reasons, in writing, to the applicant. The HPC may suggest alternative courses of action it thinks proper if it disapproves of the application submitted. The applicant, if he or she so desires, may make modifications to the plans and may resubmit the application at any time after doing so.
b.
In cases where the application covers a material change in the appearance of a structure which would require the issuance of a building permit, the rejection of the application for a certificate of appropriateness by the HPC shall be binding upon the building inspector or other administrative officer charged with issuing building permits and, in such a case, no building permit shall be issued.
(10)
Requirement of conformance with certificate of appropriateness.
a.
All work performed pursuant to an issued certificate of appropriateness shall conform to the requirements of such certificate. In the event work is performed not in accordance with such certificate, the HPC shall issue a cease and desist order and all work shall cease.
b.
The HPC and the Norcross City Council shall be authorized to institute any appropriate action or proceeding in a court of competent jurisdiction to prevent any material change in appearance of a designated historic property or historic district, except those changes made in compliance with the provisions of this chapter or to prevent any illegal act or conduct with respect to such historic property or historic district.
(11)
Certificate of appropriateness void if construction not commenced. A certificate of appropriateness shall become void unless construction is commenced, or progress is made toward construction, within six months of date of issuance. A certificate of appropriateness shall be issued for a period of 12 months and is renewable.
(12)
Recording an application for certificate of appropriateness. The HPC shall keep a public record of all applications for certificates of appropriateness, and or all the HPC's proceedings in connection with said application.
(13)
Acquisition of property. The HPC may, where such action is authorized by the City Council and is reasonably necessary or appropriate for the preservation of a unique historic property, enter into negotiations with the owner for the acquisition by gift, purchase, exchange, or otherwise, to the property or any interest therein.
(f)
Process for obtaining a certificate of appropriateness outside the local historic district. The process for obtaining a certificate of appropriateness from the ARB is provided in the City of Norcross Architectural and Site Design Standards, or as amended.
(g)
Rules of procedure; meetings; minutes, records for a special use permit. The Planning and Zoning Board and the Mayor and City Council will utilize the policies and rules of procedure to govern the calling and conducting their hearings as described in article III, section 103-3.
(h)
Development of an approved special use permit.
(1)
The issuance of a special use permit shall only constitute approval of the proposed use, and development of the use shall not be carried out until the applicant has secured all other permits and approvals required. The Community Development Department shall not issue a certificate of occupancy for the specific use unless all requirements and conditions of the special use permit have been fulfilled by the owner of the property.
(2)
If an application is approved and a special use permit is granted, all conditions which may have been attached to the approval are binding on the property. All subsequent development and use of the property shall be in accordance with the approved plan and conditions. Once established, the special use shall be in continuous operation. Upon discovery that the operation of the special use has or had ceased for a period of 90 days or more and the owner of the property has not requested voluntary termination of the special use permit, the Community Development Director may forward a report to the Mayor and City Council through the Planning and Zoning Board which may recommend that action be taken to terminate the special use permit from the property.
(i)
Compliance with special use permit requirements.
(1)
The Community Development Director shall have the right to periodically examine the operation of the specific use to determine compliance with the requirements and any conditions of a special use permit.
(2)
If the Community Development Director determines that the requirements and conditions are being violated, a written notice shall be issued by hand-delivery, by electronic mail with delivery and read receipts requested to the owner's e-mail address of record, or by certified mail return receipt requested to the owner of the property outlining the nature of the violation and giving the owner of the property a maximum of ten days to come into compliance. If such notice is e-mailed or mailed to the owner, the notice shall be deemed to have been given upon the date of sending. The notice shall also state that the owner has the right to appeal the determination of the Community Development Director to the Zoning Board of Appeals.
(3)
If after ten days the violations continue to exist, the Community Development Director shall forward a report to the Mayor and City Council through the Planning and Zoning Board, which report may recommend that action be taken to remove or terminate the special use permit from the property, or to exercise all other rights of enforcement permitted by law. The Mayor and City Council may stay their proceedings on such a report from the Director pending resolution of any timely appeal to the Zoning Board of Appeals.
(j)
Special use permits in residential districts. An approved special use permit in a residential zoning district where the proposed special use is proposed to operate in a dwelling or as an accessory use to a dwelling is subject to the following additional requirements:
(1)
The special use permit shall be valid for no more than an initial two-year period. Upon or before the expiration of the special use permit, the owner shall make application to renew the special use permit if continuance is desired. As part of a special use permit renewal, the Mayor and City Council may waive any subsequent time limitation.
(2)
The special use shall operate within the dwelling on the property or, if approved by the Mayor and City Council, in an accessory structure.
(3)
The exterior character of the dwelling shall be preserved in its residential state and there shall be no outside evidence of the operation of the special use to the neighborhood, except for any accessory structure approved by the Mayor and City Council.
(4)
The owner of the property or business shall occupy the property and shall operate any business associated with the special use.
(k)
Variances to the Zoning Board of Appeals.
(1)
Authority. Unless otherwise provided for in the UDO, the ZBA shall have authority to grant variances from the requirements of the UDO, in accordance with the standards and procedures as set forth in this section.
(2)
Purpose. The purpose of a variance is to provide a mechanism when, owing to special conditions, the strict application of the UDO would impose on a landowner exceptional and undue hardship that can be mitigated without conferring on the applicant special privilege.
(3)
Initiation. A written petition for a variance is to be initiated by the owner(s) of the subject property or the authorized agent(s) of the owner(s) of the property for which relief is sought. Applications shall be filed on forms provided by the Community Development Department and shall not be considered accepted unless complete in every respect. Application fees shall be as established by the Mayor and City Council.
(4)
Application procedures. An application for a variance shall be filed with the Community Development Department, accompanied by a non-refundable fee, as established from time to time by the Mayor and City Council, to defray the actual cost of processing the application. The application shall be in such form and shall contain at a minimum the following information and documentation:
a.
Name, address, telephone number, fax number and email address of owner(s) and applicant, if not owner.
b.
Legal description, street address, lot number and subdivision name, if any, of the property that is the subject of the application.
c.
A survey, as completed by a surveyor registered in the state, accurately depicting the boundaries of the site.
d.
The size of the subject property.
e.
The purpose for the requested variance, and a statement of the intended development of the property if the variance is granted.
f.
The specific provision of the UDO from which a variance is requested.
g.
A statement explaining how the proposed variance is consistent with the general spirit and intent of the zoning ordinance and comprehensive plan.
h.
A statement addressing the applicable standards for a variance from subsection 103-11(d)
(5)
Staff report. The staff of the Community Development Department shall conduct a site inspection and shall prepare an analysis of each application for variance. The staff report shall be presented in written form to the Zoning Board prior to the scheduled hearing date.
(6)
Public hearing procedures and standards.
a.
Before the Zoning Board of Appeals acts upon an application for a Variance, it shall hold a public hearing under the procedures and standards of chapter 100, article III, review authority.
b.
The notice of the time and place of such hearing shall be published at least 30 days, but not more than 45 calendar days, prior to the hearing in a newspaper of general circulation within the territorial boundaries of the city. At the hearing any party may appear in person or by agent or attorney.
c.
In addition, the Community Development Department shall at least 30 days prior to the hearing erect in a conspicuous place on the property involved a sign which shall contain information as to the variance applied for and the time and place of hearing and all other information required by this UDO in addition to mailing a letter to the property owner of record for the property that is subject to the action under consideration.
(l)
Decisions of an appellate board.
(1)
All appeal hearings and decisions shall be made in a public meeting, as mandated under state law, and following the procedures, standards and provisions of chapter 100, article III, review authorities.
(2)
All decisions of an appellate board shall be furnished in writing to the applicant and to the Community Development Director within three days of a final action.
(3)
The Community Development Director shall take immediate action in accordance with the decision of the appellate board.
(Ord. No. 08-2019 , § I, 6-3-2019; Ord. No. 08-2022 , § I, 8-1-2022; Ord. No. 07-2023 , § I, 8-7-2023)
Sec. 104-7. - Administrative review.
The following requirements apply to all applications that can be approved by a UDO administrator. Unless specified elsewhere in this section, the procedures for initiation, application, and review of an administrative review are included in the provisions of subsection 104-4(b), common application requirements.
(a)
Administrative variances.
(1)
Power to grant administrative variances. The Director shall have the power to grant administrative variances (except for density and use variances) from the development standards as established in the UDO where, in his/her opinion, the intent of the UDO can be achieved, and equal performance obtained by granting an administrative variance.
(2)
Limitations on administrative variances. The authority to grant administrative variances shall be limited to variances from the following requirements:
a.
Front yard or yard adjacent to public street—variance not to exceed ten feet.
b.
Side yard—variance not to exceed five feet.
c.
Rear yard—variance not to exceed ten feet.
d.
Accessory structure placement for lots without a rear yard.
e.
Height—variance up to but not exceeding ten feet, provided that no increase in the height for a sign or fence may be granted nor may the variance result in an increase in the number of stories than would otherwise be allowed under the applicable zoning district.
f.
Buffers—the dimensions or screening treatment of a buffer as required by the UDO may be reduced by no more than 50 percent where the comprehensive plan recommends a more compatible land use on the neighboring property than that for which said property is actually zoned, or in other situations where the intent of the required buffer can be equally or otherwise achieved; provided, however, that no buffer required as a condition of a rezoning or of a grant of a special use permit shall be modified.
g.
Reduction in parking spaces—as per the provisions of section 203-10, off-street automobile parking and loading.
h.
Demarcation of parking spaces—parking spaces may be left unmarked, provided all of the following conditions are present:
1.
The parking lot must be designated to serve only a multi-family residential project which is designed and intended for rental occupancy.
2.
The parking lots must be designed in relation to the internal circulation system such that the areas reserved for parking are easily identified and clearly distinct from the interior driveways because of their location, design, orientation, or configuration, such as in parking areas with a single interior driveway having parking spaces located perpendicular to and along the sides of the access driveway, allowing the curbing to delineate the exterior dimension of the single parking bay.
3.
Approval for the elimination of the striping has been obtained by the applicant in writing from the City Engineer.
(3)
Application procedures.
a.
Application form and documentation. The application for an administrative variance shall be in such a form and contain such information and documentation as shall be prescribed by the Community Development Department, but shall contain at least the following:
1.
Name and address of the applicant.
2.
Legal description of the subject property.
3.
Size of the subject property.
4.
A statement of the hardship imposed on the applicant by the zoning ordinance and a statement of why the administrative variance will not be materially detrimental or injurious to other property or improvements in the neighborhood in which the subject property is located.
5.
A notarized letter of consent for proposed administrative variance from adjoining property owners.
6.
A non-refundable application fee shall accompany the application, as established from time to time by the Mayor and City Council, to defray the actual cost of processing the application.
7.
A site plan drawn to the requirements of chapter 100, article V, plan submittal requirements.
b.
Standards for issuance of administrative variances. In deciding whether to grant an application for an administrative variance, the Director of the Community Development Department shall consider all of the applicable standards provided in the UDO. It is the duty of the Director to review such facts and evidence in light of the general spirit and intent of the UDO to balance the public health, safety, morality, aesthetics, and general welfare of the city and its citizens against the injury to a specific applicant that would result from the strict application of the provisions of the code on the applicant's property, and to determine whether the request conforms to the standards of the review in the UDO.
(b)
Building permits.
(1)
Authority. The Building Official shall have the authority to issue a building permit. See chapter 300 for application review standards, building and construction regulations and related procedures.
(2)
Permit application. Any owner, authorized agent, or contractor who desires to construct, enlarge, alter, repair, move, demolish, or change the occupancy of a building or structure, or to erect, install, enlarge, alter, repair, remove, convert or replace any utility (electrical, gas, mechanical, or plumbing) system, the installation of which is regulated by the technical codes, or to cause any such work to be done, shall first make application to the Building Official and obtain the required permit for the work.
(3)
Exceptions. Permits shall not be required for the following mechanical work:
a.
Any portable heating appliance;
b.
Any portable ventilation equipment;
c.
Any portable cooling unit;
d.
Any steam, hot or chilled water piping within any heating or cooling equipment regulated by this Code;
e.
Replacements of any part which does not alter its approval or make it unsafe;
f.
Any portable evaporative cooler; and
g.
Any self-contained refrigeration system containing ten lbs. (4.45 kg) or less of refrigerant and actuated by motors of one horsepower (746W) or less.
(4)
Work authorized. A building or utility permit shall carry with it the right to construct or install the work, provided the same is described or depicted as required on the drawings and set forth in the specifications filed with the application for the permit. Where such work is not shown on the drawings and covered by the specifications submitted with the application, separate permits shall be required for each subsequent submission.
(5)
Fees. Permit and inspection fees and any other charges imposed or due under the various construction codes adopted by the city shall be as provided in a fee schedule, approved by the City Council, on file in the Community Development Department office.
(6)
Minor repairs and routine maintenance. Ordinary minor repairs and routine maintenance may be made with the approval of the Building Official without a permit, provided that such repairs or maintenance shall not violate any of the provisions of the technical codes.
(7)
Application information required. Each application for a permit, with the required fee, shall be filed with the Building Official on a form furnished for that purpose, and shall contain a general description of the proposed work and its location. The owner, or their authorized agent shall sign the application. The building permit application shall indicate the proposed occupancy of all parts of the building and of that portion of the site or lot, if any, not covered by the building or structure, and shall contain such other information as may be required by the Building Official and the provisions of chapter 300, including but not limited to construction drawings, as the requirements of chapter 100, article V, plan submittal requirements.
(8)
Time limitations on applications. An application for a permit for any proposed work shall be deemed to have been abandoned six months after the date of the filing for the permit, unless before then a permit has been issued. One or more extensions of time for periods of not more than 90 days each may be allowed by the Building Official for the application, provided the extension is requested in writing and justifiable cause is demonstrated.
(9)
Subcontractors affidavits. The city accepts electrical, plumbing, mechanical and low voltage affidavits from state licensed contractors subordinate to a building permit. The Building Official may require additional information as deemed necessary when accepting an affidavit.
(c)
Certificate of appropriateness decisions for minor architectural modifications.
(1)
The Community Development Director shall have the authority to grant administrative certificate of appropriateness approval for minor architectural modifications. The following types of changes and activities shall be considered minor and shall require administrative approval from the Director:
a.
Repainting of an existing building to a similar color;
b.
Revisions of window or door placement;
c.
The replacement of awnings or installation of new awnings when utilizing two colors or less;
d.
New construction of a new deck or modifications to an existing deck; and
e.
Paint colors for existing and infill residential properties in the Norcross Architectural and Site Design Standards Manual.
(2)
The Community Development Director's approval or denial of a request for the granting of an administrative certificate of appropriateness approval for minor architectural modifications shall weigh the following factors:
a.
The proposed development of construction meets, or fails to meet, the requirements of the UDO;
b.
The proposed development or construction is consistent, or inconsistent, with applicable design guidelines;
c.
The proposed development or construction is consistent, or inconsistent, with the intents or purposes of this UDO;
d.
The proposed development or construction would result in a development that is architecturally appropriate; and
e.
The proposed development or construction is consistent with the City's goals and policies concerning the health, safety, morality, aesthetics, and general welfare.
In deciding to approve or deny such an application, the Community Development Director shall consult the minutes of the ARB or HPC at which prior approval took place, if applicable. If the application is denied, the reasons for denial shall be provided in writing to the applicant along with a notice that the applicant may file an application for a certificate of appropriateness to the ARB or HPC, as appropriate, to accomplish the requested action if found otherwise to be in compliance with the UDO.
(d)
Certificate of completion. Upon satisfactory completion of a building, structure, electrical, gas, mechanical or plumbing system, a certificate of completion may be issued by the Building Official. This certificate is proof that a structure or system is complete and, for certain types of permits, is released for use and may be connected to a utility system. This certificate does not grant authority to occupy or connect a building, such as a shell building, prior to the issuance of a certificate of occupancy.
(e)
Certificate of occupancy (CO).
(1)
Building occupancy. A new building shall not be occupied, or a change made in the occupancy, nature or use of a building or part of a building until after the Building Official has issued a certificate of occupancy. Said certificate shall not be issued until all required electrical, gas, mechanical, plumbing and fire protection systems have been inspected for compliance with the technical codes and other applicable laws and ordinances and released by the Building Official; refer to chapter 300 for details.
(2)
Issuance. A CO is issued at the completion of a building permit, and a separate application for a CO is not required in these situations. However, an application for a CO may be required for an existing building in some circumstances, see subsection 104-7(f) change of occupancy certificate, or may be requested by an applicant. A certificate of occupancy for any existing building may be obtained by applying to the Building Official and supplying the information and data necessary to determine compliance with the technical codes for the occupancy intended. Where necessary, in the opinion of the Building Official, two sets of detailed drawings, or a general inspection, or both, may be required. When, upon examination and inspection, it is found that the building conforms to the provisions of the technical codes and other applicable laws and ordinances for such occupancy, a certificate of occupancy shall be issued.
(3)
Issuing certificate of occupancy. Upon satisfactory completion of construction of a building or structure and installation of electrical, gas, mechanical and plumbing systems in accordance with the technical codes, reviewed plans and specifications, and after the final inspection, the Building Official shall issue a CO stating the nature of the occupancy permitted.
(4)
Occupancy limits. Occupancy limits in other than residential buildings shall be determined by the county Fire Marshal.
(5)
Temporary/partial occupancy. A temporary/partial certificate of occupancy may be issued for a portion of a building, which may safely be occupied prior to final completion of the building. In most cases the county Fire Marshal's temporary certificate of occupancy will be honored.
(f)
Change of occupancy certificate.
(1)
A change of occupancy certificate is required for new businesses, business change of name, business change of location, as per the requirements of the International Building Code, section 3408.1.
(2)
A change of occupancy certificate for any existing building may be obtained by applying to the Building Official and supplying the information and data necessary to determine compliance with the technical codes for the occupancy intended. Where necessary, in the opinion of the Building Official, two sets of detailed drawings, or a general inspection, or both, may be required. When, upon examination and inspection, it is found that the building conforms to the provisions of the technical codes and other applicable laws and ordinances for such occupancy, a certificate of occupancy shall be issued.
(g)
Commercial filming permit.
(1)
The Community Development Director is the commercial filming permit administrator, and all applications for commercial filming permits shall be submitted to the Community Development Office.
(2)
The City Manager may appoint one or more city employees to form a committee to review the applications and make recommendations to the Community Development Director.
(3)
The Community Development Director has authority to suspend or revoke any commercial filming permit for failure to strictly follow the requirements of chapter 8, article V, commercial filming activity, in this Code.
(4)
All application requirements and standards for review of commercial filming permits can be found in chapter 8, article V, commercial filming activity in this Code.
(h)
Demolition permit.
(1)
It is unlawful to demolish any house, dwelling or similar structure formerly used for human habitation or any commercial, industrial or other structure formerly used in the conduct of any trade or business without a proper demolition permit.
(2)
Any violation of this section shall be a continuing violation and each day of the violation shall constitute a new offense.
(3)
The Building Official is the UDO administrator responsible for issuing demolition permits, except for recognized historic buildings within the city historic districts, and all applications shall be submitted to the Community Development office, following the provisions of chapter 300.
(4)
Demolition permits for recognized historic buildings within the city historic district, must first be reviewed by the HPC or the ARB, and then final decision is made by Mayor and City Council.
(i)
Development permit.
(1)
Development activities authorized. A development permit shall be required to authorize all activities associated with development activity regulated by this UDO, including, but not limited to, clearing and grubbing, grading and the construction of such improvements as streets, surface parking areas and drives, storm water drainage facilities, sidewalks, or other structures permanently placed on or in the property except for buildings, signs, or other structures requiring the issuance of a building permit.
(2)
Responsibility for development actions.
a.
No person shall conduct any of the land-disturbing activities identified in this subsection, including grading, clearing and grubbing, tree clearance, land development or project construction (as used in this subsection, "development") without first obtaining a development permit from the Community Development Department to perform such activity.
b.
Any person proposing development shall first submit to the Community Development Department an application for a development permit, including all construction plans required by this UDO. The application must be authorized by the property owner.
c.
The Community Development Department is responsible for administering the review and approval process for issuance of development permits. The Community Development Department shall forward a copy of the development permit application, including the construction plans for the project, to other city and county departments, the Soil and Water Conservation Commission District, the Georgia Department of Transportation or others as appropriate, for their review and comment. The Community Development Department shall provide all comments to the applicant for resolution and shall issue the development permit when all requirements of this UDO are met.
d.
Approval of development plans by the appropriate department or agency shall not imply or transfer acceptance of responsibility for the application of the principles of engineering, architecture, landscape architecture or any other profession, from the professional, corporation or individual under whose hand or supervision the development plans were prepared.
e.
The completion of inspections of a development and authorization for work continuation shall not transfer responsibility for the quality of the work performed or materials used from the owner, nor imply or transfer acceptance of responsibility for project design or engineering from the professional, corporation or individual under whose hand or supervision the development plans were prepared.
f.
No development permit shall be interpreted to relieve any owner of the responsibility of maintaining full compliance with all applicable codes, ordinances and other regulations. Any development permit issued in error or in contradiction to the provisions of this UDO shall be considered to have been null and void upon its issuance.
g.
Liability.
1.
The approval of an erosion and sedimentation control plan or other plans under the provisions of this UDO, the issuance of a development permit, or the compliance with any other provisions of this UDO shall not relieve any person from the responsibility for damage to any person or property otherwise imposed by law nor impose any liability upon the City Council for damage to any person or property.
2.
The fact that any activity for which a development permit has been issued results in injury to the property of another shall neither constitute proof of, nor create a presumption of, a violation of the standards provided for in this UDO or the terms of the development permit.
(3)
Development permit application requirements.
a.
The application for a development permit shall be submitted to the Community Development Department in a digital format (unless otherwise required by the city) and must include the following:
1.
Application on the form furnished by the Community Development Department, requesting review for issuance of a development permit.
2.
Three copies of:
i.
The preliminary plat or site plan requesting or reflecting project approval by the Community Development Department.
ii.
The construction plans prepared in conformance with the specifications and standards in this UDO, section 105-4.
3.
Two copies of the hydrology study.
4.
One copy of the soil tests (if applicable).
5.
Payment of any development permit fee.
b.
The application will be checked for completeness within five business days of its submission. Incomplete applications will be returned to the applicant.
c.
Upon acceptance of a development permit application, the UDO administrator shall:
1.
Refer the soil erosion and sedimentation control plan to the county Department of Water Resources and the Soil and Water Conservation District for their review and approval or disapproval concerning the adequacy of the erosion and sedimentation control plan. No development permit will be issued unless the plan has been approved by the District and the county Department of Water Resources, and any variances and bonding, if required, have been obtained.
2.
Refer the stormwater management plan and the floodplain management/flood damage prevention plan (if any) to the county Department of Water Resources for its review and approval or disapproval. No development permit will be issued unless the plans have been approved by the county Department of Water Resources.
d.
The applicant may be required by the UDO administrator to secure development approval from other agencies if they are affected by the development. Development approval may be required from but not limited to:
1.
Fire Marshal.
2.
County Health Department.
3.
Georgia Department of Transportation.
4.
Georgia Department of Natural Resources.
5.
U.S. Army Corps of Engineers.
6.
U.S. Environmental Protection Agency.
e.
The applicant will be responsible for compliance with all codes, regulations and zoning requirements and for the satisfaction of all the comments received. The owner will also be responsible for obtaining approval from all other agencies affected by the project.
f.
No development permit will be issued unless the applicant provides a statement by the county Tax Commissioner's office certifying that all ad valorem taxes levied against the property and due and owing have been paid.
(4)
Issuance of development permit.
a.
Following satisfaction of all comments, receipt of approvals from all affected agencies and receipt of all required bonds, the Community Development Department shall obtain signatures from all involved agencies on three sets of plans and return the signed sets of plans to the engineer/surveyor. The engineer/surveyor shall then provide the Community Development Department with a digital copy of the plans including a scanned image of the cover sheet with all signatures. The image files shall be in a .TIF format unless otherwise specified by the Community Development Director. After obtaining the digital copy, the Community Development Department shall issue a development permit authorizing development activity to begin based on the approved construction plans.
b.
Permits shall be issued or denied as soon as practicable, but in any event not later than 60 days after receipt by the city of a complete application, providing variances and bonding are obtained, where necessary.
c.
If the tract is to be developed in phases, then a separate permit shall be required for each phase.
(5)
Expiration of development permit.
a.
A development permit shall expire if the development activity described in the permit is not begun within six months from the date of issuance. Any such expired permit may be renewed by the Community Development Department within six months of development expiration, subject to permit renewal approval by the county Department of Water Resources. If a development permit has expired for more than 6 months, the applicant shall be required to apply for a new development permit under the development permit approval process of this UDO.
b.
Every permit or renewal thereof shall be valid for a period of one year, if not sooner renewed, terminated, revoked, or surrendered. Permits shall be eligible for renewal within 60 days prior to expiration. The city may refuse renewal based on materially changed land conditions or based on any ground that would be the basis for revocation of the active permit.
c.
Any change or amendment of design and construction plans for the project that may materially impact or negate the permit based on original approval of the plan shall require a permit amendment. All amendments shall be applied for in writing and follow the same procedure for approval as original applications for a development permit.
(j)
Clearing permit, clearing and grubbing permit and grading permit. The following permits covering portions of the land development process may be issued in accordance with the requirements of this UDO and the provisions of any Metropolitan River Protection Act Certificate, if applicable:
(1)
Clearing permit.
a.
A permit limited to clearing only with no grubbing or other land disturbance except for such activities necessary to install and maintain erosion and sediment control practices (as defined in the Georgia Soil Erosion and Sedimentation Act) may be authorized upon identification of the property, a specimen tree survey, the limits of the area to be cleared, the type of activities to be undertaken and the following items may be required:
1.
Soil Erosion, Sedimentation and Pollution Control Plan (unless exempt under chapter 400 of this UDO).
2.
Hydrology Study if a Soil Erosion, Sedimentation and Pollution Control Plan is required.
3.
Specimen Tree Concept Plan (if specimen trees are present on the property).
4.
Tree Preservation and/or Replacement Plan as may be required under chapter 630 of this UDO.
5.
All clearing activities are to be consistent with the provisions of this UDO, chapter 400 of this UDO, and any conditions of zoning approval. If clearing of the required tree density units is proposed, a performance bond and a development performance agreement may be required prior to issuance of permit to guarantee tree replacement will occur in future phases.
b.
A clearing permit shall expire unless activities are commenced within 60 consecutive calendar days of issuance of the permit or if activities lapse and are abandoned for a period exceeding 30 consecutive calendar days.
c.
A clearing permit shall not be construed as approval of or authorization to construct any improvements, buildings, or other structures on the property.
d.
If landscape improvements are required by the land disturbance permit, then all plantings must be completed, or a performance bond shall be filed for the incomplete work prior to the closing of such permit.
(2)
Clearing and grubbing permit.
a.
A permit limited to clearing and grubbing only may be authorized upon identification of the property, a specimen tree survey, the limits of the area to be cleared and grubbed, the type of activities to be undertaken, and the following items may be required:
1.
Soil Erosion, Sedimentation and Pollution Control Plan.
2.
Hydrology Study.
3.
Specimen Tree Concept Plan (if specimen trees are present on the property).
4.
Tree Preservation and/or Replacement Plan as may be required under chapter 630 of this UDO.
Appropriate soil erosion, sedimentation and pollution control and tree protection measures shall be placed and maintained as required. If clearing of the required tree density units is proposed, a performance bond and a development performance agreement may be required prior to issuance of permit to guarantee tree replacement will occur in future phases.
b.
A permit for clearing and grubbing shall expire unless activities are commenced within 60 consecutive calendar days of issuance of the permit or if activities lapse and the project is abandoned for a period exceeding 30 consecutive calendar days.
c.
A clearing and grubbing permit shall be limited to the removal of vegetation and stumps and the placement of required tree protection measures and soil erosion and sedimentation facilities and may authorize the removal of existing stormwater facilities and infrastructure on the property at the option of the developer. A demolition permit is required to remove all other existing structures. No grading or construction activities may be started under a clearing and grubbing permit except for such activities necessary to install and maintain erosion and sediment control practices. The approval of a clearing and grubbing permit shall not imply the approval of or authorization to construct any improvements, buildings, or other structures on the property.
d.
If landscape improvements are required by the land disturbance permit, then all plantings must be completed, or a performance bond shall be filed for the incomplete work prior to the closing of such permit.
(3)
Grading permit.
a.
A grading permit, which may include clearing and grubbing, may be issued prior to approval of a development permit, as provided under chapter 330-20 of this UDO. A grading permit may also be issued for earth borrow or storage, where no development or construction is proposed or imminent, based on approval of a grading plan, Soil erosion, sedimentation and pollution control plan, and hydrology study, consistent with the requirements of chapter 400, the zoning category of the site, and the provisions of the Gwinnett County 2030 Unified Plan (as applicable). A specimen tree survey, a specimen tree concept plan, and a tree preservation and/or replacement plan may be required as specified under chapter 630 of this UDO. If clearing of the required tree density units is proposed, a performance bond and a development performance agreement may be required prior to issuance of permit to guarantee tree replacement will occur in future phases.
b.
A permit authorizing but limited to grading (and clearing and grubbing) shall expire unless activities are commenced within 60 consecutive calendar days of issuance of the permit or if activities lapse and the project is abandoned for a period exceeding 30 consecutive calendar days. Any site for which the grading permit expires shall immediately be stabilized to prevent erosion.
c.
A grading permit shall be limited in its authorization to land grading activities along with associated tree protection, clearing and grubbing, and demolition activities, and may authorize the construction of storm drainage improvements and soil erosion and sedimentation facilities as allowed by the permit itself.
d.
If landscape improvements are required by the land disturbance permit, then all plantings must be completed, or a performance bond shall be filed for the incomplete work prior to the closing of such permit.
(k)
Parking waiver (for 5 or more vehicles). The standard requirements related to the issuance of a parking permit can be found in chapter 200, article III, section 203-12.
(l)
Sign permit. The standard requirements related to the issuance of a sign permit can be found in chapter 200, article IV.
(m)
Temporary outdoor activities permit. The standard requirements related to the issuance of an temporary outdoor activities permit can be found in chapter 8, article IX, of this Code.
(n)
Temporary outdoor retail display permit. The standard requirements related to the issuance of an outdoor display permit can be found in section 8-319 of this Code.
(o)
Tree removal permit. No person, corporation, association or other entity shall remove or destroy any tree either on public or private property with a DBH of six inches or greater without having first obtained a tree removal permit from the Community Development Department. A tree plan approved as a part of an approved development permit shall constitute a tree removal permit.
(1)
Application.
a.
An application for a tree removal permit when land disturbing activity is involved shall include three copies of a tree conservation and landscape plan which shall be completed and signed by a registered forester, a certified or degreed arborist, or a registered landscape architect whose credentials shall be made available to the Community Development Director.
b.
The information that must be included on a tree conservation and landscape plan is described in article V, section 105-6.
c.
An application to remove or destroy a specimen tree not associated with land disturbing activity shall be accompanied by photographs, a site drawing and a written statement of the condition of the tree including the threat that it poses, submitted by the owner of the property and a registered forester, a certified or degreed arborist or a registered landscape architect whose credentials shall be made available to the Community Development Director. If in the determination of the Community Development Director, the specimen tree is obviously dead or immediately hazardous then the requirements in this subsection may be waived by the Community Development Director.
d.
An application to remove trees with a DBH of six inches or greater that are not specimen trees and are not associated with land disturbing activity shall be accompanied by a site drawing and a statement from the property owner of the condition of the tree and the threat it poses. Photographs and other supporting information may be required by the Director.
(2)
Time for consideration of a tree removal permit application. All applications for tree removal permits shall be acted on within 60 days of the receipt of a complete application and permit fee, if any. The tree removal permit fee shall be established by the Mayor and City Council. If the city fails to act on the application within 60 days, the application shall be deemed approved.
(3)
Standards for review of tree removal permit. The standards requirements and penalties related to the issuance of a tree removal permit can be found in chapter 200, article V.
(p)
Trade permits. A trade permit is required to erect, install, enlarge, alter, repair, remove, convert or replace any utility (electrical, gas, mechanical, or plumbing) system. The provisions for issuance of a utility permit can be found under provisions for issuance of a building permit, subsection 104-7(b).
(q)
Utility permits. A utility permit is required to install, enlarge, alter, remove, convert or replace any utility system within city-owned right of way. All utility construction plans within city right-of-way shall be reviewed and approved by the Department before construction begins. Street cuts shall not be allowed unless deemed absolutely necessary due to the presence of rock, the need to tap into an existing line beneath the road surface, or other circumstance which makes boring impossible or infeasible.
(r)
Zoning verification letter.
(1)
A zoning verification letter can be issued by the zoning administrator upon request for a fee established by the Mayor and City Council.
(2)
The letter will convey the current zoning of the subject parcel, and associated conditions of zoning, and known approve variances.
(3)
The applicant must submit the request by means of a department approved application, along with a survey of the property.
(4)
The zoning verification letter is only valid for 30 days after issuance.
(Ord. No. 08-2019 , § I, 6-3-2019; Ord. No. 14-2019 , 11-4-2019; Ord. No. 04-2022 , § I, 7-5-2022; Ord. No. 08-2022 , § I, 8-1-2022)
ARTICLE V. - PLAN SUBMITTAL SPECIFICATIONS

Sec. 105-1. - Purpose.
This article describes the required specifications for all plans submitted as part of a development permit or building permit application.
(Ord. No. 08-2019 , § I, 6-3-2019)
Sec. 105-2. - Concept plans and sketch plan specifications.
(a)
Applicability. The following requirements apply to all concept plans submitted for land subdivision, as well as sketch plans submitted for many other types of applications in the conformance with this UDO.
(b)
Generally. An application for an amendment to create or extend a zoning district shall be accompanied by a sketch plan at scale and such other surveys, plans, elevations or additional information as the Community Development Director and this UDO may require, showing the proposed development and its impact on natural and built systems. Additional information deemed necessary by the Community Development Director to evaluate a proposed use and its relationship to the surrounding area shall be submitted on the plans, including but not limited to square footage of the structure, number of parking spaces, days of operation, and number of employees.
(1)
A concept plan or sketch plan shall be prepared by a professional engineer, a registered land surveyor, a landscape architect, a land planner or any other similar professional familiar with land development activities.
(2)
The concept plan or sketch shall be drawn on a boundary survey of the property. The boundary survey shall have been prepared by a state registered land surveyor and shall meet the requirements of the state for such a map or plat under O.C.G.A. § 15-6-67(b).
(3)
The concept and sketch plan shall show the following:
a.
Zoning district classification of the subject property and all adjacent properties, and zoning district boundaries if they cross the property.
b.
Man-made features within and adjacent to the property, including existing and future rights-of-way of streets, pavement width and street names; political boundary lines; and other significant information such as location of bridges, utility lines, existing buildings to remain or be demolished, and other features as appropriate to the nature of the request.
c.
Natural features, such as the 100-year flood plain, protected wetlands and stream buffers, steep slopes, and the location of any specimen trees.
d.
Proposed use of the property.
e.
The proposed project layout including:
1.
For residential subdivisions, and office or industrial parks, approximate lot lines and street right-of-way lines, along with the front building setback line on each lot.
2.
For multi-family and nonresidential development projects, the approximate outline and location of all buildings, and the location of all minimum building setback lines, outdoor storage areas, dumpsters, zoning buffers, parking areas, loading stations, zoning buffers, stormwater detention facilities, and driveways, entrances and exits.
f.
The concept and sketch plan shall also indicate:
1.
Name and address of the property owner.
2.
Name, address, and telephone number of the applicant (if different than the owner).
3.
Date of the survey, north arrow, and graphic scale.
4.
Date of drawing, and revision dates, as appropriate.
5.
Location (land district and land lot) and size of the property in acres (or in square feet if less than an acre).
6.
Location sketch of the property in relation to the surrounding area with regard to well-known landmarks such as arterial streets or railroads. Location sketches must be drawn at a scale sufficient to show clearly the information required, but not less than one inch equal to 2,000 feet. US. Geological Survey maps may be used as a reference guide for the location sketch.
7.
A statement as to the source of domestic water supply.
8.
A statement as to the provision for sanitary sewage disposal.
9.
The approximate location of proposed storm water detention facilities.
10.
Such additional information as may be useful to permit an understanding of the proposed use and development of the property.
(c)
Concept plan statements and certifications. The following statements and certifications must be included on all concept plans submitted with applications for the subdivision review process.
(1)
Concept plan, owner's statement. The following statement shall appear in the concept plan application package, and shall be signed by the owner or the owner's authorized agent:
I hereby submit this Concept Plan as the owner, or his/her/its authorized agent, for all property shown thereon.
_____
___________
Signature of Owner or Authorized Agent       Date
_____
___________
Name of Owner or Authorized Agent       Date
(2)
Concept plan, approved plan certification. The following certification statement shall appear in the approved concept plan application package:
The undersigned hereby certifies that this Concept Plan has been reviewed and approved by the city in accordance with the City's Unified Development Ordinance. This approval expires in one year from this date if the owner/developer fails to secure Preliminary Plat approval by that time.
_____
___________
Community Development Director       Date
(Ord. No. 08-2019 , § I, 6-3-2019)
Sec. 105-3. - Preliminary plat specifications.
(a)
Preliminary plat general specifications.
(1)
A preliminary plat shall be prepared by a registered professional civil engineer, a registered land surveyor or landscape architect professionally familiar with land development and project construction activities. All such registered professionals must be currently registered and licensed with the state.
(2)
The proposed name of the development and proposed street names shall not duplicate or too closely approximate, phonetically, the name of any other development or street in the city or in the county. If shown to the contrary, the Community Development Department may refuse to accept such development or street names. The development may use letter designations in place of proposed street names at the option of the applicant.
(3)
The preliminary plat shall be prepared on a boundary survey of the entire tract to be subdivided or developed showing the location of the boundaries and dimensions of the tract to be developed.
(4)
The preliminary subdivision plat shall be clearly and legibly drawn at a scale of not less than 100 feet to one inch. The recommended maximum dimensions of the sheet size are 36 inches by 42 inches and the minimum dimensions of 17 inches by 22 inches; however, the Director may approve other sheet sizes and graphic scales as appropriate.
(b)
Preliminary plat requirements. Each preliminary plat application shall contain the following:
(1)
Caption.
a.
Proposed name of the development and its acreage (or square footage if less than an acre).
b.
Name, address, telephone and email address of the property owner and subdivider or developer.
c.
Name, address, telephone and email address of the applicant.
d.
Name, address, telephone and email address of the individual or company responsible for the design of the subdivision. The name, registration number and seal of the professional under whom the preliminary plat was prepared shall be stamped and signed on the plat.
e.
Date of the survey, north arrow, and graphic scale.
f.
Date of preliminary plat drawing, and revision dates, as appropriate.
(2)
Development information.
a.
Proposed use of the property, including a statistical summary of development factors such as density, nonresidential floor area, number of lots or dwelling units, and minimum unit sizes, as may be pertinent to the type of project.
b.
Location (land district and land lot) and size of the property in acres.
c.
Location map of the property in relation to the surrounding area with regard to well known landmarks such as arterial streets, railroads or others. Location maps may be drawn in freehand and at a scale sufficient to show clearly the information required, but not less than one inch equal to 2,000 feet. US. Geological Survey maps may be used as a reference guide for the location map.
d.
Name and boundaries of former approved subdivisions if any or all of the land in the preliminary subdivision plat that has been previously subdivided, showing boundaries of the lots to be re-subdivided.
e.
Zoning district classification of the subject property and all adjacent properties, and zoning district boundaries as appropriate.
f.
Rezoning or special use application number, date of approval, and stipulations (conditions of approval), as applicable to the subject property(ies).
g.
Variances obtained on the property by application number, date of approval, and stipulations (conditions of approval), as applicable to the subject property(ies).
h.
Recorded deed names of adjoining property owners.
(3)
Development design.
a.
Ground elevations on the tract based on field surveys or photogrammetric methods from aerial photographs. The basis for the topographic information shall be shown. Mean sea level contour lines shall be drawn at intervals of not more than two feet. If the tract is to be developed on a public or community sewerage or subdivided into lots having a minimum area of one acre, a contour interval of five feet shall be acceptable. In such cases, contour lines shall be based on a datum plane as approved by the health department.
b.
Natural features within the property, including:
1.
Drainage channels, bodies of water, wooded areas and other significant natural features such as rock outcroppings and specimen trees.
2.
On all watercourses leaving the tract, the direction of flow shall be indicated, and for all watercourses entering the tract the direction and acreage of the drainage area above the point of entry shall be noted. Floodplains shall be outlined, and the source of floodplain information shall be shown. If applicable, the applicant must provide a copy of the wetland delineation that has been approved by the US Army Corps of Engineers, or at a minimum a delineation prepared by a qualified wetland scientist.
3.
Wildlife and priority habitats as identified by the Georgia Department of Natural Resources, other significant natural features, and notations designating any federal, state or local regulatory agency permits or approvals that are or may be required relative to development of or around such features.
c.
Boundary lines of the overall property perimeter showing bearings in degrees, minute and seconds and distances in feet and hundredths of a foot along all lines and the bearings and distances to an existing street intersection or other recognized permanent landmark. The source of boundary information shall be shown.
d.
Existing man-made features within and adjacent to the property, including street rights-of-way and pavement widths, names of existing streets, all easements, city and county political boundary lines, and other significant information such as location and dimensions of bridges, utility lines and structures, existing buildings to remain, culverts, all known existing or previous landfills, and other man-made features.
e.
Accurate locations of all cultural features, such as all existing historic resources, public recreational facilities, and cemeteries.
f.
The proposed project layout including:
1.
For subdivisions, lot lines, lot numbers, block letters, and street right-of-way lines (with proposed street names and right-of-way widths), along with the front building setback line and the dimension of its length on each lot (i.e., the lot width) and land to be reserved for public uses.
2.
For multi-family and nonresidential development site plans, the outline and location of all buildings, and the location of all minimum building setback lines, outdoor storage areas, zoning buffers, parking areas, driveways, curb cuts, and designated fire lanes.
3.
The proposed phasing of the subdivision if it is proposed to be developed in sections.
g.
Water and sewer facilities.
1.
Location and size of existing water lines and sewer lines, and proposed placement of water lines, sewer lines and fire hydrants.
2.
A statement as to the source of domestic water supply.
3.
A statement as to the provision for sanitary sewage disposal. For those properties that will not be served by a public or community sanitary sewerage system, location and results of percolation tests as required and approved by the county Health Department are to be shown.
4.
Location, site plan, and other information as may be required by the county Health Department for all community sewage disposal plants.
5.
The location of proposed storm water facilities, as part of a stormwater management plan.
h.
Proposed streetlight layout and design standards/drawings.
i.
Such additional information as may be reasonably required to permit an adequate evaluation of the development activity proposed in the application.
(c)
Preliminary plat statement and certifications. Each preliminary plat is to include the following signed statements and certifications, including certification by the owner or his authorized agent, and the registered professional civil engineer, registered land surveyor or landscape architect responsible for the project design.
(1)
Preliminary plat, owner's statement. The following statement from the owner shall appear in the preliminary plat application package, and shall be signed by the owner or the owner's authorized agent:
I hereby submit this Preliminary Plat as the owner, or his/her/its authorized agent, of all property shown thereon.
_____
___________
Signature of Owner or Authorized Agent       Date
_____
___________
Signature of Owner or Authorized Agent       Date
(2)
Preliminary plat, designer's statements and certification. The following statement from the design professional of record shall appear in the preliminary plat application package:
I hereby certify that the plans for the proposed subdivision shown on this Preliminary Plat were prepared by me or under my supervision
_____
___________
Signature of Designer       Date
Registered Landscape Architect No. _______; or
Registered Land Surveyor No. _______; or
Registered Civil Engineer No. _______; or
(3)
Preliminary plat, conformance with concept plan certification. The following statement shall appear in the approved Preliminary Plat Application package:
I hereby certify that this Preliminary Plat conforms to the approved Concept Plan and the requirements of the UDO:
_____
___________
Community Development Director       Date
_____
___________
City Engineer       Date
(4)
Preliminary plat approval certification. The following certification statement shall appear in the approved preliminary plat application package:
The undersigned hereby certifies that this Preliminary Plat has been reviewed and approved by the city in accordance with the city's Unified Development Ordinance. This approval expires in one year from this date if the owner/developer fails to secure Final Plat approval by that time.
_____
___________
Community Development Director       Date
_____
___________
Owner/Developer       Date
(Ord. No. 08-2019 , § I, 6-3-2019)
Sec. 105-4. - Construction plans requirements.
(a)
Purpose of construction plans. The purpose of construction plans is to provide all of the detailed engineering information necessary to build a proposed subdivision in accordance with the approved preliminary plat and the requirements of the UDO.
(b)
Construction plans and specifications. The construction plans for a subdivision shall be clearly and legibly drawn at a scale of not less than 100 feet to one inch. The sheet size shall not exceed 36 inches by 48 inches, and the minimum sheet size shall be 17 inches by 22 inches. The construction plans shall include the following information and shall only be prepared by a professional engineer:
(1)
Name of the subdivision;
(2)
Name, address, emails and telephone numbers of the owner/developer of the property;
(3)
Name, address and Telephone number of the professional engineer who prepared the plans;
(4)
Name, address and telephone number of the designated 24-hour contact person for the project;
(5)
Date plans were prepared, north arrow and graphic scale on all appropriate sheets;
(6)
Location map at a scale of 600 feet to the inch;
(7)
An accurate list of all conditions relative to the zoning or development of the property as a subdivision and the approval of the concept plan and preliminary plat;
(8)
A copy of each permit or approval that shall be required from any federal, state or local regulatory agency for or in connection with the proposed subdivision, or any portion thereof, or a copy of a pending application for any such permit or approval;
(9)
Detailed limits of all clearing and tree-save areas;
(10)
Detailed limits of all undisturbed buffers and open space;
(11)
Erosion and sediment control plans;
(12)
Detailed stormwater management plans;
(13)
Detailed electric and natural gas utility plans;
(14)
Detailed roadway plans;
(15)
Detailed grading plans;
(16)
Detailed water supply/utility plans;
(17)
Details sanitary sewer plans; and
(18)
Such other information as may be required by the City Engineer to fully evaluate and review the project.
(19)
Detailed landscape and tree conservation plan drawn by a registered landscape architect, certified arborist or other certified landscape professional.
(c)
Construction plans certifications. Approved constructions plan packages shall include the following certifications:
(1)
Construction plans, engineer's certification of design. The following certification statement from the professional engineer of record shall appear in the approved construction plan package:
I hereby certify that the designs of: (i) stormwater and drainage facilities, including culverts, drainage structures and detention or retention ponds and appurtenances; (ii) roadways and streets; (iii) water system facilities including pipelines, fire hydrants, valves and appurtenances; and (iv) sanitary sewerage facilities including gravity sewer pipelines, force mains, manholes and appurtenances, were prepared under my direct supervision and are in strict accordance with all applicable federal, state, and local regulatory permits and approvals, and all applicable local codes, ordinances and regulations.
_____
___________
Signature of Engineer of Record       Date
_____
___________
Name (Printed)       (Seal)
(2)
Construction plans approval, City Engineer. The following certification statement from the City Engineer shall appear in the approved construction plan package:
The undersigned hereby certifies that all requirements of the City of Norcross relative to the preparation and submission of these plans and specifications have been fulfilled and approval is hereby granted subject to the conditions stipulated below This approval expires in six months from the approval date if construction has not commenced.
_____
___________
City Engineer       Date
(Ord. No. 08-2019 , § I, 6-3-2019)
Sec. 105-5. - Final plat specifications.
(a)
Final plat general standards.
(1)
The final plat shall conform in all ways to state law pertaining to the recordation of maps or plats (O.C.G.A. § 15-6-67, as may be amended), as well as the additional information required in this section.
(2)
The final plat shall be based on a certified boundary survey delimiting the entirety of the property contained within the final plat and tied to a city-established monument with the same degree of accuracy as the boundary itself. The survey shall have an accuracy of no less than one in 10,000. The final plat shall be submitted in an electronic format acceptable by the city.
(3)
The final plat shall conform to the approved concept plan and preliminary plat and it may constitute only a portion of the approved concept plan, which the subdivider proposes to record at any one time, provided that such portion conforms to the requirements of these regulations, and said portion is not inconsistent with the public health, safety, or welfare. Any substantial deviation from the approved concept plan or preliminary plat shall require revision and re-approval of both the concept plan and preliminary plat.
(b)
Final plat requirements. The final plat shall contain the following information:
(1)
Caption. Final plats shall contain a caption with the following information:
a.
The name of the subdivision and unit or phase number, if any;
b.
The name of the former subdivision if any or all of the property has been previously subdivided;
c.
The name, address, email addresses and telephone numbers of the property owner of record, and the developer or subdivider;
1.
The subdivision location including county, land lot(s). land district(s), and the name of existing subdivision, if the property lies within a particular subdivision;
2.
Total area of the subdivision in acres;
3.
Date of the plat and survey, and a graphic and stated which shall be 100 feet to one inch or larger scale;
4.
Name, address, telephone number, and registration number of the land surveyor;
5.
Name, address, and telephone number of each professional design or engineering firm associated with the portion of the subdivision depicted on the final plat; and
6.
All reproductions of original maps or plats shall bear the original signature of the registrant placed across the registration seal in order to be a valid or recordable map or plat.
d.
Plat data. Plats shall be made in a professional manner and in accordance with the standards of good drafting procedures and shall show the following information:
1.
A north arrow to indicate the principal meridian, and a notation shall be made as to the reference of bearings to magnetic north, astronomic north, or grid north. A grid north reference shall indicate the zone;
2.
Bearings of all boundary or lot lines, and distances of all boundary or lot lines, and area of the parcels expressed in acres or square feet;
3.
The width and the former widths, if pertinent, of all rights-of-way adjacent to or crossing the property or adjacent to any point of reference;
4.
Easements and apparent encroachments, if pertinent;
5.
All land lot lines, land district lines, land section lines, and city or county boundaries intersecting or adjacent to the surveyed property shall be indicated by lines drawn upon the map or plat with appropriate words and figures;
6.
All corner markers and markers of pertinent reference points shall be fully described and indicated as to their material or types.
7.
All linear distances shown on maps or plats shall be horizontal;
8.
All angular directions shown on maps or plats shall be represented in degrees and minutes. Where plats state or surveys require accuracy in excess of one in 5,000, the angular directions shall be represented in degrees, minutes, and seconds. All angular directions shall be referenced to the principal meridian;
9.
In the case of curved lines, the curve shall be defined by curve data to include the radius, arc length, chord bearing, and distance for regular curves. Chord distances and directions shall be given for irregular curves; and
10.
The state plane coordinates of at least two permanent monuments thereon, when a National Geodetic Survey monument is within 500 feet of any point on the property mapped or platted, or any point of reference shown thereon.
(2)
Specifications shown.
a.
Location map of the property in relation to the surrounding area with regard to well-known landmarks such as arterial streets, railroads or others. Location maps shall be drawn at a scale sufficient to show clearly the information required, but not less than one inch equal to 2,000 feet. US. Geological Survey maps may be used as a reference guide for the location sketch;
b.
Index map when more than one sheet is required to present the final plat;
c.
Street names including both the name and the suffix, such as "street" or "avenue" and any prefix such as "north" or "west";
d.
Lots or sites numbered in numerical order and blocks lettered alphabetically;
e.
Accurate location, material and description of lot monuments and markers. All monuments and markers shall be in place prior to approval of the final plat;
f.
Lot lines with dimensions to the one-tenth-foot, necessary internal angles, arcs, and chords and tangent or radii of rounded corners;
g.
Front building setback lines with dimensions as to length across each lot and distance from the street right-of-way;
h.
When lots are located on a curve or when side lot lines are at angles other than 90 degrees, the lot width at the front building setback line shall be shown;
i.
Centerline data including the radius, central angle, arc length, chord bearing and distance, and tangent distance between curves must be given for regular curves. Curve data shall be required for all roadway centerline curves. Chord distances and directions shall be given for irregular curves on preexisting roads;
j.
Location, material and size of all drainage pipes, location and type of all drainage system appurtenances such as catch basins, headwalls and inlets;
k.
Location and extent of detention ponds with 100-year event level noted, and the location, width and purpose of any associated easements, including slope easements;
l.
The exact location of water lines, cut-off valves and fire hydrants as approved by the county Water Resources Department;
m.
Location of any areas to be reserved, donated, or dedicated to public use with notes stating their purpose and limitations. Location of any areas to be reserved by private deed covenant for common use of all property owners or dedicated to a homeowner's association;
n.
The plat must show the location of streetlights as they are to be installed by the utility company, or if the light poles have been installed, the exact location thereof;
o.
The extent of any area of special flood hazard, as defined in this UDO; and
p.
The street address number of each lot.
(c)
Final plat supplemental information and certifications.
(1)
Statement of private covenants or conservation easements. A statement of restrictive covenants or conservation easements, if any, and if the statement is brief enough, be put directly on the final plat: otherwise, if the restrictive covenants or conservation easements are separately recorded, a statement as follows:
"This property depicted in this plat is subject to the private covenants [or conservation easements] set forth in the separate document(s) dated ________ and recorded on ________ (date), in the record book , page ___ , of the office of the Clerk of the Superior Court of Gwinnett County.
(2)
Certification by health department. Certification as to the source of water supply and method of waste disposal as approved by the county Health Department shall be printed or stamped on the plat, and signed by the Health Department. For developments with public sewerage and public water systems, this certification may be omitted.
(3)
Certification of the Gwinnett County Water Resources Department. The final survey plat must be approved by the county Water Resources Department, as evidenced by the placement of the notation on the final plat, which shall be signed by the county Water Resources Director or their designee.
(4)
As-built construction plans. As-built construction plans in an electronic format, showing all infrastructure installation details, and certified by the engineer of record.
(5)
Final plat surveyor's certification. The following certification statement from the surveyor of record shall appear in the approved final plat package:
I hereby certified that this plat is true and correct and was prepared from an actual survey of the property made by me or under my supervision, and that all monuments shown hereon actually exist and their location, size, type, and material are correctly shown: This plat conforms to all requirements of O.C.G.A. 15-6-67, the Georgia Plat Act, as may be amended, and by the requirement of the City of Norcross UDO. By:
_____
___________
Signature of Registered Georgia Land Surveyor       Date
_____
___________
Name (Printed)       No. (Seal)
(6)
Engineer's certification. The following certification statement from the engineer of record shall appear in the approved final plat package:
I hereby certify that this subdivision was constructed in accordance with the construction plans and specifications which were approved by the City of Norcross City Engineer, as well as any approved revisions thereto, and that all applicable engineering requirements of the applicable Unified Development Ordinance have been fulfilled, except as noted below:
_____
___________
Signature of Engineer of Record       Date
_____
___________
Name (Printed)       No. (Seal)
(7)
Final plat approval certification. The following certification statement from the Community Development Director shall appear in the approved final plat application package:
We hereby certify that this Final Plat has been prepared in accordance with the Concept Plan, the approved Preliminary Plat, the approved Construction Plans, and the other applicable development codes and ordinances, and has been approved by the City of Norcross for recording in the office of the Clerk of the Superior Court of Gwinnett County.
_____
___________
City Engineer       Date
_____
___________
City Clerk       Date
_____
___________
Community Development Director       Date
(8)
Maintenance bond (or guarantee).
a.
A maintenance bond warranting workmanship and covering damages for a period not less than five years from the date the city issues an acceptance letter of final plat approval of the completed improvements.
b.
The developer will provide a cash or surety bond for the maintenance of the improvements within the ROW, before an acceptance letter will be issued, with qualifications as listed on the current version of US Treasury Circular 570, or as amended (https://fiscal.treasury.gov/surety-bonds/circular-570.html). This bond is made in accordance with the applicable Unified Development Ordinance and other subdivision and development regulations of the city. This bond includes not only paving but also all other appurtenant structures and amenities lying within the right-of-way of any road and within any buffer areas, including but not limited to all landscape materials, curbing, drainage pipes, culverts, catch basins, drainage ditches, and pedestrian walks. Utilities owned and operated by a governmental body or a public utility company shall be the responsibility of said governmental body or public utility company and not the developer.
c.
The developer shall correct and repair, or cause to be corrected and repaired, all damages to said improvements. In the event the developer fails to correct and repair any damages within 30 calendar days after written notice thereof, then said damages may be corrected by the city. All costs and charges for the correction and repairs will be by the city, or paid by the developer directly or by the calling in of the bond; but this remedy shall not limit the city and the city shall also have any and all remedies available to it under the law.
d.
The terms of this agreement shall be for a period of five years beginning on the date of written acceptance of said improvements by the city as evidenced by the final plat approval of said completed improvements.
e.
After the termination of said five-year period the City of Norcross shall be responsible to the citizens for maintenance of said improvements as provided by law. Provided, however, any damages which occurred prior to the end of said five-year period and which still are unrepaired at the termination of said period shall remain the responsibility of the developer (provided further that written notice of said damages was given by the city to the developer prior to the time the five-year period ends).
(9)
Certificate of dedication.
State of Georgia
County of Gwinnett
The owner of the land shown on the attached Final Plat (the "Plat") acknowledges that the Plat was made from an actual survey, and for value received, the receipt and sufficiency of which are hereby acknowledged, does hereby convey in fee simple to the City of Norcross, Georgia, and further dedicates to the use of the public forever all streets and rights-of-way, pedestrian walks, watercourses, drains, easements, greenbelts and public places shown on the Plat, except those easements designated on this plat as other utility company easements, and except those streets specifically designated on the Plat as private streets.
In consideration of the approval of this Plat and other valuable considerations, the owners do hereby agree to hold the City of Norcross, Georgia, harmless for a five year period from any and all liabilities arising from any and all claims, damages, or demands arising on account of the design and construction of the improvements shown on the Plat, to include but not be limited to, the roads, streets, fills, embankments, ditches, cross drains, culverts, and bridges within the proposed rights-of-way shown, resulting from any all causes other than by an intentional or grossly negligent act of the City of Norcross, Georgia.
And further, the owner warrants that he/she/it owns fee simple title to the property shown on the Plat and agrees that the City of Norcross shall not be liable to the undersigned or subsequent owners in title for a period of five years for any claim of damages resulting from negligence in exercising engineering techniques and due caution in the construction of cross drains extension, drives, structures or buildings, the changing of courses of streams and rivers, flooding from natural creeks and rivers and any other matter whatsoever on private property. All monetary liability arising from the property shown on the Plat during the term of the five-year hold harmless period specified herein shall be the liability of the owner, or its successors and assigns in interest. I further warrant that I have the right to convey said land according to this plat and do hereby bind myself and the owners subsequent in title to defend the covenants and agreements set out.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set by hand affixed my seal this ___ day of _______, 20___.
_____
___________
Owner/Developer       Date
_____
___________
Title       (Seal)
_____
Notary Public State of Georgia (Seal)
(Ord. No. 08-2019 , § I, 6-3-2019)
Sec. 105-6. - Site plan specifications.
(a)
General requirements.
(1)
All site plans and supporting materials shall be prepared by or under the supervision of a professional engineer registered in the state, except that the landscaping, buffer and tree conservation plans are to be prepared by or under the supervision of a landscape architect registered in the state.
(2)
The plans shall be drawn on sheets a minimum format of 24 inches by 36 inches in size when plotted.
(3)
Each sheet shall contain the following minimum information:
a.
Project name;
b.
Project description;
c.
Project location and tax parcel number;
d.
Name, address, email address and telephone number of property owner;
e.
Name, address, email address and telephone number of developer;
f.
Name, address, email address and telephone number of the person responsible for preparing the plan, and the seal, signature, and statement of professional qualifications of such person;
g.
Size of project area in acres or square feet;
h.
Size of the buildable area in acres or square feet; and
i.
Total landscaped area required in percent and square foot area;
(b)
Site plan.
(1)
The construction documents submitted with a permit application shall be accompanied by a site plan showing to scale the size and location of new construction and existing structures on the site, distances from lot lines, the established street grades and the proposed finished grades and, as applicable, flood hazard areas, floodways, and design flood elevations.
(2)
All plans shall be drawn in accordance with an accurate boundary line survey.
(3)
A site plan shall also be accompanied by:
a.
An erosion and sedimentation control plan;
b.
A grading plan;
c.
A stormwater management plan;
d.
A floodplain management / flood damage prevention plan;
e.
A street improvement plan;
f.
Landscaping, buffer and tree conservation plans;
g.
A public utilities plan; and
h.
A lighting plan.
(4)
In the case of demolition, the site plan shall show structures to be demolished and the location and size of existing structures that are to remain on the site or plot.
(5)
The designated UDO Administrator is authorized to waive or modify the requirement for a site plan when the application for permit is for alteration or repair or when otherwise warranted.
(c)
Erosion and sedimentation control plan. Erosion and sedimentation control plans are identified in the stormwater management article of this UDO in chapter 400, article IV.
(d)
Grading plan. The grading plan may be combined with the erosion and sedimentation control plan if clarity will not be compromised.
(1)
Grading plans shall identify existing and planned topographic contours as required for erosion and sedimentation control plans.
(2)
Grading plans shall outline any area that is required to remain undisturbed, such as a natural zoning buffer, tree protection area, stream buffer or wetland (see the chapter 200, article V, tree conservations, buffers, landscaping, and chapter 401-1 and the Gwinnett County Stormwater Management GC UDO, chapter 800) and shall identify and describe the protective fencing or staking to be placed surrounding such area.
(3)
Grading plans shall include a Wetlands Certification from the design professional indicating whether or not wetlands are located on the property.
(4)
If the property contains any area of special flood hazard (the 100-year flood plain), grading plans in and around the flood plain shall be designed in conformance to all requirements relating to flood damage prevention in chapter 400, article IV.
(e)
Stormwater management plan. The application and plan requirements for stormwater management plans are found in the stormwater management article of the Gwinnett UDO, chapter 800, which the city adopted in Sec. 401-1.
(f)
Floodplain management/flood damage prevention plan. The floodplain management permit application requirements and requirements for floodplain management/flood damage prevention plans are found in the floodplain management article of this UDO in chapter 400, article IV.
(g)
Street improvement plan.
(1)
Center line profiles and typical street sections of all proposed streets shall be required. Profiles shall be drawn on standard plan and profile sheet with plan section showing street layout, pavement and right-of-way width, curvature, and required drainage facilities. Typical street sections shall be provided for street widening.
(2)
Where sanitary sewer or storm water sewers are to be installed within a street right-of-way, the grade, size, location and bedding class of pipe, and the location and invert elevation of manholes shall be indicated on the road profile.
(3)
Center line profiles covering streets that are extensions of existing streets shall include elevations at 50-foot intervals for such distance as may be required by this Code for street improvements, but no less than 200 feet.
(4)
All plan elevations shall be coordinated and sited into any U.S. Coast and Geodetic Survey or Georgia Department of Transportation bench marks within 1,200 feet of the street, or into reference monuments established by the Federal Emergency Management Agency.
(5)
A street striping plan, showing striping in accordance with the Manual on Uniform Traffic Control Devices, latest edition as published by the Federal Highway Administration, shall be prepared for any street newly constructed or widened to four or more lanes.
(h)
Landscaping, buffer and tree conservation plans. All proposed landscaping as required by this UDO in front, side and rear landscape areas; for parking lot landscape areas, trees and street-side screening; in zoning buffers; and trees to be retained or planted as required by the tree conservation provisions of this UDO, shall be illustrated on plans as described in this subsection. The plans may be consolidated as one plan if the information can be clearly shown.
(1)
Landscaping plan.
a.
Scale at one inch = 20 feet to 50 feet, as needed to clearly illustrate the proposed plantings. Multiple sheets keyed to an index sheet may be used.
b.
Caption:
1.
The name of the development and its acreage (or square footage if less than an acre).
2.
Name, address, telephone and email addresses of the property owner and subdivider or developer.
3.
Name, address, telephone and email addresses of the applicant.
4.
Name, address, telephone and email addresses of the individual or company responsible for the design.
5.
The name, registration number, signature and seal of the landscape architect who prepared the plan shall be stamped on the plan.
6.
Date of survey, north point and graphic scale, source of datum, date of plan drawing, and revision dates, as appropriate.
c.
The location and size of all underground or aboveground utilities on the site, including the limits of any public or private utility easements and stormwater detention areas.
d.
The location of all existing and proposed parking areas, sidewalks and other paved or impervious surfaces.
e.
The outline of all existing and proposed buildings and structures.
f.
The boundaries of all natural zoning buffers, stream buffers and other areas required to remain undisturbed.
g.
The boundaries of each required landscape strip or landscaped area.
h.
A planting plan showing the location, size and common name of proposed plant materials.
i.
The location, size and common name of all existing plant materials to be retained that contribute to meeting the minimum requirements of this Code for landscape strips, landscaped areas or parking lot landscaping.
(2)
Buffer plan. A buffer plan shall be prepared for any zoning buffer required in accordance with the specifications and standards contained in this UDO. The buffer plan shall show:
a.
Caption, as required for site landscaping plans.
b.
The boundaries of each required zoning buffer area.
c.
The location and size of all underground or aboveground utilities on the site, including the limits of any public or private utility easements and stormwater detention areas.
d.
For each natural zoning buffer, the plan must show:
1.
Methods to be employed to protect the drip line areas of the trees in the buffer from disturbance during construction, including fencing details, erosion control, signage, etc., consistent with the protection of existing trees section of the tree conservation, buffers, and landscaping article of this UDO, chapter 200, article V.
2.
Proposed supplemental plantings required to maintain the opaque visual screen required.
e.
For each structural zoning buffer, the plan must show:
1.
All grading and construction details for earthen berms, walls and fences that are proposed as part of the visual screen.
2.
A planting plan showing the location, size and type of proposed plant materials.
3.
The location, size and common name of all existing plant materials to be retained that contribute to meeting the minimum requirements of this UDO for zoning buffers.
4.
Typical cross-sections of the zoning buffer illustrating the improvements proposed and typical location of vegetation. At least one cross-section shall be provided for each type of buffer provided.
(3)
Tree conservation plan. The tree conservation plan shall be submitted prior to any grading, bulldozing, or other removal of existing vegetation that may affect the health of existing tree coverage.
a.
Tree conservation plan; preparation.
1.
The tree conservation plan shall be related to the site plan for the project. Combination of the tree conservation plan and the site landscaping plan is encouraged.
2.
For subdivisions, the tree conservation plan shall be drawn on a copy of the preliminary subdivision plat, to which the information required by this Subsection must be added.
3.
The tree conservation plan shall comply with the requirements of the Community Tree Planting and Establishment Guidelines of the Georgia Forestry Commission, latest edition.
b.
The tree conservation plan shall include the following basics:
1.
Scale at one inch = 20 feet to 50 feet, as needed to clearly illustrate the proposed plantings. Multiple sheets keyed to an index sheet may be used.
2.
Caption, as required for site landscaping plans.
3.
The location and size of all underground or aboveground utilities on the site, including the limits of any public or private utility easements and stormwater detention areas. Off-site easements that may be affected by tree plantings must also be shown.
4.
The location of all existing and proposed parking areas, sidewalks and other paved or impervious surfaces.
5.
The location, size in dbh, and species of all existing trees on the site.
6.
The outline of all existing and proposed buildings and structures.
7.
The boundaries of all natural zoning buffers, stream buffers and other areas required to remain undisturbed.
8.
The boundaries of each required landscape strip.
c.
The tree conservation plan shall show the following:
1.
The extent of the development site or disturbed area, the gross area of the site, and the net site area to which the tree conservation requirements apply.
2.
Specimen trees:
a)
Each specimen tree or specimen tree stand that will be removed from the development site, including its size in DBH and its common name; and all other trees or tree stands that are submitted for credit as part of the tree conservation requirement.
b)
Each specimen tree or specimen tree stand that will remain on the development site and be protected during construction, including its size in DBH and its common name; and all other trees or tree stands that are submitted for credit as part of the tree conservation requirement.
c)
Grade changes or other work adjacent to a specimen tree that would affect it adversely, with drawings or descriptions as to how the grade, drainage, and aeration will be maintained around the tree.
3.
Tree plan:
a)
Limits of tree conservation areas, showing existing trees to be retained and new trees to be planted, specifying type and size.
b)
In heavily wooded areas that will not be disturbed, the plan may show only the boundaries of each stand of trees and a list of trees in each stand that are submitted for credit by number and size.
c)
Calculations showing compliance with the tree unit requirements of chapter 200, article V, tree conservation, buffers, and landscaping.
d)
Planting schedule, if applicable.
e)
Curb stops to prevent vehicle overhang, where required to protect planting areas and vegetation.
4.
Irrigation plan:
a)
During-construction activities:
1)
Methods to be employed to protect the critical root zones of the trees in the zoning buffer from disturbance during construction, including fencing details, erosion control, signage, etc., consistent with the protection of existing trees section of chapter 200, article V.
2)
Staging areas for parking, materials storage, concrete washout, and debris burn and stump grinding.
b)
Additional information. Additional information that the administrator of the UDO may require to provide a full understanding of conditions on the site and the elements of the proposed tree conservation plan or during-construction activities.
c)
Notes. Each tree conservation plan shall include notes clearly printed on each plan sheet, that state:
1)
All tree protection devices must be installed and inspected prior to any clearing, grubbing or grading. Call the city Community Development Department for an inspection.
2)
Tree protection shall be vigorously enforced. No activities of any kind are to be allowed within any area shown to be undisturbed on this plan.
3)
The retention and planting of trees as shown on this plan must be verified prior to issuance of a certificate of occupancy or acceptance of the project. Call the city Community Development Department for an inspection.
4)
A maintenance inspection of trees will be performed prior to the expiration of a two-year maintenance period. Project owners at the time of the maintenance inspection are responsible for compliance with the provisions of this plan and of this UDO.
(i)
Public utility plans.
(1)
Domestic water supply plan. If connection to a public water system is proposed or required, the domestic water supply plan shall depict all water system improvements, water mains, fire hydrants, valves and other appurtenances, and other information as may be required by the county Water Resources Department.
(2)
Sewage disposal plan. If a connection to a public sanitary sewer system is proposed or required, sewage disposal plans shall include: sanitary sewerage plans, including profiles of all mains and outfalls, lift station and force main details, typical manhole construction details, and other information as may be required by county Water Resources Department.
(3)
On-site septic system plans. For projects approved to be served by on-site sewage disposal systems, location of septic tank, extent of drain field and attendant structures, location and results of percolation tests, and other information shall be shown as required by the county Health Department. Specific plan requirements include:
a.
A letter from the county Water Resources Department stating that connection to public sewerage is not available.
b.
Soils map and classification of soils as performed by a soil scientist. Percolation tests and additional soil borings magi be required by the Health Department. When percolation tests are performed, a minimum of three percolation tests per installation site shall be conducted and highest soil absorption rate shall be used. Test boring shall be shown on the plot plan.
c.
Calculations relating to the design of the septic system shall be submitted with a plot plan showing the maximum daily waste water usage (GPD); the sewage percolation coefficient; size of septic tank and area of absorption trenches, length depth and width of absorption trenches, and depth of gravel bed; all mathematical calculations and supporting data. Systems shall be designed using the maximum daily waste water usage and the highest percolation rate. The minimum acceptable percolation rate shall be 45 minutes per inch.
d.
Identification of location of wells within 500 feet of the property.
e.
Location of soil test holes referenced to a description of the soils.
f.
Location of septic tank and primary and secondary (replacement) absorption trenches. Solid and perforated pipe shall be shown as solid and dotted lines, respectively. All absorption trenches shall run parallel with contour lines and shall be at least ten feet apart. Absorption trenches shall not be installed on filled graded sites or where slopes exceed 25 percent. Trenches shall not be greater than 4 feet deep unless recommended by a soil scientist to improve percolation rates.
g.
Where an existing septic system is to be utilized, an evaluation of the system shall be performed to indicate its suitability for treating the anticipated daily waste water requirements. The existing systems shall be plotted on the site plan.
(j)
Lighting plans. Details of exterior lighting shall be provided on a site plan. Photometric calculations shall be detailed on an exterior lighting plan unless waived by the Director. Photometric calculations shall be based on the "mean" light output per the manufacturer's values of the specified lamp and luminaire photometry data formatted on Illumination Engineering Society (I.E.S.) file complied by an approved testing laboratory. The details provided for exterior lighting shall include point-to-point photometric calculations at intervals of not more than ten feet, at ground level, and may also be required at six feet above ground level, depending on the applicable risk factors.
(Ord. No. 08-2019 , § I, 6-3-2019)
Sec. 105-7. - Building drawings and specifications.
When required by the Building Official, two or more copies of specifications, and of drawings drawn to scale with sufficient clarity and detail to indicate the nature and character of the work, shall accompany the application for a building permit. Such drawings and specifications shall contain information, in the form of notes or otherwise, as to the quality of materials. All information, drawings, specifications and accompanying data shall bear the name and signature of the person responsible for the design.
(1)
Additional data. The Building Official may require details, computations, stress diagrams, and other data necessary to describe the construction or installation and the basis of calculations. All drawings, specifications and accompanying data required by the Building Official to be prepared by an architect or engineer shall be affixed with their official seal.
(2)
Design professional. The design professional shall be an architect or engineer legally registered under the laws of the state regulating the practice of architecture or engineering and shall affix their official seal to said drawings, specifications and accompanying data, for the following:
a.
All group A, E, and I occupancies.
b.
Buildings and structures three stories high or more in area.
c.
Buildings and structures 5,000 square feet (465 square meters) or more in area.
For all other buildings and structures, the submittal shall bear a certification by the applicant that some specific state law allows exception to its preparation by a non-registered design professional.
(3)
Structural and fire-resistant integrity. The city relies on the county Fire Marshal's office for review and inspection of all buildings, except residential buildings, for compliance with life safety and handicap regulations. Plans for all buildings shall indicate how required structural and fire resistance integrity will be maintained where a penetration of a required fire resistance wall, floor or partition will be made for electrical, gas, mechanical, plumbing, signal and communication conduits, pipes and systems and also indicate in sufficient detail how the fire resistance integrity will be maintained where required fire-resistant floors intersect the exterior walls.
(4)
Site drawings. Drawings shall show the location of the proposed building or structure and of every existing building or structure on the site or lot. The Building Official may require a boundary line survey prepared by a qualified surveyor.
(5)
Hazardous occupancies. For buildings or structures used for hazardous material, the Building Official may require the following:
a.
General site plan. A general site plan drawn at a legible scale which shall include, but not be limited to, the location of all buildings, exterior storage facilities, permanent access ways, evacuation routes, parking lots, internal roads, chemical loading areas, equipment cleaning areas, storm and sanitary sewer accesses, emergency equipment and adjacent property uses. The exterior storage areas shall be identified with the hazard classes and the maximum quantities per hazard class of hazardous materials stored.
b.
Building floor plan. A building floor plan drawn to a legible scale, which shall include, but not be limited to, all hazardous materials storage facilities within the building and shall indicate rooms, doorways, corridors, exits, fire-rated assemblies with their hourly rating, location of liquid tight rooms, and evacuation routes. Each hazardous materials storage facility shall be identified on the plan with the hazard classes and quantity range per hazard class or the hazardous materials stored.
(Ord. No. 08-2019 , § I, 6-3-2019)
ARTICLE VI. - ENFORCEMENT

Sec. 106-1. - Enforcement authority.
It shall be the duty of the Code Enforcement Officer to enforce the provisions of this UDO under the advisement of the Community Development Director or their designee.
(Ord. No. 08-2019 , § I, 6-3-2019)
Sec. 106-2. - Violation.
(a)
Any action or inaction that violates the provisions of this UDO, or violates any permit issued subject to this UDO may be subject to an enforcement action.
(b)
No building or other structure shall be erected, moved, added to or structurally altered without a building permit issued by the Building Official. No building permit shall be issued except in conformance with the provisions of this chapter and the provisions set out under this UDO.
(c)
Certificate of occupancy required.
(1)
A certificate of occupancy issued by the Building Official is required in advance of the use or occupancy of:
a.
Any lot or a change in the use thereof; and
b.
A building hereafter erected or a change in the use of an existing building.
(2)
No certificate of occupancy shall be issued unless the lot or building or structure complies with all the provisions of this UDO.
(3)
A record of all certificates of occupancy shall be kept on file in the office of the Building Official and a copy shall be furnished, on request, to any person having a proprietary or tenancy interest in the building or land involved.
(Ord. No. 08-2019 , § I, 6-3-2019)
Sec. 106-3. - Emergency work.
Emergency work necessary to preserve life or property. When emergency work is performed under this UDO, the person performing it shall report the pertinent facts relating to the work to the Building Official on the next business day after commencement of the work. Within ten days thereafter, the person shall apply for a permit and perform such work within such time as may be determined by the Community Development Department.
(Ord. No. 08-2019 , § I, 6-3-2019)
Sec. 106-4. - Notice of violation.
(a)
If the city determines that an applicant or other responsible person has failed to comply with the terms and conditions of a permit or has failed to comply with any of the provisions of this UDO, it must issue a written notice of violation to the applicant or other responsible person. Where a person is engaged in activity covered by this UDO without having first secured a permit for that activity, the notice of violation will be served on the owner or the responsible person in charge of the activity being conducted on the site.
(b)
The notice of violation must contain:
(1)
The name and address of the owner or the applicant or the responsible person;
(2)
The address or other description of the site upon which the violation is occurring;
(3)
A statement specifying the nature of the violation;
(4)
A description of the remedial measures necessary to bring the action or inaction into compliance with the permit, or with the provisions of this UDO, and the date for the completion of such remedial action;
(5)
A statement of the penalty or penalties that may be assessed against the person to whom the notice of violation is directed; and
(6)
A statement that the determination of violation may be appealed to the city by filing a written notice of appeal within 30 days after the notice of violation (except that in the event the violation constitutes an immediate danger to public health or public safety, 24 hours' notice will be sufficient).
(Ord. No. 08-2019 , § I, 6-3-2019)
Sec. 106-5. - Penalties for violation.
In addition to other penalties and withholding of permits as may be specifically provided for elsewhere in this UDO, penalties for violating this UDO are provided in chapter 1, section 1-11 of this Code. Where a violation of this UDO exists with respect to the use of any building, structure, or land, the city may employ the following remedies and penalties.
(1)
Citation. If the violation is by a tenant, person, corporation, firm or other entity who is not the owner of record of the building, structure or land, issue a citation for the violation of this Code to that person or entity. In addition, the city may provide written notice, either personally or by certified mail, to the owner of record of such building, structure or land. Notice must contain a description of the violation and a 30-day period within which to abate or correct the violation. If the owner of record does not bring the use of the building, structure or land into compliance within 30 days, the owner shall be cited for violation of this Code. Each day any violation continues shall constitute a separate offense.
(2)
Bond forfeiture. If, through inspection, it is determined that a person has failed to comply with an approved plan, a written notice to comply must be served upon that person. The notice must set forth the measures necessary to achieve compliance with the plan and state the time within which such measures must be completed. If the person fails to comply within the time specified, that person will be deemed in violation of the UDO and, in addition to other penalties, will be deemed to have forfeited their performance bond, if required to post one. The local issuing authority may call the bond or any part of the bond to be forfeited and may use the proceeds to hire a contractor to bring the site into compliance.
(3)
Withhold permits and licenses. If the violation is by the owner of record of the building, structure or land, or his/her/its agent, employee or representative, in addition to other remedies available, the city may refuse or deny all city permits, licenses, certificates or applications to that owner or his/her/its agents until the violation is abated or corrected.
(4)
Withhold certificate of occupancy. The city may refuse to issue a certificate of occupancy for the building or other improvements constructed or being constructed on the site until the applicant or other responsible person has taken the remedial measures set forth in the notice of violation or has otherwise cured the violations described in the notice.
(5)
Suspension, revocation or modification of permit. The city may suspend, revoke or modify any permit authorized by this UDO. A suspended, revoked or modified permit may be reinstated after the applicant or other responsible person has taken the remedial measures set forth in the notice of violation or has otherwise cured the violations described in the notice, provided the permit may be reinstated upon such conditions as the city may deem necessary to enable the applicant or other responsible person to take the necessary remedial measures to cure such violations.
(6)
Monetary fines. Any person who violates any provision of this UDO, or any permit condition or limitation established pursuant to this UDO, or who negligently or intentionally fails or refuses to comply with any final or emergency order of the city issued as provided in this article will be liable for a fine established by City Council by ordinance. For the purpose of enforcing the provisions of this section, the municipal court is authorized to impose a fine for each violation. Notwithstanding any limitation of law as to fines which can be assessed for violations of city ordinances, any magistrate court or any other court of competent jurisdiction trying cases brought as violations of this UDO under city ordinances approved under this section will be authorized to impose penalties for such violations for each violation. Each day during which violation or failure or refusal to comply continues is a separate violation.
(Ord. No. 08-2019 , § I, 6-3-2019)
Sec. 106-6. - Remedies.
If any building or structure is erected, constructed, reconstructed, altered, repaired, converted or maintained or if any building, structure or land is used in violation of this UDO, the City Council, the Building Official or any adjacent or other property owner who would be damaged by the violation, in addition to other remedies, may institute injunction, mandamus or other appropriate action or proceeding to stop the violation in the case of such building, structure or land use.
(Ord. No. 08-2019 , § I, 6-3-2019)
Article VII. - PRIVATE PERMITTING REVIEW AND INSPECTION

Sec. 107-1. - Definitions.
For purposes of this third-party inspection ordinance, the following definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates otherwise:
Approved third-party inspectors and plans reviewer list means a list maintained by the Community Development and Planning Department comprised of the names of approved third-party inspectors and plans reviewers that have complied with the application and renewal requirements of the city and have been approved to perform third-party inspections and plans review pursuant to this article.
Approved third-party inspector means a registered professional engineer or registered professional architect that has complied with the application and renewal requirements of Community Development and Planning Department and has been approved to perform third-party inspections pursuant to this article. An approved third-party inspector is intended to constitute a "private professional provider" for the purposes of performing inspections as described in the state act.
Approved third-party plans reviewer means a registered professional engineer or registered professional architect that has complied with the application and renewal requirements of Community Development and Planning Department and has been approved to perform third-party plans review pursuant to this article. An approved third-party plans reviewer is intended to constitute a "private professional provider" for the review of reviewing building construction plans as described in the state act.
City means the City of Norcross, Georgia.
Complete application, for purposes of processing applications in compliance with the state act, an application submitted to Community Development and Planning Department shall not be considered complete until all applicable fees have been paid, and all applicable reviewing agencies have received the application and provided any required approvals. For each permit type, Community Development and Planning Department shall establish and publish the requirements of a complete application.
Convenience fees means fees established by the Community Development and Planning Department to be paid to the city by applicants who chose to use a third-party inspector or third-party plans reviewer or despite the Community Development and Planning Department otherwise being able to provide inspection and plan review services within the time frames required by the state act. Such fees shall be the same amount as any regulatory fees assessed by the Community Development and Planning Department for inspections and plan review services performed by the Community Development and Planning Department.
Department means the Community Development and Planning Department or such other department as may be assigned by city or City Manager the responsibility of performing inspections and overseeing the third-party inspection and plans review system described herein.
Inspection means the observance of work and the performance of test for certain components and elements to establish conformance with city approved construction documents, building codes and ordinances adopted by the city, and the requirements of the state minimum standards as adopted and amended by the state department of community affairs.
Inspection certification means a written statement signed by an approved third-party inspector or his or her approved technician, which shall indicate that the item(s) being inspected, in the approved third-party inspector's professional opinion and to the best of their knowledge, complies with city approved construction documents, building codes and ordinances adopted by city, the requirements of the state minimum standards as adopted and amended by the state department of community affairs, and any other applicable inspections that are typically performed by inspectors employed by the city.
Inspection field report means a written report prepared by an approved third-party inspector or a technician working under the direct supervision of an approved third-party inspector describing the work conducted and findings of an inspection performed by an approved third-party inspector or a technician working under the direct supervision of an approved third-party inspector.
Plans review affidavit means a written affidavit on a form adopted by the state department of community affairs that is completed and signed under oath by an approved third-party plans reviewer, which shall indicate the plans which have been reviewed for the purpose of a building permit for the application in question, in the approved third-party plans reviewer's professional opinion and to the best of their knowledge, complies with the regulatory requirements as designated by city, including the Georgia State Minimum Standard Codes most recently adopted by the Department of Community Affairs and any locally adopted ordinances and amendments to such codes, applicable zoning ordinances and conditions, design standards, and any other applicable laws and regulations that would otherwise be required of staff employed by the city.
Registered professional architect means an individual that holds a certificate of registration issued under O.C.G.A. § 43-4-1 et seq.
Registered professional engineer means an individual that holds a certificate of registration issued under O.C.G.A. § 43-15-1 et seq.
Regulatory fees means all fees established by the city to be paid to the city for any regulatory action, inspection services, or plan review services as provided by the state act and this article.
Technician means an individual who performs inspections under the direct supervision of an approved third-party inspector.
Third-party inspection and plans review program means the rules and procedures described in this third-party inspection and plans review ordinance.
Third-party plans review means plans review performed in conformance with this program by approved third-party plans reviewers.
Third-party inspection means inspection performed in conformance with this program by approved third-party inspectors.
(Ord. No. 09-2021 , § I, 9-7-2021)
Sec. 107-2. - Third-party inspection and plans review program.
(a)
The department will establish and maintain an approved third-party list from whom the department will accept third-party inspections and third-party plans reviews in accordance with this third-party inspection and plans review ordinance.
(b)
In full compliance with the requirements of the state act, the city shall allow owners, developers, and contractors to submit inspection certifications by approved third-party inspectors and plans review affidavits by approved third-party plans reviewers in order to satisfy certain inspection and plans review requirements.
(c)
The department will only consider inspection certifications and plans review affidavits from parties listed on the approved third-party list. The city makes no representation concerning the approved third-party inspectors and approved third-party plans reviewers other than that they have submitted evidence showing that they have met the minimum criteria necessary to qualify for the third-party inspection and plans review program described herein.
(d)
In order for an inspection certification or plans review affidavit to be accepted by the department for a particular project, an approved third-party inspector or approved third-party plans reviewer must be independent of and must not be an employee of or otherwise affiliated with or financially interested in the person, firm or corporation engaged in the construction project to be reviewed or inspected.
(e)
The person, firm or corporation retaining an approved third-party inspector or approved third-party plans reviewer to conduct an inspection or plans review shall be required to pay to the city the same regulatory fees and charges which would have been required had the inspection or plans review been conducted by a city inspector or plans reviewer. Should the department determine that it cannot conduct a particular inspection or plans review in a time as determined by the state act, the applicable regulatory fees shall be reduced by 50 percent. Should the department determine that it can conduct a particular inspection or plans review in a time as determined by the state act, a convenience fee shall be paid to the city. Upon payment in full of the convenience fees associated with the complete application, the applicant may nevertheless choose to retain, at its own expense, an approved third-party inspector or approved third-party plans reviewer to provide the required inspection or plan review, subject to the requirements set forth in this article. Any fees or convenience fees paid to the city are nonrefundable.
(f)
All other fees and costs related to the performance of the third-party inspections or third-party plans review are matters solely between the approved third-party inspector or approved third-party plans reviewer and the person, firm, or corporation engaging the approved third-party inspector or approved third-party plans reviewer.
(g)
Notwithstanding the submission of an inspection certification or plans review affidavit, the department retains the authority to make all code interpretations and to monitor the quality of all third-party inspections and third-party plans reviews and nothing in this article shall be construed as authorizing any approved third-party inspector or approved third-party plans reviewer to issue a certificate of occupancy.
(h)
The department will follow all applicable procedures set forth in the state act for all inspections and plans reviews. For purposes of processing applications in compliance with the state act, an application submitted to the department shall not be considered complete until all applicable fees have been paid, and all applicable reviewing agencies have received the application and provided any required approvals.
(Ord. No. 09-2021 , § I, 9-7-2021)
Sec. 107-3. - Inspections types.
(a)
The department will, at a minimum, accept third-party inspections in compliance with the state act for any construction inspections required by this Code. A comprehensive list of the various inspections types, their allowed timing and other related details are established by department policy. This document is available from the department and is published on the city website.
(b)
Approved third-party inspectors shall be authorized to conduct any inspection required by the city necessary or required to determine compliance with all regulatory requirements and for the issuance of a building permit or certificate of occupancy, provided that the inspection being performed is within the scope of the approved third-party inspector's area of competency. However, nothing in this article shall be construed as authorizing third-party inspections for compliance with state or local fire safety standards or erosion control standards.
(Ord. No. 09-2021 , § I, 9-7-2021)
Sec. 107-4. - Approved third-party inspector requirements and qualifications.
(a)
Individuals desiring to be placed on the approved third-party inspectors and plans reviewer list as an approved third-party inspector must submit an initial application along with an application fee of $250.00 to the department. Those individuals that are placed on the approved third-party inspectors list must submit a renewal form every year no later than September 1 thereafter. Individuals that do not timely submit a renewal form shall be removed from the approved third-party inspectors list.
(b)
In order to qualify as an approved third-party inspector, an individual must:
(1)
Be employed by or be a partner in an engineering or architect firm, in full compliance with this Code, including current occupational tax and registration required thereunder;
(2)
Be a registered professional engineer or a registered professional architect as defined in this article;
(3)
Otherwise be in good standing with all pertinent certification and professional accreditation boards;
(4)
Possess and maintain minimum insurance as described herein; and
(5)
Demonstrate relevant experience of at least one year.
(c)
An individual shall not be qualified to be placed on the approved third-party list if he or she has had his or her authority to issue third-party inspection certifications in any other jurisdictions revoked. If an individual previously qualified to be on the approved third-party list and subsequently has his or her authority to issue third-party inspection certifications revoked, the individual shall automatically be removed from the approved third-party list.
(d)
An approved third-party inspector may not submit an inspection certification if the approved third-party inspector is an officer or employee of the owner, developer, contractor or other party or if the approved third-party inspector is employed by or a partner in a firm that is affiliated with or financially interested in the owner, developer, contractor or other party on whose behalf the inspection certification is submitted.
(e)
Technicians may perform inspections under the supervision of an approved third-party inspector provided that the technician has satisfied any specific requirements as may be designated by the city building official if those same requirements are imposed on the municipal employees completing the plan review or inspection.
(f)
Technicians performing inspections under the supervision of an approved third-party inspector shall be a certified International Code Council (ICC) inspector or equivalent if those same requirements are imposed on the municipal employees completing the plan review or inspection
(g)
Approved third-party inspectors shall obtain and maintain the following minimum insurance coverages and provisions, evidence of which shall be submitted to the department with the initial application and each calendar year thereafter.
(1)
All private professional providers providing inspection services pursuant to this subsection shall secure and maintain insurance coverage for professional liability (errors and omissions) insurance. The limits of such insurance shall be not less than $1,000,000.00 per claim and $1,000,000.00 in aggregate coverage for any project with a construction cost of $5,000,000.00 or less and $2,000,000.00 per claim and $2,000,000.00 in aggregate coverage for any project with a construction cost of more than $5,000,000.00. Such insurance may be a practice policy or project-specific coverage. If the insurance is a practice policy, it shall contain prior acts coverage for the private professional provider. If the insurance is project-specific, it shall continue in effect for two years following the issuance of the certificate of final completion for the project. The permit applicant shall verify compliance with the insurance requirements of this paragraph. The cancellation provision shall provide for 30 days notice of cancellation.
(2)
Norcross, Georgia, its officers, officials, employees and representatives shall be named as additional insureds on the required insurance policies for all insurance coverages including but not limited to general liability, auto liability, employers liability and umbrella/excess coverage, except that additional insured status shall not be required for professional liability and workers compensation coverages.
(3)
The required insurance coverage shall be provided by an insurance company at all material times licensed to do business by, and in good standing with, the state department of insurance.
(4)
Approved third-party inspectors shall maintain the minimum insurance coverage as required above at all times during which they are listed as approved third-party inspectors. Approved third-party inspectors shall provide the department with evidence of minimum insurance coverages and provisions on an annual basis prior to the expiration of any policy or coverage and upon request by the department. Should any insurance coverage or information change, the approved third-party inspector shall provide written notice of any such change to the city within ten business days. If at any time an approved third-party inspector fails to maintain the required insurance coverage, the department may remove them from the approved third-party list.
(h)
Suspension of technicians and approved third-party inspectors. An individual who performs inspections under this article, whether a technician or an individual approved third-party inspector, shall be subject to suspension from the approved third-party list, and from submitting inspection field reports and inspection certifications for the following infractions:
(1)
Providing inspections without appropriate license or certification.
(2)
Providing inspection services prior to issuance of a valid building permit.
(3)
Failing to identify any noncompliance with any applicable code, as amended, including, but not limited to the International Building Code, International Mechanical Code, International Energy Conservation Code, and Life Safety Code, as determined in the sole good faith discretion of the Chief Building Official of the city. However, it is the express intent of the city not to impose sanctions on an individual under this article for failing to identify multiple instances of noncompliance in one inspection such as that each such failure constitutes an individual and separate infraction. Rather, multiple failures contained in a single inspection under this paragraph shall be treated as a single infraction.
(4)
Authorizing any deviation from the approved permit.
(5)
Falsifying reports.
(6)
Unauthorized employee performing inspections.
(7)
Performing unauthorized types of inspections.
(8)
Inspections passed with hold on project or under stop work order.
(9)
Failure to identify noncompliance with any applicable code not captured in subsection (3) above, upon identification of such failure by the city on multiple occasions, as determined in the sole good faith discretion of the Chief Building Official of the city.
(i)
Suspension for submitting inspection field reports and inspection certifications for infractions by a technician or individual approved third-party inspector shall be progressive based on the number of infractions in the previous 12-month period. For any combination of infractions within a 12-month period, the following actions and suspensions against a technician or individual approved third-party inspector shall be assessed:
EXPAND
First infraction Warning letter
Second infraction 30-Day suspension from eligibility to perform inspections
and submit inspection field reports and inspection certifications
Third infraction 90-Day suspension from eligibility to perform inspections
and submit inspection field reports and inspection certifications
Fourth infraction 1-Year suspension from eligibility to perform inspections
and submit inspection field reports and inspection certifications
  (j)
An approved third-party inspector shall be subject to progressive action based on the number of infractions in the previous 24-month period by individuals performing inspections, including the individual approved third-party inspector or any one or more technicians acting under the supervision of the approved third-party inspector (which shall include technicians serving as employees, independent contractors, agents, etc.). Violations under this paragraph shall accrue upon every third infraction by an individual contemplated in paragraph (h) above, and shall subject approved third-party inspectors to the following actions and suspensions for any combination of infractions within a 24-month period:
EXPAND
First violation
(upon third individual
infraction) Written letter of reprimand
Second violation
(upon sixth individual
infraction) 30-Day suspension from approved third-party inspector
and plans reviewer list
Third violation
(upon ninth individual
infraction) 90-Day suspension from approved third-party inspector
and plans reviewer list
Fourth violation
(upon twelfth individual
infraction) 1-Year suspension from approved third-party inspector
and plans reviewer list
  The city shall send written notice to the approved third-party inspector for each infraction as contemplated in paragraph (i) above, the purpose of which shall be to inform the approved third-party inspector of the number of infractions accruing under paragraph (i), to put the approved third-party inspector on notice of possible violations under this paragraph (j), and so the approved third-party inspector has the opportunity to take any remedial action necessary to prevent future infractions and/or violations.
(k)
Notwithstanding any other provision of this article, in the event a technician or individual approved third-party inspector is found to have falsified a report or where life safety issues were not identified, the progressive actions and suspensions of this article may, in the discretion of the city, be bypassed with an immediate suspension and/or disqualification imposed.
(l)
Appeal of suspensions and/or disqualifications shall be processed through the City Manager.
(Ord. No. 09-2021 , § I, 9-7-2021)
Sec. 107-5. - Procedures for conducting third-party inspections.
(a)
An approved third-party inspector shall not suggest, direct, or authorize any deviation from approved construction documents without first obtaining approval from the department.
(b)
Procedures for third-party inspections:
(1)
Procedures for third-party inspections as established and amended from time to time by the Community Development and Planning Department are available from the department and published on the city website.
(c)
The department shall have a right of entry to any premises inspected by an approved third-party inspector or technician to ensure compliance with this article and the state act.
(Ord. No. 09-2021 , § I, 9-7-2021)
Sec. 107-6. - Approved third-party plans reviewer requirements and qualifications.
(a)
Individuals wishing to be placed on the approved third-party list as an approved plans reviewer must submit an initial application along with an [application fee—if an application fee is required by municipality] as established by the city to the department.
(b)
In order to qualify as an approved third-party plans reviewer, an individual must:
(1)
Be, or be a partner in or employed by, an engineering or architect firm, in full compliance with this Code, including current occupational tax and registration required thereunder;
(2)
Be a registered professional engineer or registered professional architect as defined in this article;
(3)
Otherwise be in good standing with all pertinent certification and professional accreditation boards;
(4)
Possess and maintain minimum insurance as described herein; and
(5)
Demonstrate relevant experience of at least one year.
(c)
An individual shall not be qualified to be placed on the approved third-party list if he or she has had his or her authority to issue third-party plans review affidavits in any other jurisdictions revoked. If an individual previously qualified to be on the approved third-party list and subsequently has his or her authority to issue third-party plans review affidavits revoked, the individual shall be removed from the approved third-party inspectors and plans reviewer list.
(d)
An approved third-party plans reviewer may not submit a plans review affidavit if the approved third-party plans reviewer is an officer or employee of the owner, developer, contractor or other party or if the approved third-party plans reviewer is employed by or a partner in a firm that is affiliated with or financially interested in the owner, developer, contractor or other party on whose behalf the plans review affidavit is submitted.
(e)
All private professional providers providing plan review services pursuant to this subsection shall secure and maintain insurance coverage for professional liability (errors and omissions) insurance. The limits of such insurance shall be not less than $1,000,000.00 per claim and $1,000,000.00 in aggregate coverage for any project with a construction cost of $5,000,000.00 or less and $2,000,000.00 per claim and $2,000,000.00 in aggregate coverage for any project with a construction cost of more than $5,000,000.00. Such insurance may be a practice policy or project-specific coverage. If the insurance is a practice policy, it shall contain prior acts coverage for the private professional provider. If the insurance is project-specific, it shall continue in effect for two years following the issuance of the certificate of final completion for the project. The permit applicant shall verify compliance with the insurance requirements of this paragraph. The cancellation provision shall provide for 30 days notice of cancellation.
(f)
Norcross, Georgia, its officers, officials, employees and representatives shall be named as additional insureds on the required insurance policies for all insurance coverages including but not limited to general liability, auto liability, employers liability and umbrella/excess coverage, except that additional insured status shall not be required for professional liability and workers compensation coverages.
(g)
The required insurance coverage shall be provided by an insurance company at all material times licensed to do business by, and in good standing with, the state department of insurance.
(h)
Approved third-party plan reviewers shall maintain the minimum insurance coverage as required above at all times during which they are listed as approved third-party plan reviewers. Approved third-party plan reviewers shall provide the department with evidence of minimum insurance coverages and provisions on an annual basis prior to the expiration of any policy or coverage and upon request by the department. Should any insurance coverage or information change, the approved third-party plan reviewer shall provide written notice of any such change to the city within ten business days. If at any time an approved third-party plan reviewer fails to maintain the required insurance coverage, the department may remove them from the approved third-party list.
(i)
Suspension of approved third-party plans reviewers. An individual who performs plans review under this article shall be subject to suspension from the approved third-party list, and from submitting plans review affidavits for the following infractions:
(1)
Providing plans reviews without appropriate license or certification.
(2)
Failing to identify any noncompliance with any applicable code, as amended, (including, but not limited to), the International Building Code, International Mechanical Code, International Energy Conservation Code, and Life Safety Code as determined in the sole good faith discretion of the Chief Building Official of the city. However, it is the express intent of the city not to impose sanctions on an individual under this Article for failing to identify multiple instances of noncompliance in one inspection such as that each such failure constitutes an individual and separate infraction. Rather, multiple failures contained in a single inspection under this paragraph shall be treated as a single infraction.
(3)
Falsifying plans review.
(4)
Performing unauthorized types of plan reviews.
(j)
Suspension for submitting plans review affidavits for infractions by an approved third-party plans reviewer shall be progressive based on the number of infractions in the previous 12-month period. For any combination of infractions within a 12-month period, the following actions and suspensions against an approved third-party plans reviewer shall be assessed:
EXPAND
First infraction Written letter of reprimand
Second infraction 30-day suspension from approved third-party inspector
and plans reviewer list
Third infraction 90-day suspension from approved third-party inspector
and plans reviewer list
Fourth infraction 1-year suspension from approved third-party inspector
and plans reviewer list
  The city shall send written notice to the approved third-party plans reviewer for each infraction as contemplated in paragraph (j) above, the purpose of which shall be to inform the approved third-party plans reviewer of the number of infractions accruing under paragraph (j) and so the approved third-party plans reviewer has the opportunity to take any corrective action necessary to prevent future infractions.
(k)
Notwithstanding any other provision of this article, in the event an approved third-party plans reviewer is found to have falsified plans review affidavits or where life safety issues were not identified, progressive actions and suspensions of this article may, in the discretion of the city, be bypassed with an immediate suspension and/or disqualification imposed.
(l)
Appeal of suspensions and/or disqualifications shall be processed through the office of the City Manager.
(Ord. No. 09-2021 , § I, 9-7-2021)
Sec. 107-7. - Procedures for conducting third-party plan reviews.
(a)
Any plan review conducted by an approved third-party plans reviewer shall be no less extensive than plan reviews conducted by city personnel.
(b)
The following procedures shall apply to all third-party plans review:
(1)
All plans must be shown as approved by all external reviewing agencies where applicable, including but not limited to, county planning and development, county fire marshal, county environmental health, county department of water resources or the state department of agriculture prior to approval by a third-party plan reviewer.
(2)
All third-party plan reviewers must stamp and sign all plans as approved in addition to submitting a signed affidavit that the referenced plans have been reviewed and approved.
(Ord. No. 09-2021 , § I, 9-7-2021)
Sec. 107-8. - Appeals.
(a)
If the local building official and the private professional provider are unable to resolve a dispute or meet within the time required by the state act, the matter shall be referred to the Zoning Board of Appeals as outlined in section 103-9 of this UDO.
(b)
Nothing in this subsection shall limit the authority of the a local code official to issue a stop-work order for a building project or any portion of such project, which may go into effect immediately as provided by law, after giving notice and opportunity to remedy the violation, if the official determines that a condition on the building site constitutes an immediate threat to public safety and welfare.
(Ord. No. 09-2021 , § I, 9-7-2021)
