ARTICLE II. - BUDGETING AND ACCOUNTING[2]

Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
State Law reference— Minimum budget, accounting, and auditing requirements for local governments, O.C.G.A. § 36-81-1 et seq.

Sec. 16-25. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Accrual basis means the basis of accounting under which revenues are recorded when earned or when levies are made, and expenditures are recorded as soon as each results in liabilities, notwithstanding that the receipt of the revenue or payment of the expenditure may take place, in whole or in part, in another accounting period.
Appropriation means an authorization granted by the City Council to make expenditures or to incur obligations for specific purposes.
Appropriation balance means the unencumbered balance of appropriation or allotment, and unexpended balance of appropriation or allotment.
Asset means property of all kinds of the city, including both current assets and fixed assets.
Audit means the examination of records, documents, reports, systems or internal control, accounting and financial procedures, and other evidence for one or more of the following purposes:
(1)
Ascertain whether the statements prepared from the accounts present fairly the financial position and the results of financial operations of the constituent funds and balanced account groups of the governmental unit in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles applicable to governmental units and on a basis consistent with that of the preceding year;
(2)
Determine the propriety, legality, and mathematical accuracy of a governmental unit's financial transactions;
(3)
Ascertain whether all financial transactions have been properly recorded; and
(4)
Ascertain the stewardship of public officials who handle and are responsible for the financial resources of a governmental unit.
Balance sheet means a statement ordinarily prepared from books kept by double entry showing assets, liabilities, reserves and surplus of a fund of a governmental unit at a specified date properly classified to exhibit the financial position of the fund or unit at that date.
Budget means a plan of financial operation embodying an estimate of proposed expenditures for a given time and the proposed means of financing them. The annual budget refers to a period of one year.
Budgetary control means the control or management of a government unit in accordance with an approved budget and keeping expenditures within the limitations of available appropriations or revenues.
Cash basis means the system of accounting under which revenues are accounted for only when received in cash, and expenditures are accounted for only when paid.
Contingent account means an appropriation to provide for unforeseen expenditures.
Current surplus means the excess of the current assets of a fund over its current liabilities and reserves.
Debit andcredit are terms commonly used to indicate the manner in which a transaction is to be recorded. Every entry on the left side of the ledger sheet is called a debit. Every entry on the right side of the ledger sheet is called a credit.
Debt service means the amount of money necessary annually to pay the interest on the outstanding debt and the principal of maturing bonded debt not payable from a sinking fund and to provide a fund for the redemption of bonds payable from a sinking fund.
Delinquent taxes means taxes remaining unpaid on and after the date due. Even though a portion of the taxes may be abated or canceled, the unpaid balances continue to be delinquent taxes until abated, canceled, or converted into tax liens.
Encumbrances means obligations in the form of purchase orders, contracts or salary commitments which are chargeable to an appropriation and for which a part of the appropriation is reserved.
Fund means a sum of money or other resources (gross or net) set aside for the purpose of carrying on specific activities or to attain certain objectives in accordance with special regulations, restrictions or limitations. A fund is a distinct financial and legal entity.
Internal audit means an audit made by persons on the staff of the government unit whose accounts are being audited primarily for the purpose of internal control. An internal audit is usually a continuous audit.
Liabilities means debt owed.
Millage is a term used to express the property tax rate and derived from the term "mill," which is one-tenth of a cent. Thus, ten mills equal $0.01 or one percent. Millage is determined by dividing the total amount of money to be raised by the total assessed value of taxable property.
Taxes receivable means the uncollected portion of taxes which a government unit has levied.
Trust funds means amounts received or appropriated and held in trust in accordance with an agreement or legislative act which may be expended only in accordance with the terms of such trust or act.
(Code 1979, § 3-1-2; Code 1998, § 38-36)
Sec. 16-26. - Fiscal year.
(a)
For 2014 and all prior years, the fiscal year shall begin on January 1 and shall end on December 31 of each year;
(b)
The city shall adopt an eight-month budget for the fiscal period from January 1, 2015 through August 31, 2015;
(c)
For the fiscal year beginning September 1, 2015 and for all subsequent fiscal years, the fiscal year shall begin on September 1 of the current year and end on August 31 of the subsequent year.
(Code 1979, § 3-1-3; Code 1998, § 38-37; Ord. No. 02-2014, 5-5-2014)
Sec. 16-27. - Annual operating budget; appropriations.
(a)
For 2014 and all prior fiscal years and for the eight-month period from January 1, 2015 through August 31, 2015, the annual appropriating budget and appropriations shall be as follows:
(1)
On or before October 1 or another date fixed by resolution by the City Council, but no later than 60 days prior to the beginning of each fiscal year, the City Manager or his designee, the Financial Director, shall prepare and submit to the City Council a proposed operating budget for the ensuing fiscal year. The budget shall be accompanied by a message from the City Manager containing a statement of the general fiscal policies of the city, the important features of the budget, explanation of major changes recommended for the next fiscal year, a general summary of the budget and such other comments and information as may be deemed pertinent. The public hearing shall take place on the proposed budget at the regular City Council meeting in November, and the proposed budget shall be adopted at the regular City Council meeting in December, unless another date is fixed by resolution of the City Council.
(2)
The City Council may amend the proposed operating budget, except that the budget as finally amended and adopted must provide for all expenditures required by state law or by the city Charter and for all debt service requirements for the ensuing fiscal year, and the total appropriations from any fund shall not exceed the estimated fund balance, reserves and revenues.
(3)
On or before July 15 of each year there shall be a mid-year budget review by the Mayor and Council. The Mayor and Council may require department heads to appear before them to review their respective budgets. Such review will be utilized to determine what corrective actions need to be taken, if necessary, to exercise proper budgetary control for the remainder of the fiscal year.
(b)
For the fiscal year beginning September 1, 2015, and for all subsequent fiscal years, the, the annual appropriating budget and appropriations shall be as follows:
(1)
On or before June 1 or another date fixed by resolution by the City Council, but no later than 60 days prior to the beginning of each fiscal year, the City Manager or his designee, the Financial Director, shall prepare and submit to the City Council a proposed operating budget for the ensuing fiscal year. The budget shall be accompanied by a message from the City Manager containing a statement of the general fiscal policies of the city, the important features of the budget, explanation of major changes recommended for the next fiscal year, a general summary of the budget and such other comments and information as may be deemed pertinent. The public hearing shall take place on the proposed budget at the regular City Council meeting in November, and the proposed budget shall be adopted at the regular City Council meeting in December, unless another date is fixed by resolution of the City Council.
(2)
The City Council may amend the proposed operating budget, except that the budget as finally amended and adopted must provide for all expenditures required by state law or by the city Charter and for all debt service requirements for the ensuing fiscal year, and the total appropriations from any fund shall not exceed the estimated fund balance, reserves and revenues.
(3)
On or before March 15 of each year there shall be a mid-year budget review by the Mayor and Council. The Mayor and Council may require department heads to appear before them to review their respective budgets. Such review will be utilized to determine what corrective actions need to be taken, if necessary, to exercise proper budgetary control for the remainder of the fiscal year.
(Code 1979, § 3-1-4; Code 1998, § 38-38; Ord. No. 01-98, § I(3-1-4), 1-5-1998; Ord. No. 21-98, 12-7-1998; Ord. No. 02-2014, 5-5-2014)
Sec. 16-28. - Capital improvements budget; appropriations.
(a)
For 2014 and all prior fiscal years and for the eight-month period from January 1, 2015 through August 31, 2015, the capital improvements budget and appropriations shall be established as follows:
On or before October 1 or another date fixed by resolution by the City Council, but no later than 60 days prior to the beginning of each fiscal year, the City Manager or his designee, the Financial Director, shall prepare and submit to the City Council a proposed capital improvements budget with recommendations as to the means of financing the improvements proposed for the ensuing fiscal year. The City Council shall have power to accept, with or without amendments, or reject the proposed program and proposed means of financing. The City Council shall not authorize an expenditure for the construction of any building, structure, work or improvement, unless the appropriations for such project are included in the capital improvements budget, except to meet a public emergency. The public hearing shall take place on the proposed budget at the regular City Council meeting in November, and the proposed budget shall be adopted at the regular City Council meeting in December, unless another date is fixed by resolution of the City Council.
(b)
For the fiscal year beginning September 1, 2015, and for all subsequent fiscal years, the, the annual appropriating budget and appropriations shall be as follows:
On or before June 1 or another date fixed by resolution by the City Council, but no later than 60 days prior to the beginning of each fiscal year, the City Manager or his designee, the Financial Director, shall prepare and submit to the City Council a proposed capital improvements budget with recommendations as to the means of financing the improvements proposed for the ensuing fiscal year. The City Council shall have power to accept, with or without amendments, or reject the proposed program and proposed means of financing. The City Council shall not authorize an expenditure for the construction of any building, structure, work or improvement, unless the appropriations for such project are included in the capital improvements budget, except to meet a public emergency. The public hearing shall take place on the proposed budget at the regular City Council meeting in July, and the proposed budget shall be adopted at the regular City Council meeting in August, unless another date is fixed by resolution of the City Council.
(Code 1979, § 3-1-5; Code 1998, § 38-39; Ord. No. 01-98, § I(3-1-5), 1-5-1998; Ord. No. 02-2014, 5-5-2014)
Sec. 16-29. - Prior appropriation required; appropriations ordinance and supplemental appropriations.
(a)
No expenditure in any fund shall be legal or proper unless appropriations adequate to meet that expenditure have been made pursuant to this section.
(b)
Each city appropriations ordinance, now in force or hereafter adopted with all amendments as are adopted from time to time, shall continue in force and effect for the next fiscal year after adoption; and it shall then expire except for any mandatory appropriations required to meet contractual obligations or the continued appropriation and authorization of state or federal grants.
(c)
The City Council shall not appropriate funds for any given fiscal year which, in aggregate, exceed a sum equal to the amount of unappropriated surplus expected to have accrued in the city treasury at the beginning of the fiscal year, together with an amount not greater than the total city receipts from existing revenue sources anticipated to be collected in the fiscal year, less refunds as estimated in the budget resolution and amendments thereto.
(d)
All state or federal funds received by the city are hereby continually appropriated in the exact amounts and for the purposes authorized and directed by the state or federal government in making the grant.
(e)
In addition to the appropriations made by the city appropriations ordinance and amendments thereto, the City Council may make additional appropriations in the same manner as herein provided, which shall be known as supplementary appropriations ordinances; provided no supplementary appropriation shall be made unless there is an existing unappropriated surplus in the fund to which it applies.
(f)
In no event shall a supplementary appropriations ordinance continue in force and effect beyond the expiration of the municipal budget in effect when the supplementary appropriations ordinance was adopted and approved.
(g)
The appropriation for each department, office, bureau, board, commission, function or line item for which appropriation is made shall be for a specific amount of money and no appropriation shall allocate to any object the proceeds of any particular tax or fund or a part or percentage thereof. All appropriations by function or line item shall be lump sum by function or line item.
(Code 1979, § 3-1-6; Code 1998, § 38-40)
Sec. 16-30. - Public inspection.
At the time the proposed budget is transmitted to members of the City Council by the City Manager, a copy of the proposed budget shall be made available for public inspection in the Office of the General Government Administration Department during regular office hours.
(Code 1979, § 3-1-7; Code 1998, § 38-41; Ord. No. 18-95, § IV, 11-6-1995; Ord. No. 01-98, § I(3-1-7), 1-5-1998)
Sec. 16-31. - Public hearing.
At the time of the submission of the budget to the Mayor and Council a public notice advising the citizens of the city of the availability of the budget for review shall be published in a newspaper of general circulation within the city. The notice shall be published as an advertisement instead of a legal notice and will further contain notice of the time and place of the budget hearing. The budget hearing shall be at least one week prior to the adoption of the budget and shall be open to all persons wishing to be heard on the budget.
(Code 1979, § 3-1-8; Code 1998, § 38-42)
Sec. 16-32. - Annual operating budget; amendments.
(a)
For 2014 and all prior fiscal years and for the eight-month period from January 1, 2015, through August 31, 2015, the annual operating budget and amendments shall be as follows:
(1)
The City Council shall adopt the final operating budget and appropriation ordinance for the ensuing year not later than December 31 of each year. If the City Council fails to adopt the budget by this date, the amounts appropriated for operation for the current fiscal year shall be deemed adopted for the ensuing fiscal year on a month-to-month basis, with all items prorated accordingly until such time as the City Council adopts a budget for the ensuing fiscal year. Adoption of the budget shall take the form of an appropriations ordinance setting out the estimated revenues in detail by sources and making appropriations according to fund and by organizational unit, purpose or activity as set out in the budget document.
(2)
The amount set out in the adopted operating budget for each organizational unit shall constitute the annual appropriation for such item, and no expenditure shall be made or encumbrance created in excess of the otherwise encumbered balance of the appropriation, or allotment thereof, to which it is chargeable unless authorized by the City Council.
(b)
For the fiscal year beginning September 1, 2015, and for all subsequent fiscal years, the annual operating budget and amendments shall be as follows:
(1)
The City Council shall adopt the final operating budget and appropriation ordinance for the ensuing year not later than August 31 of each year. If the City Council fails to adopt the budget by this date, the amounts appropriated for operation for the current fiscal year shall be deemed adopted for the ensuing fiscal year on a month-to-month basis, with all items prorated accordingly until such time as the City Council adopts a budget for the ensuing fiscal year. Adoption of the budget shall take the form of an appropriations ordinance setting out the estimated revenues in detail by sources and making appropriations according to fund and by organizational unit, purpose or activity as set out in the budget document.
(2)
The amount set out in the adopted operating budget for each organizational unit shall constitute the annual appropriation for such item, and no expenditure shall be made or encumbrance created in excess of the otherwise encumbered balance of the appropriation, or allotment thereof, to which it is chargeable unless authorized by the City Council.
(Code 1979, § 3-1-9; Code 1998, § 38-43; Ord. No. 02-2014, 5-5-2014)
Sec. 16-33. - Capital improvements budget; amendments.
(a)
For 2014 and all prior fiscal years and for the eight-month period from January 1, 2015, through August 31, 2015, the City Council shall adopt the final capital improvements budget for the ensuing fiscal year not later than December 31 of each year. No appropriations provided for in a prior capital improvements budget shall lapse until the purpose for which the appropriation was made shall have been accomplished or abandoned; provided, however, the Mayor or any member of the City Council may submit amendments to the capital improvements budget at any time during the fiscal year, accompanied by recommendations. Any such amendments to the capital improvements budget shall become effective only upon adoption by ordinance.
(b)
For the fiscal year beginning September 1, 2015, and for all subsequent fiscal years, the City Council shall adopt the final capital improvements budget for the ensuing fiscal year not later than August 31 of each year. No appropriations provided for in a prior capital improvements budget shall lapse until the purpose for which the appropriation was made shall have been accomplished or abandoned; provided, however, the Mayor or any member of the City Council may submit amendments to the capital improvements budget at any time during the fiscal year, accompanied by recommendations. Any such amendments to the capital improvements budget shall become effective only upon adoption by ordinance.
(Code 1979, § 3-1-10; Code 1998, § 38-44; Ord. No. 01-98, § I(3-1-10), 1-5-1998; Ord. No. 02-2014, 5-5-2014)
Sec. 16-34. - Increases; transfers.
Any increase in appropriation to a department budget or in a nondepartment expense category, whether accomplished through a change in anticipated revenues or a supplemental appropriations ordinance, shall also require an amendment to the budget resolution. Monies, the expenditure of which is not otherwise specifically provided for in an appropriations ordinance, may be transferred among the various accounts within a department budget or within a nondepartment expense category only after the approval of the department head and the concurrence of the City Manager, except any transfer of monies within a department budget or nondepartment expense account so as to increase or decrease the salary appropriation for the purpose of employing or not employing additional personnel shall require the approval of the City Council by motion.
(Code 1979, § 3-1-11; Code 1998, § 38-45; Ord. No. 01-98, § I(3-1-11), 1-5-1998)
Sec. 16-35. - Sinking fund transfer.
No appropriation transfer shall be made from a sinking fund or debt retirement fund until all the legal obligations and requirements of such fund have been satisfied.
(Code 1979, § 3-1-12; Code 1998, § 38-46)
Sec. 16-36. - Anticipated revenues.
The City Manager shall present the statement of anticipated revenues for the budget on the basis of the ordinary and reasonable revenues which can be expected for the fiscal year. Property tax revenue estimates shall be based on a consideration of the taxes which were delinquent taxes, including penalties and interest, to be collected in the fiscal year based on consideration of the actual experience in the collection of delinquent taxes in the three prior fiscal years.
(Code 1979, § 3-1-13; Code 1998, § 38-47; Ord. No. 01-98, § I(3-1-13), 1-5-1998)
Sec. 16-37. - Appropriations to lapse.
Except as provided for under this article, all appropriations which are not obligated, encumbered or expended at the end of the fiscal year shall lapse and shall become a part of the unencumbered surplus which may be appropriated for the next fiscal year.
(Code 1979, § 3-1-14; Code 1998, § 38-48)
Sec. 16-38. - Funds.
The following funds may be established and may be used as necessary to provide for the proper accounting of financial activities of this city:
(1)
The general fund to account for the general governmental operations and all financial transactions not properly accounted for in another fund.
(2)
Special revenue funds to account for the proceeds of special revenue sources other than special assessments, or to finance specified activities as required by law or administrative regulation.
(3)
Debt service funds to account for the payment of interest and principal on longterm debt other than special assessment and revenue bonds.
(4)
Capital projects funds to account for the receipt and disbursement of monies including bond funds used for the acquisition of capital facilities other than those financed by special assessment and enterprise funds.
(5)
Enterprise (utility) funds to account for the financing of services to the general public where all or most of the costs involved are paid in the form of charges by users of such services.
(6)
Trust and agency funds to account for assets held by a government unit as trustee or agent for individuals, private organizations, and other government units.
(7)
Intergovernmental service funds to account for the financing of special activities and services performed by a designated organization unit within a governmental jurisdiction for their organization units within the same governmental jurisdiction.
(8)
Special assessment funds to account for special assessments levied to finance public improvements or services deemed to benefit the properties against which the assessments are levied.
(Code 1979, § 3-1-15; Code 1998, § 38-49)
Sec. 16-39. - Accounts.
(a)
A complete self-balancing group of accounts shall be established and maintained for each fund used. This group of accounts shall include all general ledger accounts and subsidiary records necessary to reflect compliance with legal provisions and to set forth the financial position and the results of financial operations of the fund.
(b)
Additional accounts, as follows, shall be maintained:
(1)
A fixed asset account for the purpose of accounting for those assets which are of tangible nature, have a life longer than one fiscal year, and have a significant value or have a value greater than $1,000.00. Fixed assets shall be recorded at original cost, shall not be depreciated and shall be removed from the account when disposed of.
(2)
A general longterm debt account for the purpose of accounting for longterm debt which is supported by general revenues and for recording and fairly representing the liability for longterm debt at any time from date of issuance until the debt is retired.
(Code 1979, § 3-1-16; Code 1998, § 38-50)
Sec. 16-40. - Method of accounting.
To the extent possible, the modified accrual basis of accounting shall be used so that expenditures, other than accrued interest on longterm debt, are recorded at the time liabilities are incurred and revenues are recorded when cash is received, except for material or available revenues which shall be accrued to reflect properly the taxes levied and the revenues earned. All receipts and disbursements shall be posted promptly and at least on a monthly basis. To the extent possible, all interfund transfers shall be cleared by the end of the fiscal year.
(Code 1979, § 3-1-17; Code 1998, § 38-51)
Sec. 16-41. - Financial reports.
Financial statements and reports showing the current condition of budgetary and proprietary accounts shall be prepared and presented to the City Council each month. No later than 190 days after the close of the fiscal year, a comprehensive annual financial report covering all funds and financial operations shall be prepared. A notice shall be published in a newspaper of general circulation in the municipality advising the public that a copy of the comprehensive annual financial report is available for inspection in the Office of the General Government Administration Department during regular office hours.
(Code 1979, § 3-1-18; Code 1998, § 38-52)
Sec. 16-42. - Audits.
All the funds, accounts and financial transactions of the city shall be subject to an annual audit by an independent certified public accountant who is to be selected by the City Council. The audit shall be conducted according to the standards set forth in the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants' Publication, Audits of State and Local Governmental Units. A copy of the audit reports shall be available for public inspection in the Office of the General Government Administration Department during regular office hours.
(Code 1979, § 3-1-19; Code 1998, § 38-53)
Secs. 16-43—16-72. - Reserved.
