ARTICLE IV. - MUNICIPAL COURT

Sec. 4.10. - Creation.
There is established a court to be known as the Municipal Court of the City of Norcross, which shall have jurisdiction and authority to try offenses against the laws and ordinances of said city and to punish for a violation of the same. Such court shall have the power and authority to enforce its judgments by the imposition of such penalties as may be provided by law; to punish witnesses for nonattendance, and to punish also any person who may counsel or advise, aid, encourage or persuade another whose testimony is desired or material in any proceeding before said court to go or move beyond the reach of the process of the court; to try all offenses within the territorial limits of the city constituting traffic cases which under the laws of Georgia are placed within the jurisdiction of municipal courts to the extent of and in accordance with the provisions of such laws and all law subsequently enacted amendatory thereof.
Sec. 4.11. - Chief judge; associate judge; solicitor.
(a)
The municipal court shall be presided over by a chief judge and such part-time, full-time, or standby judges as shall be provided by ordinance. The method of selection and terms of such judges shall be provided by ordinance.
(b)
No person shall be qualified or eligible to serve as a judge on the municipal court unless he shall have attained the age of 21 years and shall be a member of the State Bar of Georgia. All judges shall be appointed by the mayor and confirmed by the city council and shall serve at the pleasure of the mayor and city council.
(c)
Compensation of the judges shall be fixed by the city council by ordinance.
(d)
Before assuming office, each judge shall take an oath, given by the mayor, that he will honestly and faithfully discharge the duties of his office to the best of his ability and without fear, favor or partiality. The oath shall be entered upon the minutes of the city council journal required in section 2.20 of this Charter.
(e)
At the request of the presiding municipal judge, a solicitor and an assistant solicitor may be appointed by the mayor and confirmed by the city council. The method of selection and terms of such solicitors shall be provided by ordinance.
Sec. 4.12. - Convening.
The municipal court shall be convened at such times as designated by ordinance or at such times as the court deems necessary to keep current the dockets thereof.
Sec. 4.13. - Jurisdiction; powers.
(a)
The municipal court shall try and punish violations of this Charter, all city ordinances, and such other violations as provided by law.
(b)
The municipal court shall have the authority to punish those in its presence for contempt, provided that such punishment shall not exceed a fine of $200.00 or ten days in jail.
(c)
The municipal court may fix punishment for offenses within its jurisdiction not exceeding a fine of $1,000.00 or imprisonment for 180 days, or both, or may fix punishment by fine, imprisonment or alternative sentencing as now or hereafter provided by law. The municipal judge may appoint counsel as required by law at the request of any person sentenced to a jail term who is found to be indigent.
(d)
The municipal court shall have the authority to establish a schedule of fees to defray the costs of operation and shall be entitled to reimbursement of the actual cost of meals, transportation and caretaking of prisoners bound over to superior courts for violation of state law.
(e)
The municipal court shall have authority to establish bail and recognizances to ensure the presence of those charged with violations before said court and shall have discretionary authority to accept cash or personal or real property as surety bond for the appearance of persons charged with violations. Whenever any person shall give bail for his appearance and shall fail to appear at the time fixed for trial, his bond may be forfeited by the judge presiding at such time and an execution shall be issued thereon by serving the defendant and his sureties with a rule nisi at least two (2) days before a hearing on the rule nisi. In the event that cash or property is accepted in lieu of bond or security for the appearance of a defendant at trial and if such defendant fails to appear at the time and place fixed for trial, the cash so deposited shall be on order of the judge declared forfeited to the City of Norcross, or the property so deposited shall have a lien against it for the value forfeited, which lien shall be enforceable in the same manner and to the same extent as a lien for city property taxes.
(f)
The municipal court shall have the authority to bind prisoners over to the appropriate court when it appears by probable cause that state law has been violated.
(g)
The municipal court shall have the same authority as superior courts to administer oaths as are necessary and to perform all other acts necessary and proper to the conduct of said court.
(h)
The municipal court may compel the presence of all parties necessary to a proper disposal of each case by the issuance of summonses, subpoenas and warrants which may be served as executed by any officer as authorized by this Charter or by law.
(i)
The municipal court is specifically vested with all the jurisdiction and powers throughout the geographic area of the City of Norcross granted by law to municipal courts and particularly by such laws as authorize the abatement of nuisances and prosecution of traffic violations.
Sec. 4.14. - Appeal and certiorari.
(a)
A review of a decision of the municipal court, in the case of traffic violations, may be by direct appeal to the superior court, and any bond as may be required to secure the costs of appeal to the Superior Court of Gwinnett County, Georgia, from the municipal court shall lie as prescribed by law. An appeal to the superior court shall not be a de novo proceeding.
(b)
The right of certiorari from the decision and judgment of the municipal court shall exist in all criminal cases and ordinance violation cases, and such certiorari shall be obtained under the sanction of the judge of the Superior Court of Gwinnett County under the laws of the State of Georgia regulating the granting and issuance of writs of certiorari.
Sec. 4.15. - Rules of court.
With the approval of the city council, the municipal judge shall have full power and authority to make reasonable rules and regulations necessary and proper to secure the efficient and successful administration of the municipal court; provided, however, that the city council may adopt in part or in toto the rules and regulations applicable to the superior courts under the laws of the State of Georgia. The rules and regulations made or adopted for said court shall be filed with the city clerk, shall be available for public inspection, and, upon request, a copy shall be furnished to all defendants in municipal court proceedings at least 48 hours prior to said proceedings.
