ARTICLE VII. - MUNICIPAL SERVICES AND REGULATORY FUNCTIONS

Sec. 7.10. - Municipal services; streets.
The city council shall have the power and authority to lay out, open, widen, change, straighten, alter, improve, vacate, abandon and otherwise to exercise complete control over the streets, alleys, squares and sidewalks of the city. The city council shall provide for the removal of any and all obstacles and nuisances in regard to the streets, alleys, or sidewalks, or other public places within the city and shall adopt appropriate ordinances to accomplish this purpose.
Sec. 7.11. - Municipal utilities.
The city council shall have the power and authority to acquire, own, hold, build, maintain and operate a system of waterworks, electric lights, sewerage systems; to establish rates and charge fees for services rendered in any of said systems; to finance any of said systems through appropriate bond issues in accordance with the laws of Georgia; to exercise the power of eminent domain in regard to any of said systems, both inside and outside the corporate limits; and to contract to furnish the services of said systems to consumers outside the corporate limits of the city.
Sec. 7.12. - Sewers and drains.
The city council shall have the power and authority to provide for the establishment, extension and maintenance of a system of sewers and drains, together with a sewerage disposal system. This power includes the authority to extend said system beyond the corporate limits. For these purposes the city is granted the power of eminent domain both inside and outside the corporate limits. The city council may provide by ordinances for reasonable connection fees for tapping on to the water and sewer lines of said city and may compel citizens to tap into the same when such services are made available. They may cause said connection to be made when the owners refuse and issue executions to be made for the amount so expended, which executions shall create a lien on the property connected with said water and sewerage system from the date of the order or connection.
Sec. 7.13. - Rights-of-way.
The city shall have the right, easement and franchise of laying the necessary mains, pipes, conduits and drains, for waterworks and sewerage system purposes along the highways in the County of Gwinnett, without cost; it shall have full power and authority to enact and enforce such rules and regulations and ordinances as may be necessary to protect the water basin and watershed from which the water supply is taken from contamination and to protect said waterworks and sewerage system, including the mains, pipes, and conduits whether the same be situated inside or outside the corporate limits of the city.
Sec. 7.14. - Power to regulate and license.
The city council shall have the power and authority to provide by ordinance for the registration and licensing of any trade, business, occupation, vocation, profession, or any and every other undertaking pursued for the purpose of personal gain or profit of whatever nature, engaged in or carried on within the limits of the city, regardless of whether or not the subject has an office or establishment within the city. The city council shall be authorized to fix the amount, terms and manner of issuing and revoking licenses, provided that this authority is subject to the constitutions and laws of the United States and State of Georgia. This power is conferred for the purpose of regulation under the police powers of the city and for the purpose of raising revenue for the operation of the city government through the imposition of a tax or fee on the privilege of operating within the city. This authority extends over individuals, partnerships, associations, corporations and their agents and any other legal entity capable of transacting business.
Sec. 7.15. - Franchises.
The city council shall have the authority to exercise control over the streets of the city. The power is conferred upon the city council to grant franchises for the use of this city's streets and alleys, for the purposes of railroads, street railways, telephone companies, electric companies, cable television companies, gas companies, transportation companies and other similar organizations. This franchise right extends to, but is not limited to, the erection of poles, stringing wires, laying of pipes, lines or conduits both above and below the ground surface. The council shall determine the duration, provisions, terms, whether the same shall be exclusive or nonexclusive and the consideration for such franchises; provided, however, that no franchise shall be granted for a period in excess of 35 years and no franchise shall be granted unless the city receives just and adequate compensation therefor. The council shall provide for the registration of all franchises with the city clerk in the registration book kept by her or him. The city council may provide by ordinance for the registration within a reasonable time of all franchises previously granted.
Sec. 7.16. - Building, housing, electrical and plumbing regulations.
The city council shall have the power and authority to enact such reasonable rules and regulations as it may deem necessary or expedient regarding the construction and maintenance of buildings, remodeling of buildings, plumbing and electrical wiring and equipping of buildings, in order to promote the safety and welfare of its citizens and to guard against fire or other property damage. This power may, in the discretion of the council, be exercised by adoption of any such standard building, housing, gas, heating and air conditioning, electrical, and plumbing codes as may be deemed proper. The city council shall be empowered to engage the necessary personnel to enforce such rules and regulations as adopted and to charge reasonable fees for inspections and permits; and may require the obtaining of a permit as a condition precedent to any construction, building, electrical or plumbing work. The city council may enact all ordinances necessary to enforce such rules and regulations.
