ARTICLE I. - INCORPORATION AND POWERS

Sec. 1.11. - Incorporation.
The City of Norcross, Georgia, in the County of Gwinnett and the inhabitants thereof shall continue to be a body politic and corporate under the name and style of the City of Norcross, Georgia. Under that name, said City shall continue to be invested with all the property which now belongs to the corporation; shall have perpetual succession; may sue and be sued; may contract and be contracted with; may acquire and hold such property, real and personal, as may be devised, bequeathed, sold, or in any manner conveyed or dedicated to or otherwise acquired by it, and from time to time may hold or invest, sell or dispose of the same; may have a common seal and alter and renew the same at will; and may exercise in conformity with this Charter all municipal powers, functions, rights, privileges and immunities of every name and nature whatsoever.
Sec. 1.12. - Corporate boundaries.
(a)
The boundaries of the City of Norcross shall be those existing on the effective date of the adoption of this Charter with such alterations as may be made from time to time by local law or in the manner provided by law. The current boundaries of the City of Norcross, at all times, shall be shown on a map, a written description, or any combination thereof, to be retained permanently in the office of the city clerk and to be designated, as the case may be: "Map (or Description) of the Corporate Limits of the City of Norcross, Georgia." Alterations in these boundaries shall be indicated by appropriate entries upon or additions to such map or description. Such entries or additions shall be made by and under the direction of the mayor and city council. Photographic, typed or other copies of such map or description certified by the city clerk shall be admitted as evidence in all courts and shall have the same force and effect as with the original map or description.
(b)
The city council may provide for redrawing of any such map to reflect lawful changes in the corporate boundaries. A redrawn map shall supersede for all purposes the earlier map or maps which it is designated to replace.
(c)
In addition to all other territory included within the corporate limits of said city, the corporate limits shall specifically include the following described right-of-way, all of which is located in Gwinnett County, Georgia:
All that tract or parcel of land lying and being in Land Lots 212, 213, 226, 241, and 242 of the 6th District of Gwinnett County, Georgia, and being more particularly described as follows:
The right-of-way of Beaver Ruin Road (State Route 378) beginning at Buford Highway (State Route 13) and continuing 1.732 miles to the intersection of Indian Trail Road exclusive of said intersection. Right-of-way width varies from 90 feet to 130 feet.
All that tract or parcel of land lying and being in Land Lot 213 of the 6th District, Gwinnett County, Georgia, and being more particularly described as follows:
To find the point of beginning, begin at the point located at the intersection of southwest right-of-way of Beaver Ruin Road (S.R. 378) with the West right-of-way of Indian Trail Road; run thence South 04 degrees 41 minutes 00 seconds East along the West right-of-way of Indian Trail Road, a distance of 152.00 feet to a point; run thence South 04 degrees 41 minutes 00 seconds East along the West right-of-way of Indian Trail Road, a distance of 26.69 feet to a point; continue thence along the west right-of-way of Indian Trail Road and following the curvature thereof, a distance of 36.35 feet to a point (said curve having a chord bearing South 05 degrees 52 minutes 09 seconds East and a chord distance of 36.35 feet); thence leaving the West right-of-way of Indian Trail Road, run South 79 degrees 43 minutes 31 seconds West, a distance of 190.76 feet to the point of beginning; from the point of beginning as thus established, run thence South 36 degrees 31 minutes 20 seconds West, a distance of 50.00 feet to a point; run thence North 53 degrees 28 minutes 40 seconds West, a distance of 112.00 feet to a point; run thence North 36 degrees 31 minutes 20 seconds East, a distance of 60.00 feet to a point; run thence South 53 degrees 28 minutes 40 seconds East, a distance of 112.00 feet to a point; run thence South 36 degrees 31 minutes 20 seconds West, a distance of 10.00 feet to the point of beginning; said tract being shown on Survey for Whisker's Tavern and The City of Norcross prepared by Q-B Engineering and Surveying, Inc., dated November 26, 1990.
(d)
In addition to all other territory included within the corporate limits of said city, the corporate limits shall specifically include the following described right-of-way, all of which is located in Gwinnett County, Georgia:
All that tract or parcel of land lying and being in Land Lots 271, 272, 273, and 274 of the 6th District of Gwinnett County, Georgia, and being more particularly described as follows:
The right-of-way of Peachtree Industrial Boulevard beginning at a point 787 feet east of the intersection with Holcomb Bridge Road, said point coinciding with the east boundary of tax parcel 6-274-5, and continuing 1.43 miles through and including the intersection of said boulevard and Medlock Bridge Road. Such right-of-way varies from 200 feet to 300 feet in width.
(e)
In addition to all other territory included within the corporate limits of said city, the corporate limits shall specifically include the following described property, all of which is located in Gwinnett County, Georgia:
All that tract or parcel of land lying and being in Land Lots 286 and 271 of the 6th District of Gwinnett County, Georgia, and being more particularly described as follows:
Beginning at the northwest corner of the intersection of Peachtree Industrial Boulevard and Medlock Bridge Road, said point being located in the City of Norcross, Georgia, and continuing along the westerly right-of-way of Medlock Bridge Road to the southwest corner of the intersection of Medlock Bridge Road and Spalding Drive, then continuing along the westerly right-of-way of Spalding Drive to the land lot line dividing Land Lots 285 and 286 of the 6th District, Gwinnett County, Georgia, and continuing southerly along the land lot line through the point at which the land lot line divides Land Lots 271 and 272 of the 6th District of Gwinnett County, Georgia, and continuing along the land lot line dividing Land Lots 271 and 272 to the right-of-way of Peachtree Industrial Boulevard then continuing northeasterly along the right-of-way of Peachtree Industrial Boulevard to the point of beginning at the intersection of Peachtree Industrial Boulevard and Medlock Bridge Road, less and excepting and excluding specifically Parcel 52 of Land Lot 285 of the 6th District and Parcel 95 of Land Lot 286 of the 6th District.
(f)
In addition to all other territory included within the corporate limits of said city, the corporate limits shall specifically include the following described property, all of which is located in Gwinnett County, Georgia:
All that tract or parcel of land lying and being in Land Lots 286 and 271 of the 6th District of Gwinnett County, Georgia, and being more particularly described as follows:
Beginning at the northwest corner of the intersection of Peachtree Industrial Boulevard and Medlock Bridge Road - said point being located in the City of Norcross, Georgia - and continuing along the westerly right-of-way of Medlock Bridge Road to the southwest corner of the intersection of Medlock Bridge Road and Spalding Drive, then continuing along the westerly right-of-way of Spalding Drive to the Land Lots Line dividing Land Lots 285 and 286 of the 6th District, Gwinnett County Georgia and continuing southerly along the Land Lots line through the point in which the Land Lots line divides Land Lots 271 and 272 of the 6th District, Gwinnett County, and continuing the Land Lot Line dividing Land Lots 271 and 272 to the right-of-way of Peachtree Industrial Boulevard then continuing northeasterly along the right-of-way of Peachtree Industrial Boulevard to the point of beginning at the intersection of Peachtree Industrial Boulevard and Medlock Bridge Road - less and excepting and excluding specifically Parcel 52, Land Lot 285 of the 6th District and Parcel 95, Land Lot 286 of the 6th District.
(g)
In addition to all other territory included within the corporate limits of said city, the corporate limits shall specifically include the following described property, all of which is located in Gwinnett County, Georgia:
All that tract or parcel of land lying and being in land lots 252, 253, 274 and 275 of the 6th Land District of Gwinnett County, Georgia, which tract is more particularly described as follows:
Beginning at a point located at the intersection of the westerly right-of-way line of Holcomb Bridge Road and the southerly right-of-way line of Atlantic Boulevard, said point being the point of beginning; Thence continuing along said westerly right-of-way line of Holcomb Bridge Road to the southerly right-of-way line of Peachtree Industrial Boulevard; Thence leaving said westerly right-of-way line of Holcomb Bridge Road and running along said southerly right-of-way line of Peachtree Industrial Boulevard to the easterly right-of-way line of Jimmy Carter Boulevard; Thence leaving said southerly right-of-way line of Peachtree Industrial Boulevard and running along said easterly right-of-way line of Jimmy Carter Boulevard to the easterly right-of-way line of Pacific Drive, said right-of-way line also being the Norcross, Georgia City Limits; Thence leaving said easterly right-of-way line of Jimmy Carter Boulevard and running along Norcross, Georgia City Limits in a meandering direction northerly and easterly to the southerly right-of-way line of Atlantic Boulevard; Thence continuing along said Norcross, Georgia City Limits and the southerly right-of-way line of Atlantic Boulevard to the westerly right-of-way line of Holcomb Bridge Road, said intersection being the point of beginning.
(h)
In addition to all other territory included within the corporate limits of said city, the corporate limits shall specifically include the following described property, all of which is located in Gwinnett County, Georgia:
All that tract or parcel of land lying and being in Land Lot 271 of the 6th District of Gwinnett County, Georgia. The subject parcel being annexed is described in Deed Book 24173 and Pages 0238 and 0239 from the Gwinnett County Clerk of the Superior Court.
(i)
In addition to all other territory included within the corporate limits of said city, the corporate limits shall specifically include the following described property, all of which is located in Gwinnett County, Georgia:
All that tract or parcel of land lying and being in Land Lot 272 of the 6th District, Gwinnett County, Georgia, and being more fully described as follows:
Beginning at a pipe found at the Land Lot corner common to Land Lots 272, 273, 284 and 285 of aforesaid District and County thence North 82 degrees 16 minutes 17 seconds East a distance of 302.29 feet to an iron pin set on the right-of-way of a cul-de-sac of Guthridge Court, an 80-foot right-of-way; thence along said right-of-way along a curve to the left (said curve having a radius of 75.00 feet and being subtended by a chord bearing South 41 degrees 12 minutes 34 seconds East a distance of 82.75 feet) an arc distance of 87.65 feet to an iron pin set on the westerly right-of-way of said 80-foot right-of-way of Guthridge Court; thence continuing along said 80-foot right-of-way along a curve to the right (said curve having a radius of 676.20 feet and being subtended by a chord bearing South 06 degrees 10 minutes 07 seconds West a distance of 472.30 feet) an arc distance of 482.47 feet to a pipe found at the intersection of said right-of-way with the northerly right-of-way of Miller Road, an 80-foot right-of-way, and the Land Lot line common to Land Lots 272 and 273; thence departing said rights-of-way and along said Land Lot line North 31 degrees 41 minutes 45 seconds West a distance of 522.27 feet to a pipe found being the point of beginning.
(j)
In addition to all other territory included within the corporate limits of said city, the corporate limits shall specifically include the following described property, all of which is located in Gwinnett County, Georgia:
All that tract and parcel of land lying and being in Land Lot 286 of the 6th District of Gwinnett County, Georgia, containing 6.55 acres and being more particularly descried according to a plat of survey of Higginbotham and James Associates, Surveyors, dated December 11, 1964, as follows:
Beginning at an iron pin on the southeast right-of-way of Medlock Bridge Road, also known as Georgia Highway No. 141, located a distance of 50 feet in a northeast direction along the southeast right-of-way of Medlock Bridge Road from the iron pin where the Land Lot Line common to Land Lots 286 and 271 of said District intersect the southeast right-of-way of Medlock Bridge Road; thence run in a northeasterly direction along the southeast right-of-way of Medlock Bridge Road a distance of 510.0 feet to an iron pin; thence run along the property of Evans North 79°43' east 864.7 feet to an iron pin; thence run along the property of Evans and along the center of a Branch south 19°18' east 130 feet to an iron pin located on the Land Lot Line common to Land Lots 271 and
286 of said District; thence run along said Land Lot Line south 59°47' west 459 feet to an iron pin; thence run along the property of Thomas Helton south 63°03' west 668.7 feet to the point of beginning on the southeast right-of-way of Medlock Bridge Road.
(k)
In addition to all other territory included within the corporate limits of said city, the corporate limits shall specifically include the following described property, all of which is located in Gwinnett County, Georgia:
All that tract or parcel of land lying and being in land lot 233 of the 6th district, Gwinnett County, Georgia, and being more particularly descried as follows:
To find the true point of beginning, commence at a point located at the intersection of Jimmy Carter Blvd. (said road having a 100-foot right-of-way) and Norcross Tucker Road (said road having an 80-foot right-of-way), said point being marked by an iron pin found located at the southwestern point of the intersection of the eastern right-of-way line of Jimmy Carter Blvd. and the western right-of-way line of Norcross Tucker Road; running thence along an arc of a curve to the left (said curve having a radius of 989.86 feet, said arc being subtended by a cord line having a magnetic bearing of north 49 degrees 26 minutes 48 seconds west and a cord length of 150.19 feet) an arc distance of 150.22 feet to an X marked in concrete; running thence north 51 degrees 39 minutes 16 seconds west a distance of 232.39 feet to a point; running thence north 88 degrees 46 minutes 4 seconds east a distance of 106.8 feet to the true point of beginning; from the true point of beginning as thus established, running thence north 9 degrees 59 minutes 16 seconds east a distance of 16.04 feet to a point; running thence north 72 degrees 20 minutes 29 seconds east a distance of 68.11 feet to a point; running thence south 51 degrees 23 minutes 3 seconds east a distance of 59.91 feet to a point; running thence south 38 degrees 36 minutes 57 seconds west a distance of 6.10 feet; running thence south 51 degrees 23 minutes 3 seconds east a distance of 4.30 feet to a point; running thence south 38 degrees 15 minutes 27 seconds west a distance of 58.07 feet to a point; running thence north 51 degrees 44 minutes 33 seconds west a distance of 37.04 feet to a point; running thence 82 degrees 2 minutes 9 seconds west a distance of 8.31 feet to a point; running thence north 51 degrees 42 minutes 42 seconds west a distance of 51.96 feet to the true point of beginning. Said property being shown as a one story frame and stucco building lying at the northwestern corner of a strip shopping center as on a survey for the Ritter Corporation dated October 12, 1988, prepared by the Solar Land Surveying Company, which plat is incorporated herein and made a part hereof by this reference.
(l)
In addition to all other territory included within the corporate limits of said city, the corporate limits shall specifically include the following described property, all of which is located in Gwinnett County, Georgia:
All that tract or parcel of land lying and being in Land Lot 272 of the 6th District of Gwinnett County, Georgia, and being more particularly described as follows:
Beginning at a point on the Southerly side of Cummings Road, also called Miller Road, three hundred twenty-nine (329) feet Westerly from the intersection formed by the Southerly side of Cummings Road (also called Miller Road) and the Westerly side of Highway No. 141 (100-foot right-of-way) running thence Northwesterly along the Southerly side of Cummings Road 1,266 feet, more or less, to an iron pin found; running thence S 31°51' E a distance of 914.76 feet, more or less, to an iron pin on the Northwesterly line of Land Lot 255; running thence Northeasterly along the Northwesterly line of Land Lot 255 a distance of 911 feet, more or less, to an iron pin; running thence Northwesterly 105 feet, more or less, to the Southerly side of Cummings Road and the point of beginning; being the same property as shown and delineated on plat of survey made by A.S. Giometti and Associates, Inc., dated Feb. 6, 1963.
(m)
In addition to all other territory included within the corporate limits of said city, the corporate limits shall specifically include the following described property, all of which is located in Gwinnett County, Georgia:
Tract 12
All that tract or parcel of land lying and being in Land Lots 271 and 272 of the 6th District, Gwinnett County, Georgia, and being more particularly descried as follows:
Beginning at a right-of-way monument located at the intersection of the Westerly right-of-way line of Medlock Bridge Road and the Southerly right-of-way of Peachtree Industrial Boulevard; thence running South 82°31'35" East 112.04 feet to a right-of-way monument located on the Westerly right-of-way line of Medlock Bridge Road; thence running Southerly along the Westerly right-of-way line of Medlock Bridge Road, and following the curvature thereof, 2,435.09 feet, more or less, to a point of intersection of the Westerly right-of-way line of Medlock Bridge Road and the Northerly right-of-way line of Miller Road; thence running Northeasterly along the Northerly right-of-way line of Miller Road, and following the curvature thereof, 3,453.25 feet, more or less, to a concrete monument located at the intersection of the Southerly right-of-way line of Peachtree Industrial Boulevard and the Northerly right-of-way line of Miller Road; thence running Northeasterly along the Southerly right-of-way Line of Peachtree Industrial Boulevard, and following the curvature thereof, 3,463.53 feet, more or less to the point of beginning; plus that portion of the right-of-way of Miller Road running from Peachtree Industrial Boulevard to Medlock Bridge Road; less and except those premises located at 5390 Peachtree Industrial Boulevard, Norcross, Georgia, according to the present system of numbering in Gwinnett County, Georgia.
(n)
In addition to all other territory included within the corporate limits of said city, the corporate limits shall specifically include the following described property, all of which is located in Gwinnett County, Georgia:
All that tract or parcel of land lying and being in Land Lots 241 nd 242 of the 6th District of Gwinnett County, Georgia, containing .87 acres accordin to plat of survey by Miles H. Hannon, Surveyor, dated April 17, 1967, more particularly described as follows:
Beginning at an iron pin on the westerly side of Light Circle at the original line dividing Land Lots 241 and 242 of said District: thence running south 20° 24′ west, along the western side of Light CIrcle, 101.5 feet to a corner; thence north 64° 05′ west 246.2 feet to an iron pin corner; thence north 44° 17′ east 222.7 feet to an iron pin corner; thence south 43° 24′ east 172.6 feet to a corner on the westerly side of the right-of-way of Light Circle, 49.5 feet to the point of beginning.
(o)
In addition to all other territory included within the corporate limits of said city, the corporate limits shall specifically include the following described property, all of which is located in Gwinnett County, Georgia:
All that tract or parcel of land lying and being in Land Lot 198, 6th District, Gwinnett County, Georgia, being more particularly described as follows:
Beginning at an iron pin set at the intersection of the southerly right-of-way line of Goshen Springs Road (having an 80-foot wide right-of-way) and the line common to Land Lots 197 and 198; Thence leaving said Land Lot Line and continuing along said southerly right-of-way line of Goshen Springs Road, North 58°27'07" East, 268,34 feet to a ½-inch rebar found; Thence leaving said southerly right-of-way line of Goshen Springs Road and running, South 39°45'08" East, 728.27 feet to a ½-inch rebar found; Thence,· South 27°31'28" West, 54.99 feet to a point in the centerline of a creek; Thence along said centerline of a creek, South 46°14'05" West, 40.70 feet to a point; Thence, South 57°41'11" West, 45.83 feet to a point; Thence, South 47°25'46" West, 86.32 feet to a point; Thence, South 43°31'51" West, 74.91 feet to a point; Thence, South 39°42'17" West, 63.24 feet to a point; Thence, South 28°24'33" West, 44.87 feet to a point; Thence leaving said centerline of a creek and running, South 07°12'21" West, 20.22 feet to a ½-inch rebar found on said line common to Land Lots 197 and 198; Thence along said Land Lot Line, North 29°36'00" West, 853.15 feet to an iron pin set and the true POINT OF BEGINNING.
Said tract contains 6.019 acres (262,206 square feet), more or less, as shown in a survey prepared for Advanced Disposal Services Atlanta, LLC by POINT TO POINT LAND SURVEYORS, INC.
(1996 Ga. Laws, page 3844, § 1; 2001 Ga. Laws (Act No. 61), page 3729, § 1; 2005 Ga. Laws (Act No. 268), page 3876, § 1; Ord. No. 12-2011, § 1 (Exh. A), 10-17-2011; Ord. No. 13-2011, § 1(Exh. A), 10-17-2011; Ord. No. 14-2011, § 1(Exh. A), 10-17-2011; Ord. No. 24-2011, § 1(App. A), 12-5-2011; Ord. No. 03-2012, § 1(App. C, Exh. A), 2-6-2012; Ord. No. 04-2012, § 1(App. A), 2-6-2012; Ord. No. 05-2012, § 1(App. A), 2-6-2012; Ord. No. 11-2012, § 1(App. A), 4-2-2012; Ord. No. 15-2018 , § 1, 10-1-2018)
Editor's note— Subsection (f) of § 1.12 was derived from an unnumbered resolution attached to Act No. 61 at p. 3731. It has been placed in this location at the discretion of the editor and the approval of the city.
Sec. 1.13. - Powers and construction.
(a)
In addition to all other powers herein granted, the city shall be vested with any and all powers which municipal corporations are or may hereafter be authorized or required to exercise under the present or future constitution and laws of this state as fully and completely as though they were specifically enumerated in this Charter. This city shall have all the powers of self-government not otherwise prohibited by this Charter or by general law.
(b)
The powers of this city shall be construed liberally in favor of the city. The specific mention or failure to mention particular powers in this Charter shall not be construed as limiting in any way the general power of the city. It is the intention hereof to grant the city full power and right to exercise all governmental authority necessary for the effective operation and conduct of the city and all of its affairs.
(c)
In construing this Charter, the following definitions shall apply:
(1)
"Appointed officer" where used in this Charter shall mean all administrative officers, including the city clerk, city treasurer, city attorney, city accountant and city engineer. Such term shall not include members of boards, commissions or authorities.
(2)
"City council," where used herein, shall mean the elected officers of the City of Norcross which include the mayor and five councilmembers. The mayor shall vote on all matters in the event of a tie.
(3)
"Department head," where used herein, shall be synonymous with department directors.
(1996 Ga. Laws, page 3666, § 1; 1997 Ga. Laws, page 3517, § 1)
Sec. 1.14. - Powers.
The corporate powers of the government of the City of Norcross, to be exercised by the mayor and city council, shall include, but not be limited to, the following:
(1)
Air and water pollution. To regulate the emission of smoke or other exhaust which pollutes the air and to prevent the pollution of natural streams which flow within the corporate limits of the city;
(2)
Animal regulations. To regulate and license or to prohibit the keeping or running at large of animals and fowl and to provide for the impoundment of same if in violation of any ordinance or lawful order; to provide for the disposition by sale, gift or humane destruction of animals and fowl when not redeemed as provided by ordinance; and to provide punishment for violation of ordinances enacted hereunder;
(3)
Appropriations and expenditures. To make appropriations for the support of the government of the city; to authorize the expenditure of money for any purposes authorized by this Charter and for any purpose for which a municipality is authorized by the laws of the State of Georgia; and to provide for the payment of expenses of this city;
(4)
Building regulations. To regulate and to license the erection and construction of buildings and all other structures; to adopt building, housing, plumbing, electrical, gas, and heating and air conditioning codes; and to regulate all housing and building trades;
(5)
Business regulation and taxation. To levy and to provide for the collection of license fees and taxes on privileges, trades and professions; to license and regulate the same; to provide for the manner and method of payment of such licenses and taxes; and to revoke such licenses after due process for the failure to pay any city taxes or fees;
(6)
Condemnation. To condemn property, inside or outside the corporate limits of the city, for present or future use and for any corporate purpose deemed necessary by the governing authority, utilizing procedures enumerated in O.C.G.A. title 22, or such other applicable laws as are or may hereafter be enacted;
(7)
Contracts. To enter into contracts and agreements with other governmental entities and with private persons, firms and corporations;
(8)
Emergencies. To establish procedures for determining and proclaiming that an emergency situation exists inside or outside the city and to make and carry out all reasonable provisions deemed necessary to deal with or meet such an emergency for the protection, safety, health or well-being of the citizens of the city;
(9)
Fire regulations. To fix and establish fire limits and from time to time extend, enlarge or restrict the same; to prescribe fire safety regulations, not inconsistent with general law relating to both fire prevention and detection and to firefighting; and to prescribe penalties and punishment for violations thereof;
(10)
Garbage fees. To levy, fix, assess and collect a garbage, refuse and trash collection and disposal and other sanitary service charge, tax or fee for such services as may be necessary for the operation of the city from all individuals, firms and corporations residing in or doing business therein; to enforce the payment of such charges, taxes or fees; and to provide for the manner and method of collecting such service charges;
(11)
General health, safety and welfare. To define, regulate and prohibit any act, practice, conduct or use of property which is detrimental to the health, sanitation, cleanliness, welfare and safety of the inhabitants of the city and to provide for the enforcement of such standards;
(12)
Gifts. To accept or refuse gifts, donations, bequests or grants from any source for any purpose related to the powers and duties of the city and the general welfare of its citizens on such terms and conditions as the donor or grantor may impose;
(13)
Health and sanitation. To prescribe standards of health and sanitation within the city and to provide for the enforcement of such standards;
(14)
Jail sentences. To provide that persons given jail sentences in the city's court may work out such sentences in any public works or on the streets, roads, drains and squares in the city; to provide for the commitment of such persons to any jail; or to provide for the commitment of such persons to any county work camp or county jail by agreement with the appropriate county officials;
(15)
Motor vehicles. To regulate the operation of motor vehicles and exercise control over all traffic, including parking, on or off the streets, roads, alleys and walkways of the city;
(16)
Municipal agencies and delegation of power. To create, alter or abolish departments, boards, authorities, offices, commissions and agencies of the city and to confer upon such agencies the necessary and appropriate authority for carrying out all the powers conferred upon or delegated to the same;
(17)
Municipal debts. To appropriate and borrow money for the payment of debts of the city and to issue bonds for the purpose of raising revenue to carry out any project, program or venture authorized by this Charter or the laws of the State of Georgia;
(18)
Municipal property ownership. To acquire, dispose of, and hold in trust or otherwise any real, personal or mixed property, in fee simple or lesser interest, inside or outside the property limits of the city;
(19)
Municipal property protection. To provide for the preservation and protection of property and equipment of the city and the administration and use of same by the public; and to prescribe penalties and punishment for violations thereof;
(20)
Municipal utilities. To acquire, lease, construct, operate, maintain, sell and dispose of public utilities, including, but not limited to, a system of waterworks, sewers, and drains, sewage disposal, gasworks, electric light plants, transportation facilities and any other public utility; and to fix the taxes, charges, rates, fares, fees, assessments, regulations and penalties; and to provide for the withdrawal of service for refusal to pay the same; and to authorize the extension of water, sewerage and electrical distribution systems, and all necessary appurtenances by which said utilities are distributed, inside and outside the corporate limits of the city; and to provide utility services to persons, firms and corporations inside and outside the corporate limits of the city as provided by ordinance;
(20.1)
Telecommunications. The City shall have the power and authority to acquire, own, hold, lease, sell, resell, build, maintain, operate and contract with respect to a telecommunications systems network in order to provide telecommunications services and similar other services, including cable television services (CATV), to establish and charge rates, fees, tolls and charges for the services, facilities or commodities furnished or made available by such undertaking; to interconnect its system or services or both with the systems or services of consumers and other providers, to use telecommunications to respond to community needs, encourage the development of information-based organizations in the City of Norcross, Georgia, to finance from time to time any such telecommunications systems through the issuance of revenue bonds as then permitted by the Constitution and the laws of the State of Georgia; and to make any contract with respect to and furnish the services of any said systems to consumers within or outside the corporate limits of the City;
(21)
Nuisances. To define a nuisance and provide for its abatement whether on public or private property;
(22)
Ordinances, rules and regulations. To make, establish and adopt such bylaws, ordinances, policies, and rules and regulations as shall appear necessary for the security, welfare, convenience and interest of the city and the inhabitants thereof, and for preserving the health, peace, order and good government of the city;
(23)
Penalties. To provide penalties for violation of any ordinances adopted pursuant to the authority of this Charter and the laws of the State of Georgia;
(24)
Planning and zoning. To provide comprehensive city planning for development by zoning, including implementation of a land use plan and enforcement of the goals and objectives in the land use plan; and to provide subdivision regulation and the like as the city council deems necessary and reasonable to ensure a safe, healthy and aesthetically pleasing community;
(25)
Police and fire protection. To exercise the power of arrest through duly appointed policemen and to establish, operate or contract for a police and a firefighting agency;
(26)
Public hazards; removal. To provide for the destruction and removal of any building or other structure which is or may become dangerous or detrimental to the public;
(27)
Public improvements. To provide for the acquisition, construction, building, operation and maintenance of public ways, parks, playgrounds, recreational facilities, cemeteries, markets and market houses, public buildings, libraries, public housing, hospitals, sewers, drains, sewerage treatment, docks, parking facilities, and charitable, cultural, educational, recreational, conservation, sport, curative, corrective, detentional, penal, and medical institutions, agencies and facilities; to provide any other public improvements inside or outside the corporate limits of the city; to regulate the use of public improvements; and, for such other purposes, property may be acquired by condemnation under O.C.G.A. title 22, or such other applicable laws as are or may hereafter be enacted;
(28)
Public peace. To provide for the prevention and punishment of drunkenness, riots and public disturbances;
(29)
Public transportation. To organize and operate such public transportation systems as are deemed beneficial;
(30)
Public utilities and services. To grant franchises or make contracts for public utilities and public services and to prescribe the rates, fares, regulations and the standards and conditions of service applicable to the service to be provided by the franchise grantee or contractor, insofar as not in conflict with valid regulations of the Public Service Commission;
(31)
Regulation of roadside areas. To prohibit or regulate and control the erection, removal, and maintenance of signs, billboards, trees, shrubs, fences, buildings and any and all other structures or obstructions upon or adjacent to the rights-of-way of streets and roads or within view thereof, inside or abutting the corporate limits of the city and to prescribe penalties and punishment for violation of such ordinances;
(32)
Retirement. To provide and maintain a retirement plan for employees of the city;
(33)
Roadways. To lay out, open, extend, widen, narrow, establish or change the grade of, abandon or close, construct, pave, curb, gutter, adorn with shade trees, or otherwise improve, maintain, repair, clean, prevent erosion of, and light the roads, alleys and walkways within the corporate limits of the city; and to negotiate and execute leases over, through and under any city property or the right-of-way of any street, road, alley and walkway or portion thereof within the corporate limits of the city for bridges, passageways or any other purpose or use between buildings on opposite sides of the street and for other bridges, overpasses and underpasses for private use at such location and to charge a rental therefor in such manner as may be provided by ordinance; and to authorize and control the construction of bridges, overpasses and underpasses within the corporate limits of the city; and to grant franchises and rights-of-way throughout the streets and roads and over the bridges and viaducts for the use of public utilities and for private use; and to require real estate owners to repair and maintain in a safe condition the sidewalks adjoining their lots or lands and to impose penalties for failure to do so;
(34)
Sewer fees. To levy a fee, charge or sewer tax as necessary to assure the acquiring, constructing, equipping, operating, maintaining and extending of a sewage disposal plant and sewerage system; to levy on those to whom sewers and sewerage systems are made available a sewer service fee, charge or sewer tax for the availability or use of the sewers; to provide for the manner and method of collecting such service charges and for enforcing payment of the same; and to charge, impose and collect a sewer connection fee or fees to those connected with the system;
(35)
Solid waste disposal. To provide for the collection and disposal of garbage, rubbish and refuse and to regulate the collection and disposal of garbage, rubbish and refuse by others; and to provide for the separate collection of glass, tin, aluminum, cardboard, paper and other recyclable materials and provide for the sale of all solid waste;
(36)
Special areas of public regulation. To regulate or prohibit junk dealers, pawn shops, the manufacture, sale or transportation of intoxicating liquors, and the use and sale of firearms; to regulate the transportation, storage and use of combustible, explosive and inflammable materials, the use of lighting and heating equipment, and any other business or situation which may be dangerous to persons or property; to regulate and control the conduct of peddlers and itinerant traders, theatrical performances, exhibitions and shows of any kind, by taxation or otherwise; and to license, tax, regulate or prohibit professional fortunetelling, palmistry, adult bookstores and massage parlors;
(37)
Special assessments. To provide for the collection of special assessments to cover the cost of any public improvements;
(38)
Taxes, ad valorem. To levy and provide for the assessment, valuation, revaluation and collection of taxes on all property subject to taxation;
(39)
Taxes, other. To levy and collect such other taxes as may be allowed now or in the future by law;
(40)
Taxicabs. To regulate and license vehicles operated for hire in the city; to limit the number of such vehicles; to require the operators thereof to be licensed; to require public liability insurance on such vehicles in the amounts to be prescribed by ordinance; and to regulate the parking of such vehicles;
(41)
Urban redevelopment. To organize and operate an urban redevelopment program; and
(42)
Other powers. To exercise and enjoy all other powers, functions, rights, privileges and immunities necessary or desirable to promote or protect the safety, health, peace, security, good order, comfort, convenience or general welfare of the city and its inhabitants; to exercise all implied powers necessary to carry into execution all powers granted in this Charter as fully and completely as if such powers were fully stated herein; and to exercise all powers now or in the future authorized to be exercised by other municipal governments under other laws of the State of Georgia; and no listing of particular powers in this Charter shall be held to be exclusive of others, nor restrictive of general words and phrases granting powers, but shall be held to be in addition to such powers unless expressly prohibited to municipalities under the constitution or applicable laws of the State of Georgia.
(1996 Ga. Laws, page 3666, § 2; Ord. No. 2-2002, § 1, 2-4-2002)
Sec. 1.15. - Exercise of powers.
All powers, functions, rights, privileges and immunities of the city, its officers, agencies or employees shall be carried into execution as provided by this Charter. If this Charter makes no provision, such powers, functions, rights, privileges and immunities shall be carried into execution as provided by ordinance of the governing authority or as provided by pertinent laws of the State of Georgia. The full faith and credit of the City of Norcross shall be behind all elected officers, appointed officers, employees, members of boards, commissions and authorities, and the city shall indemnify them, to the extent allowed by law, for all costs and judgments suffered as a result of any and all actions taken pursuant to their official capacity as officials for the City of Norcross.
