Chapter 1 - GENERAL PROVISIONS

Sec. 1-1. - Designation and citation of Code.
(a)
This publication consists of part I (Local and Special Acts) and part II (Code of Ordinances). This publication shall constitute and be designated as "The Code of Talbot County, Georgia."
(b)
The ordinances in the following chapters and sections shall constitute and be designated as "The Code of Talbot County, Georgia."
Sec. 1-2. - Definitions and rules of construction.
The following definitions and rules of construction shall apply to all ordinances adopted by the board of commissioners unless the context requires otherwise:
Generally. Ordinary meanings shall be applied to all terms, except terms of art, or terms connected with a particular trade or subject matter, in which case terms shall have the significance attached to them by experts in such trade or with reference to such subject matter. The definitions of terms found in generally accepted dictionaries are prima facie evidence of the meaning. In making interpretations of ordinances, the courts shall look diligently for the intent of the board of commissioners, as gleaned from the minutes of meetings reflecting the approval of motions by the board of commissioners, recitals found in ordinances and statements of policy and intent adopted by the board of commissioners. Grammatical errors shall not vitiate, and transposition of words and clauses may be resorted to when the sentence or clause is without meaning as it stands.
Adequate. The term "adequate" shall mean equal to what is required, suitable to the case or occasion, fully sufficient, proportionate, or satisfactory.
Aforesaid. The term "aforesaid" usually shall mean next before, unless the context requires a different signification.
All. The term "all" shall mean everyone, or the whole number of particulars.
Also. The term "also" shall mean in like manner, likewise, in addition, besides, as well, further, or too.
As soon as possible. The term "as soon as possible" shall mean within a reasonable time, having due regard to all the circumstances.
At. The term "at" shall mean in, near, within, or about. The primary idea of such term is nearness, and it is less definite than the term "in" or "on."
Board of commissioners; board. The term "board of commissioners" shall mean the board of commissioners of Talbot County, Georgia.
Captions, illustrations, maps, charters, summary tables and illustrative tables. In case of any difference of meaning or implication between the text of this Code and any caption, illustration, map, chart, summary table, or illustrative table, the text shall control.
Code. The term "Code" shall mean The Code of Talbot County, Georgia, as designated in section 1-1.
Conjunctions. Unless the context clearly indicates the contrary, where a regulation involves two or more items, conditions, provisions, or events connected by the conjunction "and," "or," or "either…or," the conjunction shall be interpreted as follows:
(1)
And indicates that all the connected items, conditions, provisions or events shall apply.
(2)
Or indicates that the connected items, conditions, provisions or events may apply singularly or in any combination.
(3)
Either…or indicates that the connected items, conditions, provisions or events shall apply singularly, but not in combination.
County. The term "county" shall mean Talbot County, Georgia. When appropriate, the term "county" shall mean a designated department, officer, or employee thereof.
Department. The term "department" shall mean an administrative department of county government.
Following. The term "following" shall mean next after.
Gender. A term importing the one gender includes all other genders.
Includes and including. The terms "includes" and "including" shall not be construed to limit a term to the specified examples, but are intended to extend the meaning of a term to all instances or circumstances of like kind or character.
Keeper and proprietor. The terms "keeper" and "proprietor" shall mean and include persons, whether acting by themselves or as a servant, agent or employee.
Liberal construction; minimum requirements; overlapping provisions. All general provisions, terms, phrases and expressions contained in this Code shall be liberally construed in order that the true intent and meaning of the board of commissioners may be fully carried out. In the interpretation and application of any provision of this Code, such provisions shall be held to be the minimum requirements adopted for the promotion of the public health, safety, comfort, convenience and general welfare. Where any provision of this Code imposes greater restrictions upon the subject matter than the other provisions of this Code, the provision imposing the greater restriction or regulation shall be deemed to be controlling.
May. The term "may" shall mean permissive.
Must. The term "must" shall mean mandatory.
Number. The singular and plural number include the other, unless expressly excluded.
Oath. The term "oath" shall include an affirmation.
O.C.G.A. The abbreviation "O.C.G.A." shall mean the Official Code of Georgia Annotated, as amended.
Officials, employees, boards, commissions, etc. Whenever reference is made to officials, employees, boards, commissions, or other agencies of the county by title only, the reference refers to the officials, employees, boards, commissions, or other agencies of the county.
Owner. The term "owner," as applied to a building or land, shall include any part owner, joint owner, tenant in common, tenant in partnership, or joint tenant of the whole or of a part of the building or land.
Person. The term "person" shall include any association, club, society, firm, corporation, partnership, and body politic and corporate, as well as an individual.
Personal property. The term "personal property" shall include every species of property, except real property, as defined in this section.
Property. The term "property" shall include real and personal property, as well as mixed property.
Public place. The term "public place" shall include any place that the public is invited or permitted to go or congregate.
Real property. The term "real property" shall include lands, tenements, and hereditaments.
Shall. The term "shall" shall mean mandatory.
Sidewalk. The term "sidewalk" shall mean any portion of a street between the curbline and the adjacent property line, intended for the use of pedestrians.
State. The term "state" shall mean the State of Georgia.
Street and road. The terms "street" and "road" shall include any street, avenue, boulevard, road, alley, lane, viaduct, and any other public highway in the county, including, but not limited to, the paved or improved surfaces thereof including the total right-of-way.
Tenant and occupant. The terms "tenant" and "occupant," when applied to a building or land, shall include any person holding a written or oral lease of, or who occupies the whole or a part of a building or land, either alone or with others.
Tense. Terms used in the past or present tense shall include the future, as well as the past and present.
Will. The term "will" shall mean mandatory.
Writing. The term "writing" shall include printing and all numerals.
State Law reference— Statutory definitions and rules of construction, O.C.G.A. § 1-3-1 et seq.
Sec. 1-3. - Section catchlines, history notes, and references in Code.
(a)
The catchlines of the several sections of this Code in boldface type are intended as mere catchwords to indicate the contents of the sections and shall not be deemed or taken to be titles of such sections, nor as any part of such sections, nor, unless expressly so provided, shall they be so deemed when any of such sections, including the catchlines, are amended or reenacted.
(b)
The history or source notes appearing in parentheses after sections in this Code are not intended to have any legal effect, but are merely intended to indicate the source of matter contained in the section. Cross references and state law references which appear after sections or subsections of this Code or which otherwise appear in footnote form are provided for the convenience of the user of this Code and have no legal effect.
(c)
All references to chapters, articles, or sections are to the chapters, articles, and sections of this Code unless otherwise specified.
State Law reference— Notes and catchlines of code sections not part of law, O.C.G.A. § 1-1-7.
Sec. 1-4. - Territorial applicability.
(a)
Except as specifically provided otherwise, this Code only applies in the unincorporated areas of the county.
(b)
Where the county provides service to an incorporated area, the ordinances relating to such service apply in that incorporated area.
Sec. 1-5. - Effect of repeal of ordinance.
(a)
The repeal of an ordinance does not revive any ordinance previously repealed.
(b)
The repeal of an ordinance does not affect any punishment or penalty incurred before the repeal took effect, nor any suit, prosecution, or proceeding pending at the time of the repeal for an offense committed under the repealed ordinance.
Sec. 1-6. - Provisions considered as continuations of existing legislation.
The provisions appearing in this Code, as far as they are the same as those of legislation existing as of the effective date of this Code, shall be considered as continuations thereof and not as new enactments.
Sec. 1-7. - Certain ordinances not affected by Code.
Nothing in this Code or the ordinance adopting this Code shall affect:
(1)
Any offense or act committed or done, or any penalty or forfeiture incurred or any contract or right established or accruing before the effective date of this Code.
(2)
Any ordinance promising or guaranteeing the payment of money for the county, or authorizing the issuance of any bonds for the county, or any evidence of the county's indebtedness, or any contract or obligation assumed by the county.
(3)
Any existing right or franchise granted by the county to any person.
(4)
Any ordinance dedicating, naming, defining, establishing, locating, relocating, opening, paving, widening, vacating, etc., any street or public way in the county.
(5)
Any appropriation or ordinance authorizing appropriations.
(6)
Any ordinance providing for local improvements or assessing taxes for such improvements.
(7)
Any ordinance dedicating or accepting a plat or subdivision, or regulating plats or subdivisions.
(8)
Any zoning, rezoning or junkyard ordinance.
(9)
Any ordinance establishing salaries or compensation of county officers or employees not in this Code.
(10)
Any ordinance approving the budget.
(11)
Any ordinance adopted for purposes that have been consummated.
(12)
Any ordinance that is temporary, although general in nature.
(13)
Any ordinance that is special, although permanent in nature.
(14)
Any ordinance levying or otherwise relating to taxes.
(15)
Any act or ordinance amending any act enacted by the general assembly of the state.
(16)
Any ordinance concerning alcoholic beverages.
Sec. 1-8. - Code does not affect prior offenses, rights, etc.
(a)
Nothing in this Code or the ordinance adopting this Code shall affect any offense or act committed or done, or any penalty or forfeiture incurred, or any contract or right established or accruing before the effective date of this Code.
(b)
The adoption of this Code shall not be interpreted as authorizing or permitting any use or the continuance of any use of a structure or premises in violation of any ordinance in effect on the date of adoption of this Code.
Sec. 1-9. - Severability of parts of Code.
It is hereby declared to be the intention of the board of commissioners that the sections, paragraphs, sentences, clauses, and phrases of this Code are severable, and if any phrase, clause, sentence, paragraph or section of this Code shall be declared unconstitutional by the valid judgment or decree of any court of competent jurisdiction, such unconstitutionality shall not affect any of the remaining phrases, clauses, sentences, paragraphs, and sections of this Code, since the same would have been enacted by the board of commissioners without the incorporation in this Code of any such unconstitutional phrase, clause, sentence, paragraph, or section.
State Law reference— Severability, O.C.G.A. § 1-1-3.
Sec. 1-10. - Amendments to Code; effect of new ordinances; amendatory language.
(a)
All ordinances adopted subsequent to this Code which amend, repeal or in any way affect this Code may be numbered in accordance with the numbering system of this Code and printed for inclusion herein. In the case of repealed chapters, sections, and subsections or any part thereof, by subsequent ordinances or resolutions, such repealed portions may be excluded from the Code by omission from repealed pages affected thereby. The subsequent ordinances and resolutions as numbered and printed or omitted, in the case of repeal, shall be prima facie evidence of such subsequent ordinances until such time that this Code and subsequent ordinances numbered or omitted are readopted anew by the board of commissioners.
(b)
Amendments to any of the provisions of this Code may be made by amending such provisions by specific reference to the section number of this Code in the following language: "Section _____ of The Code of Talbot County, Georgia, is amended to read as follows:…." The new provisions may then be set out in full as desired.
(c)
If a new section not heretofore existing in the Code is to be added, the following language may be used: "The Code of Talbot County, Georgia, is amended by adding a section (or article or chapter) numbered _____ to read as follows:…." The new section may then be set out in full as desired.
(d)
All sections, articles, chapters, or provisions desired to be repealed should be specifically repealed by section, article, or chapter number, as the case may be.
Sec. 1-11. - Supplementation of Code.
(a)
Supplements to this Code shall be prepared and printed whenever authorized or directed by the board of commissioners. A supplement to the Code shall include all substantive permanent and general parts of ordinances adopted during the period covered by the supplement and all changes made thereby in the Code. The pages of a supplement shall be so numbered that they will fit properly into the Code and will, where necessary, replace pages which have become obsolete or partially obsolete, and the new pages shall be so prepared that, when they have been inserted, the Code will be current through the date of the adoption of the latest ordinance included in the supplement.
(b)
In preparing a supplement to this Code, all portions of the Code which have been repealed shall be excluded from the Code by the omission thereof from reprinted pages.
(c)
When preparing a supplement to this Code, the person authorized to prepare the supplement may make formal, nonsubstantive changes in ordinances and parts of ordinances included in the supplement, insofar as it is necessary to do so to embody them into a unified code. For example, the person may:
(1)
Organize the ordinance material into appropriate subdivisions;
(2)
Provide appropriate catchlines, headings, and titles for sections and other subdivisions of the Code printed in the supplement, and make changes in such catchlines, headings, and titles;
(3)
Assign appropriate numbers to sections and other subdivisions to be inserted in the Code and, where necessary to accommodate new material, change existing section or other subdivision numbers;
(4)
Change the words "this ordinance," or words of the same meaning, to "this chapter," "this article," "this division," etc., as the case may be, or to "sections _____ to _____" (inserting section numbers to indicate the sections of the Code which embody the substantive sections of the ordinance incorporated into the Code); and
(5)
Make other nonsubstantive changes necessary to preserve the original meaning of ordinance sections inserted into the Code.
(d)
In no case shall the person make any change in the meaning or effect of ordinance material included in the supplement or already embodied in the Code.
Sec. 1-12. - General penalty; continuing violations.
(a)
For the purposes of this section, the term "violation of this Code" shall mean:
(1)
Doing an act that is prohibited or made or declared unlawful, an offense or a misdemeanor by ordinance or by rule or regulation authorized by ordinance;
(2)
Failure to perform an act that is required to be performed by ordinance or by rule or regulation authorized by ordinance; or
(3)
Failure to perform an act if the failure is declared a misdemeanor or an offense or unlawful by ordinance or by rule or regulation authorized by ordinance.
(b)
For the purposes of this section, the term "violation of this Code" does not include the failure of a county officer or county employee to perform an official duty unless it is provided that failure to perform the duty is to be punished as provided in this section.
(c)
Except where a violation is to be punished as a misdemeanor or other specific enforcement provision is set forth in the Code, a person convicted of a violation of this Code shall be punished by a fine not exceeding $1,000.00, imprisonment in the county jail for a term not exceeding 60 days, or by any combination thereof. With respect to violations of this Code that are continuous with respect to time, each day the violation continues is a separate offense.
(d)
The imposition of a penalty does not prevent revocation or suspension of a license, permit or franchise.
(e)
Violations of this Code that are continuous with respect to time may be abated by injunctive or other equitable relief. The imposition of a penalty does not prevent equitable relief.
State Law reference— Maximum punishments which may be imposed for violations of county ordinances, O.C.G.A. § 36-1-20(b).
