ARTICLE IV. - ESTABLISHMENT OF DISTRICTS

Section 4.1. - Division into districts.
For the purpose of this ordinance, the City of Calhoun is divided into 13 districts designated as follows:
1.
R-1, Single-Family Residential 1 unit per acre.
2.
R-1A, Single-Family Residential 2 units per acre.
3.
R-1B, Single-Family Residential 3 units per acre.
4.
R-2A, Residential District.
5.
R-2, Residential District.
6.
R-3, Residential District.
7.
O-I, Office and Institutional District.
8.
C-1, Central Business District.
9.
C-2, General Business District.
10.
C-N, Neighborhood Business District.
11.
Industrial G, General Industrial District.
12.
A-1, Agricultural District.
13.
PRD, Planned Residential Development.
Section 4.2. - District boundaries.
The boundaries of each district are as shown on a map entitled "Official Zoning Map, Calhoun, Georgia," adopted May 21, 2001, and certified by the city clerk and amended periodically thereafter by the city council. Said map and all explanatory matter thereon accompanies and is hereby made a part of this ordinance. Said map shall be retained in the office of the city clerk.
Section 4.3. - Rules for determining boundaries.
Where uncertainty exists with respect to the boundaries of any of the aforesaid districts as shown on the zoning map, the following rules shall apply:
4.3.1. Where district boundaries are indicated as approximately following the centerlines of streets or highways, street lines, or highway right-of-way lines, such centerlines, street lines of highway right-of-way lines shall be construed to be such boundaries.
4.3.2. Where district boundaries are so indicated that they approximately follow lot lines, such lot lines shall be construed to be said boundaries.
4.3.3. Where district boundaries are so indicated that they are approximately parallel to the centerlines of streets, highways, or railroads, or right-of-way of same, such district boundaries shall be construed as being parallel thereto and at such distance therefrom, as indicated on the zoning map. If no distance is given, such dimension shall be determined by the use of the scale shown on said zoning map.
4.3.4. Where a district boundary line, as appearing on the zoning map, divides a lot in single ownership at the time of this enactment, the district requirements for the least restricted portion of such lot shall be deemed to apply to the whole thereof, provided that such extensions shall not include any part of such a lot more than 35 feet beyond the district boundary line.
