Chapter 74 - SECONDHAND GOODS[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Cross reference— Businesses, ch. 22; pawnbrokers, § 22-351 et seq.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Secs. 74-1—74-30. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - GARAGE SALES
DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Secs. 74-31—74-50. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - SALES IN COMMERCIALLY ZONED DISTRICTS[2]

Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
Cross reference— Zoning, app. A.

Sec. 74-51. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this division, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Commercially zoned district means zoning districts O-I (office and institutional district), C-1 (central business district), C-2 (general business district), C-N (neighborhood business district), industrial G (general industrial district), and industrial H (heavy industrial district), as shown on the official zoning map of the city adopted March 28, 1996, as amended, and maintained in the office of the city clerk.
Garage sale means all sales entitled "garage sale," "lawn sale," "attic sale," "rummage sale," "moving sale," "estate sale," or "flea market sale," or any similar casual sale of tangible personal property which is advertised by any means, including by display only, whereby the public at large is or can be made aware of such sale.
Nonprofit organization means and includes, but is not limited to, churches, church auxiliary organizations, student groups and parent-teacher organizations, fraternal organizations, hospital auxiliary groups, historical societies, service clubs, and educational societies conducting a garage sale on property owned or controlled by the nonprofit organization.
Person includes individuals, partnerships, voluntary associations, corporations and transient vendors, but shall not include nonprofit organizations.
Transient vendor means one who sells tangible personal property from public or private premises but remains at one place for that purpose for temporary periods only not exceeding four weeks.
(Ord. No. 611A, § 3, 5-12-1997)
Cross reference— Definitions generally, § 1-2.
Sec. 74-52. - Findings of fact.
The mayor and council find that garage sales by residents and transient vendors are conducted frequently within the commercially zoned districts in the city on private property without regard to the creation of traffic congestion created around the sales site. The traffic congestion around such sales sites impedes traffic and constitutes a public safety hazard. The mayor and council further find that garage sales by residents and transient vendors in commercially zoned districts in the city discourage the revitalization of the business district by creating unsightly clutter, signage, crowded conditions, litter and sanitation problems, all to the detriment of the public health, safety and general welfare.
(Ord. No. 611A, § 1, 5-12-1997)
Sec. 74-53. - Purpose.
The purpose of this division is to prohibit the sale of tangible personal property by any person, including a transient vendor, at a garage sale within the commercially zoned districts of the city.
(Ord. No. 611A, § 2, 5-12-1997)
Sec. 74-54. - Garage sales prohibited.
It shall be unlawful for any person to conduct a garage sale within the commercially zoned districts in the city.
(Ord. No. 611A, § 4, 5-12-1997)
Sec. 74-55. - Exceptions.
The provisions of this division shall not apply to or affect the following persons or sales:
(1)
Persons selling tangible personal property pursuant to an order or process of a court of competent jurisdiction.
(2)
Persons acting in accordance with their powers and duties as public officials.
(Ord. No. 611A, § 5, 5-12-1997)
