ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 6-1. - Definitions.
modified
(a)
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Adequate parking means one parking space for each 100 square feet of customer service area within the premises of the applicant, but not less than five parking spaces. Such off-street parking shall have vehicular access to streets and shall be constructed of an all-weather surface. Where no parking space can reasonably be provided on the same lot, any public or private off-street parking lot may be utilized to fulfill such parking requirement, if the public or off-street parking lot is within 150 feet of the premises, and if the patrons of the licensee are allowed to use such lot.
Alcohol means ethyl alcohol, hydrated oxide of ethyl, or spirits of wine, from whatever source or by whatever process produced.
Alcoholic beverage means and includes all alcohol, distilled spirits, beer, malt beverages, wine or fortified wine.
Barrel means a container or other form of measurement consisting of 31 gallons as defined by O.C.G.A. § 3-5-1(1).
Brew pub means any eating establishment in which beer or malt beverages are manufactured or brewed on the same premises by a microbrewery for retail consumption. As used in this chapter, the term "eating establishment" also means a business location subject to the requirements of O.C.G.A. §§ 3-5-35 through 3-5-38 that may also be licensed to sell by the pour distilled spirits, malt beverages or wines, and which derives at least 60 percent of its total annual gross sales from the sale of prepared meals or food.
Brewer means a manufacturer of malt beverages.
Brown bag establishment means any establishment providing food or entertainment in the normal course of business in which the owners or their employees or agents knowingly allow patrons to bring in and consume on the premises the patrons' own alcoholic beverage. Such establishments cannot be any form or location or venue available to rent, lease or otherwise reserve and occupy by the public or third parties for any fee or cost which does not otherwise have a license to pour, serve, sell or otherwise distribute alcoholic beverages from both the state and local governments.
Brown bagging means the act of a patron or patrons entering any establishment providing food or entertainment in the normal course of business and bringing in and consuming the patrons' own alcoholic beverages. Prohibited under this provision is the use of any "common source" for the pouring, sale, distribution or consumption of any alcoholic beverage to any patron, patrons, guests, individuals, parties or groups such as a bar, table, cooler or other method made available to be consumed by anyone other than the individual who brought the alcoholic beverage to the location for personal consumption.
Case means a box or receptacle containing not more than 300 ounces of wine or malt beverages.
Church means a permanent building in which persons regularly assemble for religious worship and the building is situated upon real estate owned by an entity qualified as an exempt religious organization under section 501(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended.
Crowler means an aluminum container of 32 ounces for containing a malt beverage poured from a tap on a cask or keg on site in a taproom and securely sealed by the license holder of the microbrewery or its employees, and scaled and sold on the licensed premises for off premises consumption by the ultimate consumer.
Distance means the measurement in linear feet by the most direct route of travel on the ground in a straight line from the front door of the building enclosing the proposed premises of a licensee under this chapter to the front door of the main sanctuary of any church or the nearest property line of any school or residence.
Distilled spirits and liquor mean any alcoholic beverage obtained by distillation or containing more than 21 percent alcohol by volume, including, but not limited to, all fortified wines.
Family means any person related to the holder of a license issued under the provisions of this chapter within the first degree of consanguinity or affinity, as determined according to the law of the state.
Fortified wine means any alcoholic beverage containing more than 21 percent alcohol by volume, made from fruits, berries or grapes, either by natural fermentation or by natural fermentation with brandy added. The term "fortified wine" includes, but is not limited to, brandy.
Governing body means the mayor and council.
Growler means a glass retail container not to exceed 64 ounces approved specifically for containing a malt beverage poured from a tap on a cask or keg on site, packaged and securely sealed by the license holder of the microbrewery or its employees, and sold on the licensed premises for off premises consumption by the ultimate consumer.
Hotel means a building or other structure kept, used, maintained, advertised and held out to the public to be a place where sleeping accommodations are offered for adequate pay to travelers and guests, whether transient, permanent or residential, in which 50 or more rooms are used for the sleeping accommodations of such guests. Motels, inns and other forms of short term residential lodging otherwise meeting the qualifications for "hotel" shall be classified in the same category as "hotel."
Hotel license means any business qualifying as a "hotel" that possesses a current hotel license from the city to sell malt beverages or wine to a registered guest of such facility. A hotel licensee is not a retail package or pouring vendor or business as defined within this Code but shall be subject to all restrictions in this Code that apply to retail package or pouring vendors or business. A hotel licensee is prohibited from selling malt beverages or wine to a person who is not a registered guest of its lodging establishment.
Individual means a natural person.
License means the authorization by the governing body to engage in the sale of alcoholic beverages by the package or for the sale of alcoholic beverages for consumption on the premises, as may be permitted by the terms of this chapter. Such licenses shall be divided into the following classes:
(1)
Class A, which shall permit the retail sale of malt beverages and/or wine by the package, but not for consumption on the premises where sold.
(2)
Class B, which shall permit the retail sale of malt beverages and/or wine for consumption on the premises where sold in conjunction with the serving of a meal.
(3)
Class C, which shall permit the retail sale of distilled spirits, wine, fortified wine, and malt beverages by the package but not for consumption on the premises where sold.
(4)
Class D, which shall permit the retail sale of distilled spirits, wine, and fortified wine for consumption on the premises where sold in conjunction with the serving of a meal.
(5)
Class E, which shall permit the retail sale of malt beverages, distilled spirits, wine, and fortified wine for consumption on the premises where sold in conjunction with the serving of a meal.
(6)
Class F, which shall permit the retail sale of alcoholic beverages for consumption only on the premises where sold, to be issued to a private club, such sales to be made only to members of the private club and their bona fide guests.
(7)
Class G, which shall permit the retail sale of malt beverages by the package and for consumption on the premises at a private club or restaurant.
(8)
Class G-1, which shall permit the retail sale of alcoholic beverages for consumption only on the premises where sold and malt beverages by package, but not for consumption on the premises where sold, by any nonprofit veterans' association organized under the laws of the state or the United States of America and meets the requirements of a "private club" as defined in this section. All applications for a license under this section shall be accompanied with proof that the veterans' association is in good standing with its state or national governing body and proof of its nonprofit status under the provisions of the Internal Revenue Code of the United States of America.
(9)
Class H, which shall permit the wholesale sale of alcoholic beverages in the city.
(10)
Class I, which shall permit the operation of a microbrewery for the production of malt beverages in accordance with O.C.G.A. § 3-5-24.1.
(11)
Class I-1, which shall permit the operation of a microbrewery for the production of malt beverages in accordance with O.C.G.A. § 3-5-24.1 and the operation of a taproom for the pouring and sale of malted beverages for consumption on the premises and pouring and sale of malted beverages in limited quantities for consumption off of the premises.
(12)
Class J, which shall permit the retail sale and/or pouring of alcoholic beverages for consumption only upon the premises where sold and/or poured, to be issued to a hotel, motel, inn or other short or long term lodging facility or business, where such sales are to be made only to persons who are registered guests.
Licensee means a person, real or artificial, holding any class of license issued under the terms of this chapter.
Lounge means, in this article, a separate room connected with, a part of and adjacent to a restaurant or located within a hotel, provided that in no event shall the seating capacity of the lounge exceed that of its connected restaurant. The bar area incorporated within a restaurant and where food is served and consumed shall not be considered as an area to be designated as a lounge for the purposes of this Code.
Malt beverage means any alcoholic beverage obtained by the fermentation of any infusion or decoction of barley, malt, hops or any other similar product, or any combination of such products in water containing not more than 14 percent alcohol by volume and including ale, porter, brown, stout, lager beer, and strong beer. The term "malt beverage" does not include sake, known as Japanese rice wine.
Manager means an individual person who has responsibility for management of the operations, including sale of alcoholic beverages, at the location to be licensed or supervision of management of the operations, including sale of alcoholic beverages, at the location to be licensed and who is a full-time employee of the corporation, partnership, proprietor, or other ownership entity.
Manufacturer means a producer or bottler of malt beverage, wine or distilled spirits.
Meal means food consisting of more than one item, including, but not limited to, an appetizer, a salad, a soup, an entree, a dessert or any combination thereof. A combination of appetizers and/or snack foods such as pretzels, peanuts, corn chips, potato chips or similar products, when consumed together or separately, shall not be considered a meal.
Microbrewery means a manufacturer of craft style malted beverages as defined by O.C.G.A. § 3-5-1(2) and as further defined by O.C.G.A. § 3-5-24.1 which is a brewery producing no more than 3,000 barrels of malt beverages per year.
Package means distilled spirits, wine or malt beverages sold, offered or stored, including, but not limited to, kegs, bottles, growlers, crowlers, can, or other original consumer container for sale at retail in sealed containers, not for opening or consumption upon the premises of the package outlet.
Package store means a specific building or facility within the city wherein a license may be issued for the retail sale of either package wine or package malt beverages, distilled spirits or both, depending upon the license held, consumption on the premises not being permitted.
Person means an individual, firm, partnership, cooperative, nonprofit membership corporation, joint venture, association, company, corporation, agency, syndicate, estate, trust, business trust, receiver, fiduciary, or other group or combination acting as a unit, body politic, or political subdivision, whether public, private or quasi-public.
Pour means to sell for beverage purposes, sell for consumption on the premises, or sell by the drink. Pour shall also include any serving or consumption of alcohol at a licensed pouring establishment, whether the consumer is a member of the general public or a guest at a private party, and whether the alcohol is provided for pay or for free. Pour also shall include any serving of any alcoholic beverages in a restaurant, hotel or private club, and includes any serving of alcoholic beverages by an alcoholic beverage licensee in any place other than the licensee's home.
Pouring outlet means only the indoor premises of a restaurant, hotel, private club or lounge where liquor, wine and/or malt beverages are poured or proposed to be poured for sale to the public at large.
Premises means the definite enclosed or partitioned-in locality, whether a room, shop or building, wherein alcoholic beverages are sold under the terms of this chapter.
Private club means any nonprofit fraternal or veterans' association organized under the laws of the state, the United States of America, or any national organization which has been in existence at least one year prior to the filing of its application for a license to be issued pursuant to this chapter; has at least 75 regular dues-paying members; owns, hires, or leases a building or space within a building for the reasonable use of its members, which building or space has suitable kitchen and dining room space and equipment and is staffed with a sufficient number of employees for cooking, preparing and serving meals for its members and guests; and has no member, officer, agent or employee directly or indirectly receiving, in the form of salary or other compensation, any profits from the sale of alcoholic beverages beyond a fixed salary. As used in this subsection, the term "fixed salary" means the amount of compensation paid any member, officer, agent, or employee of a bona fide private club as may be fixed for such person by its members at a prior annual meeting or by the governing body of the club out of the general revenue of the club and shall not include any commission on any profits from the sale of alcoholic beverages.
Private residence means a house or dwelling wherein not less than one and not more than three families customarily reside and shall not include an apartment house having facilities for housing four or more families, and also shall not include any residence which has been unoccupied for a period of at least four consecutive months immediately prior to filing an application under this chapter.
Quality control employee means a designated microbrewery employee directly involved with the brewing process such as a "brew master," etc. for the sole purpose of determining quality of the malted beverage product for any changes or modifications that may need to be made during the necessary steps for the manufacture of a malt beverage product, or the determination of the "finished" character of the malt beverage product for sale to the ultimate consumer.
Restaurant means a bona fide full-service restaurant as an established place of business:
(1)
Which is licensed to sell alcoholic beverages, distilled spirits, malt beverages, or wines for consumption on the premises;
(2)
Where meals with substantial entrees selected by the patron from a full menu are served;
(3)
Which has adequate facilities and sufficient employees for cooking or preparing and serving meals for consumption at tables in dining rooms on the premises; and
(4)
Which derives at least 60 percent of its gross income from the sale of such meals, prepared, served and consumed on the premises.
Retail alcoholic beverage license means the authorization by the governing body to engage in the sale of alcoholic beverages by the package or for the sale of alcoholic beverages for consumption on the premises.
Retail sale means selling or offering for sale alcoholic beverages to any member of the public.
School means such state, county, city, church or other schools as teach subjects commonly taught in the common schools of the state and shall not include private schools where only specialized subjects such as law, stenography, business, music, art, dance, medicine, dentistry, vocational occupation or other special subjects are taught.
Store manager means that individual who does or will actually manage or operate a package store or restaurant on a day-to-day basis and shall be responsible for any matter relating to the license.
Taproom means an establishment provided by the microbrewery with special space and accommodations on the premises, or directly adjacent to the premises of only one microbrewery, and operated for the sale of pre-packaged malt beverage containers, pouring by the glass for consumption on the premises, and pouring by crowler or growler on demand specifically for off premises consumption by the ultimate consumer.
Tasting flight means a single service of malted beverages, wine, fortified wine or distilled spirits manufactured on the premises from which the ultimate consumer may sample for taste multiple products available, in particular those made available from a microbrewery. The total volume of sampling not to exceed 24 ounces in the aggregate for malt beverages, six ounces of wine or fortified wine, or 4.5 ounces of distilled spirits.
Ultimate consumer means the last individual to purchase and consume any alcoholic beverage or product from any licensee contained within this chapter, and no further legal sales of the alcoholic beverage is permitted beyond this individual.
Wholesaler means any person engaged in distribution of, or selling to retailers for the purpose of resale, any alcoholic beverages.
Wine means any alcoholic beverage containing not more than 21 percent alcohol by volume made from fruits, berries or grapes, either by natural fermentation or by natural fermentation with brandy added. The term "wine" includes, but is not limited to, all sparkling wines, champagnes, combinations of such beverages, vermouths, special natural wines, rectified wines, and like products. The term "wine" docs not include cooking wine mixed with salt or other ingredients so as to render it unfit for human consumption as a beverage.
(b)
In all interpretations of this chapter for any words not specifically herein defined, the ordinary signification shall be applied to all such words, except words of art or words connected with a particular trade or subject matter, which shall have the signification attached to them by experts in such trade or with reference to such subject matter.
(Code 1988, § 3-1; Ord. No. 656, § 2, 11-23-1998; Ord. No. 671, 5-24-1999; Ord. No. 792, §§ 1, 2, 8-9-2004; Ord. No. 824, § 1, 8-22-2005; Ord. No. 854, § 1, 3-12-2007; Ord. No. 908, § 1(A.), 3-12-2012; Ord. No. 987 , 9-24-2018; Ord. No. 997 , §§ 1, 2, 9-23-2019; Ord. No. 1055 , § 1, 4-24-2023)
Cross reference— Definitions generally, § 1-2.
Sec. 6-2. - Moral character.
(a)
In this chapter, the phrase "good moral character" shall be construed to mean the propensity of the person to serve the public in the licensed area in a fair, honest and open manner.
(b)
A judgment of guilt in a criminal prosecution or a judgment in a civil action shall not be used in and of itself as proof of a person's lack of good moral character. It may be used as evidence in the determination and when so used the person shall be notified and shall be permitted to rebut the evidence by showing that:
(1)
At the current time he has the ability to, and is likely to, serve the public in a fair, honest and open manner; and
(2)
He is rehabilitated, or that the substance of the former offense is not reasonably related to the occupation or profession for which he seeks a business license or business permit.
(c)
The following criminal records shall not be used, examined, or requested by the city in a determination of good moral character when used as a requirement to obtain a business license or business permit:
(1)
Records of an arrest not followed by a conviction.
(2)
Records of a conviction which has been reversed or vacated, including the arrest records relevant to that conviction.
(3)
Records of an arrest or conviction for a misdemeanor or a felony unrelated to the person's likelihood to serve the public in a fair, honest, and open manner.
(4)
Records of an arrest or conviction for a misdemeanor for the conviction of which a person may not be incarcerated in a jail or prison.
Sec. 6-3. - Purpose.
This chapter has been enacted for the purpose of promoting the health and general welfare of the city, establishing reasonable and ascertainable standards for the regulation and control of the licensing and sale of alcoholic beverages, protecting and preserving schools and churches, giving effect to existing land use, and preserving residential areas with reasonable consideration being given to the character of the area and its peculiar suitability for particular uses and the congestion in roads and streets, and with a general view of promoting desirable living conditions, sustaining the stability of neighborhoods and property values, protecting against the evils of concentration of retail licenses for alcoholic beverages in one family or corporation, and preventing an undesirable person from engaging or having an interest in alcoholic beverages or the sale thereof in the city, considering the proximity to the proposed location of other establishments selling alcoholic beverages, considering adequate parking availability, and considering the feelings and attitudes of citizens residing in the area adjacent to the proposed location of the premises for which an application for a permit to sell alcoholic beverages has been made.
(Code 1988, § 3-2; Ord. No. 656, § 1, 11-23-1998)
Sec. 6-4. - Compliance; inspection; inspection of licensed establishments by the police department.
(a)
It shall be unlawful for any person to sell or offer for sale, at wholesale or retail, any alcoholic beverages within the city, without having first complied with the provisions of this chapter.
(b)
The city administrator shall appoint one or more persons to conduct periodic inspections of the businesses regulated by this chapter and to report to the city administrator any violation of any laws or ordinances regulating such businesses or other regulations made pursuant to authority granted for the purpose of regulating such businesses, or for the violation of any state or federal law or city ordinance, other than infrequent minor traffic violations.
(c)
Sworn officers of the police department shall have the authority to inspect establishments licensed under this chapter during the hours in which the premises are open for business without prior notice to the city administrator. These inspections shall be made for the purpose of verifying compliance with the requirements of this chapter and state law. This section is not intended to limit the authority of any other city officer to conduct inspections authorized by other provisions of this Code and state law.
(Code 1988, § 3-3; Ord. No. 656, § 3.1, 11-23-1998; Ord. No. 933, § 1, 7-28-2014)
Editor's note— Ord. No. 933, § 1, adopted July 28, 2014, changed the title of § 6-4 from "Compliance" to read as set out herein.
Charter reference— Excise tax on wine, distilled spirits, and malt beverages, § 5-105.
Sec. 6-5. - Assisting violation.
Any person who shall assist or aid another in violating this chapter shall, upon conviction thereof by the judge of the municipal court, be punished as provided in section 1-7.
(Code 1988, § 3-26; Ord. No. 656, § 3.24, 11-23-1998)
Sec. 6-6. - Production of records.
In conjunction with any application for license or in conjunction with any license which has been issued under the terms of this chapter, or in conjunction with the revocation, suspension or cancellation of any license, or in conjunction with any of the hearings contemplated by this chapter, or in conjunction with the payment or nonpayment of any excise tax levied or to be collected under this chapter, the mayor and council shall have the right to subpoena all or any part of the records, books, documents, reports or invoices of any licensee for the purpose of auditing the records of such licensee, securing compliance by such licensee with the provisions of this chapter, or proving or disproving violation of any part of this chapter by any licensee, or to show payment or nonpayment of any taxes, fees, charges, or the like due under this chapter.
(Code 1988, § 3-13; Ord. No. 656, § 3.11, 11-23-1998)
State Law reference— Maintenance of records, O.C.G.A. § 3-3-6.
Sec. 6-7. - Furnishing alcoholic beverages to, purchase of, and possession of alcoholic beverages by persons under 21 years of age; violation; jurisdiction to enforce.
modified
The municipal court, in accordance with O.C.G.A. § 36-32-10, is hereby granted jurisdiction to try and dispose of a first offense violation of O.C.G.A. § 3-3-23, pertaining to the criminal offenses of furnishing alcoholic beverages to, purchase of, and possession of alcoholic beverages by, a person under 21 years of age, if the offense occurs within the corporate limits of the city. The terms and provisions of O.C.G.A. § 36-32-10 are hereby incorporated by reference as part of this article and section as if fully set forth herein.
(Code 1988, § 3-27; Ord. No. 656, § 3.25, 11-23-1998; Ord. No. 1055 , § 2, 4-24-2023)
Editor's note— Ord. No. 1055 , § 2, adopted Apr. 24, 2023, amended the title of § 6-7 to read as herein set out. The former § 6-7 title pertained to prohibitions relating to underage persons; use of false identification; seller's duty to request proper identification.
State Law reference— Possession by minor, O.C.G.A. § 3-3-23.
Sec. 6-8. - Possession in public places.
(a)
Except as provided in subsection (b) of this section, it shall be unlawful for any person to drink, consume, transport, carry any alcoholic beverage (except in the original package and with the seal unbroken), on any public street, sidewalk, or in any city park, city maintained recreation facility, public parking lot or semi-public parking lot located within the city limits. The term "semi-public parking lot" shall include any area wherein motor vehicles are parked in plain view of the public in conjunction with any business, enterprise, commercial establishment, office building, or apartment building.
(b)
The possession of beer and/or wine sold by the drink within a special outdoor area as provided for in section 6-108 and article V of this chapter.
(Code 1988, § 3-28; Ord. No. 656, § 3.26, 11-23-1998; Ord. No. 933, § 2, 7-28-2014)
Editor's note— Ord. No. 933, § 2, adopted July 28, 2014, changed the title of § 6-8 from "Possession or consumption in public place" to read as set out herein.
Cross reference— Streets, sidewalks and other public places, ch. 82.
Secs. 6-9—6-30. - Reserved.
