ARTICLE IV. - EXCISE TAX[2]

Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
Cross reference— Taxation, ch. 86.

Sec. 6-171. - Tax levied.
(a)
In addition to all other taxes or license fees heretofore or hereafter imposed upon all alcoholic beverage licensees engaged in the city in the business of selling alcoholic beverages, there is hereby imposed and levied upon all such dealers and licensees within the city an excise tax, to be computed and collected as set forth in this article.
(b)
The excise tax levied under this section shall be the maximum amount permitted by state law, such amount presently being the amount prescribed by the mayor and council based upon volume as the tax pertains to malt beverages, wine, and distilled spirits and by the drink as the tax pertains to distilled spirits. A schedule of such excise tax is maintained on file with the city administrator.
(Code 1988, §§ 3-32, 3-56, 3-152; Ord. No. 656, § 7, 11-23-1998)
State Law reference— Local tax authorized, O.C.G.A. §§ 3-4-60, 3-4-80, 3-4-90, 3-4-130, 3-5-40, 3-5-80, 3-6-40, 3-6-60.
Sec. 6-172. - Collection by wholesale dealers.
(a)
Duties of wholesale dealers; collection and remittance to city. The excise tax imposed by this article shall be computed and payable monthly. Each wholesale dealer selling, shipping or delivering alcoholic beverages by the package to any alcoholic beverage licensee in the city shall, as a condition of the privilege of conducting such business in the city, be subject to the following:
(1)
Each wholesaler shall keep and maintain true and correct records of all sales, shipments or deliveries of alcoholic beverages by the package to each licensee in the city, such records to be preserved for a period of not less than one year and to be made available on request for inspection by any duly authorized representative of the city.
(2)
Each wholesaler shall collect from each licensee in the city, at time of delivery of alcoholic beverages, the amount of tax due under the terms of this article and hold such amount in trust for the city until such tax is remitted to the city as provided in this article.
(3)
On or before the tenth day of each calendar month, each wholesaler shall make a verified and comprehensive report to the city, which shall correctly show and reflect all sales and deliveries of alcoholic beverages to or for licensees in the city for the calendar month immediately preceding the date of the report. The report shall show the name and address of each licensee, the quantities delivered to each licensee, the amount of excise tax collected under the terms of this section, and such other reasonable information as may be requested by the city. The report shall be accompanied by remittance payable to the city for all taxes collected or due, as shown on the report.
(4)
The excise tax levied in this section is hereby levied upon the retailer licensed to do business in the city and it is the intent of this chapter to so levy this tax, but require the payment of the tax at the time of delivery by the retailer to the wholesaler, who shall have the responsibility of remitting the tax to the city on behalf of the retailer on or before the tenth day of each calendar month, as required in this section. If the tax due under this section is not paid on or before the tenth day of each calendar month, a ten percent penalty on the gross tax will be levied by the city against each defaulting retailing licensee for whom the tax is not paid on or before the tenth day of the month.
(b)
Noncompliance by wholesale dealer or distributor. If any wholesale dealer or distributor fails or refuses to make the reports required in this section, the city shall notify such dealer or distributor in writing. If the reports are not made and the taxes remitted within five days from the date of such notice, such wholesale dealer or distributor shall be prohibited from making any further deliveries in the city and the retail licensees served by such wholesale dealer or distributor for whom the taxes have not been paid shall be subject to having their license suspended or revoked as provided in this chapter.
(c)
Unlawful retail sales. It shall be a violation of this chapter for any person to sell at retail within the city any alcoholic beverage on which the taxes provided for in this article have not been paid.
(d)
Unlawful deliveries. It shall be unlawful and a violation of this chapter for any wholesale dealer or distributor, or other person, to deliver any alcoholic beverage to any retail dealer in the city without collecting, at the time of such delivery, the excise taxes provided for in this article.
(e)
Penalties. Any person violating any of the provisions of this article, or who shall assist any retail dealer in alcoholic beverages in the city to evade or avoid the payment of the taxes provided for in this article, shall be guilty of a violation of this section, and on conviction thereof in the municipal court shall be fined or sentenced as provided by section 1-7. Any such person so convicted shall also be subject to having such person's license suspended or revoked, if such person shall be a licensed dealer in alcoholic beverages.
(Code 1988, § 3-101; Ord. No. 656, § 7.1, 11-23-1998)
State Law reference— Imposition of tax, O.C.G.A. §§ 3-4-130—3-4-132.
Sec. 6-173. - Tax on sales by the drink.
(a)
Every purchaser of distilled spirits or alcoholic beverages for beverage purposes by the drink at retail in the city shall be liable for a tax thereon at the rate of three percent of the sale price or charge for such beverages. Such tax shall be paid by the purchaser to the licensee making such sales, as provided in this section. The licensee shall remit the tax to the city administrator on or before the tenth day of the succeeding month, to be delinquent if remitted thereafter, with a summary of the licensee's gross sales derived from the sale of distilled spirits or alcoholic beverages for beverage purposes by the drink and the amount of taxes collected by him from his purchasers, on such form as may be required by the city administrator. When received by the city administrator, it shall be a credit against the tax imposed under this article on the licensee. Every licensee making sales of such beverages shall be liable for a tax thereon at the rate of three percent of such gross sales or gross sales derived from the sale of distilled spirits or alcoholic beverages for beverage purposes by the drink or the amount of taxes collected by him from his purchasers, as provided in this section, whichever is greater.
(b)
Gross sales shall include all credit sales to the extent permitted by the laws of the state, and shall be reported and the taxes collected thereon remitted to the city administrator to the same extent as required of cash sales. The fact that the licensee may receive payment from such credit sales in a later reporting period shall not relieve or excuse the licensee's responsibility for collecting and remitting the tax as provided under this section.
(c)
The tax so levied is, and shall be, in addition to all other taxes, whether levied in the form of excise, license or privilege taxes, and shall be in addition to all other fees and taxes levied.
(d)
The taxes imposed in this section are upon the purchaser and shall be collected by the licensee from the purchaser. Therefore, the licensee shall collect the tax imposed under this section from the purchaser and shall pay the tax over to the city as provided in this section.
(e)
The licensee shall, as far as practicable, add the amount of the tax imposed under this section to the sale price or charge, which shall be a debt from the purchaser to the licensee until paid, and shall be recoverable at law in the same manner as other debts. Any licensee who shall neglect, fail, or refuse to collect the tax provided for in this section upon any, every and all retail sales made by him or his agents or employees of alcoholic beverages which are subject to the tax imposed under this section shall be liable for and pay the tax himself.
(f)
A licensee shall not advertise or hold out to the public, in any manner, directly or indirectly, that he will absorb all or any part of the tax, or that he will relieve the purchaser of the payment of all or any of the tax.
(g)
If any licensee liable for any tax levied under this section shall sell out his business or stock of goods, or shall quit the business, he shall make a final return and payment with 15 days after the date of selling or quitting the business.
(h)
In reporting and paying the amount of tax due under this section, each licensee shall be allowed a deduction equal to that rate authorized for deductions from state tax under O.C.G.A. Art. 1, Ch. 8, T. 48 (O.C.G.A. § 48-8-1 et seq.), provided that the tax due is not delinquent at time of payment.
(i)
The tax imposed under this section shall, for each month, become delinquent on the 15th day of each succeeding month. The city administrator is empowered and it shall be his duty, when any tax becomes delinquent under this section, to pursue any remedy or right allowed by law for the enforcement of the collection and payment of taxes lawfully levied by the city as may be allowed under the laws of the state and the ordinances of the city.
(j)
Any default or delinquency of the tax levied under this section shall constitute cause for suspension or revocation of alcoholic beverage licenses.
(k)
When the governing authority determines that a licensee has been chronically delinquent or chronically in default under this section, the governing authority, when acting upon the application of such licensee for renewal of his license may, in the exercise of its discretion, deny such application upon the grounds of such chronic delinquency.
(l)
Any licensee who fails to pay the tax imposed in this section to the city, or fails to pay any amount of such tax required to be collected and paid to the city within the time required, shall pay a penalty of ten percent of the tax, in addition to the tax or amount of the tax, plus interest on the unpaid tax or any portion thereof at a rate of one percent per month from the 15th day of the month following the monthly period for which the amount or any portion thereof should have been returned, until date of payment.
(Ord. No. 656, § 7.2, 11-23-1998)
State Law reference— Local taxation of distilled spirits by the drink, O.C.G.A. § 3-4-130 et seq.
Secs. 6-174—6-189. - Reserved.
