ARTICLE VII. - CODE OF ETHICS

Sec. 2-391. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
City official, unless otherwise expressly defined, means the mayor, members of the city council, municipal court judges (including substitute judges), city administrator, assistant city administrator, city clerk, director of utilities, director of public works and public safety, whether such persons are salaried, hired or elected, and all other persons holding positions designated by the Charter, as it may be amended from time to time. The term "city official," unless otherwise expressly defined, includes individuals appointed by the mayor and city council to all city commissions, committees, boards, task forces or other city bodies, unless specifically exempted from this article by the city council.
Decision means any ordinance, resolution, contract, franchise, formal action or other matter voted on by the city council or other city board or commission, as well as the discussions or deliberations of the council, board or commission, which can or may lead to a vote or formal action by that body.
Discretionary authority means the power to exercise any judgment in a decision or action.
Entity means a sole proprietorship, partnership, limited partnership, firm, corporation, professional corporation, holding company, joint stock company, receivership, trust or any other entity recognized by law through which business may be conducted.
Immediate family means spouse, mother, father, brother, sister, son or daughter of any city official.
Incidental interest means an interest in a person, entity or property which is not a substantial interest and which has insignificant value.
Remote interest means an interest of a person or entity, including a city official, who would be affected in the same way as the general public. The interest of a councilmember in the property tax rate, general city fees, city utility charges, or a comprehensive zoning ordinance or similar decision is incidental to the extent that the councilmember would be affected in common with the general public.
Substantial interest means an interest in another person or an entity if:
(1)
The interest is ownership of ten percent or more of the voting stock, shares or equity of the entity;
(2)
Funds received by the person from the other person or entity either during the previous 12 months or the previous calendar year equaled or exceeded $5,000.00 in salary, bonuses, commissions or professional fees or $5,000.00 in payment for goods, products or nonprofessional services, or 25 percent of the recipient's gross income during that period, whichever is less;
(3)
The person serves as a corporate officer or member of the board of directors or other governing board of the for-profit entity, other than a corporate entity owned or created by the city council; or
(4)
The person is a creditor, debtor, or guarantor of the other person or entity in an amount of $5,000.00 or more; provided, however, a commercially reasonable loan made to a city official in a lender's ordinary course of business at prevailing rates and terms, and which does not discriminate against or in favor of a city official (because of that official's status as a public servant) shall not be included as a part of this definition.
Substantial interest in real property means an interest in real property which is an equitable or legal ownership with a market value of $5,000.00 or more.
(Ord. No. 683, art. III, 1-10-2000)
Cross reference— Definitions generally, § 1-2.
Sec. 2-392. - Penalty.
Any persons violating any provisions of this article are subject to:
(1)
Written and oral reprimand by the council, board, commission or committee of which the violator is a member.
(2)
A fine greater than $100.00 but less than $500.00 to be imposed by the council, commission, board or committee of which the violator is a member.
(3)
Request for resignation by the council, board, committee or commission of which the violator is a member.
Each council, board, commission or committee shall have authority to establish rules and regulations to impose such penalties.
(Ord. No. 683, § art. VII, 1-10-2000)
Sec. 2-393. - Declaration of policy; purpose.
(a)
It is the policy of the city that the proper operation of democratic government requires that public officials be independent, impartial and responsible to the people; that governmental decisions and policy be made in proper channels of the governmental structure; that public office not be used for personal gain; and that the public have confidence in the integrity of its government. In recognition of these goals, a code of ethics for all city officials is adopted by this article.
(b)
This article has the following purposes:
(1)
Encourage high ethical standards in official conduct by city officials;
(2)
Establish guidelines for ethical standards of conduct for all such officials by setting forth those acts or actions that are incompatible with the best interest of the city;
(3)
Require disclosure by such officials of private financial or other interest in matters which may affect the city; and
(4)
Serve as a basis for disciplining those who refuse to abide by its terms.
The provisions of this article shall not apply to political contributions, loans, expenditures, reports or regulation of political campaigns or the conduct of candidates in such campaigns.
(Ord. No. 683, art. I, 1-10-2000)
Sec. 2-394. - Scope of persons covered.
The provisions of this article shall be applicable to all members of the city council, the zoning advisory board, all advisory commissions, and committee members.
(Ord. No. 683, art. II, 1-10-2000)
Sec. 2-395. - Exemptions.
(a)
This article shall not be construed to require the filing of any information relating to any person's connection with, or interest in, any professional society or any charitable, religious, social, fraternal, educational, recreational, public service, civil or political organization, or any similar organization not conducted as a business enterprise or governmental agency, and which is not engaged in the ownership or conduct of a business enterprise or governmental agency.
(b)
This article shall not apply to a municipal judge (including a substitute judge) when the judge is acting in a judicial capacity, or to an attorney at law who is a member of any city commissions, committees, boards, task forces or other city bodies, unless his personal or professional interests are or foreseeably may be in conflict with his official duties as such a member.
(Ord. No. 683, art. VI, 1-10-2000)
Sec. 2-396. - Standards of conduct.
(a)
No councilmember or member of any board or commission shall use such position to secure special privileges or exemptions for such person or others, or to secure confidential information for any purpose other than official responsibilities.
(b)
No councilmember or member of a board or commission, in any matter before the council, board or commission in which he has a substantial interest, shall fail to disclose for the common good for the record such interest prior to any discussion or vote.
(c)
No councilmember or member of a board or commission shall act as an agent or attorney for another in any matter before the city council or any board or commission.
(d)
No councilmember or member of a board or commission shall directly or indirectly receive, or agree to receive, any compensation, gift, reward, or gratuity in any matter or proceeding connected with, or related to, the duties of his office, which has a value of over $100.00.
(e)
No councilmember or member of a board or commission shall enter into any contract with the city, except as specifically authorized by state statutes. Any councilmember or member of a board or commission who has a proprietary interest in an agency doing business with the city shall make known that interest in writing to the city council and the city clerk.
(f)
All public funds shall be used for the general welfare of the people and not for personal economic gain.
(g)
Public property shall be disposed of in accordance with state law.
(h)
No city official shall solicit or accept other employment to be performed or compensation to be received while still a city official or employee, if the employment or compensation could reasonably be expected to impair judgment or performance of city duties.
(i)
If a city official accepts or is soliciting a promise of future employment from any person or entity who has a substantial interest in a person, entity or property which would be affected by any decision upon which the official might reasonably be expected to act, investigate, advise, or make a recommendation, the official shall disclose the fact to the board or commission on which he serves or to his supervisor and shall take no further action on matters regarding the potential future employer.
(j)
No city official shall use city facilities, personnel, equipment or supplies for private purposes, except to the extent such are lawfully available to the public.
(k)
No city official or employee shall grant or make available to any person any consideration, treatment, advantage or favor beyond that which it is the general practice to grant or make available to the public at large.
(Ord. No. 683, art. IV, 1-10-2000)
Sec. 2-397. - Conflict of interest.
A city official may not participate in a vote or decision on a matter affecting a person, entity or property in which the official or employee has a substantial interest. In addition, a city official or employee who serves as a corporate officer or member of the board of directors of a nonprofit entity may not participate in a vote or decision regarding funding by or through the city of the entity. Where the interest of a city official or employee in the subject matter of a vote or decision is remote or incidental, the city official or employee may participate in the vote or decision and need not disclose the interest.
(Ord. No. 683, art. V, 1-10-2000)
State Law reference— Conflict of interest in zoning actions, O.C.G.A. § 36-67A-1 et seq.
