Chapter 42 - ELECTIONS[1]

Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Charter reference— Election and removal, art. III.
Cross reference— Administration, ch. 2.
State Law reference— Georgia Election Code, O.C.G.A. § 21-2-1 et seq.

Sec. 42-1. - Applicability of state law.
All municipal special and general elections shall be held and conducted in accordance with O.C.G.A. Title 21, Ch. 2 (O.C.G.A. § 21-2-1 et seq.), except candidate qualifying deadlines shall be as provided in this chapter.
(Ord. No. 519, § 1(A), 9-27-1993)
Sec. 42-2. - Adoption of state law; qualifying; notice of candidacy.
(a)
The city hereby adopts O.C.G.A. § Title 21, Ch. 2 (O.C.G.A. § 21-2-1 et seq.).
(b)
The city also adopts the Georgia Election Code, specifically, the National Voter Registration Act.
(c)
The city also adopts the Georgia Election Code, specifically, the candidate's qualifying fee and candidate's nomination date requirements.
(1)
At least two weeks prior to the opening of qualifications for a city municipal election, the mayor and council shall fix and publish a qualification fee to be paid by candidates seeking election in any such special or general election. Such fee shall be paid to the municipal superintendent at the time a candidate files the candidate's notice of candidacy. Such fee shall be three percent of the annual salary for the post of mayor or councilmember. The qualifying fee for the city school board posts (nonsalaried posts) shall be $1.00 each.
(2)
Each candidate or a designee shall file a notice of candidacy in the office of the municipal superintendent. In case of a general election for the city in an odd-numbered year, candidates may file a notice of candidacy no earlier than 8:30 a.m. on the second Monday in September immediately preceding the general election and no later than 4:30 p.m. on the following Friday. The hours of qualifying each day shall be from 8:30 a.m. until 4:30 p.m., with one hour for a lunch break allowed. In case of special elections, qualifying shall be at least 25 days prior to the election. A notice of the opening and closing dates and the hours for candidates to qualify shall be published at least two weeks prior to the opening of the qualifying period.
(Code 1988, § 2-5; Ord. No. 571A, § 1, 8-14-1995)
State Law reference— Voter registration, O.C.G.A. § 21-2-210 et seq.
Sec. 42-3. - Terms of office; manner of election; voting posts.
(a)
Terms of office.
(1)
Municipal/school board offices terms are staggered, with designated members serving for a term of four years.
(2)
All municipal offices are to be elected at general municipal election and biennially thereafter and shall be for terms of four years.
(b)
Manner of election; voting posts. The mayor, councilmembers and school board members shall be elected at large. Any person seeking election shall qualify for four council posts, designated as Post Numbers 1, 2, 3 and 4, for the position of mayor, and for school board posts, designated as Post Numbers 1, 2, 3, 4 and 5. Elections shall be held on the same staggered term basis in existence on the effective date of the ordinance from which this section is derived. All municipal elections shall be nonpartisan and the names of the candidates shall be listed upon the ballot without party label.
(Ord. No. 519, § 1(C), 9-27-1993)
