ARTICLE II. - DEFINITIONS

Sec. 201. - Definitions.
When used in this ordinance, the following words and phrases shall have the meaning given in this section. Words not defined herein shall be construed to have a meaning given by common and ordinary use as defined by Webster's Third New International Dictionary, copyright 1970. The term "shall" is mandatory. When not inconsistent with the context, words used in the singular number include the plural and those used in the plural number include the singular. Words used in the present tense include the future.
The following definitions shall apply in the interpretation and enforcement of this ordinance, unless otherwise specifically stated:
(a)
Area of special flood hazard. The land in the floodplain within a community subject to a one percent or greater chance of flooding in any given year.
(b)
As-built drawings. Amended site plans specifying the locations, dimensions, elevations, capacities and operational capabilities of road and drainage structures and facilities as they have been constructed.
(c)
Base flood. The flood having a one percent chance of being equaled or exceeded in any given year.
(d)
Buffer. An area along the course of any state waters to be maintained in an undisturbed and natural condition.
(e)
Cart path system. A network of cart paths planned and constructed throughout Peachtree City. The overall plan for the cart path system is shown on the Peachtree City cart path map adopted in 1982, and as amended from time to time.
(f)
Conceptual plat. A plat made preparatory to the preliminary plat to enable the subdivider to save time and expense in reaching general agreement with the city planner and planning commission as to the form of the plat and the objectives of these regulations.
(g)
Conservation commission. The state soil and water conservation commission.
(h)
Construction. Any alteration of land for the purpose of achieving its development of changing use, including particularly any preparation for, building of, or erection of a structure.
(i)
Cut. A portion of land surface or area from which earth has been removed or will be removed by excavation; the depth below original ground surface to excavated surface. Also known as excavation.
(j)
Department. The department of natural resources.
(k)
Developer. Any person who acts in his own behalf or as the agent of any owner of property and engages in alteration of land or vegetation in preparation for construction activity.
(l)
Development. Any action in preparation for construction activities which result in alteration of either land or vegetation other than such minor land disturbing activities as home gardens and individual home landscaping repairs or maintenance work which result in minor soil erosion.
(m)
Director. The director of the environmental protection division.
(n)
District. The Towaliga Soil and Water Conservation district.
(o)
Division. The environmental protection division.
(p)
Drainage. A general term applied to the removal of surface or subsurface water from a given area either by gravity or by pumping, commonly applied herein to surface water.
(q)
Drainage plan. A plan prepared using appropriate and commonly accepted engineering standards which specifies the means for alteration or development of a drainage system.
(r)
Drainage structure. Any roadway drainage structure as defined below, and any piping or ditching for stormwater management purposes.
(s)
Drainage system. The surface and subsurface system for the removal of water from the land, including both the natural elements of streams, marshes, and ponds, whether of an intermittent or continuous nature, and the manmade element which includes culverts, ditches, channels, retention facilities and the storm sewer system.
(t)
Driveway. A vehicular access corridor privately owned and maintained. Residential driveways shall not serve more than two single-family residential lots. That portion of a driveway which is constructed on the city right-of-way must be constructed to city standards.
(u)
Erosion. The process by which land surface is worn away by the action of wind, water, ice or gravity.
(v)
Erosion and sediment control plan. A plan for the control of soil erosion and sediment resulting from land disturbing activity. Also known as the "plan."
(w)
Existing grade. The vertical location of the existing ground surface prior to cutting or filling.
(x)
Filling. The placement of any soil or other solid material, either organic or inorganic, on a natural ground surface or excavation.
(y)
Finished grade. The final elevation and contour of the ground after cutting or filling and conforming to the proposed design.
(z)
Flood. A temporary rise in the level of rivers, streams and lakes which results in inundation of areas not ordinarily covered by water.
(aa)
Flood hazard boundary map. A map issued by the Federal Emergency Management Agency in the report entitled the Flood Insurance Study for the City of Peachtree City, dated October 21, 1976, and any revisions thereto, where the boundaries of the area of special flood hazard have been defined as zone A.
(bb)
Flood insurance rate map (FIRM). A map issued by the Federal Emergency Management Agency in support of the Flood Insurance Study for the City of Peachtree City, dated December 1, 1977, and any revisions thereto, delineating areas of special flood hazard, base flood elevations, risk premium zones, and other flood hazard data applicable to the community.
(cc)
Flood insurance study. The official report provided by the Federal Emergency Management Agency, containing flood profiles, as well as the flood boundary-floodway map and the water surface elevation of the base flood (IRF).
(dd)
Floodway. The channel of a river or other watercourse and the adjacent land areas that must be reserved in order to discharge the base flood (IRF), without ultimately increasing the water surface elevation more than one foot.
(ee)
Grading. Altering ground surfaces to specified elevations, dimensions, and/or slopes; this includes stripping, cutting, filling, stockpiling and shaping or any combination thereof and shall include the land in its cut or filled condition.
(ff)
Greenbelt. An area of land to be dedicated to the city which shall remain undisturbed, insofar as possible, from its natural state to form a screen or buffer.
(gg)
Impervious surface. A manmade structure or surface which prevents the infiltration of stormwater into the ground below the structure or surface. Structures or surfaces which are constructed so as to only minimally affect the infiltration of stormwater are not considered impervious surfaces. These include: playground equipment, picnic tables, and specially designed decks and patios which allow for infiltration of stormwater.
(hh)
Intermediate regional flood (IRF). A 100-year frequency flood, as defined on the flood hazard map, which has a probability of occurring once every 100 years or having a one percent chance of occurring each year.
(ii)
Issuing authority. Peachtree City, which has been certified by the director of environmental protection division of the department of natural resources as an issuing authority, pursuant to the Erosion and Sedimentation Act of 1975, as amended.
(jj)
Land disturbing activity. Any activity which may result in soil erosion from water or wind and the movement of sediments into state waters or onto land within the state, including, but not limited to, clearing, dredging, grading, excavating, transporting, and filling of land.
(kk)
Live retention. That quantity of water capable of being effectively contained by a designated facility for stormwater storage for a specified period of time.
(ll)
Lot. A tract, portion or parcel of land separated from other tracts, portions or parcels by description on a subdivision plat of record or survey map or described by metes and bounds, and intended to be used to facilitate transfer of ownership or for building development. For the purposes of this ordinance, the term does not include any portion of a dedicated right-of-way.
(mm)
Maintenance of retention facility. Preserving the enclosing walls or impounding embankment of the retention facility in good condition; ensuring structural soundness, functional adequacy and freedom from sediment; and rectifying any unforeseen erosion problems.
(nn)
Manufactured home. Means a structure, transportable in one or more sections, which is built on a permanent chassis and designed to be used with or without a permanent foundation when connected to the required utilities. The term also includes park trailers, travel trailers, and similar transportable structures placed on a site for 180 days or longer and intended to be improved property.
(oo)
Metropolitan River Protection Act (MRPA). A state law referenced as O.C.G.A. ยง 12-5-440 et seq., which addresses environmental and developmental matters in certain metropolitan river corridors and their drainage basins.
(pp)
Natural ground surface. The ground surface in its original state before any grading, excavation or filling.
(qq)
Nephelometric turbidity units (NTU). Numerical units of measure based upon photometric analytical techniques for measuring the light scattered by finely divided particles of a substance in suspension. This technique is used to estimate the extent of turbidity in water in which colloidally dispersed particles are present.
(rr)
Owner. The person in whom is vested the fee ownership, dominion or title of property, by proprietor; this term may also include a tenant, if chargeable under his lease for the maintenance of the property, and any agent of the owner or tenant, including a developer.
(ss)
Permit. The authorization necessary to conduct a land-disturbing activity under the provisions of this ordinance.
(tt)
Person. Any individual, partnership, firm, association, joint venture, public or private corporation, trust, estate, commission, board, public or private institution, utility, cooperative, state agency, municipality, or other political subdivision of this state, any interstate body or any other legal entity.
(uu)
Project. The entire proposed development project regardless of the size of the area of land to be disturbed.
(vv)
Reach. A longitude segment of a stream or river measured along specified points on the stream or river.
(ww)
Reconstruction. Replacing an existing road surface involving activities that go beyond resurfacing.
(xx)
Retention facility. A facility which provides for storage of storm water runoff and controlled release of this runoff during and after a flood storm.
(yy)
Reserve strip. A parcel of land whose principal purpose is to control access to streets.
(zz)
Resurfacing. Installing one or more courses of asphalt construction over existing pavement.
(aaa)
Right-of-way. "Right-of-way" shall mean a strip or parcel of land occupied by or intended to be occupied by a street, crosswalk, pedestrian path, cart path, utility system, water main, sanitary sewer or storm drain sewer main, drainage ditches and watercourses or any other valid public use. The usage of the term "right-of-way" for land platting purposes shall mean that every right-of-way hereafter established and shown on a record or final plat is to be separate and distinct from the lots or parcels adjoining such right-of-way, and not included within the dimensions or areas of such other lots or parcels. Rights-of-way intended for streets, crosswalks, water mains, sanitary sewers, storm drains or other use involving maintenance by a public [agency, shall be dedicated or deeded to public] use by the maker of the plat on which such right-of-way is established.
(bbb)
New road construction. Installing a road where no travel surface generally used by the public exists, but may include the extension of an existing road.
(ccc)
Roadway drainage structure. Bridges, culverts and ditches associated with roadway construction, which allow stream flows to move freely under a stream crossing or to convey stormwater runoff from a roadway to a stream.
(ddd)
Runoff. The portion of a precipitation on the land which reaches the drainage system.
(eee)
Runoff coefficient. The ratio of runoff to rainfall.
(fff)
Sediment. Solid material, both organic and inorganic, that is in suspension, is being transported, or has been moved from its site of origin by air, water, ice, or gravity as a product of erosion.
(ggg)
Sedimentation. The action or process of forming or depositing sediment.
(hhh)
Sedimentation facility. A facility specifically developed for the purpose of allowing the deposition of sediment resulting from the land development process.
(iii)
Shear failure. Failure of an earthen bank caused by the steepness of the slope.
(jjj)
Stabilization. The process of establishing an enduring soil cover of vegetation and/or mulch or other ground cover and/or combination with installing temporary or permanent structures for the purpose of reducing to a minimum the erosion process and the resultant transport of sediment by wind, water, ice or gravity.
(kkk)
State waters. Any and all rivers, streams, creeks, branches, lakes, reservoirs, ponds, natural drainage systems which contain flowing water and which appear on the USGS Quad map, springs, wells, wetlands and other bodies of surface or subsurface water, natural and artificial, lying within or forming a part of the boundaries of the State which are not entirely confined and retained completely upon the property of a single individual, partnership, or corporation. Wetlands shall also be considered jurisdictional waters of the United States, as that term is defined by 42 USCFR and the regulations promulgated thereunder.
(lll)
Stream. Natural, running water flowing continuously or intermittently in a channel on or below the surface of the ground.
(mmm)
Street. A way for vehicular traffic, whether designated as an avenue, boulevard, road, highway, expressway, lane, alley, or other way, and for the purposes of this ordinance, streets are divided into the following categories:
(1)
Arterial highway. An arterial highway is a thoroughfare intended primarily to move traffic through the city.
(2)
Arterial streets. These streets are intended to provide higher travel speeds between or within communities, or to and from collectors and expressways. Access is controlled so that only community significant land use may have direct access to these streets.
(3)
Collector streets. Collector streets connect residential streets to the highway system's major and higher (minor) arterials or provide access to nonresidential uses and arterials. Collectors form barriers between neighborhoods and are designed for higher speeds and traffic volumes than are residential streets. Collectors are classified as major collectors and minor collectors.
a.
Major collector. The primary function is to carry traffic for most major intraurban trips over one mile, particularly during peak hours. These streets provide only limited direct access to adjacent land. This direct access is usually focused on major facilities, shopping centers or other significant traffic generators. Major collectors are usually designed with four travel lanes and may be either divided or undivided.
b.
Minor collector. The primary function is to carry traffic for short to medium (one-half to one mile) intraurban trips. These strips receive traffic from residential streets and transmit it to major collectors and arterials. Minor collectors spaced to relieve excessive traffic volumes on local streets, are commonly designed with two travel lanes.
(4)
Commercial street. A commercial street is a minor road within a commercial area intended primarily to provide access to adjoining property.
(5)
Community collector road. A community collector road is a thoroughfare intended primarily to move traffic from one village to another, or to an area outside the city.
(6)
County collector road. A part of the Fayette County road system that is designed and built to county thoroughfare standards with a minimum right-of-way width of 80 feet and a minimum pavement width of 24 feet and, generally, no curb and gutter.
(7)
Divided street. Any street with a median greater than 100 feet separating the travel lanes. A divided street may be a major collector, minor collector, industrial, commercial or residential street.
(8)
Existing lot. An existing lot is any lot that has been legally platted and established prior to the adoption of the new buffer standards. That lot may be developed for a use in accordance with the existing zoning or it may be in an undeveloped state.
(9)
Industrial street. An industrial street is a minor road within an industrial area intended primarily to provide access to adjoining property.
(10)
Neighborhood collector road. A neighborhood collector road is a thoroughfare intended primarily to move traffic through a particular residential neighborhood.
(11)
Private street. Private street means any parcel of land set aside to provide access to development and which will not be dedicated or deeded to the city. These streets shall be constructed to standards adopted by the City of Peachtree City. As of May 3, 2001, no private street shall be approved by the city if it is intended to provide access to one or more single-family residential lots that are not also directly served by an approved public street.
(12)
Public street. Public street shall mean any right-of-way dedicated or deeded to and accepted by the city for purposes of public travel. Public streets shall be constructed to standards adopted by the City of Peachtree City.
(13)
Public street, low-density. Shall mean any public right-of-way located in estate residential (ER) or agricultural reserve (AR) zoning districts which meet the following conditions:
a.
That planned or possible future development will not exceed 30 lots being served by such a street.
b.
That all lots served by such a street have a minimum width of 250 feet on said street.
c.
That design criteria for drainage requirements meet or exceed those adopted for such streets.
(14)
Residential street. A residential street is a minor road within a residential area intended primarily to provide access to adjoining property.
(15)
Road. A road is an open way intended primarily for the passage of vehicles and pedestrians.
(16)
Scenic road. A road which, because of its distinctive character and the natural beauty of its surroundings, is deserving of special treatment in its design, engineering, construction, and maintenance.
(17)
Service road. A thoroughfare which runs roughly parallel to an arterial highway and is primarily intended to provide access to nonresidential property that is adjacent to the arterial highway.
(18)
Thoroughfare. A thoroughfare is a major road or highway intended primarily for traffic that is passing through an area.
(19)
Tree-save/landscape buffer. A buffer area within which it is permitted to remove understory vegetation and tree limbs in order to allow for development on adjacent property to be seen from a major thoroughfare. Modification of a buffer can only be done with the approval of the city landscape architect. In addition to understory clearing and limbing, it can include limited grading, berming, and relandscaping, provided none of the modifications to the buffer adversely affect the existing mature trees in the buffer.
(20)
Village collector road. A village collector road is a thoroughfare intended primarily to move traffic from one area of a village to another area in that same village.
(nnn)
Structural erosion and sediment control practices. Measures for the stabilization of erosive or sediment-producing areas by utilizing the mechanical properties of matter for the purpose of either changing the surface of the land or storing, regulating or disposing of runoff to prevent excessive sediment loss. Examples of structural erosion and sediment control practices are riprap, sediment basins, dikes, level spreaders, waterways or outlets, diversions, grade stabilization structures, sediment traps, land grading, etc.
(ooo)
Structure. Anything constructed or erected, the use of which requires a location on the ground, or attached to something having a location on the ground, including, but not limited to, tennis courts, fences, swimming pools, and buildings.
(ppp)
Subdivider. Any person, persons, partnership, corporation or other entity or the estate of such entity having a proprietary interest in the land to be divided.
(qqq)
Subdivision. Subdivision includes all divisions of a tract or parcel of land into two or more lots, building sites, or other divisions for the purposes, whether immediate or future, of sale, gift, or building development and includes all divisions or development of land involving a new street or a change in an existing street. It shall also include resubdivision, the process of subdividing and the land or area subdivided; provided, however, divisions of land into parcels of five acres or more where no new street is involved are not included in this definition.
(rrr)
Substantial improvement. Any repair, reconstruction, or improvement of a structure, the cost of which equals or exceeds 50 percent of the market value of the structure, either: (1) before the improvement or repair is started, or (2) if the structure has been damaged and is being restored, before the damage occurred. For the purpose of this definition, "substantial improvement" is considered to occur when the first alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor or other structural part of the building commences, whether or not that alteration affects the external dimensions of the structure. The term does not, however, include either:
(1)
Any project for improvement of a structure to comply with existing state or local health, sanitary, or safety code specifications which are solely necessary to assure safe living conditions; or
(2)
Any alteration of a structure listed on the National Register of Historic Places or a state inventory of historic places.
(sss)
Tree. A woody plant which has a single or combined trunk with a caliper (diameter) of eight or more inches five feet above the ground, or any flowering ornamental woody plant having a caliper of two or more inches five feet above the ground.
(ttt)
Undisturbed natural buffer. A tract of land in its natural undisturbed state where no vegetation can be removed or planted without a city permit. No herbicides, pesticides, or other chemicals, either natural or manmade can be used in this buffer.
The city may permit the trimming of tree branches and the removal of noxious weeds, woody plants that are not trees, or other undesirable vegetation that will not adversely impact water quality. The city will permit the installation of vegetation (not grasses commonly used for lawns), in this area which will, in the opinion of the city, enhance water quality.
(uuu)
Utility. Any public or private water or sewer piping systems, water or sewer pumping stations, electric power lines, fuel pipelines, telephone lines, roads, driveways, bridges, river/lake access facilities, storm water systems, publicly owned cart paths, and railroads or other utilities identified by Peachtree City.
(vvv)
Vegetation. All plant growth, especially trees, shrubs, vines, ferns, mosses, and grasses.
(www)
Vegetative erosion and sediment control practices. Measures for the stabilization of erosive or sediment producing areas by covering the soil with:
(1)
Permanent seeding, sprigging or planting, producing long-term vegetative cover; or
(2)
Temporary seeding, producing short-term vegetative cover; or
(3)
Sodding, covering areas with a turf of perennial sod-forming grass.
(xxx)
Watercourse. Any natural or artificial watercourse, stream, river, creek, channel, ditch, canal, conduit, culvert, drain, waterway, gully, ravine, or wash in which water flows either continuously or intermittently and which has a definite channel, bed and banks, and including any areas adjacent thereto subject to inundation by reason of overflow or floodwater.
(Ord. No. 425, 3-5-1987; Ord. No. 453, 3-2-1988; Ord. No. 493, ยง 1, 5-18-1989; Ord. No. 527, 3-1-1990; Ord. No. 546, 9-20-1990; Ord. No. 656, 3-7-1996; Ord. No. 679, 10-16-1997; Ord. No. 685, 12-4-1997; Ord. No. 689, 3-19-1998; Ord. No. 760, 5-3-01)
