ARTICLE X. - WATER RESOURCE PROTECTION[6]

Footnotes:
--- (6) ---
Editor's note— Ord. No. 791, adopted September 19, 2002, repealed and reenacted art. X in its entirety to read as herein set out. Formerly, art. X pertained to environmental standards and derived from Ord. No. 425, adopted March 5, 1987; Ord. No. 452, adopted February 4, 1988; Ord. No. 527, adopted March 1, 1990; Ord. No. 546, adopted September 20, 1990; Ord. No. 652, adopted December 7, 1995; Ord. No. 654, adopted December 7, 1995; Ord. No. 657, adopted March 7, 1996; Ord. No. 736, adopted April 6, 2000; Ord. No. 738, adopted July 7, 2000; Ord. No. 99-740, adopted August 3, 2000; Ord. No. 774, adopted September 6, 2001.

Sec. 1001. - Definitions.
When used in this ordinance, the following words and phrases shall have the meaning given in this section. Words not defined herein shall be construed to have a meaning given by common and ordinary use as defined by Webster's Third New International Dictionary, copyright 1970. The term "shall" is mandatory. When not inconsistent with the context, words used in the singular number include the plural and those used in the plural number include the singular. Words used in the present tense include the future.
The following definitions shall apply in the interpretation and enforcement of this ordinance, unless otherwise specifically stated:
1.
Aquifer. Any stratum or zone of rock beneath the surface of the earth capable of containing or producing water from a well.
2.
Area of special flood hazard. The land in the floodplain within a community subject to a one percent or greater chance of flooding in any given year.
3.
As-built drawings. Amended site plans specifying the locations, dimensions, elevations, capacities and operational capabilities of road and drainage structures and facilities as they have been constructed.
4.
Base flood. The flood having a one percent chance of being equaled or exceeded in any given year, also known as the intermediate regional flood.
5.
Best management practices (BMPs). Schedules of activities, prohibitions of practices, general good house keeping practices, pollution prevention and educational practices, maintenance procedures, and other management practices to prevent or reduce the discharge of pollutants directly or indirectly to stormwater, receiving waters, or stormwater conveyance systems. BMPs also include treatment practices, operating procedures, and practices to control site runoff, spillage or leaks, sludge or water disposal, or drainage from raw materials storage.
6.
Buffer. An area along the course of any state waters to be maintained in an undisturbed and natural condition.
7.
Cart path system. A network of cart paths planned and constructed throughout Peachtree City. The overall plan for the cart path system is shown on the Peachtree City cart path map adopted in 1982, and as amended from time to time.
8.
Conceptual plat. A plat made preparatory to the preliminary plat to enable the subdivider to save time and expense in reaching general agreement with the city planner and planning commission as to the form of the plat and the objectives of these regulations.
9.
Conservation commission. The Georgia Soil and Water Conservation Commission.
10.
Construction. Any alteration of land for the purpose of achieving its development of changing use, including particularly any preparation for, building of, or erection of a structure.
11.
Construction Activity. Activities subject to NPDES Construction Permits. These include construction projects resulting in land disturbance of five acres or more. Such activities include but are not limited to clearing and grubbing, grading, excavating, and demolition.
12.
Cut. A portion of land surface or area from which earth has been removed or will be removed by excavation; the depth below original ground surface to excavated surface. Also known as excavation.
13.
Department. The Georgia Department of Natural Resources.
14.
Design storm. The rainfall event of such size and frequency as described in the Stormwater Design Manual, which is used for the design of stormwater facilities.
15.
Developer. Any person who acts in his own behalf or as the agent of any owner of property and engages in alteration of land or vegetation in preparation for construction activity.
16.
Development. Any action in preparation for construction activities which result in alteration of either land or vegetation other than such minor land disturbing activities as home gardens and individual home landscaping repairs or maintenance work which result in minor soil erosion.
17.
Community development director. The Peachtree City Community Development director or their designee.
18.
Director. The director of the Georgia Environmental Protection Division.
19.
District. The Towaliga Soil and Water Conservation district.
20.
Division. The Georgia Environmental Protection Division.
21.
Drainage. A general term applied to the removal of surface or subsurface water from a given area either by gravity or by pumping, commonly applied herein to surface water.
22.
Drainage plan. A plan prepared using appropriate and commonly accepted engineering standards which specifies the means for alteration or development of a drainage system.
23.
Drainage structure. Any stormwater conveyance structure as defined below, and any piping or ditching for stormwater management purposes.
24.
Drainage system. The surface and subsurface system for the removal of water from the land, including both the natural elements of streams, marshes, and ponds, whether of an intermittent or continuous nature, and the manmade element which includes culverts, ditches, channels, retention facilities and the storm sewer system.
25.
DRASTIC methodology. The standardized system for evaluating ground-water pollution potential using the hydro geologic settings described in U.S. Environmental Protection Agency document EPA-600-2-87-035.
26.
Driveway. A vehicular access corridor privately owned and maintained. Residential driveways shall not serve more than two single-family residential lots. That portion of a driveway which is constructed on the city right-of-way must be constructed to city standards.
27.
Erosion. The process by which land surface is worn away by the action of wind, water, ice or gravity.
28.
Erosion and sediment control plan. A plan for the control of soil erosion and sediment resulting from land disturbing activity. Also known as the "plan."
29.
Existing grade. The vertical location of the existing ground surface prior to cutting or filling.
30.
Filling. The placement of any soil or other solid material, either organic or inorganic, on a natural ground surface or excavation.
31.
Finished grade. The final elevation and contour of the ground after cutting or filling and conforming to the proposed design.
32.
Flood. A temporary rise in the level of rivers, streams and lakes which results in inundation of areas not ordinarily covered by water.
33.
Flood hazard boundary map. A map issued by the Federal Emergency Management Agency in the report entitled the Flood Insurance Study for the City of Peachtree City, dated October 21, 1976, and any revisions thereto, where the boundaries of the area of special flood hazard have been defined as zone A.
34.
Flood insurance rate map (FIRM). A map issued by the Federal Emergency Management Agency in support of the Flood Insurance Study for the City of Peachtree City, dated March 18, 1996, and any revisions thereto, delineating areas of special flood hazard, base flood elevations, risk premium zones, and other flood hazard data applicable to the community.
35.
Flood insurance study. The official report provided by the Federal Emergency Management Agency, containing flood profiles, as well as the flood boundary-floodway map and the water surface elevation of the base flood.
36.
Floodplain. Any land area susceptible to being inundated by flood waters from any source. A flood insurance rate map identifies most, but not necessarily all of Peachtree City's floodplain as the special flood hazard area.
37.
Floodway. The channel of a river or other watercourse and the adjacent land areas subject to erosive velocities and damage from flood-borne debris that must be reserved in order to discharge the base flood (intermediate regional flood), without ultimately increasing the water surface elevation more than one foot.
38.
Generalized wetlands map. The current U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service National Wetlands Inventory maps for the City of Peachtree City, Georgia.
39.
Grading. Altering ground surfaces to specified elevations, dimensions, and/or slopes; this includes stripping, cutting, filling, stockpiling and shaping or any combination thereof and shall include the land in its cut or filled condition.
40.
Greenbelt. An area of land to be dedicated to the city which shall remain undisturbed, insofar as possible, from its natural state to form a screen or buffer.
41.
Hazardous materials. Any material, including any substance, waste, or combination thereof, which because of its quantity, concentration, or physical, chemical, or infectious characteristics may cause, or significantly contribute to, a substantial present or potential hazard to human health, safety, property, or the environment when improperly treated, stored, transported, disposed of, or otherwise managed.
42.
Hotspot. An area where the land use or activities generate or have the potential to generate highly contaminated runoff, with concentrations of pollutants in excess of those typically found in stormwater.
43.
Illegal discharge. Any direct or indirect non-storm water discharge to the storm drain system, except as exempted in Section 1010 of this ordinance.
44.
Illicit connections. An illicit connection is defined as the following: Any drain or conveyance, whether on the surface or subsurface, which allows an illegal discharge to enter the storm drain system including but not limited to any conveyances which allow any non-storm water discharge including sewage, process wastewater, and wash water to enter the storm drain system and any connections to the storm drain system from indoor drains and sinks, regardless of whether said drain or connection had been previously allowed, permitted, or approved by an authorized enforcement agency or any drain or conveyance connected from a commercial or industrial land use to the storm drain system which has not been documented in plans, maps, or equivalent records and approved by an authorized enforcement agency.
45.
Impervious surface. A manmade structure or surface which prevents the infiltration of stormwater into the ground below the structure or surface. Structures or surfaces which are constructed so as to only minimally affect the infiltration of stormwater are not considered impervious surfaces. These include: playground equipment, picnic tables, and specially designed decks and patios which allow for infiltration of stormwater.
46.
Industrial activity. Activities subject to NPDES Industrial Permits as defined in 40 CFR, Section 122.26 (b)(14).
47.
Intermediate regional flood. A 100-year frequency flood, as defined on the flood hazard map, which has a one-percent chance of being equaled or exceeded in any given year.
48.
Intermittent stream. Any stream which flows for only part of the year and does not support aquatic life whose life history requires residence in flowing water for a continuous period of at least six months.
49.
Issuing authority. Peachtree City, which has been certified by the director of the Environmental Protection Division of the Department of Natural Resources as an issuing authority, pursuant to the Erosion and Sedimentation Act of 1975, as amended.
50.
Jurisdictional wetland means an area that meets the definitional requirements for wetlands as determined by the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers.
51.
Jurisdictional wetland determination means a delineation of jurisdictional wetland boundaries by the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, as required by section 404 of the Clean Water Act, 33 U.S.C. § 1344, as amended.
52.
Land disturbing activity. Any activity which results in changes in the volume or flow rates of rainfall runoff, soil erosion from water or wind; or the movement of sediments into state waters or onto land within the state, including, but not limited to, clearing, dredging, grading, excavating, transporting, and filling of land.
53.
Live retention. That quantity of water capable of being effectively contained by a designated facility for stormwater storage for a specified period of time.
54.
Lot. A tract, portion or parcel of land separated from other tracts, portions or parcels by description on a subdivision plat of record or survey map or described by metes and bounds, and intended to be used to facilitate transfer of ownership or for building development. For the purposes of this ordinance, the term does not include any portion of a dedicated right-of-way.
55.
Maintenance of stormwater facility. Preserving the enclosing walls or impounding embankment of the retention facility in good condition; ensuring structural soundness, functional adequacy and freedom from sediment; and rectifying any unforeseen erosion problems.
56.
Manufactured home. Means a structure, transportable in one or more sections, which is built on a permanent chassis and designed to be used with or without a permanent foundation when connected to the required utilities. The term also includes park trailers, travel trailers, and similar transportable structures placed on a site for 180 days or longer and intended to be improved property.
57.
Metropolitan River Protection Act (MRPA). A Georgia law referenced as O.C.G.A. § 12-5-440 et seq., which addresses environmental and developmental matters in certain metropolitan river corridors and their drainage basins.
58.
National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System (NPDES) Storm Water Discharge Permit. A permit issued by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (or by the state of Georgia under authority delegated pursuant to 33 USC § 1342(b)) that authorizes the discharge of pollutants to waters of the United States, whether the permit is applicable on an individual, group, or general area-wide basis.
59.
Natural ground surface. The ground surface in its original state before any grading, excavation or filling.
60.
Nephelometric turbidity units (NTU). Numerical units of measure based upon photometric analytical techniques for measuring the light scattered by finely divided particles of a substance in suspension. This technique is used to estimate the extent of turbidity in water in which colloidally dispersed particles are present.
61.
New road construction. Installing a road where no travel surface generally used by the public exists, but may include the extension of an existing road.
62.
Non-storm water discharge. Any discharge to the storm drain system that is not composed entirely of storm water.
63.
Owner. The person in whom is vested the fee ownership, dominion or title of property, by proprietor; this term may also include a tenant, if chargeable under his lease for the maintenance of the property, and any agent of the owner or tenant, including a developer.
64.
Perennial stream. Any stream which flows continuously throughout the year or supports aquatic life whose life history requires residence in flowing water for a continuous period of six months or longer.
65.
Permit. The authorization necessary to conduct a land-disturbing activity under the provisions of this ordinance.
66.
Person. Any individual, partnership, firm, association, joint venture, public or private corporation, trust, estate, commission, board, public or private institution, utility, cooperative, state agency, municipality, or other political subdivision of this state, any interstate body or any other legal entity
67.
Pollutant. Anything which causes or contributes to pollution. Pollutants may include, but are not limited to: paints, varnishes, and solvents; oil and other automotive fluids; non-hazardous liquid, solid, and yard wastes; refuse, rubbish, garbage, litter, or other discarded or abandoned objects, and accumulations, so that same may cause or contribute to pollution; floatables; pesticides, herbicides, and fertilizers; hazardous substances and wastes; sewage, fecal coliform and pathogens; dissolved and particulate metals; animal wastes; wastes and residues that result from constructing a building or structure; heat; and noxious or offensive matter of any kind.
68.
Pollution susceptibility. The relative vulnerability of an aquifer to being polluted from spills; discharges; leaks; impoundments; applications of chemicals, injections, and other human activities in the recharge area.
69.
Pollution susceptibility map. The Georgia Department of Natural Resources Hydrologic Atlas 20: Groundwater Pollution Susceptibility Map of Georgia.
70.
Pretreatment. The onsite reduction of the amount of pollutants, the elimination of pollutants, or the alteration of the nature of pollutant properties in stormwater prior to or in lieu of discharging or otherwise introducing such pollutants into the publicly owned drainage system.
71.
Project. The entire proposed development project regardless of the size of the area of land to be disturbed.
72.
Reach. A longitude segment of a stream or river measured along specified points on the stream or river.
73.
Recharge area. Any portion of the earth's surface where water infiltrates into the ground to replenish an aquifer.
74.
Reconstruction. Replacing an existing road surface involving activities that go beyond resurfacing.
75.
Regulated activity. Any activity which will, or which may reasonably be expected to, result in the discharge of dredged or fill material into waters of the U.S. excepting those activities exempted in section 404 of the Federal Clean Water Act.
76.
Reserve strip. A parcel of land whose principal purpose is to control access to streets.
77.
Resurfacing. Installing one or more courses of asphalt, concrete, or other impervious surface over existing pavement.
78.
Stormwater facility. A facility which provides for storage of storm water runoff and controlled release of this runoff during and after a flood storm.
79.
Right-of-way. "Right-of-way" shall mean a strip or parcel of land occupied by or intended to be occupied by a street, crosswalk, pedestrian path, cart path, utility system, water main, sanitary sewer or storm drain sewer main, drainage ditches and watercourses or any other valid public use. The usage of the term "right-of-way" for land platting purposes shall mean that every right-of-way hereafter established and shown on a record or final plat is to be separate and distinct from the lots or parcels adjoining such right-of-way, and not included within the dimensions or areas of such other lots or parcels. Rights-of-way intended for streets, crosswalks, water mains, sanitary sewers, storm drains or other use involving maintenance by a public [agency, shall be dedicated or deeded to public] use by the maker of the plat on which such right-of-way is established.
80.
Roadway drainage structure. Bridges, culverts and ditches associated with roadway construction, which allow stream flows to move freely under a stream crossing or to convey stormwater runoff from a roadway to a stream.
81.
Runoff coefficient. The ratio of runoff to rainfall.
82.
Sediment. Solid material, both organic and inorganic, that is in suspension, is being transported, or has been moved from its site of origin by air, water, ice, or gravity as a product of erosion.
83.
Sedimentation. The action or process of forming or depositing sediment.
84.
Sedimentation facility. A facility specifically developed for the purpose of allowing the deposition of sediment resulting from the land development process.
85.
Shear failure. Failure of an earthen bank caused by the steepness of the slope.
86.
Significant recharge areas. Those areas mapped by the Georgia Department of Natural Resources in Hydrologic Atlas 18 (1989 edition).
87.
Stabilization. The process of establishing an enduring soil cover of vegetation and/or mulch or other ground cover and/or combination with installing temporary or permanent structures for the purpose of reducing to a minimum the erosion process and the resultant transport of sediment by wind, water, ice or gravity.
88.
State waters. Any and all rivers, streams, creeks, branches, lakes, reservoirs, ponds, natural drainage systems which contain flowing water and which appear on the USGS Quad map, springs, wells, wetlands and other bodies of surface or subsurface water, natural and artificial, lying within or forming a part of the boundaries of the state which are not entirely confined and retained completely upon the property of a single individual, partnership, or corporation. Wetlands shall also be considered jurisdictional waters of the United States, as that term is defined by 42 USCFR and the regulations promulgated thereunder.
89.
Stormwater. Any surface flow, runoff, and drainage consisting entirely of water from any form of natural precipitation, and resulting from such precipitation.
90.
Stormwater Design Manual. Volume 2 (Technical Handbook) of the Georgia Stormwater Management Manual, current edition, as published by the Atlanta Regional Commission and Peachtree City design standards. The Georgia Stormwater Management Manual is available online at www.georgiastormwater.org.
91.
Stormwater pollution prevention plan. A document which describes the best management practices and activities to be implemented by a person or business to identify sources of pollution or contamination at a site and the actions to eliminate or reduce pollutant discharges to stormwater, stormwater conveyance systems, and/or receiving waters to the maximum extent practicable.
92.
Stormwater runoff. The portion of a precipitation on the land which reaches the drainage system.
93.
Stream. Natural, running water flowing continuously or intermittently in a channel on or below the surface of the ground.
94.
Structural erosion and sediment control practices. Measures for the stabilization of erosive or sediment-producing areas by utilizing the mechanical properties of matter for the purpose of either changing the surface of the land or storing, regulating or disposing of runoff to prevent excessive sediment loss. Examples of structural erosion and sediment control practices are riprap, sediment basins, dikes, level spreaders, waterways or outlets, diversions, grade stabilization structures, sediment traps, land grading, etc.
95.
Structural stormwater control. A structural stormwater management facility or device that controls stormwater runoff and changes the characteristics of that runoff including, but not limited to, the quantity, the quality, the period of release or the velocity of flow.
96.
Structure. Anything constructed or erected, the use of which requires a location on the ground, or attached to something having a location on the ground, including, but not limited to, tennis courts, fences, swimming pools, and buildings.
97.
Subdivider. Any person, persons, partnership, corporation or other entity or the estate of such entity having a proprietary interest in the land to be divided.
98.
Subdivision. Subdivision includes all divisions of a tract or parcel of land into two or more lots, building sites, or other divisions for the purposes, whether immediate or future, of sale, gift, or building development and includes all divisions or development of land involving a new street or a change in an existing street. It shall also include resubdivision, the process of subdividing and the land or area subdivided; provided, however, divisions of land into parcels of five acres or more where no new street is involved are not included in this definition.
99.
Substantial improvement. Any repair, reconstruction, or improvement of a structure, the cost of which equals or exceeds 50 percent of the market value of the structure, either:
(1)
Before the improvement or repair is started, or
(2)
If the structure has been damaged and is being restored, before the damage occurred. For the purpose of this definition, "substantial improvement" is considered to occur when the first alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor or other structural part of the building commences, whether or not that alteration affects the external dimensions of the structure. The term does not, however, include either any project for improvement of a structure to comply with existing state or local health, sanitary, or safety code specifications which are solely necessary to assure safe living conditions; or any alteration of a structure listed on the National Register of Historic Places or a state inventory of historic places.
100.
Tree. A woody plant which, when mature, has a single or combined trunk with a caliper (diameter) of eight or more inches five feet above the ground, or any flowering ornamental woody plant having a caliper of two or more inches five feet above the ground.
101.
Undisturbed natural buffer. A tract of land in its natural undisturbed state where no vegetation can be removed or planted without a city permit. No herbicides, pesticides, or other chemicals, either natural or manmade can be used in this buffer.
The city may permit the trimming of tree branches and the removal of noxious weeds, woody plants that are not trees, or other undesirable vegetation that will not adversely impact water quality. The city will permit the installation of vegetation (not grasses commonly used for lawns), in this area which will, in the opinion of the city, enhance water quality.
102.
Utility. Any public or private water or sewer piping systems, water or sewer pumping stations, electric power lines, fuel pipelines, telephone lines, roads, driveways, bridges, river/lake access facilities, storm water systems, publicly owned cart paths, and railroads or other utilities identified by Peachtree City.
103.
Vegetation. All plant growth, especially trees, shrubs, vines, ferns, mosses, and grasses.
104.
Vegetative erosion and sediment control practices. Measures for the stabilization of erosive or sediment producing areas by covering the soil with:
(a)
Permanent seeding, sprigging or planting, producing long-term vegetative cover; or
(b)
Temporary seeding, producing short-term vegetative cover; or
(c)
Sodding, covering areas with a turf of perennial sod-forming grass.
105.
Watercourse. Any natural or man-made conveyance channel, stream, river, creek, channel, ditch, canal, conduit, culvert, drain, waterway, gully, ravine, or wash in which stormwater flows either continuously or intermittently and which has a definite channel, bed and banks, and including any areas adjacent thereto subject to inundation by reason of overflow or floodwater.
106.
Wetlands. Those areas that are inundated or saturated by surface or groundwater at a frequency and duration sufficient to support, and that under normal circumstances do support, a prevalence of vegetation typically adapted for life in saturated soil conditions. Wetlands generally include swamps, marshes, bogs, and similar areas. The ecological parameters for designating wetlands include hydric soils, hydrophytic vegetation, and hydrological conditions that involve a temporary or permanent source of water to cause soil saturation.
(Ord. No. 791, 9-19-2002; Ord. No. 981, § 1, 7-16-2009)
Sec. 1002. - Plan submission requirements.
(a)
Policy. It is hereby declared to be public policy that all development submitted in accordance with applicable provisions of this article shall meet the requirements for their preparation and shall also provide information to enable a determination to be made by the city engineer as to plan conformance with public policy statements of this section.
(b)
Standards. All persons proposing development or construction shall submit plats to the city engineer illustrating the means by which conformance with policy provisions may be achieved and illustrating compliance with applicable development standards before issuance of a development or building permit.
Electric, telephone and gas utilities shall submit plans and obtain a development permit only for major transmission installations located within right-of-way or easements devoted exclusively to installation of utility facilities. Individual single-family lots within approved subdivisions and outside of the intermediate regional floodplain shall be exempt from these requirements for new residential construction unless specified on the recorded plat.
Grading, erosion control, sedimentation control, and drainage plans shall be prepared under the supervision of a current Georgia-registered professional engineer, architect, landscape architect, or combination as may be appropriate for project planning and design. When the hydrologic engineering analysis includes applications of the principles of flood routing, super critical flow, high energy dissipation or conversion, backwater curves, floodplain studies or other advanced hydrologic engineering techniques, the analysis shall be made by a current Georgia-registered professional engineer proficient in hydrology.
Plans and supporting documentation to show conformance with this ordinance shall be submitted to the city engineer and shall include:
(1)
Evidence of conformance with the requirements of this section for grading, vegetation, alteration, erosion control, sedimentation control, flood control and drainage system alteration or development. Grading plans shall illustrate existing and proposed contours to the five-foot interval; golf courses and other open space areas shall be exempt from this requirement but general grading plans shall be submitted. Related plans shall show locations of structures, roads, surface drainage, existing and proposed drainage conduits and proposed alterations to the existing site;
(2)
A hydrologic engineering analysis of stormwater runoff under existing and proposed developed site conditions and a detailed evaluation of the projected effects on upstream and downstream properties within the affected drainage basin. This analysis shall include a determination of the culvert, floodplain and channel cross-section area required to carry the affected stream at the intermediate regional flood stage level. The requirements for a complete hydrologic study may be waived by the city engineer for any development where the plan submitted illustrates existing or proposed improvements sufficient to ensure compliance with applicable provisions of this article;
(3)
Delineation of the boundaries and contour elevations of the intermediate regional floodplain for streams draining in excess of 100 acres shall be clearly designated on each site plan, subdivision plat and construction plan. The actual building site in relation to the intermediate regional floodplain boundaries shall be shown; once shown and accepted by the city, the same information shall be indicated by the seller to the purchaser of each property so affected. The elevation contours representing the intermediate regional flood conditions shall be shown when they are located outside established ditch banks. A benchmark suitable for determining intermediate regional flood elevations shall be established;
(4)
The projected sequence of work represented by the grading, vegetation, erosion control, sedimentation control and drainage plans as related to other major items of construction; and
(5)
Upon development project completion, location, size and invert elevations of piped segments of the storm drainage system, of control weirs, and maximum water surface elevations in stormwater pools shall be shown on the final plat for a subdivision, and on final plat for other developments which shall be submitted to the city engineer. The professional engineer, architect, or landscape architect reviewing the construction shall provide a certificate that the development is in substantial compliance with approved plans for the project when required by the city engineer;
(6)
When reviewing any application for a land disturbing activity permit, the city shall consider the past record of the permit applicant in complying with previous land disturbing activity permits and this ordinance. If the applicant has had two or more violations of previous permits of this ordinance within three years prior to the date of the filing of the application under consideration, the city may require the applicant to post a bond up to, but not exceeding $3,000.00 per acre of the proposed land disturbing activity prior to issuing the permit. If the applicant does not comply with this ordinance or with the conditions of the permit after issuance, the city may call the bond or any part thereof to be forfeited and may use the proceeds to hire a contractor to stabilize the site of the land disturbing activity and bring it into compliance.
(Ord. No. 791, 9-19-02)
Sec. 1003. - Grading.
(a)
Policy. It is hereby declared to be public policy to:
(1)
Encourage the design of grading plans to provide natural appearance of land contours and to provide ease of use in public areas;
(2)
Minimize the adverse effects of land clearance and grading upon existing vegetation;
(3)
Minimize the adverse effects of land clearance and grading upon the drainage system by strict erosion control and sedimentation control measures; and
(4)
Minimize erosion and shear failure potential by encouraging limited cutting and filling.
(b)
Standards.
(1)
All grading operations shall be conducted in compliance with the approved plans.
(2)
Before beginning construction activity on property located in intermediate regional floodplain, the intermediate regional floodplain elevation contours shall be identified on the property by staking or other identifying mechanisms no less than every 100 feet, and shall be identifiable throughout project development.
(3)
Unreinforced, compacted fill slopes shall not exceed a 2:1 ratio of horizontal change in location per vertical foot of change in elevation.
(Ord. No. 791, 9-19-02)
Sec. 1004. - Watershed protection buffers.
(a)
Policies. It is hereby declared to be public policy to:
(1)
Protect the water quality of all lakes and streams within Peachtree City, but especially protect and enhance the quality of water supply reservoirs: Lakes Peachtree, Kedron and McIntosh (future).
(2)
Preserve and enhance the water quality of all streams and watercourses which exit the boundaries of Peachtree City.
(b)
Standards.
(1)
Land disturbing activities shall not be conducted within the 100-year floodplain unless in compliance with section 1007.
(2)
Except as otherwise provided in sections 1004(b)(4) and 1004(b)(5), an undisturbed natural buffer area shall be maintained for a distance of 25 feet adjacent to any state water as measured from the stream banks except when in the interest of public health, safety and welfare, or the contour of the land requires a different buffer subject to the city's approval. Utilities shall not be located within this buffer if they can feasibly be located outside this area. All disturbances of this buffer require prior approval by the city.
(3)
All developments, which utilize septic tanks as their method of sewage disposal, and are contiguous to or within 200 feet of a water supply reservoir or streams having a drainage basin in excess of one square mile, shall identify and preserve a suitable area for a duplicate septic system, which can be used if the primary septic system fails. Both sites must be approved by the Fayette County Health Department.
(4)
Around all existing or proposed water supply reservoirs and their perennial tributaries, as shown on the appropriate United States Geological Survey (USGS) Quad Map or as defined herein, the following requirements are established:
a.
An undisturbed natural buffer area shall be maintained for a distance of 100 feet measured from the normal pool elevation or the stream banks. Utilities shall not be located within this buffer if they can feasibly be located outside this area. All disturbances of this buffer require prior approval by the city.
b.
Impervious surfaces are prohibited within 150 feet of the normal pool elevation or the stream bank. This prohibition includes septic tanks, septic tank drainfields, and new paved paths.
c.
With the exception of publicly owned paths, utilities shall not be located within these buffers if they can feasibly be located outside these areas. All disturbances to these buffers shall require prior approval by the city and such approval shall be based on a determination that the disturbance will not adversely affect water quality.
d.
No storm drain piping shall extend into these buffer areas. All storm drainage shall utilize best management practices to remove pollutant loading prior to discharge.
e.
Impervious surfaces must be limited to no more than 25 percent of the portion of any watershed that lies within the boundaries of Peachtree City.
f.
New facilities which handle hazardous materials of the types and amounts determined by the Georgia Department of Natural Resources (listed in Section 312 of the federal Resource Conservation and Recovery Act of 1976, excluding underground storage tanks and which contain amounts of 10,000 pounds on any one day or more), shall perform their operations on impermeable surfaces and in conformance with any applicable spill prevention requirements and any local fire code requirements.
(5)
Around all perennial streams shown on the appropriate USGS Quad Map and not covered in section 1004(b)(4) above, the following requirements shall be established:
a.
An undisturbed natural buffer area of 50 feet measured from the stream banks shall be maintained. Utilities shall not be located within this buffer if they can feasibly be located outside the area. All disturbances of this buffer require prior approval by the city.
b.
Impervious surfaces are prohibited within 75 feet of the stream bank. This prohibition includes septic tanks, septic tank drainfields, and new paved paths.
(Ord. No. 791, 9-19-2002)
Sec. 1005. - Soil erosion and sedimentation control.
1005.1 Title.
This section will be known as the "Peachtree City Soil Erosion and Sedimentation Control Ordinance."
1005.2 Definitions.
The following definitions shall apply in the interpretation and enforcement of this section, unless otherwise specifically stated:
(1)
Best management practices (BMPs): A collection of structural practices and vegetative measures which, when properly designed, installed and maintained, will provide effective erosion and sedimentation control. The term "properly designed" means designed in accordance with the hydraulic design specifications contained in the "Manual for Erosion and Sediment Control in Georgia" specified in O.C.G.A. § 12-7-6 subsection (b).
(2)
Board: The Board of Natural Resources.
(3)
Buffer: The area of land immediately adjacent to the banks of state waters in its natural state of vegetation, which facilitates the protection of water quality and aquatic habitat.
(4)
Certified personnel: A person who has successfully completed the appropriate certification course approved by the Georgia Soil and Water Conservation Commission.
(5)
Coastal marshlands: Shall have the same meaning as in O.C.G.A. § 12-5-282.
(6)
Commission: The Georgia Soil and Water Conservation Commission (GSWCC).
(7)
Common development: A contiguous area where multiple, separate and distinct construction activities will be taking place at different times on different schedules under one plan of development.
(8)
CPESC: Certified Professional in Erosion and Sediment Control with current certification by EnviroCert, Inc., which is also referred to as CPESC or CPESC, Inc.
(9)
Cut: A portion of land surface or area from which earth has been removed or will be removed by excavation; the depth below original ground surface to excavated surface. Also known as "excavation."
(10)
Department: The Department of Natural Resources (DNR).
(11)
Design professional: A professional licensed by the State of Georgia in the field of: engineering, architecture, landscape architecture, forestry, geology, or land surveying; or a person that is a Certified Professional in Erosion and Sediment Control (CPESC) with a current certification by EnviroCert, Inc. Design Professionals shall practice in a manner that complies with applicable Georgia law governing professional licensure.
(12)
Director: The Director of the Environmental Protection Division or an authorized representative.
(13)
District: The Towaliga Soil and Water Conservation District.
(14)
Division: The Environmental Protection Division (EPD) of the Department of Natural Resources.
(15)
Drainage structure: A device composed of a virtually nonerodable material such as concrete, steel, plastic or other such material that conveys water from one place to another by intercepting the flow and carrying it to a release point for stormwater management, drainage control, or flood control purposes.
(16)
Ephemeral stream: A stream; that under normal circumstances has water flowing only during and for a short duration after precipitation events; that has the channel located above the ground-water table year round; for which ground water is not a source of water; and for which runoff from precipitation is the primary source of water flow.
(17)
Erosion: The process by which land surface is worn away by the action of wind, water, ice or gravity.
(18)
Erosion, sedimentation and pollution control plan: A plan required by the Erosion and Sedimentation Act, O.C.G.A. Ch. 12-7, that includes as a minimum protection at least as stringent as the State General Permit, best management practices, and requirements in subsection 1005.4(c) of this ordinance.
(19)
Fill: A portion of land surface to which soil or other solid material has been added; the depth above the original ground surface or an excavation.
(20)
Final stabilization: All soil disturbing activities at the site have been completed, and that for unpaved areas and areas not covered by permanent structures and areas located outside the waste disposal limits of a landfill cell that has been certified by EPD for waste disposal, 100 percent of the soil surface is uniformly covered in permanent vegetation with a density of 70 percent or greater, or landscaped according to the Plan (uniformly covered with landscaping materials in planned landscape areas), or equivalent permanent stabilization measures as defined in the Manual (excluding a crop of annual vegetation and seeding of target crop perennials appropriate for the region). Final stabilization applies to each phase of construction.
(21)
Finished grade: The final elevation and contour of the ground after cutting or filling and conforming to the proposed design.
(22)
Grading: Altering the shape of ground surfaces to a predetermined condition; this includes stripping, cutting, filling, stockpiling and shaping or any combination thereof and shall include the land in its cut or filled condition.
(23)
Ground elevation: The original elevation of the ground surface prior to cutting or filling.
(24)
Land-disturbing activity: Any activity which may result in soil erosion from water or wind and the movement of sediments into state waters or onto lands within the state, including, but not limited to, clearing, dredging, grading, excavating, transporting, building/structure construction, and filling of land but not including agricultural practices as described in subsection 1005.3(5).
(25)
Larger common plan of development or sale: A contiguous area where multiple separate and distinct construction activities are occurring under one plan of development or sale. For the purposes of this paragraph, "plan" means an announcement; a piece of documentation such as a sign, public notice or hearing, sales pitch, advertisement, drawing, permit application, zoning request, or computer design; or physical demarcation such as boundary signs, lot stakes, or surveyor markings, indicating that construction activities may occur on a specific plot.
(26)
Local issuing authority: The governing authority of any county or municipality which is certified pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 12-7-8(a).
(27)
Metropolitan River Protection Act (MRPA): A state law referenced as O.C.G.A. § 12-5-440 et seq., which addresses environmental and developmental matters in certain metropolitan river corridors and their drainage basins.
(28)
Natural ground surface: The ground surface in its original state before any grading, excavation or filling.
(29)
Nephelometric turbidity units (NTU): Numerical units of measure based upon photometric analytical techniques for measuring the light scattered by finely divided particles of a substance in suspension. This technique is used to estimate the extent of turbidity in water in which colloidally dispersed or suspended particles are present.
(30)
NOI: A notice of intent form provided by EPD for coverage under the state general permit.
(31)
NOT: A notice of termination form provided by EPD to terminate coverage under the state general permit.
(32)
Operator: The party or parties that have:
(A)
Operational control of construction project plans and specifications, including the ability to make modifications to those plans and specifications; or
(B)
Day-to-day operational control of those activities that are necessary to ensure compliance with an erosion, sedimentation and pollution control plan for the site or other permit conditions, such as a person authorized to direct workers at a site to carry out activities required by the erosion, sedimentation and pollution control plan or to comply with other permit conditions.
(33)
Outfall: The location where stormwater in a discernable, confined and discrete conveyance, leaves a facility or site or, if there is a receiving water on site, becomes a point source discharging into that receiving water.
(34)
Permit: The authorization necessary to conduct a land-disturbing activity under the provisions of this ordinance.
(35)
Person: Any individual, partnership, firm, association, joint venture, public or private corporation, trust, estate, commission, board, public or private institution, utility, cooperative, state agency, municipality or other political subdivision of the State of Georgia, any interstate body or any other legal entity.
(36)
Phase or phased: Sub-parts or segments of construction projects where the sub-part or segment is constructed and stabilized prior to completing construction activities on the entire construction site.
(37)
Primary permittee: The owner or operator or both of a tract of land for a construction project subject to the permits.
(38)
Project: The entire proposed development project regardless of the size of the area of land to be disturbed.
(39)
Project site: Any land-disturbance site or multiple sites within a larger common plan of development or sale permitted by an owner or operator for compliance with the state general permit.
(40)
Properly designed: Designed in accordance with design requirements and specifications contained in the "Manual for Erosion and Sediment Control in Georgia" (Manual) published by the Georgia Soil and Water Conservation Commission and in effect as of January 1 of the year in which the land-disturbing activity was permitted and amendments to Manual as approved by the Commission up until the date of NOI submittal.
(41)
Roadway drainage structure: A device such as a bridge, culvert, or ditch, composed of a virtually nonerodable material such as concrete, steel, plastic, or other such material that conveys water under a roadway by intercepting the flow on one side of a traveled roadway consisting of one or more defined lanes, with or without shoulder areas, and carrying water to a release point on the other side.
(42)
Secondary permittee: An owner, individual builder, utility contractor that conducts a construction activity within a common development.
(43)
Sediment: Solid material, both organic and inorganic, that is in suspension, is being transported, or has been moved from its site of origin by wind, water, ice, or gravity as a product of erosion.
(44)
Sedimentation: The process by which eroded material is transported and deposited by the action of water, wind, ice or gravity.
(45)
Site activity: All activity on the site to include but not limited to land disturbing, site work, and building construction of any type.
(46)
Soil and water conservation district approved plan: An erosion sedimentation and pollution control plan approved in writing by the Towaliga Soil and Water Conservation District.
(47)
Stabilization: The process of establishing an enduring soil cover of vegetation by the installation of temporary or permanent structures for the purpose of reducing to a minimum the erosion process and the resultant transport of sediment by wind, water, ice or gravity.
(48)
State general permit: The National Pollution Discharge Elimination System (NPDES) general permit or permits for stormwater runoff from construction activities as is now in effect or as may be amended or reissued in the future pursuant to the state's authority to implement the same through federal delegation under the Federal Water Pollution Control Act, as amended, 33 U.S.C. Section 1251 et seq., and O.C.G.A. § 12-5-30(f).
(49)
State waters: Any and all rivers, streams, creeks, branches, lakes, reservoirs, ponds, drainage systems, springs, wells, and other bodies of surface or subsurface water, natural or artificial, lying within or forming a part of the boundaries of the state which are not entirely confined and retained completely upon the property of a single individual, partnership, or corporation.
(50)
Structural erosion and sedimentation and pollution control practices: Practices for the stabilization of erodible or sediment-producing areas by utilizing the mechanical properties of matter for the purpose of either changing the surface of the land or storing, regulating or disposing of runoff to prevent excessive sediment loss. Examples of structural erosion and sediment control practices are riprap, sediment basins, dikes, level spreaders, waterways or outlets, diversions, grade stabilization structures, sediment traps, etc. Such practices can be found in the publication Manual for Erosion and Sediment Control in Georgia.
(51)
Surface mining: The same as defined in O.C.G.A. § 12-4-72, "The Georgia Surface Mining Act of 1968."
(52)
Tertiary permittee: Either the owner or operator of a remaining lot(s) within a common development where the primary permittee and all secondary permittees have submitted a notice of termination in accordance with the permit.
(53)
Trout streams: All streams or portions of streams within the watershed as designated by the Wildlife Resources Division of the Georgia Department of Natural Resources under the provisions of the Georgia Water Quality Control Act, O.C.G.A. § 12-5-20, in the rules and regulations for Water Quality Control, Chapter 391-3-6 at
www.epd.georgia.gov . Streams designated as primary trout waters are defined as water supporting a self-sustaining population of rainbow, brown or brook trout. Streams designated as secondary trout waters are those in which there is no evidence of natural trout reproduction, but are capable of supporting trout throughout the year. First order trout waters are streams into which no other streams flow except springs.
(54)
Vegetative erosion and sedimentation control measures: Measures for the stabilization of erodible or sediment-producing areas by covering the soil with:
a.
Permanent seeding, sprigging or planting, producing long-term vegetative cover;
b.
Temporary seeding, producing short-term vegetative cover; or
c.
Sodding, covering areas with a turf of perennial sod-forming grass.
Such measures can be found in the publication Manual for Erosion and Sediment Control in Georgia.
(55)
Watercourse: Any natural or artificial watercourse, stream, river, creek, channel, ditch, canal, conduit, culvert, drain, waterway, gully, ravine, or wash in which water flows either continuously or intermittently and which has a definite channel, bed and banks, and including any area adjacent thereto subject to inundation by reason of overflow or floodwater.
(56)
Wetlands: Those areas that are inundated or saturated by surface or ground water at a frequency and duration sufficient to support, and that under normal circumstances do support, a prevalence of vegetation typically adapted for life in saturated soil conditions. Wetlands generally include swamps, marshes, bogs, and similar areas.
1005.3 Exemptions.
This section shall apply to any land-disturbing activity undertaken by any person on any land except for the following:
(1)
Surface mining;
(2)
Granite quarrying and land clearing for such quarrying;
(3)
Such minor land-disturbing activities as home gardens and individual home landscaping, repairs, maintenance work, fences, and other related activities which result in minor soil erosion;
(4)
The construction of single-family residences, when such construction disturbs less than one acre and is not a part of a larger common plan of development or sale with a planned disturbance of equal to or greater than one acre and not; otherwise exempted under this paragraph; provided, however, that construction of any such residence shall conform to the minimum requirements as set forth in O.C.G.A. § 12-7-6 and this paragraph. For single-family residence construction covered by the provisions of this paragraph, there shall be a buffer zone between the residence and any state waters classified as trout streams pursuant to article 2 of chapter 5 of the Georgia Water Quality Control Act. In any such buffer zone, no land-disturbing activity shall be constructed between the residence and the point where vegetation has been wrested by normal stream flow or wave action from the banks of the trout waters. For primary trout waters, the buffer zone shall be at least 50 horizontal feet, and no variance to a smaller buffer shall be granted. For secondary trout waters, the buffer zone shall be at least 50 horizontal feet, but the director may grant variances to no less than 25 feet. Regardless of whether a trout stream is primary or secondary, for first order trout waters, which are streams into which no other streams flow except for springs, the buffer shall be at least 25 horizontal feet; and no variance to a smaller buffer shall be granted. The minimum requirements of O.C.G.A. § 12-7-6(b) and the buffer zones provided by this paragraph shall be enforced by the local issuing authority;
(5)
Agricultural operations as defined in O.C.G.A. § 1-3-3, "Definitions," to include raising, harvesting or storing of products of the field or orchard; feeding, breeding or managing livestock or poultry; producing or storing feed for use in the production of livestock, including but not limited to cattle, calves, swine, hogs, goats, sheep, and rabbits or for use in the production of poultry, including but not limited to chickens, hens and turkeys; producing plants, trees, fowl, or animals; the production of aqua culture, horticultural, dairy, livestock, poultry, eggs and apiarian products; farm buildings and farm ponds;
(6)
Forestry land management practices, including harvesting; provided, however, that when such exempt forestry practices cause or result in land-disturbing or other activities otherwise prohibited in a buffer, as established in paragraphs (15) and (16) of subsection 1005.4(c) of this section, no other land-disturbing activities, except for normal forest management practices, shall be allowed on the entire property upon which the forestry practices were conducted for a period of three years after completion of such forestry practices;
(7)
Any project carried out under the technical supervision of the Natural Resources Conservation Service (NCRS) of the United States Department of Agriculture;
(8)
Any project involving less than one acre of disturbed area; provided, however, that this exemption shall not apply to any land-disturbing activity within a larger common plan of development or sale with a planned disturbance of equal to or greater than one acre or within 200 feet of the bank of any state waters, and for purposes of this paragraph, "State Waters" excludes channels and drainage ways which have water in them only during and immediately after rainfall events and intermittent streams which do not have water in them year round; provided, however, that any person responsible for a project which involves less than one acre, which involves land-disturbing activity, and which is within 200 feet of any such excluded channel or drainage way, must prevent sediment from moving beyond the boundaries of the property on which such project is located and provided, further, that nothing contained herein shall prevent the local issuing authority from regulating any such project which is not specifically exempted by paragraphs (1), (2), (3), (4), (5), (6), (7), (9) or (10) of this section;
(9)
Construction or maintenance projects, or both, undertaken or financed in whole or in part, or both, by the Department of Transportation, the Georgia Highway Authority, or the State Road and Tollway Authority; or any road construction or maintenance project, or both, undertaken by any county or municipality; provided, however, that construction or maintenance projects of Department of Transportation or State Road and Tollway Authority which disturb one or more contiguous acres of land shall be subject to provisions of O.C.G.A. § 12-7-7.1; except where the Department of Transportation, the Georgia Highway Authority, or the State Road and Tollway Authority is a secondary permittee for a project located within a larger common plan of development or sale under the state general permit, in which case a copy of a notice of intent under the state general permit shall be submitted to the local issuing authority, the local issuing authority shall enforce compliance with the minimum requirements set forth in O.C.G.A. § 12-7-6 as if a permit had been issued, and violations shall be subject to the same penalties as violations by permit holders;
(10)
Any land-disturbing activities conducted by any electric membership corporation or municipal electrical system or any public utility under the regulatory jurisdiction of the Public Service Commission, any utility under the regulatory jurisdiction of the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, any cable television system as defined in O.C.G.A. § 36-18-1, or any agency or instrumentality of the United States engaged in the generation, transmission, or distribution of power; except where an electric membership corporation or municipal electrical system or any public utility under the regulatory jurisdiction of the Public Service Commission, any utility under the regulatory jurisdiction of the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, any cable television system as defined in O.C.G.A. § 36-18-1, or any agency or instrumentality of the United States engaged in the generation, transmission, or distribution of power is a secondary permittee for a project located within a larger common plan of development or sale under the state general permit, in which case the local issuing authority shall enforce compliance with the minimum requirements set forth in O.C.G.A. § 12-7-6 as if a permit had been issued, and violations shall be subject to the same penalties as violations by permit holders; and
(11)
Any public water system reservoir.
1005.4 Minimum requirements for erosion sedimentation and pollution control using best management practices.
(a)
General provisions. Excessive soil erosion and resulting sedimentation can take place during land-disturbing activities if the requirements of the ordinance and the NPDES general permit are not met. Therefore, plans for those land-disturbing activities which are not exempted by this ordinance shall contain provisions for application of soil erosion, sedimentation and pollution control measures and practices. The provisions shall be incorporated into the erosion, sedimentation and pollution control plans. Soil erosion, sedimentation and pollution control measures and practices shall conform to the minimum requirements of subsections 1005.4(b) and (c) of this ordinance. The application of measures and practices shall apply to all features of the site, including street and utility installations, drainage facilities and other temporary and permanent improvements. Measures shall be installed to prevent or control erosion and sedimentation and pollution during all stages of any land-disturbing activity in accordance with requirements of this ordinance and the NPDES general permit.
(b)
Minimum requirements/BMPs.
(1)
Best management practices as set forth in subsections 1005.4(b) and (c) of this ordinance shall be required for all land-disturbing activities. Proper design, installation, and maintenance of best management practices shall constitute a complete defense to any action by the director or to any other allegation of noncompliance with paragraph (2) of this subsection or any substantially similar terms contained in a permit for the discharge of stormwater issued pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 12-5-30(f), the "Georgia Water Quality Control Act." As used in this subsection the terms "proper design" and "properly designed" mean designed in accordance with the hydraulic design specifications contained in the Manual for Erosion and Sediment Control in Georgia specified in O.C.G.A. § 12-7-6(b).
(2)
A discharge of stormwater runoff from disturbed areas where best management practices have not been properly designed, installed, and maintained shall constitute a separate violation of any land-disturbing permit issued by a local issuing authority or of any state general permit issued by the division pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 12-5-30(f), the "Georgia Water Quality Control Act," for each day on which such discharge results in the turbidity of receiving waters being increased by more than 25 nephelometric turbidity units for waters supporting warm water fisheries or by more than ten nephelometric turbidity units for waters classified as trout waters. The turbidity of the receiving waters shall be measured in accordance with guidelines to be issued by the director. This paragraph shall not apply to any land disturbance associated with the construction of single-family homes which are not part of a larger common plan of development or sale unless the planned disturbance for such construction is equal to or greater than five acres.
(3)
Failure to properly design, install, or maintain best management practices shall constitute a violation of any land-disturbing permit issued by a local issuing authority or of any state general permit issued by the division pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 12-5-30(f), the "Georgia Water Quality Control Act," for each day on which such failure occurs.
(4)
The director may require, in accordance with regulations adopted by the board, reasonable and prudent monitoring of the turbidity level of receiving waters into which discharges from land-disturbing activities occur.
(5)
The LIA may set more stringent buffer requirements than stated in subsections 1005.4(c)(15) and (16), in light of O.C.G.A. § 12-7-6(c).
(c)
The rules and regulations, ordinances, or resolutions adopted pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 12-7-1 et seq. for the purpose of governing land-disturbing activities shall require, as a minimum, protections at least as stringent as the state general permit; and best management practices, including sound conservation and engineering practices to prevent and minimize erosion and resultant sedimentation, which are consistent with, and no less stringent than, those practices contained in the Manual for Erosion and Sediment Control in Georgia published by the Georgia Soil and Water Conservation Commission as of January 1 of the year in which the land-disturbing activity was permitted, as well as the following:
(1)
Stripping of vegetation, regrading and other development activities shall be conducted in a manner so as to minimize erosion;
(2)
Cut-fill operations must be kept to a minimum;
(3)
Development plans must conform to topography and soil type so as to create the lowest practical erosion potential;
(4)
Whenever feasible, natural vegetation shall be retained, protected and supplemented;
(5)
The disturbed area and the duration of exposure to erosive elements shall be kept to a practicable minimum;
(6)
Disturbed soil shall be stabilized as quickly as practicable;
(7)
Temporary vegetation or mulching shall be employed to protect exposed critical areas during development;
(8)
Permanent vegetation and structural erosion control practices shall be installed as soon as practicable;
(9)
To the extent necessary, sediment in run-off water must be trapped by the use of debris basins, sediment basins, silt traps, or similar measures until the disturbed area is stabilized. As used in this paragraph, a disturbed area is stabilized when it is brought to a condition of continuous compliance with the requirements of O.C.G.A. § 12-7-1 et seq.;
(10)
Adequate provisions must be provided to minimize damage from surface water to the cut face of excavations or the sloping of fills;
(11)
Cuts and fills may not endanger adjoining property;
(12)
Fills may not encroach upon natural watercourses or constructed channels in a manner so as to adversely affect other property owners;
(13)
Grading equipment must cross flowing streams by means of bridges or culverts except when such methods are not feasible, provided, in any case, that such crossings are kept to a minimum;
(14)
Land-disturbing activity plans for erosion, sedimentation and pollution control shall include provisions for treatment or control of any source of sediments and adequate sedimentation control facilities to retain sediments on-site or preclude sedimentation of adjacent waters beyond the levels specified in subsection 1005.4(b)(2) of this ordinance;
(15)
Except as provided in paragraphs (16) and (17) of this subsection, there is established a 25-foot buffer along the banks of all state waters, as measured horizontally from the point where vegetation has been wrested by normal stream flow or wave action, except where the director determines to allow a variance that is at least as protective of natural resources and the environment, where otherwise allowed by the director pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 12-2-8, where a drainage structure or a roadway drainage structure must be constructed, provided that adequate erosion control measures are incorporated in the project plans and specifications, and are implemented; or where bulkheads and sea walls are installed to prevent shoreline erosion on Lake Oconee and Lake Sinclair; or along any ephemeral stream. Unless exempted as along an ephemeral stream, the buffers of at least 25 feet established pursuant to part 6 of article 5, chapter 5 of title 12, the "Georgia Water Quality Control Act," shall remain in force unless a variance is granted by the director as provided in this paragraph. The following requirements shall apply to any such buffer:
a.
No land-disturbing activities shall be conducted within a buffer and a buffer shall remain in its natural, undisturbed state of vegetation until all land-disturbing activities on the construction site are completed. Once the final stabilization of the site is achieved, a buffer may be thinned or trimmed of vegetation as long as a protective vegetative cover remains to protect water quality and aquatic habitat and a natural canopy is left in sufficient quantity to keep shade on the stream bed; provided, however, that any person constructing a single-family residence, when such residence is constructed by or under contract with the owner for his or her own occupancy, may thin or trim vegetation in a buffer at any time as long as protective vegetative cover remains to protect water quality and aquatic habitat and a natural canopy is left in sufficient quantity to keep shade on the stream bed; and
b.
The buffer shall not apply to the following land-disturbing activities, provided that they occur at an angle, as measured from the point of crossing, within 25 degrees of perpendicular to the stream; cause a width of disturbance of not more than 50 feet within the buffer; and adequate erosion control measures are incorporated into the project plans and specifications and are implemented:
(i)
Stream crossings for water lines; or
(ii)
Stream crossings for sewer lines; and
(16)
There is established a 50-foot buffer as measured horizontally from the point where vegetation has been wrested by normal stream flow or wave action, along the banks of any state waters classified as "trout streams" pursuant to O.C.G.A. article 2 of chapter 5 of title 12, the "Georgia Water Quality Control Act," except where a roadway drainage structure must be constructed; provided, however, that small springs and streams classified as trout streams which discharge an average annual flow of 25 gallons per minute or less shall have a 25-foot buffer or they may be piped, at the discretion of the landowner, pursuant to the terms of a rule providing for a general variance promulgated by the board, so long as any such pipe stops short of the downstream landowner's property and the landowner complies with the buffer requirement for any adjacent trout streams. The director may grant a variance from such buffer to allow land-disturbing activity, provided that adequate erosion control measures are incorporated in the project plans and specifications and are implemented. The following requirements shall apply to such buffer:
a.
No land-disturbing activities shall be conducted within a buffer and a buffer shall remain in its natural, undisturbed, state of vegetation until all land-disturbing activities on the construction site are completed. Once the final stabilization of the site is achieved, a buffer may be thinned or trimmed of vegetation as long as a protective vegetative cover remains to protect water quality and aquatic habitat and a natural canopy is left in sufficient quantity to keep shade on the stream bed: provided, however, that any person constructing a single-family residence, when such residence is constructed by or under contract with the owner for his or her own occupancy, may thin or trim vegetation in a buffer at any time as long as protective vegetative cover remains to protect water quality and aquatic habitat and a natural canopy is left in sufficient quantity to keep shade on the stream bed; and
b.
The buffer shall not apply to the following land-disturbing activities, provided that they occur at an angle, as measured from the point of crossing, within 25 degrees of perpendicular to the stream; cause a width of disturbance of not more than 50 feet within the buffer; and adequate erosion control measures are incorporated into the project plans and specifications and are implemented:
(i)
Stream crossings for water lines; or
(ii)
Stream crossings for sewer lines.
(17)
There is established a 25-foot buffer along coastal marshlands, as measured horizontally from the coastal marshland-upland interface, as determined in accordance with Chapter 5 of Title 12 of this title, the "Coastal Marshlands Protection Act of 1970", and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder, except where the director determines to allow a variance that is at least as protective of natural resources and the environment, where otherwise allowed by the director pursuant to Code Section 12-2-8, where an alteration within the buffer area has been authorized pursuant to Code Section 12-5-286, for maintenance of any currently serviceable structure, landscaping, or hardscaping, including bridges, roads, parking lots, golf courses, golf cart paths, retaining walls, bulkheads, and patios; provided, however, that if such maintenance requires any land-disturbing activity, adequate erosion control measures are incorporated into the project plans and specifications and such measures are fully implemented, where a drainage structure or roadway drainage structure is constructed or maintained; provided, however, that if such maintenance requires any land-disturbing activity, adequate erosion control measures are incorporated into the project plans and specifications and such measures are fully implemented, on the landward side of any currently serviceable shore line stabilization structure, or for the maintenance of any manmade stormwater detention basin, golf course pond, or impoundment that is located entirely within the property of a single individual, partnership, or corporation; provided, however, that adequate erosion control measures are incorporated into the project plans and specification and such measures are fully implemented. For the purposes of this paragraph, maintenance shall be defined as actions necessary or appropriate for retaining or restoring a currently serviceable improvement to the specified operable condition to achieve its maximum useful life. Maintenance includes emergency reconstruction of recently damaged parts of a currently serviceable structure so long as it occurs within a reasonable period of time after damage occurs. Maintenance does not include any modification that changes the character, scope or size of the original design, and serviceable shall be defined as usable in its current state or with minor maintenance but not so degraded as to essentially require reconstruction.
a.
No land-disturbing activities shall be conducted within a buffer and a buffer shall remain in its natural, undisturbed, state of vegetation until all land-disturbing activities on the construction site are completed. Once the final stabilization of the site is achieved, a buffer may be thinned or trimmed of vegetation as long as a protective vegetative cover remains to protect water quality and aquatic habitat; provided, however, that any person constructing a single-family residence, when such residence is constructed by or under contract with the owner for his or her own occupancy, may thin or trim vegetation in a buffer at any time as long as protective vegetative cover remains to protect water quality and aquatic habitat; and
b.
The buffer shall not apply to crossings for utility lines that cause a width of disturbance of not more than 50 feet within the buffer; provided, however, that adequate erosion control measures are incorporated into the project plans and specifications and such measures are fully implemented.
c.
The buffer shall not apply to any land-disturbing activity conducted pursuant to and in compliance with a valid and effective land-disturbing permit issued subsequent to April 22, 2014, and prior to December 31, 2015; provided, however, that adequate erosion control measures are incorporated into the project plans and specifications and such measures are fully implemented or any lot for which the preliminary plat has been approved prior to December 31, 2015, if roadways, bridges, or water and sewer lines have been extended to such lot prior to the effective date of this Act and if the requirement to maintain a 25-foot buffer would consume at least 18 percent of the high ground of the platted lot otherwise available for development; provided, however, that adequate erosion control measures are incorporated into the project plans and specifications and such measures are fully implemented.
d.
Activities where the area within the buffer is not more than 500 square feet or that have a "Minor Buffer Impact" as defined in 391-3-7-.01(r), provided that the total area of buffer impacts is less than 5,000 square feet are deemed to have an approved buffer variance by rule. Bank stabilization structures are not eligible for coverage under the variance by rule and notification shall be made to the division at least 14 days prior to the commencement of land-disturbance activities.
(d)
The fact that land-disturbing activity for which a permit has been issued results in injury to the property of another shall neither constitute proof of nor create a presumption of a violation of the standards provided for in this ordinance or the terms of the permit.
(e)
Nothing contained in O.C.G.A. § 12-7-1 et seq. shall prevent any local issuing authority from adopting rules and regulations, ordinances, or resolutions which contain stream buffer requirements that exceed the minimum requirements in Section 1005.4(b) and (c) of this ordinance.
1005.5 Application/permit process.
(a)
General. The property owner, developer and designated planners and engineers shall design and review before submittal of the general development plans. The local issuing authority shall review the tract to be developed and the area surrounding it. They shall review the zoning ordinance, stormwater management ordinance, subdivision ordinance, flood damage prevention ordinance, this ordinance, and any other ordinances which regulate the development of land within the jurisdictional boundaries of the local issuing authority. However, the owner and/or operator are the only parties who may obtain a permit.
(b)
Application requirements.
(1)
No person shall conduct any land-disturbing activity within the jurisdictional boundaries of the city without first obtaining a permit from the building department to perform such activity and providing a copy of notice of intent submitted to EPD if applicable.
(2)
The application for a permit shall be submitted to the building department and must include the applicant's erosion, sedimentation and pollution control plan with supporting data, as necessary. Said plans shall include, as a minimum, the data specified in subsection 1005.5(c) of this ordinance. Erosion, sedimentation and pollution control plans, together with supporting data must demonstrate affirmatively that the land disturbing activity proposed will be carried out in such a manner that the provisions of subsections 1005.4(b) and (c) of this ordinance will be met. Applications for a permit will not be accepted unless accompanied by three full-size printed copies and one 8½" × 11" reduced copy of the applicant's erosion, sedimentation and pollution control plans, and an appropriate and properly filled out Georgia EPD Erosion Sedimentation & Pollution Control Plan Checklist. All applications shall contain a certification stating that the plan preparer or the designee thereof visited the site prior to creation of the plan in accordance with EPD Rule 391-3-7-.10.
(3)
A fee, shall be charged in the amount set forth in the current city fee schedule.
(4)
In addition to the local permitting fees, fees will also be assessed pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 12-5-23(a)(5), provided that such fees shall not exceed $80.00 per acre of land-disturbing activity, and these fees shall be calculated and paid by the primary permittee as defined in the state general permit for each acre of land-disturbing activity included in the planned development or each phase of development. All applicable fees shall be paid prior to issuance of the land disturbance permit. In a jurisdiction that is certified pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 12-7-8(a), one-half of such fees levied shall be submitted to the division; except that any and all fees due from an entity which is required to give notice pursuant to subsection O.C.G.A. § 12-7-17(9) or (10) shall be submitted in full to the division, regardless of the existence of a local issuing authority in the jurisdiction.
(5)
Immediately upon receipt of an application and plan for a permit, the local issuing authority shall refer the application and plan to the district for its review and approval or disapproval concerning the adequacy of the erosion, sedimentation and pollution control plan. The district shall approve or disapprove a plan within 34 days of receipt. Failure of the district to act within 35 days shall be considered an approval of the pending plan. The results of the district review shall be forwarded to the local issuing authority. No permit will be issued unless the plan has been approved by the district, and any variances required by subsections 1005.4(c)(15) and (16) has been obtained, all fees have been paid and bonding, if required as per subsection 1005.5(b)(6), have been obtained. Such review will not be required if the local issuing authority and the district have entered into an agreement which allows the local issuing authority to conduct such review and approval of the plan without referring the application and plan to the district. The local issuing authority with plan review authority shall approve or disapprove a revised plan submittal within 35 days of receipt. Failure of the local issuing authority with plan review authority to act within 35 days shall be considered an approval of the revised plan submittal.
(6)
If a permit applicant has had two or more violations of previous permits, this ordinance section, or the Erosion and Sedimentation Act, as amended, within three years prior to the date of filing of the application under consideration, the local issuing authority may require a bond as outlined in subsection 1005.5(b)(7) of this ordinance prior to approving the permit application.
(7)
The local issuing authority may require the permit applicant to post a bond in the form of government security, cash, irrevocable letter of credit, or any combination thereof up to, but not exceeding, $3,000.00 per acre or fraction thereof of the proposed land-disturbing activity, prior to issuing the permit. If the applicant does not comply with this section or with the conditions of the permit after issuance, the local issuing authority may call the bond or any part thereof to be forfeited and may use the proceeds to hire a contractor to stabilize the site of the land-disturbing activity and bring it into compliance. These provisions shall not apply unless there is in effect an ordinance or statute specifically providing for hearing and judicial review of any determination or order of the local issuing authority with respect to alleged permit violations.
(c)
Plan requirements.
(1)
Plans must be prepared to meet the minimum requirements as contained in subsections 1005.4(b) and (c) of this ordinance, or through the use of more stringent, alternate design criteria which conform to sound conservation and engineering practices. The Manual for Erosion and Sediment Control in Georgia is hereby incorporated by reference into this ordinance. The plan for the land-disturbing activity shall consider the interrelationship of the soil types, geological and hydrological characteristics, topography, watershed, vegetation, proposed permanent structures including roadways, constructed waterways, sediment control and stormwater management facilities, local ordinances and state laws. Maps, drawings and supportive computations shall bear the signature and seal of the certified design professional. Persons involved in land development design, review, permitting, construction, monitoring or inspections or any land disturbing activity shall meet the education and training certification requirements, dependent on his or her level of involvement with the process, as developed by the commission and in consultation with the division and the Stakeholder Advisory Board created pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 12-7-20.
(2)
Data required for site plan shall include all the information required from the appropriate Erosion, Sedimentation & Pollution Control Plan Review Checklist established by the commission as of January 1 of the year in which the land-disturbing activity was permitted.
(d)
Permits.
(1)
Permits shall be issued or denied as soon as practicable but in any event not later than 45 days after receipt by the local issuing authority of a completed application, providing variances and bonding are obtained, where necessary and all applicable fees have been paid prior to permit issuance. The permit shall include conditions under which the activity may be undertaken.
(2)
No permit shall be issued by the local issuing authority unless the erosion, sedimentation and pollution control plan has been approved by the district and the local issuing authority has affirmatively determined that the plan is in compliance with the ordinance, any variances required by subsections 1005.4(c)(15), (16) and (17) are obtained, bonding requirements, if necessary, as per subsection 1005.5(b)(6) are met and all ordinances and rules and regulations in effect within the jurisdictional boundaries of the local issuing authority are met. If the permit is denied, the reason for denial shall be furnished to the applicant.
(3)
Any land-disturbing activities by a local issuing authority shall be subject to the same requirements of this ordinance, and any other ordinances relating to land development, as are applied to private persons and the division shall enforce such requirements upon the local issuing authority.
(4)
If the tract is to be developed in phases, then a separate permit, and plan shall be required for each phase.
(5)
The permit may be suspended, revoked, or modified by the local issuing authority, as to all or any portion of the land affected by the plan, upon finding that the holder or his successor in the title is not in compliance with the approved erosion and sedimentation control plan or that the holder or his successor in title is in violation of this ordinance. A holder of a permit shall notify any successor in title to him as to all or any portion of the land affected by the approved plan of the conditions contained in the permit.
(6)
The LIA may reject a permit application if the applicant has had two or more violations of previous permits or the Erosion and Sedimentation Act permit requirements within three years prior to the date of the application, in light of O.C.G.A. § 12-7-7(f)(1).
1005.6 Inspection and enforcement.
(a)
The engineering department will periodically inspect the sites of land-disturbing activities for which permits have been issued to determine if the activities are being conducted in accordance with the plan and if the measures required in the plan are effective in controlling erosion and sedimentation. Also, the local issuing authority shall regulate primary, secondary and tertiary permittees as such terms are defined in the state general permit. Primary permittees shall be responsible for installation and maintenance of best management practices where the primary permittee is conducting land-disturbing activities. Secondary permittees shall be responsible for installation and maintenance of best management practices where the secondary permittee is conducting land-disturbing activities. Tertiary permittees shall be responsible for installation and maintenance where the tertiary permittee is conducting land-disturbing activities. If, through inspection, it is deemed that a person engaged in land-disturbing activities as defined herein has failed to comply with the approved plan, with permit conditions, or with the provisions of this section, a written notice to comply shall be served upon that person. The notice shall set forth the measures necessary to achieve compliance and shall state the time within which such measures must be completed. If the person engaged in the land-disturbing activity fails to comply within the time specified, he shall be deemed in violation of this section.
(b)
This ordinance shall be amended to the extent appropriate within 12 months of any amendments to the Erosion and Sedimentation Act of 1975.
(c)
The engineering department shall have the power to conduct such investigations as it may reasonably deem necessary to carry out duties as prescribed in this ordinance, and for this purpose to enter at reasonable times upon any property, public or private, for the purpose of investigation and inspecting the sites of land-disturbing activities.
(d)
No person shall refuse entry or access to any authorized representative or agent of the local issuing authority, the commission, the district, or division who requests entry for the purposes of inspection, and who presents appropriate credentials, nor shall any person obstruct, hamper or interfere with any such representative while in the process of carrying out his official duties.
(e)
The district or the commission or both shall semi-annually review the actions of counties and municipalities which have been certified as local issuing authorities pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 12-7-8(a). The district or the commission or both may provide technical assistance to any county or municipality for the purpose of improving the effectiveness of the county's or municipality's erosion, sedimentation and pollution control program. The district or the commission shall notify the division and request investigation by the division if any deficient or ineffective local program is found.
(f)
The division may periodically review the actions of counties and municipalities which have been certified as local issuing authorities pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 12-7-8(a). Such review may include, but shall not be limited to, review of the administration and enforcement of a governing authority's ordinance and review of conformance with an agreement, if any, between the district and the governing authority. If such review indicates that the governing authority of any county or municipality certified pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 12-7-8(a) has not administered or enforced its ordinances or has not conducted the program in accordance with any agreement entered into pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 12-7-7(e), the division shall notify the governing authority of the county or municipality in writing. The governing authority of any county or municipality so notified shall have 90 days within which to take the necessary corrective action to retain certification as a local issuing authority. If the county or municipality does not take necessary corrective action within 90 days after notification by the division, the division shall revoke the certification of the county or municipality as a local issuing authority.
1005.7 Penalties and incentives.
(a)
Failure to obtain a permit for land-disturbing activity. If any person commences any land-disturbing activity requiring a land-disturbing permit as prescribed in this ordinance without first obtaining said permit, the person shall be subject to revocation of his business license, work permit or other authorization for the conduct of a business and associated work activities within the jurisdictional boundaries of the local issuing authority.
(b)
Stop-work orders.
(1)
For the first and second violations of the provisions of this ordinance, the director or the local issuing authority shall issue a written warning to the violator. The violator shall have not more than five days to correct the violation. If the violation is not corrected within five days the director or the local issuing authority shall issue a stop-work order requiring that all site activities, including building construction that would not result in a safety issue, be stopped until necessary corrective action or mitigation has occurred; provided, however, that, if the violation presents an imminent threat to public health or waters of the state or if the land-disturbing activities are conducted without obtaining the necessary permit, the director or the local issuing authority shall issue an immediate stop-work order in lieu of a warning;
(2)
For a third and each subsequent violation, director or the local issuing authority shall issue an immediate stop-work order for all site activities, including building construction that would not result in a safety issue, and may require an increase in the bond posted by the application to ensure compliance with the approved plan; and;
(3)
All stop-work orders shall be effective immediately upon issuance and shall be in effect until the necessary corrective action or mitigation has occurred.
(4)
When a violation in the form of taking action without a permit, failure to maintain a stream buffer, or significant amounts of sediment, as determined by the local issuing authority or by the director or his or her designee, have been or are being discharged into state waters and where best management practices have not been properly designed, installed, and maintained, a stop work order shall be issued by the local issuing authority or by the director or his or her designee. All such stop work orders shall be effective immediately upon issuance and shall be in effect until the necessary corrective action or mitigation has occurred. Such stop work orders shall apply to all land-disturbing activity, on the site with the exception of the installation and maintenance of temporary or permanent erosion and sediment controls.
(c)
Bond forfeiture. If, through inspection, it is determined that a person engaged in land-disturbing activities has failed to comply with the approved plan, a written notice to comply shall be served upon that person. The notice shall set forth the measures necessary to achieve compliance with the plan and shall state the time within which such measures must be completed. If the person engaged in the land-disturbing activity fails to comply within the time specified, he shall be deemed in violation of this ordinance and, in addition to other penalties, shall be deemed to have forfeited his performance bond, if required to post one under the provisions of subsection 1005.5(b)(6). The local issuing authority may call the bond or any part thereof to be forfeited and may use the proceeds to hire a contractor to stabilize the site of the land-disturbing activity and bring it into compliance.
(d)
Monetary penalties. Any person who violates any provisions of this ordinance, or any permit condition or limitation established pursuant to this section, or who negligently or intentionally fails or refuses to comply with any final or emergency order of the director issued as provided in this ordinance shall be liable for a civil penalty not to exceed $2,500.00 per day. For the purpose of enforcing the provisions of this ordinance, notwithstanding any provisions in any city charter to the contrary, municipal courts shall be authorized to impose penalty not to exceed $2,500.00 for each violation. Notwithstanding any limitation of law as to penalties which can be assessed for violations of county ordinances, any magistrate court or any other court of competent jurisdiction trying cases brought as violations of this ordinance under county ordinances approved under this section shall be authorized to impose penalties for such violations not to exceed $2,500.00 for each violation. Each day during which violation or failure or refusal to comply continues shall be a separate violation.
1005.8 Education and certification.
(a)
Education requirements. Persons involved in land development design, review, permitting, construction, monitoring, or inspection or any land-disturbing activity shall meet the education and training certification requirements, dependent on their level of involvement with the process, as developed by the commission in consultation with the division and the stakeholder advisory board created pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 12-7-20.
(b)
For each site on which land-disturbing activity occurs, each entity or person acting as either a primary, secondary, or tertiary permittee, as defined in the state general permit, shall have as a minimum one person who is in responsible charge of erosion and sedimentation control activities on behalf of said entity or person and meets the applicable education or training certification requirements developed by the commission present on site whenever land-disturbing activities are conducted on that site. A project site shall herein be defined as any land-disturbance site or multiple sites within a larger common plan of development or sale permitted by an owner or operator for compliance with the state general permit.
(c)
Persons or entities involved in projects not requiring a state general permit but otherwise requiring certified personnel on site may contract with certified persons to meet the requirements of this ordinance.
(d)
If a state general permittee who has operational control of land-disturbing activities for a site has met the certification requirements of O.C.G.A. § 12-7-19(b)(1), then any person or entity involved in land-disturbing activity at that site and operating in a subcontractor capacity for such permittee shall meet those educational requirements specified of O.C.G.A. § 12-7-19(b)(4) and shall not be required to meet any educational requirements that exceed those specified in said paragraph.
1005.9 Administrative appeal/judicial review.
(a)
Administrative remedies. The suspension, revocation, modification or grant with condition of a permit by the local issuing authority upon finding that the holder is not in compliance with the approved erosion, sediment and pollution control plan; or that the holder is in violation of permit conditions; or that the holder is in violation of any ordinance; shall entitle the person submitting the plan or holding the permit to a hearing before the city council within 30 days after receipt by the local issuing authority of written notice of appeal.
(b)
Judicial review. Any person, aggrieved by a decision or order of the local issuing authority, after exhausting his administrative remedies, shall have the right to appeal to the Superior Court of Fayette County by writ of certiorari.
1005.10 Effectivity, validity, and liability.
(a)
Effectivity. This section shall become effective on the 1st day of July, 2010.
(b)
Validity. If any section, paragraph, clause, phrase, or provision of this ordinance shall be adjudged invalid or held unconstitutional, such decisions shall not affect the remaining portions of this ordinance.
(c)
Liability.
(1)
Neither the approval of a plan under the provisions of this ordinance, nor the compliance with provisions of this ordinance shall relieve any person from the responsibility for damage to any person or property otherwise imposed by law nor impose any liability upon the local issuing authority or district for damage to any person or property.
(2)
The fact that a land-disturbing activity for which a permit has been issued results in injury to the property of another shall neither constitute proof of nor create a presumption of a violation of the standards provided for in this section or the terms of the permit.
(3)
No provision of this section shall permit any persons to violate the Georgia Erosion and Sedimentation Act of 1975, the Georgia Water Quality Control Act or the rules and regulations promulgated and approved thereunder or pollute any waters of the state as defined thereby.
(Ord. No. 791, 9-19-2002; Ord. No. 828, 5-6-2004; Ord. No. 998, § 1, 5-20-2010; Ord. No. 1122, § 1, 3-2-2017)
Sec. 1006. - Drainage.
(a)
Policies. It is hereby declared to be public policy to:
(1)
Recognize the necessity of joint action where feasible by the city and the development industry in resolution of existing drainage problems and prevention of their worsening or recurrence.
(2)
Work in a cooperative relationship with the development industry to accomplish the above-stated objective by encouraging through this section and other public actions; the development of fewer but larger major stormwater facilities; and the incremental resolution of existing drainage problems on a priority basis in concert with private development activities.
(3)
Preserve, where feasible, the natural environment of city streams through reduction of flow quantities resulting from new development, and where feasible, restore the floodplain to its natural functional purpose to resolve existing flooding problems, but recognize the necessity of using urban streams for water runoff in those situations where preservation of the natural stream environment would result in continuation or worsening of flooding conditions.
(4)
Incrementally assume maintenance responsibility for the public drainage system on lands accepted by the city.
(5)
Require of the development industry the responsibility to maintain the functioning of the storm drainage system during the development process.
(6)
Encourage the construction of joint stormwater ponds serving several residential properties which can be accepted for maintenance by the city upon completion of project development. The city encourages (where engineering judgment so warrants) the location of these stormwater facilities off the site of the property under development and may participate where it is in the general public's best interest in the construction of major stormwater facilities which would serve not only the needs of the property under development, but would assist in resolving existing flooding problems.
(7)
Encourage innovative design solutions to the effective control of runoff.
(8)
Encourage accommodating runoff from residential properties or between individual single-family lots through underground piping rather than open surface drainage swales.
(9)
Minimize cross drains from streets to natural drainageways by longitudinal piping or by retaining within the streets, for as long a reach as commonly accepted standards of engineering judgment permit, runoff to a point of discharge not directly onto individual single-family lots.
(b)
Standards.
(1)
All engineering design items for storm drainage, soil erosion and sedimentation control, and delineation of the intermediate regional floodplain shall meet the applicable minimum requirements of the Stormwater Design Manual and the Manual for Erosion and Sedimentation Control in Georgia, available for review in the office of the city engineer. Rainfall intensities used in hydrologic computations shall not be less than shown by applicable rainfall curves published by the National Weather Service for the affected area.
(2)
A combination of storage and controlled release of stormwater runoff shall be required for all development and construction disturbing more than 5,000 square feet of land or involving the installation of 5,000 square feet or more of impervious surfaces. This storage and release requirement shall not apply to individual single-family lots of less than two acres which are not a part of a platted subdivision.
(3)
The release rate of stormwater from all developments, where controlled release is required, shall be determined according to the requirements of the Stormwater Design Manual.
(4)
The following requirements shall apply to the installation, development and maintenance of all stormwater and sedimentation control facilities designed for storage of stormwater runoff:
a.
In residential subdivisions, these facilities shall be located on tracts of land, designated as city-owned greenbelt on the recorded plat, with sufficient area around the perimeter to provide access for maintenance purposes and shall be immediately adjacent to or be provided with an access easement to a public street. The access easement shall provide at least ten feet of width outside of above-ground obstructions including trees, headwalls, weirs, settling basins or other drainage structures.
b.
Except as provided in (4)c., the property owner shall be responsible for the maintenance of the stormwater facilities during grading, construction, and following final approval of the completed project. This maintenance obligation shall be binding on future owners, successors and assigns of the property and be in accordance with all provisions of the Water Resource Protection Ordinance.
c.
In the case of platted residential subdivisions, the city shall assume maintenance responsibility after the release of the maintenance agreement for subdivision streets. Upon completion of the maintenance agreement, all stormwater ponds shall have a positive slope to the outlet in order to facilitate complete drainage.
(5)
Special drainage system maintenance requirements:
a.
No impoundment of water which retains in excess of 0.5 acre-foot of runoff shall be altered without first obtaining a development permit, which shall only be issued after competent engineering studies provided by the developer show that this removal will not adversely affect downstream properties.
b.
Trash, garbage, construction materials, construction by-products or other debris shall not be deposited in any part of the drainage system.
c.
No restrictions or barriers, including fences, may be placed in the drainage system without first obtaining a development permit.
(6)
On-site waste disposal systems shall be located to avoid impairment to them or contamination from them during flooding.
(Ord. No. 791, 9-19-02)
Sec. 1007. - Floodplain management/flood damage prevention.
1007.1. General provisions.
1007.1.1. Purpose and intent.
The purpose of this section is to protect, maintain and enhance the public health, safety, environment and general welfare and to minimize public and private losses due to flood conditions in flood hazard areas, as well as to protect the beneficial uses of floodplain areas for water quality protection, streambank and stream corridor protection, wetlands preservation, and ecological and environmental protection by provisions designed to:
(1)
Require that uses vulnerable to floods, including facilities which serve such uses, be protected against flood damage at the time of initial construction;
(2)
Restrict or prohibit uses which are dangerous to health, safety and property due to flooding or erosion hazards, or which increase flood heights, velocities, or erosion;
(3)
Control filling, grading, dredging, and other development which may increase flood damage or erosion;
(4)
Prevent or regulate the construction of flood barriers which will unnaturally divert flood waters or which may increase flood hazards to other lands;
(5)
Limit the alteration of natural floodplains, stream channels, and natural protective barriers, which are involved in the accommodation of flood waters; and
(6)
Protect the stormwater management, water quality, streambank protection, stream corridor protection, wetland preservation, and ecological functions of natural floodplain areas.
1007.1.2. Applicability
This section shall be applicable to all areas of special flood hazard within the jurisdiction of the City of Peachtree City.
1007.1.3. Designation of ordinance administrator.
The city engineer or designee is hereby appointed to administer and implement the provisions of this section.
1007.1.4. Basis for establishing areas of special flood hazard, areas of future-conditions flood hazard and associated floodplain characteristics—Flood area maps and studies.
For the purposes of defining and determining "Areas of Special Flood Hazard," "Areas of Future-conditions Flood Hazard," "Areas of Shallow Flooding," "Base Flood Elevations," "Floodplains," "Floodways," "Future-conditions Flood Elevations," "Future-conditions Floodplains," potential flood hazard or risk categories as shown on FIRM maps, and other terms used in this section, the following documents and sources may be used for such purposes and are adopted by reference thereto:
(1)
The flood insurance study (FIS), dated 9/26/2008, with accompanying maps and other supporting data and any revision thereto. [For those land areas acquired by a municipality through annexation, the current effective FIS and data for Fayette County, dated 9/26/2008, with accompanying maps and other supporting data and any revision thereto.]
(2)
Other studies, which may be relied upon for the establishment of the base flood elevation or delineation of the base or one-percent (100-year) floodplain and flood-prone areas, including:
(a)
Any flood or flood-related study conducted by the United States Army Corps of Engineers, the United States Geological Survey or any other local, State or Federal agency applicable to the City of Peachtree City; and
(b)
Any base flood study conducted by a licensed professional engineer which has been prepared utilizing FEMA approved methodology and approved by the City of Peachtree City.
(3)
Other studies, which may be relied upon for the establishment of the future-conditions flood elevation or delineation of the future-conditions floodplain and flood-prone areas, including:
(a)
Any flood or flood-related study conducted by the United States Army Corps of Engineers, the United States Geological Survey, or any other local, State or Federal agency applicable to the City of Peachtree City; and
(b)
Any future-conditions flood study conducted by a licensed professional engineer which has been prepared utilizing FEMA approved methodology approved by the City of Peachtree City.
(4)
The repository for public inspection of the FIS, accompanying maps and other supporting data is located at the city engineer's office.
1007.1.5. Compatibility with other regulations.
This section is not intended to modify or repeal any other ordinance, rule, regulation, statute, easement, covenant, deed restriction or other provision of law. The requirements of this section are in addition to the requirements of any other ordinance, rule, regulation or other provision of law, and where any provision of this section imposes restrictions different from those imposed by any other ordinance, rule, regulation or other provision of law, whichever provision is more restrictive or imposes higher protective standards for human health or the environment shall control.
1007.1.6. Severability.
If the provisions of any section, subsection, paragraph, subdivision or clause of this section shall be adjudged invalid by a court of competent jurisdiction, such judgment shall not affect or invalidate the remainder of any section, subsection, paragraph, subdivision or clause of this section.
1007.1.7. Warning and disclaimer of liability.
The degree of flood protection required by this section is considered reasonable for regulatory purposes and is based on scientific and engineering considerations. Larger floods can and will occur; flood heights may be increased by manmade or natural causes. This section does not imply that land outside the areas of special flood hazard or uses permitted within such areas will be free from flooding or flood damages. This section shall not create liability on the part of the City of Peachtree City or any officer or employee thereof for any flood damages that result from reliance on this section or any administrative decision lawfully made thereunder.
1007. 2. Definitions.
Addition means any walled and roofed expansion to the perimeter or height of a building.
Appeal means a request for a review of the city engineer's interpretation of any provision of this section.
Area of future-conditions flood hazard means the land area that would be inundated by the one-percent-annual-chance flood based on future-conditions hydrology (100-year future-conditions flood).
Area of shallow flooding means a designated AO or AH Zone on a community's flood insurance rate map (FIRM) with a one percent or greater chance of flooding to an average depth of one to three feet where a clearly defined channel does not exist, where the path of flooding is unpredictable and indeterminate, and where velocity flow may be evident. Such flooding is characterized by ponding or sheet flow.
Area of special flood hazard means the land area subject to a one percent or greater chance of flooding in any given year. This includes all floodplain and flood prone areas at or below the base flood elevation designated as Zones A, A1-30, A-99, AE, AO, AH, and AR on a community's flood insurance rate map (FIRM).
Accessory structure or facility means a structure which is on the same parcel of property as the principal structure and the use of which is incidental to the use of the primary structure.
Base flood means the flood having a one percent chance of being equaled or exceeded in any given year, also known as the 100-year flood.
Base flood elevation means the highest water surface elevation anticipated at any given location during the base flood.
Basement means any area of a building having its floor subgrade below ground level on all sides.
Building has the same meaning as structure.
Development means any man-made change to improved or unimproved real estate including but not limited to buildings or other structures, mining, dredging, filling, clearing, grubbing, grading, paving, any other installation of impervious cover, excavation or drilling operations or storage of equipment or materials.
Elevated building means a non-basement building which has its lowest elevated floor raised above the ground level by foundation walls, shear walls, posts, piers, pilings, or columns.
Existing construction means any structure for which the "start of construction" commenced before (* specific date) [* i.e., the effective date of the INITIAL floodplain management code or ordinance adopted by the community as a basis for that community's participation in the National Flood Insurance Program (NFIP)].
Existing manufactured home park or subdivision means a manufactured home park or subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including, at a minimum, the installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed before (* specific date) [*i.e., the effective date of the initial floodplain management regulations adopted by a community].
Expansion to an existing manufactured home park or subdivision means the preparation of additional sites by the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including the installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site grading or the pouring of concrete pads).
FEMA means the Federal Emergency Management Agency.
Flood or flooding means a general and temporary condition of partial or complete inundation of normally dry land areas from:
(a)
The overflow of inland or tidal waters; or
(b)
The unusual and rapid accumulation or runoff of surface waters from any source.
Flood insurance rate map or FIRM means an official map of a community, issued by FEMA, delineating the areas of special flood hazard and/or risk premium zones applicable to the community.
Flood insurance study or FIS means the official report by FEMA providing an examination, evaluation and determination of flood hazards and corresponding flood profiles and water surface elevations of the base flood.
Floodplain or flood-prone area means any land area susceptible to flooding.
Floodproofing means any combination of structural and non-structural additions, changes, or adjustments to structures which reduce or eliminate flood damage to real estate or improved real property, water and sanitary facilities, structures and their contents.
Floodway or regulatory floodway means the channel of a stream, river, or other watercourse and the adjacent areas that must be reserved in order to discharge the base flood without cumulatively increasing the water surface elevation more than a designated height.
Functionally dependent use means a use which cannot perform its intended purpose unless it is located or carried out in close proximity to water. The term includes only docking facilities, port facilities that are necessary for the loading and unloading of cargo or passengers, and ship building and ship repair facilities, but does not include long-term storage or related manufacturing facilities.
Future-conditions flood means the flood having a one percent chance of being equaled or exceeded in any given year based on future-conditions hydrology. Also known as the 100-year future-conditions flood.
Future-conditions flood elevation means the highest water surface elevation anticipated at any given location during the future-conditions flood.
Future-conditions floodplain means any land area susceptible to flooding by the future-conditions flood.
Future-conditions hydrology means the flood discharges associated with projected land-use conditions based on a community's zoning maps, comprehensive land-use plans, and/or watershed study projections, and without consideration of projected future construction of stormwater management (flood detention) structures or projected future hydraulic modifications within a stream or other waterway, such as bridge and culvert construction, fill, and excavation.
Highest adjacent grade means the highest natural elevation of the ground surface prior to construction next to the proposed walls of a structure.
Historic structure means any structure that is:
(a)
Listed individually in the National Register of Historic Places (a listing maintained by the U.S. Department of Interior) or preliminarily determined by the secretary of the interior as meeting the requirements for individual listing on the National Register;
(b)
Certified or preliminarily determined by the secretary of the interior as contributing to the historical significance of a registered historic district or a district preliminarily determined by the secretary to qualify as a registered historic district;
(c)
Individually listed on a state inventory of historic places by states with historic preservation programs which have been approved by the secretary of the interior; or
(d)
Individually listed on a local inventory of historic places by communities with historic preservation programs that have been certified either:
1.
By an approved state program as determined by the secretary of the interior, or
2.
Directly by the secretary of the interior in states without approved programs.
Lowest floor means the lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area, including basement. An unfinished or flood resistant enclosure, usable solely for parking of vehicles, building access or storage in an area other than a basement area, is not considered a building's lowest floor, provided that such enclosure is not built so as to render the structure in violation of other provisions of this section.
Manufactured home means a structure, transportable in one or more sections, which is built on a permanent chassis and is designed to be used with or without a permanent foundation when attached to the required utilities. The term includes any structure commonly referred to as a "mobile home" regardless of the date of manufacture. The term also includes parked trailers, travel trailers and similar transportable structures placed on a site for 180 consecutive days or longer and intended to be improved property. The term does not include a "recreational vehicle."
Mean sea level means the datum to which base flood elevations shown on a community's flood insurance rate map (FIRM) are referenced. For purposes of this section the term is synonymous with National Geodetic Vertical Datum (NGVD) of 1929 or the North American Vertical Datum (NAVD) of 1988.
New construction means any structure (see definition) for which the "start of construction" commenced on or after (* specific date) and includes any subsequent improvements to the structure. [* i.e., the effective date of the initial floodplain management ordinance adopted by the community as a basis for community participation in the (NFIP)].
New manufactured home park or subdivision means a manufactured home park or subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including at a minimum, the installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed on or after (* specific date) [* i.e., the effective date of the initial floodplain management ordinance adopted by a community].
Owner means the legal or beneficial owner of a site, including but not limited to, a mortgagee or vendee in possession, receiver, executor, trustee, lessee or other person, firm or corporation in control of the site.
Permit means the permit issued by the City of Peachtree City to the applicant which is required prior to undertaking any development activity.
Recreational vehicle means a vehicle which is:
(a)
Built on a single chassis;
(b)
Four hundred square feet or less when measured at the largest horizontal projection;
(c)
Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by light duty truck; and
(d)
Designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling but as temporary living quarters for recreational, camping, travel, or seasonal use.
Repetitive loss means flood related damage sustained by a structure on two separate occasions during a ten-year period for which the cost of repairs at the time of each such flood event, on the average, equals or exceeds 25 percent of the market value of the structure before the damage occurred.
Site means the parcel of land being developed, or the portion thereof on which the development project is located.
Start of construction includes substantial improvement, and means the date the permit was issued, provided the actual start of construction, repair, reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition placement, or other improvement was within 180 days of the permit date. The actual start means either the first placement of permanent construction of the structure on a site, such as the pouring of slabs or footings, the installation of piles, the construction of columns, or any work beyond the stage of excavation; or the placement of a manufactured home on a foundation. Permanent construction does not include initial land preparation, such as clearing, grading and filling; nor does it include the installation of streets and/or walkways; nor does it include excavation for a basement, footings, piers or foundations or the erection of temporary forms; nor does it include the installation on the property of accessory buildings, such as garages or sheds not occupied as dwelling units or part of the main structure. For a substantial improvement, the actual start of construction means the first alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor, or other structural part of a building, whether or not that alteration affects the external dimensions of the building.
Structure means a walled and roofed building (including a gas or liquid storage tank), that is principally above ground, or a manufactured home.
Subdivision means the division of a tract or parcel of land resulting in one or more new lots or building sites for the purpose, whether immediately or in the future, of sale, other transfer of ownership or land development, and includes divisions of land resulting from or made in connection with the layout or development of a new street or roadway or a change in an existing street or roadway.
Substantial damage means damage of any origin sustained by a structure whereby the cost of restoring the structure to it's before damaged condition would equal or exceed 50 percent of the market value of the structure before the damage occurred. This term also includes repetitive loss.
Substantial improvement means any reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition, or other improvement to a structure, taking place during a ten-year period, in which the cumulative cost equals or exceeds 50 percent of the market value of the structure prior to the improvement. The market value of the building means (1) the appraised value of the structure prior to the start of the initial repair or improvement, or (2) in the case of damage, the value of the structure prior to the damage occurring. This term includes structures which have incurred "substantial damage," regardless of the actual repair work performed. The term does not, however, include those improvements of a structure required to comply with existing state or local health, sanitary, or safety code specifications which are the minimum necessary to assure safe living conditions, which have been identified by the code enforcement official. The term does also not include any alteration of a historic structure, provided that the alteration will not preclude the structure's continued designation as a historic structure.
Substantially improved existing manufactured home park or subdivision means the repair, reconstruction, rehabilitation or improvement of the streets, utilities and pads equals or exceeds 50 percent of the value of the streets, utilities and pads before the repair, reconstruction or improvement commenced.
Variance means a grant of relief from the requirements of this section.
Violation means the failure of a structure or other development to be fully compliant with the requirements of this section. A structure or other development without the elevation certificate, other certifications, or other evidence of compliance required in this section is presumed to be in violation until such time as that documentation is provided.
1007.3. Permit procedures and requirements.
1007.3.1. Permit application requirements.
No owner or developer shall perform any development activities on a site where an area of special flood hazard or area of future-conditions flood hazard is located without first meeting the requirements of this section prior to commencing the proposed activity.
Unless specifically excluded by this section, any landowner or developer desiring a permit for a development activity shall submit to the City of Peachtree City a permit application on a form provided by the City of Peachtree City for that purpose.
No permit will be approved for any development activities that do not meet the requirements, restrictions and criteria of this section.
1007.3.2. Floodplain management plan requirements.
An application for a development project with any area of special flood hazard or area of future-conditions flood hazard located on the site shall include a floodplain management/flood damage prevention plan. This plan shall include the following items:
(1)
Site plan drawn to scale, which includes but is not limited to:
(a)
Existing and proposed elevations of the area in question and the nature, location and dimensions of existing and/or proposed structures, earthen fill placement, amount and location of excavation material, and storage of materials or equipment;
(b)
For all proposed structures, spot ground elevations at building corners and 20-foot or smaller intervals along the foundation footprint, or one foot contour elevations throughout the building site;
(c)
Proposed locations of water supply, sanitary sewer, and utilities;
(d)
Proposed locations of drainage and stormwater management facilities;
(e)
Proposed grading plan;
(f)
Base flood elevations and future-conditions flood elevations;
(g)
Boundaries of the base flood floodplain and future-conditions floodplain;
(h)
If applicable, the location of the floodway; and
(i)
Certification of the above by a licensed professional engineer or surveyor.
(2)
Building and foundation design detail, including but not limited to:
(a)
Elevation in relation to mean sea level (or highest adjacent grade) of the lowest floor, including basement, of all proposed structures;
(b)
Elevation in relation to mean sea level to which any non-residential structure will be floodproofed;
(c)
Certification that any proposed non-residential floodproofed structure meets the criteria in subsection 1007.5.2(2);
(d)
For enclosures below the base flood elevation, location and total net area of flood openings as required in subsection 1007.5.1(5); and
(e)
Design plans certified by a licensed professional engineer or architect for all proposed structure(s).
(3)
Description of the extent to which any watercourse will be altered or relocated as a result of the proposed development;
(4)
Hard copies and digital files of computer models, if any, copies of work maps, comparison of pre- and post-development conditions base flood elevations, future-conditions flood elevations, flood protection elevations, special flood hazard areas and regulatory floodways, flood profiles and all other computations and other information similar to that presented in the FIS;
(5)
Copies of all applicable state and federal permits necessary for proposed development, including but not limited to permits required by Section 404 of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act, Amendments of 1972, 33 U.S.C. 1334; and
(6)
All appropriate certifications required under this section.
The approved floodplain management/flood damage prevention plan shall contain certification by the applicant that all development activities will be done according to the plan or previously approved revisions. Any and all development permits and/or use and occupancy certificates or permits may be revoked at any time if the construction and development activities are not in strict accordance with approved plans.
1007.3.3. Construction stage submittal requirements.
For all new construction and substantial improvements on sites with a floodplain management/flood damage prevention plan, the permit holder shall provide to the city engineer a certified as-built elevation certificate or floodproofing certificate for non-residential construction including the lowest floor elevation or floodproofing level immediately after the lowest floor or floodproofing is completed. A final elevation certificate shall be provided after completion of construction including final grading of the site. Any lowest floor certification made relative to mean sea level shall be prepared by or under the direct supervision of a licensed land surveyor or professional engineer and certified by same. When floodproofing is utilized for non-residential structures, said certification shall be prepared by or under the direct supervision of a licensed professional engineer or architect and certified by same using the FEMA floodproofing certificate. This certification shall also include the design and operation/maintenance plan to assure continued viability of the floodproofing measures.
Any work undertaken prior to approval of these certifications shall be at the permit holder's risk. The city engineer shall review the above referenced certification data submitted. Deficiencies detected by such review shall be corrected by the permit holder immediately and prior to further work being allowed to proceed. Failure to submit certification or failure to make the corrections required hereby shall be cause to issue a stop work order for the project.
1007.3.4. Duties and responsibilities of the administrator.
Duties of the city engineer shall include, but shall not be limited to:
(1)
Review all development applications and permits to assure that the requirements of this section have been satisfied and to determine whether proposed building sites will be reasonably safe from flooding;
(2)
Review proposed development to assure that all necessary permits have been received from those governmental agencies from which approval is required by Federal or State law, including but not limited to Section 404 of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act, Amendments of 1972, 33 U.S.C. 1334;
(3)
When base flood elevation data or floodway data have not been provided, then the city engineer shall require the applicant to obtain, review and reasonably utilize any base flood elevation and floodway data available from a federal, state or other sources in order to meet the provisions of sections 1007.4 and 1007.5;
(4)
Review and record the actual elevation in relation to mean sea level (or highest adjacent grade) of the lowest floor, including basement, of all new and substantially improved structures;
(5)
Review and record the actual elevation, in relation to mean sea level to which any substantially improved structures have been floodproofed;
(6)
When floodproofing is utilized for a non-residential structure, the city engineer shall review the design and operation/maintenance plan and obtain certification from a licensed professional engineer or architect;
(7)
Notify affected adjacent communities and the Georgia Department of Natural Resources (GA DNR) prior to any alteration or relocation of a watercourse and submit evidence of such notification to the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA);
(8)
Where interpretation is needed as to the exact location of boundaries of the areas of special flood hazard (e.g. where there appears to be a conflict between a mapped boundary and actual field conditions) the city engineer shall make the necessary interpretation. Any person contesting the location of the boundary shall be given a reasonable opportunity to appeal the interpretation as provided in this section. Where floodplain elevations have been defined, the floodplain shall be determined based on flood elevations rather than the area graphically delineated on the floodplain maps;
(9)
All records pertaining to the provisions of this section shall be maintained in the office of the city engineer and shall be open for public inspection;
(10)
Coordinate all FIRM revisions with the GA DNR and FEMA; and
(11)
Review variance applications and make recommendations to the city council.
1007.4. Standards for development.
1007.4.1. Definition of floodplain boundaries.
(1)
Studied "A" zones, as identified in the FIS, shall be used to establish base flood elevations whenever available.
(2)
For all streams with a drainage area of 100 acres or greater, the future-conditions flood elevations shall be provided by the City of Peachtree City. If future-conditions elevation data is not available from the City of Peachtree City, then it shall be determined by a licensed professional engineer using a method approved by FEMA and the City of Peachtree City.
1007.4.2. Definition of floodway boundaries.
The width of a floodway shall be determined from the FIS or FEMA approved flood study. For all streams with a drainage area of 100 acres or greater, the regulatory floodway shall be provided by the City of Peachtree City. If floodway data is not available from the City of Peachtree City, it shall be determined by a licensed professional engineer using a method approved by FEMA and the City of Peachtree City.
1007.4.3. General standards.
(1)
No development shall be allowed within any area of future-conditions flood hazard that could result in any of the following:
(a)
Raising the base flood elevation or future-conditions flood elevation equal to or more than 0.01 foot;
(b)
Reducing the base flood or future-conditions flood storage capacity;
(c)
Changing the flow characteristics as to the depth and velocity of the waters of the base flood or future-conditions flood as they pass both the upstream and the downstream boundaries of the development area; or
(d)
Creating hazardous or erosion-producing velocities, or resulting in excessive sedimentation.
(2)
Any development within the area of future-conditions flood hazard allowed under subsection 1007.4.3(1) shall also meet the following conditions:
(a)
Compensation for storage capacity shall occur between the average ground water table elevation and the base flood elevation for the base flood, and between the average ground water table elevation and the future-condition flood elevation for the future-conditions flood, and lie either within the boundaries of ownership of the property being developed and shall be within the immediate vicinity of the location of the encroachment. Acceptable means of providing required compensation include lowering of natural ground elevations within the floodplain, or lowering of adjoining land areas to create additional floodplain storage. In no case shall any required compensation be provided via bottom storage or by excavating below the elevation of the natural (pre-development) stream channel unless such excavation results from the widening or relocation of the stream channel;
(b)
Cut areas shall be stabilized and graded to a slope of no less than 2.0 percent;
(c)
Effective transitions shall be provided such that flow velocities occurring on both upstream and downstream properties are not increased or decreased;
(d)
Verification of no-rise conditions (less than 0.01 foot), flood storage volumes, and flow characteristics shall be provided via a step-backwater analysis meeting the requirements of section 1007.4.4;
(e)
Public utilities and facilities, such as water, sanitary sewer, gas, and electrical systems, shall be located and constructed to minimize or eliminate infiltration or contamination from flood waters; and
(f)
Any significant physical changes to the base flood floodplain shall be submitted as a conditional letter of map revision (CLOMR) or conditional letter of map amendment (CLOMA), whichever is applicable. The CLOMR submittal shall be subject to approval by the City of Peachtree City using the FEMA community concurrence forms before forwarding the submittal package to FEMA for final approval. The responsibility for forwarding the CLOMR to FEMA and for obtaining the CLOMR approval shall be the responsibility of the applicant. Within six months of the completion of development, the applicant shall submit as-built surveys and plans for a final letter of map revision (LOMR).
(3)
No development shall be allowed within any area located at or below the base flood elevation except for new multi-use paths and perpendicular road/path crossings. New paths or road crossings must also meet requirements of subsections 1007.4.3(1) and 1007.4.3(2) above.
1007.4.4. Engineering study requirements for floodplain encroachments.
An engineering study is required, as appropriate to the proposed development activities on the site, whenever a development proposes to disturb any land within the future-conditions floodplain, except for a residential single-lot development on streams without established base flood elevations and floodways. This study shall be prepared by a licensed professional engineer and made a part of the application for a permit. This information shall be submitted to and approved by the City of Peachtree City prior to the approval of any permit which would authorize the disturbance of land located within the future-conditions floodplain. Such study shall include:
(1)
Description of the extent to which any watercourse or floodplain will be altered or relocated as a result of the proposed development;
(2)
Step-backwater analysis, using a FEMA-approved methodology approved by the City of Peachtree City. Cross-sections (which may be supplemented by the applicant) and flow information will be obtained whenever available. Computations will be shown duplicating FIS results and will then be rerun with the proposed modifications to determine the new base flood profiles, and future-conditions flood profiles;
(3)
Floodplain storage calculations based on cross-sections (at least one every 100 feet) showing existing and proposed floodplain conditions to show that base flood floodplain and future-conditions floodplain storage capacity would not be diminished by the development;
(4)
The study shall include a preliminary plat, grading plan, or site plan, as appropriate, which shall clearly define all future-conditions floodplain encroachments.
1007.4.5. Floodway encroachments.
Located within areas of special flood hazard are areas designated as floodway. A floodway may be an extremely hazardous area due to velocity flood waters, debris or erosion potential. In addition, floodways must remain free of encroachment in order to allow for the discharge of the base flood without increased flood heights. Therefore, the following provisions shall apply:
(1)
Encroachments are prohibited, including earthen fill, new construction, substantial improvements or other development within the regulatory floodway, except for activities specifically allowed in subsection 1007.4.5(2) below.
(2)
Encroachments for bridges, culverts, roadways and utilities within the regulatory floodway may be permitted provided it is demonstrated through hydrologic and hydraulic analyses performed in accordance with standard engineering practice that the encroachment will not result in any increase to the pre-project base flood elevations, floodway elevations, or floodway widths during the base flood discharge. A licensed professional engineer must provide supporting technical data and certification thereof; and
(3)
If the applicant proposes to revise the floodway boundaries, no permit authorizing the encroachment into or an alteration of the floodway shall be issued by the City of Peachtree City until an affirmative conditional letter of map revision (CLOMR) is issued by FEMA or a no-rise certification is approved by the City of Peachtree City.
1007.4.6. Maintenance requirements.
The property owner shall be responsible for continuing maintenance as may be needed within an altered or relocated portion of a floodplain on the property so that the flood-carrying or flood storage capacity is maintained. The City of Peachtree City may direct the property owner (at no cost to the city) to restore the flood-carrying or flood storage capacity of the floodplain if the owner has not performed maintenance as required by the approved floodplain management plan on file with the City of Peachtree City.
1007.5. Provisions for flood damage reduction.
In all areas of special flood hazard and areas of future-conditions flood hazard the following provisions apply:
1007.5.1. General standards.
(1)
No new construction of residential or non-residential structures shall be allowed in any area that is at or below the base flood elevation, or within the regulatory floodway. Substantial improvements can be permitted if the entire structure is brought up to elevation standards in section 1007.5.2.
(2)
New construction and substantial improvements of structures (residential or non-residential), including manufactured homes, shall not be allowed within the limits of the future-conditions floodplain, unless all requirements of sections 1007.4.3, 1007.4.4 and 1007.4.5 have been met;
(3)
New construction and substantial improvements shall be anchored to prevent flotation, collapse and lateral movement of the structure;
(4)
New construction and substantial improvements shall be constructed with materials and utility equipment resistant to flood damage;
(5)
New construction and substantial improvements shall be constructed by methods and practices that minimize flood damage;
(6)
Elevated buildings—All new construction and substantial improvements that include any fully enclosed area located below the lowest floor formed by foundation and other exterior walls shall be designed so as to be an unfinished or flood resistant enclosure. The enclosure shall be designed to equalize hydrostatic flood forces on exterior walls by allowing for the automatic entry and exit of floodwater.
(a)
Designs for complying with this requirement must either be certified by a licensed professional engineer or architect to meet or exceed the following minimum criteria:
(i)
Provide a minimum of two openings having a total net area of not less than one square inch for every square foot of enclosed area subject to flooding;
(ii)
The bottom of all openings shall be no higher than one foot above grade; and
(iii)
Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, valves or other coverings or devices provided they permit the automatic flow of floodwater in both directions.
(b)
So as not to violate the "Lowest Floor" criteria of this section, the unfinished and flood resistant enclosure shall solely be used for parking of vehicles, limited storage of maintenance equipment used in connection with the premises, or entry to the elevated area; and
(c)
The interior portion of such enclosed area shall not be finished or partitioned into separate rooms.
(7)
All heating and air conditioning equipment and components (including ductwork), all electrical, ventilation, plumbing, and other service facilities shall be designed and/or located three feet above the base flood elevation or one foot above the future-conditions flood elevation, whichever is higher, so as to prevent water from entering or accumulating within the components during conditions of flooding;
(8)
Manufactured homes shall be anchored to prevent flotation, collapse, and lateral movement. Methods of anchoring may include, but are not limited to, use of over-the-top or frame ties to ground anchors. This standard shall be in addition to and consistent with applicable State requirements for resisting wind forces;
(9)
All proposed development shall include adequate drainage and stormwater management facilities per the requirements of the City of Peachtree City to reduce exposure to flood hazards;
(10)
New and replacement water supply systems shall be designed to minimize or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the system;
(11)
New and replacement sanitary sewage systems shall be designed to minimize or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the systems and discharges from the systems into flood waters;
(12)
On-site waste disposal systems shall be located and constructed to avoid impairment to, or contamination from, such systems during flooding;
(13)
Other public utilities such as gas and electric systems shall be located and constructed to avoid impairment to them, or public safety hazards from them, during flooding;
(14)
Any alteration, repair, reconstruction or improvement to a structure which is not compliant with the provisions of this section, shall be undertaken only if the non-conformity is not furthered, extended or replaced;
(15)
If the proposed development is located in multiple flood zones, or multiple base flood elevations cross the proposed site, the higher or more restrictive base flood elevation or future condition elevation and development standards shall take precedence;
(16)
When only a portion of a proposed structure is located within a flood zone or the future conditions floodplain, the entire structure shall meet the requirements of this section; and
(17)
Subdivision proposals and other proposed new development, including manufactured home parks or subdivisions, shall be reasonably safe from flooding:
(a)
All such proposals shall be consistent with the need to minimize flood damage within the flood-prone area;
(b)
All public utilities and facilities, such as sewer, gas, electrical, and water systems shall be located and constructed to minimize or eliminate flood damage;
(c)
Adequate drainage shall be provided to reduce exposure to flood hazards; and
(d)
All residential lots shall have 70 percent of the minimum lot size (for that zoning district) outside of the future conditions floodplain such that encroachments for residential structures will not be required.
1007.5.2. Building standards for structures and buildings within the future-conditions floodplain.
(1)
Residential buildings.
(a)
New construction. New construction of principal residential structures shall not be allowed within the limits of the future-conditions floodplain unless all requirements of sections 1007.4.3, 1007.4.4 and 1007.4.5 have been met. If all of the requirements of sections 1007.4.3, 1007.4.4 and 1007.4.5 have been met, all new construction shall have the lowest floor, including basement, elevated no lower than three feet above the base flood elevation or one foot above the future-conditions flood elevation, whichever is higher. Should solid foundation perimeter walls be used to elevate the structure, openings sufficient to automatically equalize the hydrostatic flood forces on exterior walls shall be provided in accordance with standards of subsection 1007.5.1(5)(a).
(b)
Substantial improvements. Substantial improvement of any principal residential structure shall have the lowest floor, including basement of the entire existing structure as well as the substantial improvement, elevated no lower than three feet above the base flood elevation or one foot above the future-conditions flood elevation, whichever is higher. Should solid foundation perimeter walls be used to elevate a structure, openings sufficient to automatically equalize the hydrostatic flood forces on exterior walls shall be provided in accordance with standards of subsection 1007.5.1(5)(a).
(2)
Non-residential buildings.
(a)
New construction. New construction of principal non-residential structures shall not be allowed within the limits of the future-conditions floodplain unless all requirements of sections 1007.4.3, 1007.4.4 and 1007.4.5 have been met. If all of the requirements of sections 1007.4.3, 1007.4.4 and 1007.4.5 have been met, all new construction shall have the lowest floor, including basement, elevated no lower than one foot above the base flood elevation or at least as high as the future-conditions flood elevation, whichever is higher. Should solid foundation perimeter walls be used to elevate the structure, openings sufficient to automatically equalize the hydrostatic flood forces on exterior walls shall be provided in accordance with standards of subsection 1007.5.1(5)(a). New construction that has met all of the requirements of sections 1007.4.3, 1007.4.4 and 1007.4.5 may be floodproofed in lieu of elevation. The structure, together with attendant utility and sanitary facilities, must be designed to be watertight to one foot above the base flood elevation, or at least as high as the future-conditions flood elevation, whichever is higher, with walls substantially impermeable to the passage of water and structural components having the capability of resisting hydrostatic and hydrodynamic loads and the effect of buoyancy. A licensed professional engineer or architect shall certify that the design and methods of construction are in accordance with accepted standards of practice for meeting the provisions above, and shall provide such certification to the city engineer using the FEMA floodproofing certificate along with the design and operation/maintenance plan.
(b)
Substantial improvements. Substantial improvement of any principal non-residential structure located in A1- 30, AE, or AH zones, may be authorized by the city engineer to be elevated or floodproofed. Substantial improvements shall have the lowest floor, including basement of the entire existing structure as well as the substantial improvement, elevated no lower than one foot above the base flood elevation or at least as high as the future-conditions flood elevation, whichever is higher. Should solid foundation perimeter walls be used to elevate the structure, openings sufficient to automatically equalize the hydrostatic flood forces on exterior walls shall be provided in accordance with standards of subsection 1007.5.1(5)(a). Substantial improvements may be floodproofed in lieu of elevation. The entire existing structure as well as the substantial improvement, together with attendant utility and sanitary facilities, must be designed to be watertight to one foot above the base flood elevation, or at least as high as the future-conditions flood elevation, whichever is higher, with walls substantially impermeable to the passage of water and structural components having the capability of resisting hydrostatic and hydrodynamic loads and the effect of buoyancy. A licensed professional engineer or architect shall certify that the design and methods of construction are in accordance with accepted standards of practice for meeting the provisions above, and shall provide such certification to the city engineer using the FEMA floodproofing certificate along with the design and operation/maintenance plan.
(3)
Accessory structures and facilities. Accessory structures and facilities (i.e., barns, sheds, gazebos, detached garages, recreational facilities and other similar non-habitable structures and facilities) which meet the requirements of sections 1007.4.3, 1007.4.4 and 1007.4.5 and are permitted to be located within the limits of the future-conditions floodplain shall be constructed of flood-resistant materials and designed to provide adequate flood openings in accordance with section 1007.5.1(5)(a) and be anchored to prevent flotation, collapse and lateral movement of the structure.
(4)
Standards for recreational vehicles. All recreational vehicles placed on sites must either:
(a)
Be on the site for fewer than 180 consecutive days and be fully licensed and ready for highway use (a recreational vehicle is ready for highway use if it is licensed, on its wheels or jacking system, attached to the site only by quick disconnect type utilities and security devices, and has no permanently attached structures or additions); or
(b)
Meet all the requirements for Residential buildings—Substantial improvements (subsection 1007.5.2(1)), including the anchoring and elevation requirements.
(5)
Standards for manufactured homes.
(a)
New manufactured homes shall not be allowed to be placed within the limits of the future-conditions floodplain unless all requirements of sections 1007.4.3, 1007.4.4 and 1007.4.5 have been met. If all of the requirements of sections 1007.4.3, 1007.4.4 and 1007.4.5 have been met, all new construction and substantial improvement shall have the lowest floor, including basement, elevated no lower than three feet above the base flood elevation or one foot above the future-conditions flood elevation, whichever is higher. Should solid foundation perimeter walls be used to elevate the structure, openings sufficient to automatically equalize the hydrostatic flood forces on exterior walls shall be provided in accordance with standards of subsection 1007.5.1(5)(a).
(b)
Manufactured homes placed and/or substantially improved in an existing manufactured home park or subdivision shall be elevated so that either:
(i)
The lowest floor of the manufactured home is elevated no lower than three feet above the level of the base flood elevation, or one foot above the future-conditions flood elevation, whichever is higher; or
(ii)
The manufactured home chassis is elevated and supported by reinforced piers (or other foundation elements of at least an equivalent strength) of no less than 36 inches in height above grade.
(c)
All manufactured homes must be securely anchored to an adequately anchored foundation system to resist flotation, collapse and lateral movement in accordance with standards of subsection 1007.5.1(7).
1007.5.3. Building standards for structures and buildings authorized adjacent to the future-conditions floodplain.
(1)
Residential buildings—For new construction and substantial improvement of any principal residential building or manufactured home, the elevation of the lowest floor, including basement and access to the building, shall be at least three feet above the base flood elevation or one foot above the future-conditions flood elevation, whichever is higher. Should solid foundation perimeter walls be used to elevate the structure, openings sufficient to automatically equalize the hydrostatic flood forces on exterior walls shall be provided in accordance with standards of Section 1007.5.1(5)(a).
(2)
Non-residential buildings—For new construction and substantial improvement of any principal non-residential building, the elevation of the lowest floor, including basement and access to the building, shall be at least one foot above the level of the base flood elevation or at least as high as the future-conditions flood elevation, whichever is higher. Should solid foundation perimeter walls be used to elevate the structure, openings sufficient to automatically equalize the hydrostatic flood forces on exterior walls shall be provided in accordance with standards of subsection 1007.5.1(5)(a). Non-residential buildings may be floodproofed in lieu of elevation.
1007.5.4. Building standards for residential single-lot developments on streams without established base flood elevations and floodway (A-Zones).
For a residential single-lot development not part of a subdivision that has areas of special flood hazard, where streams exist but no base flood data have been provided (A-Zones), the city engineer shall review and reasonably utilize any available scientific or historic flood elevation data, base flood elevation and floodway data, or future-conditions flood elevation data available from a federal, state, local or other source, in order to administer the provisions and standards of this section.
If data are not available from any of these sources, the following provisions shall apply:
(1)
No encroachments, including structures or fill material, shall be located within an area equal to twice the width of the stream or 50 feet from the top of the bank of the stream, whichever is greater.
(2)
In special flood hazard areas without base flood or future-conditions flood elevation data, new construction and substantial improvements shall have the lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area (including basement) elevated no less than three feet above the highest adjacent grade at the building site. Flood openings sufficient to facilitate automatic equalization of hydrostatic flood forces shall be provided for flood prone enclosures in accordance with subsection 1007.5.1(5)(a).
1007.5.5. Building standards for areas of shallow flooding (AO-Zones).
Areas of special flood hazard may include designated "AO" shallow flooding areas. These areas have base flood depths of one to three feet above ground, with no clearly defined channel. In these areas the following provisions apply:
(1)
All new construction and substantial improvements of residential and non-residential structures shall have the lowest floor, including basement, elevated to no lower than one foot above the flood depth number in feet specified on the flood insurance rate map (FIRM), above the highest adjacent grade. If no flood depth number is specified, the lowest floor, including basement, shall be elevated at least three feet above the highest adjacent grade. Flood openings sufficient to facilitate automatic equalization of hydrostatic flood forces shall be provided in accordance with standards of subsection 1007.5.1(5)(a);
(2)
New construction and substantial improvement of a non-residential structure may be floodproofed in lieu of elevation. The structure, together with attendant utility and sanitary facilities, must be designed to be water tight to the specified FIRM flood level plus one foot above the highest adjacent grade, with walls substantially impermeable to the passage of water, and structural components having the capability of resisting hydrostatic and hydrodynamic loads and the effect of buoyancy. A licensed professional engineer or architect shall certify that the design and methods of construction are in accordance with accepted standards of practice, and shall provide such certification to the city engineer using the FEMA floodproofing certificate along with the design and operation/maintenance plan; and
(3)
Drainage paths shall be provided to guide floodwater around and away from any proposed structure.
1007.5.6. Standards for subdivisions of land.
(1)
All subdivision proposals shall identify the areas of special flood hazard and areas of future-conditions flood hazard therein and provide base flood elevation data and future-conditions flood elevation data;
(2)
All residential lots in a subdivision proposal shall have sufficient buildable area outside of the future-conditions floodplain such that encroachments into the future-conditions floodplain for residential structures will not be required; and
(3)
All subdivision plans will provide the elevations of proposed structures in accordance with subsection 1007.3.2(2).
1007.6. Variance procedures.
The following variance and appeals procedures shall apply to an applicant who has been denied a permit for a development activity or to an owner or developer who has not applied for a permit because it is clear that the proposed development activity would be inconsistent with the provisions of this section.
(1)
Requests for variances from the requirements of this section shall be submitted to the City of Peachtree City. All such requests shall be heard and decided in accordance with procedures to be published in writing by the City of Peachtree City. At a minimum, such procedures shall include notice to all affected parties and the opportunity to be heard.
(2)
Any person adversely affected by any decision of the City of Peachtree City shall have the right to appeal such decision to the city council as established by the city in accordance with procedures to be published in writing by the city council. At a minimum, such procedures shall include notice to all affected parties and the opportunity to be heard.
(3)
Any person aggrieved by the decision of the city council may appeal such decision to the appropriate court, as provided in O.C.G.A. § 5-4-1.
(4)
Variances may be issued for the repair or rehabilitation of historic structures upon a determination that the proposed repair or rehabilitation will not preclude the structure's continued designation as a historic structure, and the variance issued shall be the minimum necessary to preserve the historic character and design of the structure.
(5)
Variances may be issued for development necessary for the conduct of a functionally dependent use, provided the criteria of this section are met, no reasonable alternative exists, and the development is protected by methods that minimize flood damage during the base flood and create no additional threats to public safety.
(6)
Variances shall not be issued within any designated floodway if any increase in flood levels during the base flood discharge would result.
(7)
In reviewing such requests, the City of Peachtree City and city council shall consider all technical evaluations, relevant factors, and all standards specified in this and other sections of this section.
(8)
Conditions for variances:
(a)
A variance shall be issued only when there is:
(i)
A finding of good and sufficient cause;
(ii)
A determination that failure to grant the variance would result in exceptional hardship; and
(iii)
A determination that the granting of a variance will not result in increased flood heights, additional threats to public safety, extraordinary public expense, or the creation of a nuisance.
(b)
The provisions of this section are minimum standards for flood loss reduction; therefore, any deviation from the standards must be weighed carefully. Variances shall only be issued upon determination that the variance is the minimum necessary, considering the flood hazard, to afford relief.
(c)
Any person to whom a variance is granted shall be given written notice specifying the difference between the base flood elevation and the elevation of the proposed lowest floor and stating that the cost of flood insurance resulting from the lowest floor elevation being placed below the base flood elevation will be commensurate with the increased risk to life and property, and that such costs may be as high as $25.00 for each $100.00 of insurance coverage provided.
(d)
The city engineer shall maintain the records of all variance actions, both granted and denied, and report them to the Georgia Department of Natural Resources and the Federal Emergency Management Agency upon request.
(9)
Any person requesting a variance shall, from the time of the request until the time the request is acted upon, submit such information and documentation as the City of Peachtree City and city council shall deem necessary for the consideration of the request.
(10)
Upon consideration of the factors listed above and the purposes of this section, the City of Peachtree City and the city council may attach such conditions to the granting of variances as they deem necessary or appropriate, consistent with the purposes of this section.
(11)
Variances shall not be issued "after the fact."
1007.7. Violations, enforcement and penalties.
Any action or inaction which violates the provisions of this section or the requirements of an approved stormwater management plan or permit may be subject to the enforcement actions outlined in this section. Any such action or inaction which is continuous with respect to time is deemed to be a public nuisance and may be abated by injunctive or other equitable relief. The imposition of any of the penalties described below shall not prevent such equitable relief.
1007.7.1. Notice of violation.
If the City of Peachtree City determines that an applicant or other responsible person has failed to comply with the terms and conditions of a permit, an approved stormwater management plan or the provisions of this section, it shall issue a written notice of violation to such applicant or other responsible person. Where a person is engaged in activity covered by this section without having first secured a permit therefor, the notice of violation shall be served on the owner or the responsible person in charge of the activity being conducted on the site:
The notice of violation shall contain:
(1)
The name and address of the owner or the applicant or the responsible person;
(2)
The address or other description of the site upon which the violation is occurring;
(3)
A statement specifying the nature of the violation;
(4)
A description of the remedial measures necessary to bring the action or inaction into compliance with the permit, the stormwater management plan or this section and the date for the completion of such remedial action;
(5)
A statement of the penalty or penalties that may be assessed against the person to whom the notice of violation is directed; and
(6)
A statement that the determination of violation may be appealed to the City of Peachtree City by filing a written notice of appeal within 30 days after the notice of violation.
1007.7.2. Penalties.
In the event the remedial measures described in the notice of violation have not been completed by the date set forth for such completion in the notice of violation, any one or more of the following actions or penalties may be taken or assessed against the person to whom the notice of violation was directed. Before taking any of the following actions or imposing any of the following penalties, the City of Peachtree City shall first notify the applicant or other responsible person in writing of its intended action, and shall provide a reasonable opportunity, of not less than ten days (except, that in the event the violation constitutes an immediate danger to public health or public safety, 24 hours notice shall be sufficient) to cure such violation. In the event the applicant or other responsible person fails to cure such violation after such notice and cure period, the City of Peachtree City may take any one or more of the following actions or impose any one or more of the following penalties:
(1)
Stop work order. The City of Peachtree City may issue a stop work order which shall be served on the applicant or other responsible person. The stop work order shall remain in effect until the applicant or other responsible person has taken the remedial measures set forth in the notice of violation or has otherwise cured the violation or violations described therein, provided the stop work order may be withdrawn or modified to enable the applicant or other responsible person to take the necessary remedial measures to cure such violation or violations.
(2)
Withhold certificate of occupancy. The City of Peachtree City may refuse to issue a certificate of occupancy for the building or other improvements constructed or being constructed on the site until the applicant or other responsible person has taken the remedial measures set forth in the notice of violation or has otherwise cured the violations described therein.
(3)
Suspension, revocation or modification of permit. The City of Peachtree City may suspend, revoke or modify the permit authorizing the development project. A suspended, revoked or modified permit may be reinstated after the applicant or other responsible person has taken the remedial measures set forth in the notice of violation or has otherwise cured the violations described therein, provided such permit may be reinstated (upon such conditions as the City of Peachtree City may deem necessary) to enable the applicant or other responsible person to take the necessary remedial measures to cure such violations.
(4)
Civil penalties. In the event the applicant or other responsible person fails to take the remedial measures set forth in the notice of violation or otherwise fails to cure the violations described therein within ten days, or such greater period as the City of Peachtree City shall deem appropriate (except, that in the event the violation constitutes an immediate danger to public health or public safety, 24 hours notice shall be sufficient) after the City of Peachtree City has taken one or more of the actions described above, the City of Peachtree City may impose a penalty not to exceed $1,000.00 (depending on the severity of the violation) for each day the violation remains unremedied after receipt of the notice of violation.
(5)
Criminal penalties. For intentional and flagrant violations of this ordinance, the City of Peachtree City may issue a citation to the applicant or other responsible person, requiring such person to appear in the municipal court to answer charges for such violation. Upon conviction, such person shall be punished by a fine not to exceed $1,000.00 or imprisonment for 60 days or both. Each act of violation and each day upon which any violation shall occur shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. No. 1091, § 1, 3-19-2015)
Editor's note— Ord. No. 1091, § 1, adopted March 19, 2015, repealed and reenacted section 1007 in its entirety to read as herein set out. Formerly, section 1007 pertained to similar subject matter, and derived from Ord. No. 925, § 1, 1-17-2008; Ord. No. 942, § 1, 5-1-2008.
Sec. 1008. - Groundwater recharge areas.
(a)
Purpose.
(1)
In order to provide for the health, safety, and welfare of the public and a healthy economic climate within the City of Peachtree City and surrounding communities, it is essential that the quality of public drinking water be ensured. For this reason, it is necessary to protect the subsurface water resources that Peachtree City and surrounding communities rely on as sources of public water.
(2)
Groundwater resources are contained within underground reservoirs known as aquifers. These aquifers are zones of rock beneath the earth's surface capable of containing or producing water from a well. They occupy vast regions of the subsurface and are replenished by infiltration of surface water runoff in zones of the surface known as groundwater recharge areas. Groundwater is susceptible to contamination when unrestricted development occurs within significant groundwater recharge areas. It is, therefore, necessary to manage land use within groundwater recharge areas in order to ensure that pollution threats are minimized.
(b)
Establishment of the groundwater recharge area protection district.
(1)
Establishment. The groundwater recharge area protection district is hereby established which shall correspond to all lands within the jurisdiction of the city that are mapped as significant recharge areas by the Georgia Department of Natural Resources in Hydrologic Atlas 18, 1989 edition. Said map is hereby adopted and made a part of this section.
(2)
Determination of pollution susceptibility. Each recharge area shall be determined to have a pollution susceptibility of high, medium, or low based on the Georgia Pollution Susceptibility Map, Hydrologic Atlas 20, 1992 edition. Said map is hereby adopted and made a part of this section.
(c)
Protection criteria.
(1)
No construction may proceed on any building to be served by a septic tank unless the county health department first approves the proposed septic tank installation as meeting the requirements of the Georgia Department of Human Resources, Manual for On-Site Sewage Management (hereinafter DHR Manual) and paragraph (2) below.
(2)
New buildings served by a septic tank/drain field system shall be on lots having minimum size limitations as follows, based on application of Table MT-1 of the DHR Manual (hereinafter DHR Table MT-1). The minimums set forth in DHR Table MT-1 may be increased further based on consideration of other factors (set forth in Sections A-F) of the DHR Manual.
a.
One hundred fifty percent (150%) of the subdivision minimum lot size calculated based on application of DHR Table MT-1 if they are within a high pollution susceptibility area;
b.
One hundred twenty-five percent (125%) of the subdivision minimum lot size calculated based on application of DHR Table MT-1 if they are within a medium pollution susceptibility area;
c.
One hundred ten percent (110%) of the subdivision minimum lot size calculated based on application of DHR Table MT-1 if they are within a low pollution susceptibility area.
d.
In no event shall the minimum lot size for any building served by a septic tank/drain field system be less than one acre.
(3)
New agricultural waste impoundment sites shall be lined if they are within a high pollution susceptibility area; a medium pollution susceptibility area and exceed 15 acre-feet; or a low pollution susceptibility area and exceed 50 acre-feet. As a minimum, the liner shall be constructed of compacted clay having a thickness of one foot and a vertical hydraulic conductivity of less than 5 X 10-7cm/sec or other criteria established by the natural resource and conservation service.
(4)
New above-ground chemical or petroleum storage tanks, having a minimum volume of 660 gallons, shall have secondary containment for 110 percent of the volume of such tanks or 110 percent of the volume of the largest tank in a cluster of tanks. Such tanks used for agricultural purposes are exempt, provided they comply with all federal requirements.
(5)
New facilities that handle hazardous materials of the types listed in section 312 of the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act of 1976 (excluding underground storage tanks) and which contain amounts of 10,000 gallons or more on any one day, shall perform their operations on impervious surfaces and in conformance with any applicable federal spill prevention requirements and local fire code requirements.
(6)
Permanent stormwater infiltration basins shall not be constructed in areas having high pollution susceptibility.
(7)
Commercial and industrial operations, either new or existing, which require washing truck railroad cars (tanks or other load types) shall provide containment equal to 110 percent of the container volume as well as a treatment plan and appropriate equipment to handle an emergency.
(d)
Exemptions. Any lot of record approved prior to the adoption of this section is exempt from the minimum lot size requirements contained in paragraph (d)(2)a., b., c., and d. above.
(Ord. No. 791, 9-19-02)
Sec. 1009. - Wetland protection.
(a)
Purpose.
(1)
The wetlands in the city are indispensable and fragile natural resources with significant development constraints due to flooding, erosion, and soils limitations. In their natural state, wetlands serve man and nature. They provide habitat areas for fish, wildlife, and vegetation; water quality maintenance and pollution control; flood control; erosion control; natural resource education; scientific study; and open space and recreational opportunities.
(2)
Nationally, a considerable number of these important natural resources have been lost or impaired by draining, dredging, filling, excavating, building, pollution, and other acts. Piecemeal or cumulative losses will, over time, destroy additional wetlands. Damaging or destroying wetlands threatens public safety and the general welfare.
(3)
The purpose of this section is to promote wetlands protection while taking into account varying ecological, economic development, recreational, and aesthetic values. Activities that may damage wetlands should be located on upland sites to the greatest degree practicable as determined through a permitting process.
(b)
Establishment of the wetlands protection district.
(1)
The wetlands protection district is hereby established which shall correspond to all lands within the jurisdiction of the city that are mapped as wetland areas by the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service, National Wetlands Inventory Maps. This map shall be referred to as the generalized wetlands map and is hereby adopted by reference and declared to be a part of this section, together with all explanatory matter thereon and attached thereto.
(2)
The generalized wetlands map does not represent the boundaries of jurisdictional wetlands within the city and cannot serve as a substitute for a delineation of wetland boundaries by the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, as required by section 404 of the Clean Water Act, as amended. Any local government action under this section does not relieve the landowner from federal or state permitting requirements.
(c)
Protection and requirement criteria. No regulated activity will be permitted within the wetlands protection district without written permission or a permit from the city. If the area proposed for development is located within 50 feet of a wetlands protection district boundary, as determined by the city planner using the generalized wetlands map, a U.S. Army Corps of Engineers determination shall be required. If the Corps determines that wetlands are present on the proposed development site, the local permit or permission will not be granted until a section 404 permit or letter of permission is issued.
(d)
Permitted uses. The following uses shall be allowed within the wetlands protection district to the extent that they are not prohibited by any other ordinance or law, including laws of trespass, and provided they do not require structures, grading, fill, draining, or dredging except as provided herein.
(1)
Conservation or preservation of soil, water, vegetation, fish, and other wildlife, provided it does not affect waters of Georgia or of the United States in such a way that would require an individual 404 permit.
(2)
Outdoor passive recreational activities, including fishing, bird watching, hiking, boating, horseback riding, and canoeing.
(3)
Forestry practices applied in accordance with best management practices approved by the Georgia Forestry Commission and as specified in section 404 of the Clean Water Act.
(4)
Agricultural activities shall be subject to best management practices approved by the Georgia Department of Agriculture.
(5)
The pasturing of livestock, provided that riparian wetlands are protected, that soil profiles are not disturbed, and that approved agricultural best management practices are followed.
(6)
Education, scientific research, and nature trails.
(e)
Prohibited uses. All uses not classified as permitted uses in paragraph (d) above are considered to be prohibited uses.
(f)
Administration and enforcement. For purposes of administering and enforcing the provisions of the wetland protection section of the land development ordinance, the following requirements shall apply; and they shall be in addition to other requirements pertaining to site plans elsewhere in the land development ordinance:
(1)
Site plans. Application for a development permit for a project involving wetlands shall include a site plan, drawn at a scale of at least one-inch equals 50 feet with the following information:
a.
A map of all planned excavation and fill, including calculations of the volume of cut-and-fill involved, cross-sectional drawings showing existing and proposed grades. Elevations, horizontal scale, and vertical scale must be shown on the cross-sectional drawings.
b.
A map of any wetland boundaries occurring within the site must be provided. This boundary may be included on other maps provided by the applicant.
c.
Location, dimensions, and area of all impervious surfaces, both existing and proposed, on the site and adjacent to the site for a distance of 200 feet.
d.
The orientation and distance from the boundaries of the proposed site to the nearest bank of an affected intermittent or perennial stream or water body.
e.
Elevations of the site and adjacent lands within 200 feet of the site at contour intervals of no greater than two feet and no greater than one foot for slopes less than or equal to two percent.
f.
All proposed temporary disruptions or diversions of local hydrology.
(2)
Activities to comply with site plan. All development activities or site work conducted after approval of the site plan shall conform to the specifications of said site plan. Significant changes to the site plan can be made only with the approval of the planning commission. The city planner is authorized to make minor changes.
(3)
Duration of permit validity.
a.
If construction described in the development permit has not commenced within 12 months from the date of issuance, the permit shall expire.
b.
If construction described in the development permit is suspended or abandoned after work has commenced, the permit shall expire 12 months after the date that work ceased.
c.
Written notice of pending expiration of the development permit shall be issued by the building official.
(4)
Penalties.
a.
When a building or other structure has been constructed in violation of this section, the violator may be required to remove the structure.
b.
When removal of vegetative cover, excavation, or fill has taken place in violation of this section, the violator may be required to restore the affected land to its original contours and to restore the vegetation with similar native vegetation. The restoration plan must be approved by the city planner.
c.
If a violation of this section that also constitutes a violation of any provision of the clean water act, as amended, is discovered, the building official shall issue written notification of the violation to the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, and the landowner.
(5)
Suspension, revocation. The building official may suspend or revoke a permit if he finds that the applicant has not complied with the conditions or limitations set forth in the permit or has exceeded the scope of the work set forth in the permit.
(Ord. No. 791, 9-19-2002)
Sec. 1010. - Illicit discharges.
(a)
Purpose.
(1)
The purpose of this ordinance is to provide for the health, safety, and general welfare of the citizens of Peachtree City through the regulation of non-stormwater discharges to the storm drainage system to the maximum extent practicable. This ordinance establishes methods for controlling the introduction of pollutants into the municipal separate storm sewer system (MS4). The objectives of this ordinance are:
a.
To regulate the contribution of pollutants to the municipal separate storm sewer system (MS4) by stormwater discharges by any user.
b.
To prohibit illicit connections and discharges to the municipal separate storm sewer system.
c.
To establish legal authority to carry out all inspection, surveillance and monitoring procedures necessary to ensure compliance with this ordinance.
(b)
Applicability. This ordinance shall apply to all water entering the storm drain system generated on any developed and undeveloped lands unless explicitly exempted by Peachtree City.
(c)
Administration. The community development director shall administer, implement, and enforce the provisions of this ordinance. Any powers granted or duties imposed upon the community development director may be delegated in writing by the community development director to persons or entities acting in the beneficial interest of or in the employ of Peachtree City.
(d)
Severability. If the provisions of any article, section, subsection, paragraph, subdivision or clause of this ordinance shall be judged invalid by a court of competent jurisdiction, such order of judgment shall not affect or invalidate the remainder of any article, section, subsection, paragraph, subdivision or clause of this ordinance.
(e)
Responsibility. The standards set forth herein and promulgated pursuant to this ordinance are minimum standards; therefore this ordinance does not intend nor imply that compliance by any person will ensure that there will be no contamination, pollution, nor unauthorized discharge of pollutants.
(f)
Discharge prohibitions. No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged into the municipal storm drain system or watercourses any materials, including but not limited to pollutants or waters containing any pollutants that cause or contribute to a violation of applicable water quality standards, other than stormwater. The commencement, conduct or continuance of any illegal discharge to the storm drain system is prohibited except as described as follows. The following discharges are exempt from discharge prohibitions established by this ordinance:
1)
Water line flushing or other potable water sources, non-commercial landscape irrigation or lawn watering, diverted stream flows, rising ground water, ground water infiltration to storm drains, uncontaminated pumped ground water, foundation or footing drains (not including active groundwater dewatering systems), crawl space pumps, air conditioning condensation, springs, non-commercial washing of vehicles, natural riparian habitat or wet-land flows, swimming pools (if dechlorinated - typically less than one PPM chlorine), fire fighting activities, and any other water source not containing pollutants.
2)
Discharges specified in writing by the community development director as being necessary to protect public health and safety.
3)
Dye testing provided that verbal notification is given to the agency prior to the time of the test.
4)
Any non-stormwater discharge permitted under an NPDES permit, waiver, or waste discharge order issued to the discharger and administered under the authority of the Federal Environmental Protection Agency, provided that the discharger is in full compliance with all requirements of the permit, waiver, or order and other applicable laws and regulations
(g)
Illicit connections. The construction, use, maintenance or continued existence of illicit connections to the storm drain system is prohibited. This prohibition expressly includes, without limitation, illicit connections made in the past, regardless of whether the connection was permissible under law or practices applicable or prevailing at the time of connection. A person is considered to be in violation of this ordinance if the person connects any system conveying sewage to the MS4, or allows such a connection to continue.
(h)
Suspension of MS4 Access.
(1)
Emergency situations. Peachtree City may, without prior notice, suspend publicly-owned drainage system access to a person when such suspension is necessary to stop an actual or threatened discharge, which presents or may present imminent and substantial danger to the environment, or to the health or welfare of persons, or to the MS4 or Waters of the United States. If the violator fails to comply with a suspension order issued in an emergency, the authorized enforcement agency may take such steps as deemed necessary to prevent or minimize damage to the MS4 or Waters of the United States, or to minimize danger to persons.
(2)
Detection of illicit discharges. Any person discharging to the MS4 in violation of this ordinance may have their MS4 access terminated if such termination would abate or reduce an illicit discharge. The community development director will notify a violator of the proposed termination of its MS4 access. The violator may petition the city council for a reconsideration and hearing. A person commits an offense if the person reinstates MS4 access to premises terminated pursuant to this section, without the prior approval of the community development director.
(i)
Industrial or construction activity discharges. Any person subject to an industrial or construction activity NPDES stormwater discharge permit shall comply with all provisions of such permit. Proof of compliance with said permit may be required in a form acceptable to Peachtree City prior to the allowing of discharges to the MS4.
(j)
Discharge monitoring.
(1)
Applicability. This section applies to all facilities that have stormwater discharges to the publicly owned storm drainage system.
(2)
Access to facilities.
a.
The community development director shall be permitted to enter and inspect facilities as often as may be necessary to determine compliance with this ordinance. If a discharger has security measures in force, which require proper identification and clearance before entry into its premises, the discharger shall make the necessary arrangements to allow access to representatives of Peachtree City.
b.
Facility operators shall allow the community development director full access to all parts of the premises in order to inspect, sample, examine and copy records that must be kept under the conditions of an NPDES permit to discharge stormwater, and to perform any additional duties as required by state and federal law.
c.
The community development director shall have the right to set up on any permitted facility such devices as are necessary in the opinion of the developmental services director to monitor and/or sample the facility's stormwater discharge.
d.
The community development director has the right to require the discharger to install monitoring equipment as necessary, given that reasonable cause to believe that an illicit discharge or connection exists. The facility's sampling and monitoring equipment shall be maintained at all times in a safe and proper operating condition at the discharger's own expense. All devices used to measure stormwater flow and quality shall be calibrated to ensure their accuracy per the manufacturer's recommended standards.
e.
Any temporary or permanent obstruction to safe and easy access to the facility to be inspected and/or sampled shall be promptly and permanently removed by the operator at the written or oral request of [the] community development director. The costs of clearing such access shall be borne by the operator.
f.
Unreasonable delay in allowing the community development director access to a permitted facility is a violation of a stormwater discharge permit and of this ordinance. The operator of a facility with a NPDES permit to discharge stormwater associated with industrial activity commits an offense if that person or an agent denies the community development director reasonable access to the permitted facility for the purpose of conducting any activity authorized or required by this ordinance.
g.
If the community development director has been refused access to any part of the premises from which stormwater is discharged, then the community development director may seek issuance of a search warrant from any court of competent jurisdiction upon showing that:
i.
He/she is able to demonstrate probable cause to believe that there may be a violation of this ordinance;
ii.
Or, that there is a need to inspect and/or sample as part of a routine inspection and sampling program designed to verify compliance with this ordinance or any order issued hereunder;
iii.
Or, to protect the overall public health, safety, and welfare of the community.
(k)
Requirement to prevent, control and reduce stormwater pollutants by the use of best management practices. Peachtree City may from time to time adopt requirements identifying best management practices (BMPs) for any activity, operation, or facility, which may cause or contribute to pollution or contamination of stormwater, the storm drain system, or waters of the U.S. Prior to commencement of substantial improvements to the site, the owner or operator of a commercial or industrial establishment shall provide, at their own expense, reasonable protection from accidental discharge of prohibited materials or other wastes into the municipal storm drain system or watercourses through the use of these structural and non-structural BMPs. Further, any person responsible for a property or premise, which is, or may be, the source of an illicit discharge, may be required to implement, at said person's expense, additional structural and non-structural BMPs to prevent the further discharge of pollutants to the municipal separate storm sewer system. Compliance with all terms and conditions of a valid NPDES permit authorizing the discharge of stormwater associated with an industrial activity, to the extent practicable, shall be deemed to be in compliance with the provisions of this section. These BMPs shall be part of a stormwater pollution prevention plan (SWP3) as necessary for compliance with requirements of the NPDES permit.
(l)
Watercourse protection. Every person owning property through which a watercourse passes, or such person's lessee, shall keep and maintain that part of the watercourse within the property free of trash, debris, and other obstacles that would pollute, contaminate, or significantly retard the flow of water through the watercourse. In addition, the owner or lessee shall maintain existing privately owned structures within or adjacent to a watercourse, so that such structures will not become a hazard to the use, function, or physical integrity of the watercourse.
(m)
Notification of spills. Notwithstanding other requirements of law, any person responsible for a facility or operation, or responsible for emergency response for a facility or operation who has information of any known or suspected release of materials which are resulting or may result in illegal discharges or pollutants discharging into stormwater, the storm drain system, or water of the U.S. shall take all necessary steps to ensure the discovery, containment, and cleanup of such release. In the event of a release of hazardous materials that person shall immediately notify emergency response agencies of the occurrence via emergency dispatch services. In the event of a release of non-hazardous materials, that person shall notify the community development director in person or by phone, facsimile or email no later than the next business day. Notifications in person or by phone shall be confirmed by written notice addressed and mailed to the community development director within three business days of the phone notice. If the discharge of prohibited materials emanates from a commercial or industrial establishment, the owner or operator of such establishment shall also retain an on-site written record of the discharge and the actions taken to prevent its recurrence. Such records shall be retained for at least three years.
(n)
Enforcement.
(1)
Notice of violation. Whenever the community development director finds that a person has violated a prohibition or failed to meet a requirement of this ordinance, the community development director may order compliance by written notice of violation to the responsible person. Such notice may require of the violator without limitation:
a.
The performance of monitoring, analyses, and reporting;
b.
The elimination of illicit connections or discharges;
c.
The cessation of the violating discharges, practices, or operations;
d.
The abatement or remediation of stormwater pollution or contamination hazards and the restoration of any affected property;
e.
Payment of a fine to cover administrative and remediation costs; and
f.
The implementation of source controls or treatment BMPs.
If abatement of a violation and/or restoration of affected property is required, the notice shall set forth a deadline by which such remediation or restoration must be completed. Said notice shall further advise that, should the violator fail to remediate or restore within the established deadline, the work will be completed by a designated governmental agency or a contractor at the violator's expense.
(o)
Appeals of notice of violation. Any person receiving a notice of violation may appeal the determination of the community development director. The notice of appeal must be received within ten days from the date of the notice of violation. Hearing on the appeal before the city council or his/her designee shall take place within 30 days from the date of receipt of the notice of appeal.
Any person, aggrieved by a decision or order of the community development director, after exhausting administrative remedies, shall have the right to appeal de novo to the superior court of Fayette County.
(p)
Enforcement measures after appeal. If the violation has not been corrected pursuant to the requirements set forth in the notice of violation, or, in the event of an appeal, within ten days of the decision of the review authority upholding the decision of the community development director, then representatives of the community development director may subsequent to written notice enter upon the subject private property and are authorized to take any and all measures necessary to abate the violation and/or restore the property. It shall be unlawful for any person, owner, agent or person in possession of any premises to refuse to allow the government agency or designated contractor to enter upon the premises for the purposes set forth above.
(q)
Cost of abatement of the violation. Within 30 days after abatement of the violation, the owner of the property will be notified of the cost of abatement, including administrative costs. Within 30 days of the notice, the property owner may file a written protest objecting to the amount of the assessment. If the amount due is not paid within a timely manner as determined by the decision of the municipal authority or by the expiration of the time in which to file an appeal, the charges shall become a special assessment against the property and shall constitute a lien on the property for the amount of the assessment.
(r)
Injunctive relief. It shall be unlawful for any person to violate any provision or fail to comply with any of the requirements of this ordinance. If a person has violated or continues to violate the provisions of this ordinance, the community development director may petition for a preliminary or permanent injunction restraining the person from activities which would create further violations or compelling the person to perform abatement or remediation of the violation.
(s)
Compensatory action. In lieu of enforcement proceedings, penalties, and remedies authorized by this ordinance, Peachtree City may impose upon a violator through a written agreement alternative compensatory actions, such as storm drain stenciling, attendance at compliance workshops, creek cleanup, etc.
(t)
Violations deemed a public nuisance. In addition to the enforcement processes and penalties provided, any condition caused or allowed to exist in violation of any of the provisions of this ordinance is a threat to public health, safety, and welfare, and is declared and deemed a nuisance, and may be summarily abated or restored at the violator's expense, and/or a civil action to abate, enjoin, or otherwise compel the cessation of such nuisance may be taken.
(u)
Criminal prosecution. Any person that has violated or continues to violate this ordinance shall be liable to criminal prosecution to the fullest extent of the law, and shall be subject to a criminal penalty of up to one-thousand dollars ($1,000) per violation per day.
Peachtree City may recover all attorneys' fees court costs and other expenses associated with enforcement of this ordinance, including sampling and monitoring expenses.
(v)
Remedies not exclusive. The remedies listed in this ordinance are not exclusive of any other remedies available under any applicable federal, state or local law and it is within the discretion of the authorized enforcement agency to seek cumulative remedies.
(Ord. No. 791, 9-19-2002; Ord. No. 981, § 2, 7-16-2009)
Sec. 1011. - Stormwater management for new development and redevelopment.
(a)
General provisions.
(1)
Purpose and intent. The purpose of this section is to protect, maintain and enhance the public health, safety, environment and general welfare by establishing minimum requirements and procedures to control the adverse effects of increased post-development stormwater runoff and nonpoint source pollution associated with new development and redevelopment. It has been determined that proper management of post-development stormwater runoff will minimize damage to public and private property and infrastructure, safeguard the public health, safety, environment and general welfare of the public, and protect water and aquatic resources. This ordinance seeks to meet that purpose through the following objectives:
a.
Establish decisionmaking processes surrounding land development activities that protect the integrity of the watershed and preserve the health of water resources;
b.
Require that new development and redevelopment maintain the predevelopment hydrologic response in their postdevelopment state as nearly as practicable in order to reduce flooding, streambank erosion, nonpoint source pollution and increases in stream temperature, and maintain the integrity of stream channels and aquatic habitats;
c.
Establish minimum postdevelopment stormwater management standards and design criteria for the regulation and control of stormwater runoff quantity and quality;
d.
Establish design and application criteria for the construction and use of structural stormwater control facilities that can be used to meet the minimum post-development stormwater management standards;
e.
Encourage the use of nonstructural stormwater management and stormwater better site design practices, such as the preservation of greenspace and other conservation areas, to the maximum extent practicable. Coordinate site design plans, which include greenspace, with the county's greenspace protection plan;
f.
Establish provisions for the longterm responsibility for and maintenance of structural stormwater control facilities and nonstructural stormwater management practices to ensure that they continue to function as designed, are maintained, and pose no threat to public safety; and
g.
Establish administrative procedures for the submission, review, approval and disapproval of stormwater management plans, and for the inspection of approved active projects, and long-term follow up.
(2)
Applicability.
a.
This ordinance shall be applicable to all land development, including, but not limited to, site plan applications, subdivision applications, and grading applications, unless exempt pursuant to subsection (a)(2)b. These standards apply to any new development or redevelopment site that meets one or more of the following criteria:
i.
New development that involves the creation of 5,000 square feet or more of impervious cover, or that involves other land development activities of one acre or more;
ii.
Redevelopment that includes the creation, addition or replacement of 5,000 square feet or more of impervious cover, or that involves other land development activity of one acre or more;
iii.
Any new development or redevelopment, regardless of size, that is considered to be a hotspot land use, or has a standard industrial classification (SIC) code that falls under the NPDES industrial stormwater permit program; or
iv.
Land development activities that are smaller than the minimum applicability criteria set forth in subsection (a)(2)a. if such activities are part of a larger common plan of development, even though multiple, separate and distinct land development activities may take place at different times on different schedules.
b.
The following activities are exempt from this ordinance:
i.
Individual single-family or duplex residential lots that are not part of a subdivision or phased development project;
ii.
Additions or modifications to existing single family or duplex residential structures;
iii.
Agricultural or silvicultural land management activities within areas zoned for these activities; and
iv.
Repairs to any stormwater management facility or practice deemed necessary by the city engineer.
(3)
Designation of ordinance administrator. The city engineer or designee is hereby appointed to administer and implement the provisions of this ordinance.
(4)
Compatibility with other regulations. This ordinance is not intended to modify or repeal any other ordinance, rule, regulation or other provision of law. The requirements of this ordinance are in addition to the requirements of any other ordinance, rule, regulation or other provision of law, and where any provision of this ordinance imposes restrictions different from those imposed by any other ordinance, rule, regulation or other provision of law, whichever provision is more restrictive or imposes higher protective standards for human health or the environment shall control.
(5)
Severability. If the provisions of any section, subsection, paragraph, subdivision or clause of this ordinance shall be adjudged invalid by a court of competent jurisdiction, such judgment shall not affect or invalidate the remainder of any section, subsection, paragraph, subdivision or clause of this ordinance.
(6)
Stormwater Design Manual. The city will utilize the policy, criteria and information including technical specifications and standards in the 2016 edition of the Georgia Stormwater Management Manual and any relevant local addenda, including the Local Design Manual, for the proper implementation of the requirements of this ordinance. The manual may be updated and expanded periodically, based on improvements in science, engineering, monitoring and local maintenance experience.
(7)
Definitions.
Applicant means a person submitting a post-development stormwater management application and plan for approval.
Channel means a natural or artificial watercourse with a definite bed and banks that conducts continuously or periodically flowing water.
Conservation easement means an agreement between a land owner and the city or other government agency or land trust that permanently protects open space or greenspace on the owner's land by limiting the amount and type of development that can take place, but continues to leave the remainder of the fee interest in private ownership.
Dam means an embankment used for the storage of water. Usually used as part or in conjunction with a detention facility.
Detention means the temporary storage of stormwater runoff in a stormwater management facility for the purpose of controlling the peak discharge.
Detention facility means a detention basin or structure designed for the detention of stormwater runoff and gradual release of stored water at controlled rates.
Developer means a person who undertakes land development activities.
Development means a land development or land development project.
Drainage easement means an easement appurtenant or attached to a tract or parcel of land allowing the owner of adjacent tracts or other persons to discharge stormwater runoff onto the tract or parcel of land subject to the drainage easement.
Erosion and sedimentation control plan means a plan that is designed to minimize the accelerated erosion and sediment runoff at a site during land disturbance activities.
Extended detention means the detention of stormwater runoff for an extended period, typically 24 hours or greater.
Extreme flood protection means measures taken to prevent adverse impacts from large low-frequency storm events with a return frequency of 100 years or more.
Flooding means a volume of surface water that is too great to be confined within the banks or walls of a conveyance or stream channel and that overflows onto adjacent lands.
Greenspace or open space means permanently protected areas of the site that are preserved in a natural state.
Hotspot means an area where the use of the land has the potential to generate highly contaminated runoff, with concentrations of pollutants in excess of those typically found in stormwater. These areas produce higher concentrations of trace metals, hydrocarbons or other priority pollutants than are normally found in urban stormwater runoff. Examples include, but are not limited to, gas stations, vehicle service and maintenance areas, salvage yards, material storage sites, and garbage transfer facilities.
Hydrologic soil group (HSG) means a natural resource conservation service classification system in which soils are categorized into four runoff potential groups. The groups range from group A soils, with high permeability and little runoff produced, to group D soils, which have low permeability rates and produce much more runoff.
Impervious cover means a surface composed of any material that significantly impedes or prevents the natural infiltration of water into soil. Impervious surfaces include, but are not limited to, rooftops, buildings, streets and roads, and any concrete or asphalt surface.
Industrial stormwater permit means a national pollutant discharge elimination system (NPDES) permit issued to an industry or group of industries which regulates the pollutant levels associated with industrial stormwater discharges or specifies on-site pollution control strategies.
Infiltration means the process of percolating stormwater runoff into the subsoil.
Inspection and maintenance agreement means a written agreement providing for the long-term inspection and maintenance of stormwater management facilities and practices on a site or with respect to a land development project, which when properly recorded in the deed records constitutes a restriction on the title to a site or other land involved in a land development project.
Jurisdictional wetland means an area that is inundated or saturated by surface water or groundwater at a frequency and duration sufficient to support a prevalence of vegetation typically adapted for life in saturated soil conditions, commonly known as hydrophytic vegetation.
Land development means any land change, including, but not limited to, clearing, digging, grubbing, stripping, removal of vegetation, dredging, grading, excavating, transporting and filling of land, construction, paving, and any other installation of impervious cover.
Land development activities means those actions or activities which comprise, facilitate or result in land development.
Land development project means a discrete land development undertaking.
New development means a land development activity on a previously undeveloped site.
Nonpoint source pollution means a form of water pollution that does not originate from a discrete point such as a sewage treatment plant or industrial discharge, but involves the transport of pollutants such as sediment, fertilizers, pesticides, heavy metals, oil, grease, bacteria, organic materials and other contaminants from land to surface water and groundwater via mechanisms such as precipitation, stormwater runoff, and leaching. Nonpoint source pollution is a by-product of land use practices such as agricultural, silvicultural, mining, construction, subsurface disposal and urban runoff sources.
Nonstructural stormwater management practice or nonstructural practice means any natural or planted vegetation or other nonstructural component of the stormwater management plan that provides for or enhances stormwater quantity and/or quality control or other stormwater management benefits, and includes, but is not limited to, riparian buffers, open and greenspace areas, overland flow filtration areas, natural depressions, and vegetated channels.
Offsite facility means a stormwater management facility located outside the boundaries of the site.
Onsite facility means a stormwater management facility located within the boundaries of the site.
Overbank flood protection means measures taken to prevent an increase in the frequency and magnitude of out-of-bank flooding (i.e. flow events that exceed the capacity of the channel and enter the floodplain), and that are intended to protect downstream properties from flooding for the 2-year through 25-year frequency storm events.
Owner means the legal or beneficial owner of a site, including but not limited to, a mortgagee or vendee in possession, receiver, executor, trustee, lessee or other person, firm or corporation in control of the site.
Permit means the permit issued by the city to the applicant which is required for undertaking any land development activity.
Person means, except to the extent exempted from this ordinance, any individual, partnership, firm, association, joint venture, public or private corporation, trust, estate, commission, board, public or private institution, utility, cooperative, city, county or other political subdivision of the state, any interstate body or any other legal entity.
Post-development refers to the time period, or the conditions that may reasonably be expected or anticipated to exist, after completion of the land development activity on a site as the context may require.
Pre-development refers to the time period, or the conditions that exist, on a site prior to the commencement of a land development project and at the time that plans for the land development of a site are approved by the plan approving authority. Where phased development or plan approval occurs (preliminary grading, roads and utilities, etc.), the existing conditions at the time prior to the first item being approved or permitted shall establish pre-development conditions.
Project means a land development project.
Redevelopment means a land development project on a previously developed site, but excludes ordinary maintenance activities, remodeling of existing buildings, resurfacing of paved areas, and exterior changes or improvements which do not materially increase or concentrate stormwater runoff, or cause additional nonpoint source pollution.
Regional stormwater management facility or regional facility means stormwater management facilities designed to control stormwater runoff from multiple properties, where the owners or developers of the individual properties may assist in the financing of the facility, and the requirement for on-site controls is either eliminated or reduced.
Runoff means stormwater runoff.
Site means the parcel of land being developed, or the portion thereof on which the land development project is located.
Stormwater better site design means nonstructural site design approaches and techniques that can reduce a site's impact on the watershed and can provide for nonstructural stormwater management. Stormwater better site design includes conserving and protecting natural areas and greenspace, reducing impervious cover and using natural features for stormwater management.
Stormwater management means the collection, conveyance, storage, treatment and disposal of stormwater runoff in a manner intended to prevent increased flood damage, streambank channel erosion, habitat degradation and water quality degradation, and to enhance and promote the public health, safety and general welfare.
Stormwater management facility means any infrastructure that controls or conveys stormwater runoff.
Stormwater management measure means any stormwater management facility or nonstructural stormwater practice.
Stormwater management plan means a document describing how existing runoff characteristics will be affected by a land development project and containing measures for complying with the provisions of this ordinance.
Stormwater management system means the entire set of structural and nonstructural stormwater management facilities and practices that are used to capture, convey and control the quantity and quality of the stormwater runoff from a site.
Stormwater retrofit means a stormwater management practice designed for a currently developed site that previously had either no stormwater management practice in place or a practice inadequate to meet the stormwater management requirements of the site.
Stormwater runoff means the flow of surface water resulting from precipitation.
Structural stormwater control means a structural stormwater management facility or device that controls stormwater runoff and changes the characteristics of that runoff including, but not limited to, the quantity and quality, the period of release or the velocity of flow of such runoff.
Subdivision means the division of a tract or parcel of land resulting in one or more new lots or building sites for the purpose, whether immediately or in the future, of sale, other transfer of ownership or land development, and includes divisions of land resulting from or made in connection with the layout or development of a new street or roadway or a change in an existing street or roadway.
(b)
Permit procedures and requirements.
(1)
Permit application requirements. No owner or developer shall perform any land development activities without first meeting the requirements of this ordinance prior to commencing the proposed activity.
Unless specifically exempted by this ordinance, any owner or developer proposing a land development activity shall submit to the city a permit application on a form provided by the city for that purpose.
Unless otherwise exempted by this ordinance, the following items shall accompany a permit application in order to be considered:
a.
Stormwater concept plan and consultation meeting certification in accordance with subsection (b)(2);
b.
Stormwater management plan in accordance with subsection (b)(3);
c.
Inspection and maintenance agreement in accordance with subsection (b)(4) below, if applicable;
d.
Permit application and plan review fees in accordance with subsection (b)(6) below.
(2)
Stormwater concept plan and consultation meeting. Before any stormwater management permit application is submitted, it is recommended that the land owner or developer shall meet with the city for a consultation meeting on a concept plan for the post-development stormwater management system to be utilized in the proposed land development project. This consultation meeting shall take place at the time of the preliminary plan of subdivision or other early step in the development process. The purpose of this meeting is to discuss the post-development stormwater management measures necessary for the proposed project, as well as to discuss and assess constraints, opportunities and potential ideas for stormwater management designs before the formal site design engineering is commenced.
To accomplish this goal the following information shall be included in the concept plan which shall be submitted in advance of the meeting:
a.
Existing conditions/proposed site plans. Existing conditions and proposed site layout sketch plans, which illustrate at a minimum: existing and proposed topography; perennial and intermittent streams; mapping of predominant soils from soil surveys (when available); boundaries of existing predominant vegetation and proposed limits of clearing and grading; and location of existing and proposed roads, buildings, parking areas and other impervious surfaces.
b.
Natural resources inventory. A written or graphic inventory of the natural resources at the site and surrounding area as it exists prior to the commencement of the project. This description should include a discussion of soil conditions, forest cover, topography, wetlands, and other native vegetative areas on the site, as well as the location and boundaries of other natural feature protection and conservation areas such as wetlands, lakes, ponds, floodplains, stream buffers and other setbacks (e.g., drinking water well setbacks, septic setbacks, etc.). Particular attention should be paid to environmentally sensitive features that provide particular opportunities or constraints for development.
c.
Stormwater management system concept plan. A written or graphic concept plan of the proposed post-development stormwater management system including: preliminary selection and location of proposed structural stormwater controls; location of existing and proposed conveyance systems such as grass channels, swales, and storm drains; flow paths; location of floodplain/floodway limits; relationship of site to upstream and downstream properties and drainages; and preliminary location of proposed stream channel modifications, such as bridge or culvert crossings.
Local watershed plans, the city greenspace projection plan (if applicable), and any relevant resource protection plans will be consulted in the discussion of the concept plan.
(3)
Stormwater management plan requirements. The stormwater management plan shall detail how post-development stormwater runoff will be controlled or managed and how the proposed project will meet the requirements of this ordinance, including the performance criteria set forth in subsection (c).
This plan shall be in accordance with the criteria established in this section and be prepared under the direct supervisory control of either a registered professional engineer or a registered landscape architect licensed in the state. Subsection (b)(3)c. through subsection (b)(3)g. shall be prepared under the direct supervisory control of a registered professional engineer, who shall seal and sign the work. Portions of the overall plan may be prepared and stamped by a registered land surveyor licensed in the state of georgia as appropriate, such as boundary surveys, contour maps, erosion and sedimentation control plans.
The stormwater management plan must ensure that the requirements and criteria in this ordinance are being complied with and that opportunities are being taken to minimize adverse post-development stormwater runoff impacts from the development. The plan shall consist of maps, narrative, and supporting design calculations (hydrologic and hydraulic) for the proposed stormwater management system. The plan shall include all of the information required in the stormwater management site plan checklist found in the stormwater design manual, and the engineering department's plan review checklists. This includes:
a.
Common address and legal description of site.
b.
Vicinity map.
c.
Existing conditions hydrologic analysis. The existing condition hydrologic analysis for stormwater runoff rates, volumes, and velocities, which shall include:
i.
A topographic map of existing site conditions with the drainage basin boundaries indicated; acreage, soil types and land cover of areas for each subbasin affected by the project; all perennial and intermittent streams and other surface water features; all existing stormwater conveyances and structural control facilities; and direction of flow and exits from the site.
ii.
Analysis of runoff provided by off-site areas upstream of the project site; and methodologies, assumptions, site parameters and supporting design calculations used in analyzing the existing conditions site hydrology.
iii.
For redevelopment sites, predevelopment conditions shall be modeled using the established guidelines for the portion of the site undergoing land development activities.
d.
Predeveloped condition for redevelopment. For all redevelopment applications, existing site conditions may be used for analysis purposes, unless downstream conditions warrant a more conservative approach as determined by the city engineer.
e.
Post-development hydrologic analysis. The post-development hydrologic analysis for stormwater runoff rates, volumes, and velocities, which shall include:
i.
A topographic map of developed site conditions with the post-development drainage basin boundaries indicated; total area of post-development impervious surfaces and other land cover areas for each subbasin affected by the project; calculations for determining the runoff volumes that need to be addressed for each subbasin for the development project to meet the post-development stormwater management performance criteria in subsection (c); location and boundaries of proposed natural feature protection and conservation areas; documentation and calculations for any applicable site design credits that are being utilized; methodologies, assumptions, site parameters and supporting design calculations used in analyzing the existing conditions site hydrology.
ii.
If the land development activity on a redevelopment site constitutes more than 50 percent of the site area for the entire site, then the performance criteria in subsection (c) must be met for the stormwater runoff from the entire site.
f.
Stormwater management system. The description, scaled drawings and design calculations for the proposed post-development stormwater management system, which shall include:
i.
A map and/or drawing or sketch of the stormwater management facilities, including the location of nonstructural site design features and the placement of existing and proposed structural stormwater controls, including design water surface elevations, storage volumes available from zero to maximum head, location of inlet and outlets, location of bypass and discharge systems, and all orifice/restrictor sizes;
ii.
A narrative describing how the selected structural stormwater controls will be appropriate and effective;
iii.
Cross-section and profile drawings and design details for each of the structural stormwater controls in the system, including supporting calculations to show that the facility is designed according to the applicable design criteria;
iv.
A hydrologic and hydraulic analysis of the stormwater management system for all applicable design storms (including stage-storage or outlet rating curves, and inflow and outflow hydrographs);
v.
Documentation and supporting calculations to show that the stormwater management system adequately meets the post-development stormwater management performance criteria in subsection (c);
vi.
Drawings, design calculations, elevations and hydraulic grade lines for all existing and proposed stormwater conveyance elements including stormwater drains, pipes, culverts, catch basins, channels, swales and areas of overland flow; and where applicable, a narrative describing how the stormwater management system corresponds with any watershed protection plans and/or local greenspace protection plan.
g.
Post-development downstream analysis. A downstream peak flow analysis which includes the assumptions, results and supporting calculations to show safe passage of post-development design flows downstream. The analysis of downstream conditions in the report shall do the following:
i.
Address each and every point or area along the project site's boundaries at which runoff will exit the property.
ii.
The analysis shall focus on the portion of the drainage channel or watercourse immediately downstream from the project. This area shall extend downstream from the project to a point in the drainage basin where the project area is ten percent of the total basin area.
iii.
In calculating runoff volumes and discharge rates, consideration may need to be given to any planned future upstream land use changes.
iv.
The analysis shall be in accordance with the Stormwater Design Manual.
h.
Construction-phase erosion and sedimentation control plan. An erosion and sedimentation control plan in accordance with the Georgia Erosion and Sedimentation Control Act or NPDES permit for construction activities. The plan shall also include information on the sequence/phasing of construction and temporary stabilization measures and temporary structures that will be converted into permanent stormwater controls.
i.
Landscaping and open space plan. A detailed landscaping and vegetation plan describing the woody and herbaceous vegetation that will be used within and adjacent to stormwater management facilities and practices. This plan must fall within the standards outlined in the Stormwater Design Manual. The landscaping plan must also include:
i.
The arrangement of planted areas, natural and greenspace areas and other landscaped features on the site plan; information necessary to construct the landscaping elements shown on the plan drawings;
ii.
Descriptions and standards for the methods, materials and vegetation that are to be used in the construction; density of plantings; descriptions of the stabilization and management techniques used to establish vegetation; and
iii.
A description of who will be responsible for ongoing maintenance of vegetation for the stormwater management facility and what practices will be employed to ensure that adequate vegetative cover is preserved.
j.
Operations and maintenance plan. Detailed description of ongoing operations and maintenance procedures for stormwater management facilities and practices to ensure their continued function as designed and constructed or preserved. These plans will identify the parts or components of a stormwater management facility or practice that need to be regularly or periodically inspected and maintained, and the equipment and skills or training necessary. The plan shall include an inspection and maintenance schedule, maintenance tasks, responsible parties for maintenance, funding, access and safety issues. Provisions for the periodic review and evaluation of the effectiveness of the maintenance program and the need for revisions or additional maintenance procedures shall be included in the plan.
k.
Maintenance access easements. The applicant must ensure access from public right-of-way to stormwater management facilities and practices requiring regular maintenance at the site for the purpose of inspection and repair by securing all the maintenance access easements needed on a permanent basis. Such access shall be sufficient for all necessary equipment for maintenance activities. Upon final inspection and approval, a plat or document indicating that such easements exist shall be recorded and shall remain in effect even with the transfer of title of the property.
l.
Inspection and maintenance agreements. Unless an on-site stormwater management facility or practice is dedicated to and accepted by the city as provided in subsection (b)(4), the applicant must execute an easement and an inspection and maintenance agreement binding on all subsequent owners of land served by an on-site stormwater management facility or practice in accordance with subsection (b)(4).
m.
Evidence of acquisition of applicable local and non-local permits. The applicant shall certify and provide documentation to the city that all other applicable environmental permits have been acquired for the site prior to approval of the stormwater management plan.
(4)
Stormwater management inspection and maintenance agreements. Prior to the issuance of any permit for a land development activity requiring a stormwater management facility or practice hereunder and for which the city requires ongoing maintenance, the applicant or owner of the site must, unless an on-site stormwater management facility or practice is dedicated to and accepted by the city, execute an inspection and maintenance agreement, and/or a conservation easement, if applicable, that shall be binding on all subsequent owners of the site.
The inspection and maintenance agreement, if applicable, must be approved by the city prior to issuance of a certificate of occupancy or final plat approval, and recorded in the deed records.
The inspection and maintenance agreement shall identify by name or official title the person(s) responsible for carrying out the inspection and maintenance. Responsibility for the operation and maintenance of the stormwater management facility or practice, unless assumed by a governmental agency, shall remain with the property owner and shall pass to any successor owner. If portions of the land are sold or otherwise transferred, legally binding arrangements shall be made to pass the inspection and maintenance responsibility to the appropriate successors in title. These arrangements shall designate for each portion of the site, the person to be permanently responsible for its inspection and maintenance.
As part of the inspection and maintenance agreement, a schedule shall be developed for when and how often routine inspection and maintenance will occur to ensure proper function of the stormwater management facility or practice. The agreement shall also include plans for annual inspections to ensure proper performance of the facility between scheduled maintenance and shall also include remedies for the default thereof.
In addition to enforcing the terms of the inspection and maintenance agreement, the city will also enforce all of the provisions for ongoing inspection and maintenance in subsection (f).
(5)
Application procedure.
a.
Applications for land development permits shall be filed with the city.
b.
Permit applications shall include the items set forth in subsection (b) (two copies of the stormwater management plan and the inspection maintenance agreement, if applicable, shall be included) and follow the procedures outlined in articles IV, V and VI, as appropriate.
c.
The city shall inform the applicant whether the application, stormwater management plan and inspection and maintenance agreement are approved or disapproved within the time limits established in Articles IV, V and VI, as appropriate.
d.
If either the permit application, stormwater management plan or inspection and maintenance agreement are disapproved, the city shall notify the applicant of such fact in writing. The applicant may then revise any item not meeting the requirements hereof and resubmit the same, in which event subsection (b)(5)c. and this subparagraph shall apply to such resubmittal.
e.
Upon a finding by the city that the permit application, stormwater management plan and inspection and maintenance agreement, if applicable, meet the requirements of this ordinance, the city may issue a permit for the land development project, provided all other legal requirements for the issuance of such permit have been met.
f.
Notwithstanding the issuance of the permit, in conducting the land development project, the applicant or other responsible person shall be subject to the following requirements:
1.
The applicant shall comply with all applicable requirements of the approved plan and this ordinance and shall certify that all land clearing, construction, land development and drainage will be done according to the approved plan;
2.
The land development project shall be conducted only within the area specified in the approved plan;
3.
The city shall be allowed to conduct periodic inspections of the project;
4.
No changes may be made to an approved plan without review and written approval by the city; and
5.
Upon completion of the project, the applicant or other responsible person shall submit the engineer's report and certificate and as-built plans required by subsection (e).
(6)
Modifications for offsite facilities. The stormwater management plan for each land development project shall provide for stormwater management measures located on the site of the project, unless provisions are made to manage stormwater by an offsite or regional facility. The offsite or regional facility must be located on property legally dedicated for the purpose, must be designed and adequately sized to provide a level of stormwater quantity and quality control that is equal to or greater than that which would be afforded by onsite practices and there must be a legally obligated entity responsible for longterm operation and maintenance of the off-site or regional stormwater facility. In addition, on-site measures shall be implemented, where necessary, to protect upstream and downstream properties and drainage channels from the site to the offsite facility. Proper drainage and/or flood easements must also be dedicated between the site and the off-site facility.
A stormwater management plan must be submitted to the city which shows the adequacy of the off-site or regional facility.
To be eligible for a modification, the applicant must demonstrate to the satisfaction of the city that the use of an off-site or regional facility will not result in the following impacts to upstream or downstream areas:
a.
Increased threat of flood damage to public health, life, and property;
b.
Deterioration of existing culverts, bridges, dams, and other structures;
c.
Accelerated stream bank or streambed erosion or siltation;
d.
Degradation of in-stream biological functions or habitat; or
e.
Water quality impairment in violation of state water quality standards, and/or violation of any state or federal regulations.
(c)
Post-development stormwater management performance criteria. The following performance criteria shall be applicable to all stormwater management plans, unless otherwise provided for in this ordinance:
(1)
Water quality. All stormwater runoff generated from a site shall be adequately treated before discharge. It will be presumed that a stormwater management system complies with this requirement if:
a.
It is sized to retain the first one inch of rainfall from the site to the maximum extent practicable, as defined in the stormwater design manual. The designer shall refer to the local design manual for additional clarifications on feasibility;
b.
Appropriate structural stormwater controls or nonstructural practices are selected, designed, constructed or preserved, and maintained according to the specific criteria in the stormwater design manual; and
c.
Runoff from hotspot land uses and activities identified by the city are adequately treated and addressed through the use of appropriate structural stormwater controls, nonstructural practices and pollution prevention practices.
(2)
Stream channel protection. Protection of stream channels from bank and bed erosion and degradation shall be provided by using all of the following three approaches:
a.
Preservation, restoration and/or reforestation (with native vegetation) of the applicable stream buffer;
b.
24-hour extended detention storage of the 1-year, 24-hour return frequency storm event;
c.
Erosion prevention measures such as energy dissipation and velocity control.
The city engineer may grant an exemption to stream channel exemption using the criteria outlined in the Stormwater Management Manual.
(3)
Overbank flooding protection. Downstream overbank flood and property protection shall be provided by controlling (attenuating) the post-development peak discharge rate to the pre-development rate for the 25- and 100-year, 24-hour return frequency storm events.
(4)
Extreme flooding protection. Extreme flood and public safety protection shall be provided by controlling and safely conveying the 100-year, 24-hour return frequency storm event such that flooding is not exacerbated.
(5)
Structural stormwater controls. All structural stormwater management facilities shall be selected and designed using the appropriate criteria from the Stormwater Design Manual. All structural stormwater controls must be designed appropriately to meet their intended function. For other structural stormwater controls not included in the Stormwater Design Manual, or for which pollutant removal rates have not been provided, the effectiveness and pollutant removal of the structural control must be documented through prior studies, literature reviews, or other means and receive approval from the city before being included in the design of a stormwater management system. In addition, if hydrologic or topographic conditions, or land use activities warrant greater control than that provided by the minimum control requirements, the city may impose additional requirements deemed necessary to protect upstream and downstream properties and aquatic resources from damage due to increased volume, frequency, and rate of stormwater runoff or increased nonpoint source pollution loads created on the site in question.
Applicants shall consult the Stormwater Design Manual for guidance on the factors that determine site design feasibility when selecting and locating a structural stormwater control.
(6)
Stormwater credits for nonstructural measures. The use of one or more site design measures by the applicant may allow for a reduction in the water quality treatment volume required under subsection (c)(1). The applicant may, if approved by the city, take credit for the use of stormwater better site design practices and reduce the water quality volume requirement. For each potential credit, there is a minimum set of criteria and requirements which identify the conditions or circumstances under which the credit may be applied. The site design practices that qualify for this credit and the criteria and procedures for applying and calculating the credits are included in the Stormwater Design Manual.
(7)
Drainage system guidelines. Stormwater conveyance facilities, which may include but are not limited to culverts, stormwater drainage pipes, catch basins, drop inlets, junction boxes, headwalls, gutter, swales, channels, ditches, and energy dissipaters shall be provided when necessary for the protection of public right-of-way and private properties adjoining project sites and/or public right-of-ways. Stormwater conveyance facilities that are designed to carry runoff from more that one parcel, existing or proposed, shall meet the following requirements:
a.
Methods to calculate stormwater flows shall be in accordance with the stormwater design manual;
b.
All culverts, pipe systems and open channel flow systems shall be sized in accordance with the stormwater management plan using the methods included in the stormwater design manual; and
c.
Design and construction of stormwater conveyance facilities shall be in accordance with the criteria and specifications found in the stormwater design manual.
(8)
Dam design guidelines. Any land disturbing activity that involves a site which proposes a dam shall comply with the Georgia Safe Dams Act and Rules for Dam Safety as applicable.
(d)
Reserved.
(e)
Construction inspections of post-development stormwater management system.
(1)
Inspections to ensure plan compliance during construction. Periodic inspections of the stormwater management system construction shall be conducted by the staff of the city or conducted and certified by a registered professional engineer licensed by the state. Construction inspections shall utilize the approved stormwater management plan for establishing compliance.
All inspections shall be documented with written reports that contain the following information:
a.
The date and location of the inspection;
b.
Whether construction is in compliance with the approved stormwater management plan;
c.
Variations from the approved construction specifications; and
d.
Any other variations or violations of the conditions of the approved stormwater management plan.
If any violations are found, the applicant shall be notified in writing of the nature of the violation and the required corrective actions.
(2)
Final inspection and as built plans. Upon completion of a project, and before a certificate of occupancy is issued, or final plat approved, the applicant is responsible for certifying that the completed project is in accordance with the approved stormwater management plan. All applicants are required to submit actual "as built" plans and hydrology studies for any stormwater management facilities, practices, and site improvements after final construction is completed. The plans and hydrology study must show the final design specifications for all stormwater management facilities and practices and must be certified by a professional engineer. The specific requirements for certification, and submitting the "as built" plans and hydrology studies (digital and paper copies) are kept on file in the office of the city engineer.
A final inspection and approval by the city is required before the release of any performance securities can occur.
(f)
Ongoing inspection and maintenance of stormwater facilities and practices.
(1)
Long-term maintenance inspection of stormwater facilities and practices. Stormwater management facilities and practices included in a stormwater management plan which are subject to an inspection and maintenance agreement must undergo ongoing inspections to document maintenance and repair needs and ensure compliance with the requirements of the agreement, the plan and this ordinance.
A stormwater management facility or practice shall be inspected on a periodic basis by the responsible person in accordance with the approved inspection and maintenance agreement. In the event that the stormwater management facility has not been maintained and/or becomes a danger to public safety or public health, the city shall notify the person responsible for carrying out the maintenance plan by registered or certified mail to the person specified in the inspection and maintenance agreement. The notice shall specify the measures needed to comply with the agreement and the plan and shall specify the time within which such measures shall be completed. If the responsible person fails or refuses to meet the requirements of the inspection and maintenance agreement, the city may correct the violation as provided in subsection (f)(4).
Inspection programs by the city may be established on any reasonable basis, including but not limited to: routine inspections; random inspections; inspections based upon complaints or other notice of possible violations; and joint inspections with other agencies inspecting under environmental or safety laws. Inspections may include, but are not limited to: reviewing maintenance and repair records; sampling discharges, surface water, groundwater, and material or water in stormwater management facilities; and evaluating the condition of stormwater management facilities and practices.
(2)
Right-of-entry for inspection. The terms of the inspection and maintenance agreement shall provide for the city to enter the property at reasonable times and in a reasonable manner for the purpose of inspection. This includes the right to enter a property when it has a reasonable basis to believe that a violation of this ordinance is occurring or has occurred and to enter when necessary for abatement of a public nuisance or correction of a violation of this ordinance.
(3)
Records of maintenance activities. Parties responsible for the operation and maintenance of a stormwater management facility shall provide records of all maintenance and repairs to the city.
(4)
Failure to maintain. If a responsible person fails or refuses to meet the requirements of the inspection and maintenance agreement, the city, after 30 days written notice (except, that in the event the violation constitutes an immediate danger to public health or public safety, 24 hours notice shall be sufficient), may correct a violation of the design standards or maintenance requirements by performing the necessary work to place the facility or practice in proper working condition. The city may assess the owner(s) of the facility for the cost of repair work which shall be a lien on the property.
(g)
Violations, enforcement and penalties. Any action or inaction which violates the provisions of this ordinance or the requirements of an approved stormwater management plan or permit, may be subject to the enforcement actions outlined in this section. Any such action or inaction which is continuous with respect to time is deemed to be a public nuisance and may be abated by injunctive or other equitable relief. The imposition of any of the penalties described below shall not prevent such equitable relief. The imposition of any of the penalties described below shall not prevent such equitable relief.
(1)
Notice of violation. If the city determines that an applicant or other responsible person has failed to comply with the terms and conditions of a permit, an approved stormwater management plan or the provisions of this ordinance, it shall issue a written notice of violation to such applicant or other responsible person. Where a person is engaged in activity covered by this ordinance without having first secured a permit therefore, the notice of violation shall be served on the owner or the responsible person in charge of the activity being conducted on the site. The notice of violation shall contain:
a.
The name and address of the owner or the applicant or the responsible person;
b.
The address or other description of the site upon which the violation is occurring;
c.
A statement specifying the nature of the violation;
d.
A description of the remedial measures necessary to bring the action or inaction into compliance with the permit, the stormwater management plan or this ordinance and the date for the completion of such remedial action;
e.
A statement of the penalty or penalties that may be assessed against the person to whom the notice of violation is directed; and
f.
A court date if a citation/notice of violation is issued.
(2)
Penalties. In the event the remedial measures described in the notice of violation have not been completed by the date set forth for such completion in the notice of violation, any one or more of the following actions or penalties may be taken or assessed against the person to whom the notice of violation was directed. In the event the applicant or other responsible person fails to cure such violation after such notice and cure period, the city may take any one or more of the following actions or impose any one or more of the following penalties:
a.
Stop work order. The city may issue a stop work order which shall be served on the applicant or other responsible person. The stop work order shall remain in effect until the applicant or other responsible person has taken the remedial measures set forth in the notice of violation or has otherwise cured the violation or violations described therein, provided the stop work order may be withdrawn or modified to enable the applicant or other responsible person to take the necessary remedial measures to cure such violation or violations.
b.
Withhold certificate of occupancy. The city may refuse to issue a certificate of occupancy for the building or other improvements constructed or being constructed on the site until the applicant or other responsible person has taken the remedial measures set forth in the notice of violation or has otherwise cured the violations described therein.
c.
Suspension, revocation or modification of permit. The city may suspend, revoke or modify the permit authorizing the land development project. A suspended, revoked or modified permit may be reinstated after the applicant or other responsible person has taken the remedial measures set forth in the notice of violation or has otherwise cured the violations described therein, provided such permit may be reinstated [upon such conditions as the city may deem necessary] to enable the applicant or other responsible person to take the necessary remedial measures to cure such violations.
d.
Penalties. The city may issue a citation to the applicant or other responsible person for violations of this ordinance, requiring such person to appear in city municipal court to answer charges for such violation. Upon conviction, such person shall be punished by a fine not to exceed $1,000.00 or imprisonment for 60 days or both. Each act of violation and each day upon which any violation shall occur shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. No. 902, § 1, 6-6-2007; Ord. No. 1099, § 1, 12-3-2015; Ord. No. 1118, § 1, 12-1-2016; Ord. No. 1156, § 1, 11-15-2018; Ord. No. 1183, § 1, 1-7-2021)
Editor's note— Ord. No. 902, § 1, adopted June 6, 2007, repealed and reenacted § 1011 in its entirety to read as herein set out. Formerly, § 1011 pertained to post-construction stormwater runoff management, and derived from Ord. No. 876, adopted March 16, 2006.
Sec. 1012. - Metro North Georgia Water Planning District stream buffer protection ordinance.
1012.1 Findings.
Whereas, the city council finds that buffers adjacent to streams provide numerous benefits including:
(1)
Protecting, restoring and maintaining the chemical, physical and biological integrity of streams and their water resources;
(2)
Removing pollutants delivered in urban stormwater;
(3)
Reducing erosion and controlling sedimentation;
(4)
Protecting and stabilizing stream banks;
(5)
Providing for infiltration of stormwater runoff;
(6)
Maintaining base flow of streams;
(7)
Contributing organic matter that is a source of food and energy for the aquatic ecosystem;
(8)
Providing tree canopy to shade streams and promote desirable aquatic habitat;
(9)
Providing riparian wildlife habitat;
(10)
Furnishing scenic value and recreational opportunity;
(11)
Providing opportunities for the protection and restoration of greenspace.
1012.2 Purposes.
It is the purpose of this Ordinance is to protect the public health, safety, environment and general welfare; to minimize public and private losses due to erosion, siltation and water pollution; and to maintain stream water quality by provisions designed to:
(1)
Create buffer zones along the streams of Peachtree City for the protection of water resources; and
(2)
Minimize land development within such buffers by establishing buffer zone requirements and by requiring authorization for any such activities.
1012.3. Definitions.
Buffer means, with respect to a stream, a natural or enhanced vegetated area (established by section 5.1.1 below), lying adjacent to the stream.
Impervious cover means any manmade paved, hardened or structural surface regardless of material. Impervious cover includes but is not limited to rooftops, buildings, streets, roads, decks, swimming pools and any concrete or asphalt.
Land development means any land change, including but not limited to clearing, grubbing, stripping, removal of vegetation, dredging, grading, excavating, transporting and filling of land, construction, paving and any other installation of impervious cover.
Land development activity means those actions or activities which comprise, facilitate or result in land development.
Land disturbance means any land or vegetation change, including, but not limited to, clearing, grubbing, stripping, removal of vegetation, dredging, grading, excavating, transporting and filling of land, that do not involve construction, paving or any other installation of impervious cover.
Land disturbance activity means those actions or activities which comprise, facilitate or result in land disturbance.
Floodplain means any land area susceptible to flooding, which would have at least a one percent probability of flooding occurrence in any calendar year based on the basin being fully developed as shown on the current land use plan; i.e., the regulatory flood.
Parcel means any plot, lot or acreage shown as a unit on the latest county tax assessment records.
Permit means the permit issued by the city required for undertaking any land development activity.
Person means any individual, partnership, firm, association, joint venture, public or private corporation, trust, estate, commission, board, public or private institution, utility, cooperative, city, county or other political subdivision of the state, any interstate body or any other legal entity.
Protection area or stream protection area means, with respect to a stream, the combined areas of all required buffers and setbacks applicable to such stream.
Riparian means belonging or related to the bank of a river, stream, lake, pond or impoundment.
Setback means, with respect to a stream, the area established by section 5.1.2 extending beyond any buffer applicable to the stream.
Stream means any stream, beginning at:
1.
The location of a spring, seep, or groundwater outflow that sustains streamflow;
2.
A point in the stream channel with a drainage area of 25 acres or more; or
3.
Where evidence indicates the presence of a stream in a drainage area of other than 25 acres, the city may require field studies to verify the existence of a stream.
Stream bank means the sloping land that contains the stream channel and the normal flows of the stream.
Stream channel means the portion of a watercourse that contains the base flow of the stream.
Watershed means the land area that drains into a particular stream.
1012.4 Applicability.
This ordinance shall apply to all land development activity on property containing a stream protection area as defined in section 3 of this ordinance. These requirements are in addition to, and do not replace or supersede, any other applicable buffer requirements established under state law and approval or exemption from these requirements do not constitute approval or exemption from buffer requirements established under state law or from other applicable local, state or federal regulations.
This ordinance shall also apply to all new subdividing or re-subdividing, and platting or re-platting activities which occur on or after the effective date of this ordinance.
1012.4.1 Grandfather provisions.
This ordinance shall not apply to the following activities:
(1)
Work consisting of the repair or maintenance of any lawful use of land that is zoned and approved for such use on or before the effective date of this ordinance.
(2)
Existing development and on-going land disturbance activities including but not limited to existing agriculture, silviculture, landscaping, gardening and lawn maintenance, except that new development or land disturbance activities on such properties will be subject to all applicable buffer requirements.
(3)
Any land development activity that is under construction, fully approved for development, scheduled for permit approval or has been submitted for approval as of the effective date of this ordinance.
(4)
Land development activity that has not been submitted for approval, but that is part of a larger master development plan, such as for an office park or other phased development that has been previously approved within two years of the effective date of this ordinance.
1012.4.2 Exemptions.
The following specific activities are exempt from this ordinance. Exemption of these activities does not constitute an exemption for any other activity proposed on a property.
(1)
Activities for the purpose of building one of the following:
-
A stream crossing by a driveway, transportation route or utility line;
-
Public water supply intake or public wastewater outfall structures;
-
Intrusions necessary to provide access to a property;
-
Public access facilities that must be on the water including boat ramps, docks, foot trails leading directly to the stream, (not meant to apply to lakes, only streams per the definition) fishing platforms and overlooks;
-
Unpaved foot trails and paths;
-
Activities to restore and enhance stream bank stability, vegetation, water quality and/or aquatic habitat, so long as native vegetation and bioengineering techniques are used.
(2)
Public sewer line easements paralleling the creek, except that all easements (permanent and construction) and land disturbance should be at least 25 feet from the top of the bank. This includes such impervious cover as is necessary for the operation and maintenance of the utility, including but not limited to manholes, vents and valve structures. This exemption shall not be construed as allowing the construction of roads, bike paths or other transportation routes in such easements, regardless of paving material, except for access for the uses specifically cited in item 4.2.(1), above.
(3)
Land development activities within a right-of-way existing at the time this ordinance takes effect or approved under the terms of this ordinance.
(4)
Within an easement of any utility existing at the time this ordinance takes effect or approved under the terms of this ordinance, land disturbance activities and such impervious cover as is necessary for the operation and maintenance of the utility, including but not limited to manholes, vents and valve structures.
(5)
Emergency work necessary to preserve life or property. However, when emergency work is performed under this section, the person performing it shall report such work to the city engineer on the next business day after commencement of the work. Within ten days thereafter, the person shall apply for a permit and perform such work within such time period as may be determined by the city engineer to be reasonably necessary to correct any impairment such emergency work may have caused to the water conveyance capacity, stability or water quality of the protection area.
(6)
Forestry and silviculture activities on land that is zoned for forestry, silvicultural or agricultural uses and are not incidental to other land development activity. If such activity results in land disturbance in the buffer that would otherwise be prohibited, then no other land disturbing activity other than normal forest management practices will be allowed on the entire property for three years after the end of the activities that intruded on the buffer.
(7)
For those properties which have certain rights conveyed via deed or other instrument of title, the construction or maintenance of any docks or other access points within such area provided, however, that such docks or access points shall not be increased in size or scope after the effective date of this ordinance.
This ordinance shall apply to all new subdividing or re-subdividing, and platting or re-platting activities which occur on or after the effective date of this ordinance.
Any land development activity within a buffer established hereunder or any impervious cover within a setback established hereunder is prohibited unless a variance is granted pursuant to section 5.2 below.
1012.5 Land development requirements.
1012.5.1 Buffer and setback requirements.
All land development activity subject to this ordinance shall meet the following requirements:
(1)
An undisturbed natural vegetative buffer shall be maintained for 50 feet, measured horizontally, on both banks (as applicable) of the stream as measured from the top of the stream bank.
(2)
An additional setback shall be maintained for 25 feet, measured horizontally, beyond the undisturbed natural vegetative buffer, in which all impervious cover shall be prohibited. Grading, filling and earthmoving shall be minimized within the setback.
(3)
No septic tanks or septic tank drain fields shall be permitted within the buffer or the setback.
1012.5.2 Variance procedures.
Variances from the above buffer and setback requirements may be granted in accordance with the following provisions:
(1)
Where a parcel was platted prior to the effective date of this ordinance, and its shape, topography or other existing physical condition prevents land development consistent with this ordinance, and the city engineer finds and determines that the requirements of this ordinance prohibit the otherwise lawful use of the property by the owner, the city council may grant a variance from the buffer and setback requirements hereunder, provided such variance require mitigation measures to offset the effects of any proposed land development on the parcel.
(2)
Except as provided above, the city council shall grant no variance from any provision of this ordinance without first conducting a public hearing on the application for variance and authorizing the granting of the variance by an affirmative vote of the city council. The city shall give public notice of each such public hearing in a newspaper of general circulation within the city. The city shall require that the applicant post a sign giving notice of the proposed variance and the public hearing. The sign shall be of a size and posted in such a location on the property as to be clearly visible from the primary adjacent road right-of-way.
Variances will be considered only in the following cases:
a.
When a property's shape, topography or other physical conditions existing at the time of the adoption of this ordinance prevents land development unless a buffer variance is granted.
b.
Unusual circumstances when strict adherence to the minimal buffer requirements in the ordinance would create an extreme hardship.
Variances will not be considered when, following adoption of this ordinance, actions of any property owner of a given property have created conditions of a hardship on that property.
(3)
At a minimum, a variance request shall include the following information:
a.
A site map that includes locations of all streams, wetlands, floodplain boundaries and other natural features, as determined by field survey;
b.
A description of the shape, size, topography, slope, soils, vegetation and other physical characteristics of the property;
c.
A detailed site plan that shows the locations of all existing and proposed structures and other impervious cover, the limits of all existing and proposed land disturbance, both inside and outside the buffer and setback. The exact area of the buffer to be affected shall be accurately and clearly indicated;
d.
Documentation of unusual hardship should the buffer be maintained;
e.
At least one alternative plan, which does not include a buffer or setback intrusion, or an explanation of why such a site plan is not possible;
f.
A calculation of the total area and length of the proposed intrusion;
g.
A stormwater management site plan, if applicable; and,
h.
Proposed mitigation, if any, for the intrusion. If no mitigation is proposed, the request must include an explanation of why none is being proposed.
(4)
The following factors will be considered in determining whether to issue a variance:
a.
The shape, size, topography, slope, soils, vegetation and other physical characteristics of the property;
b.
The locations of all streams on the property, including along property boundaries;
c.
The location and extent of the proposed buffer or setback intrusion; and,
d.
Whether alternative designs are possible which require less intrusion or no intrusion;
e.
The long-term and construction water-quality impacts of the proposed variance;
f.
Whether issuance of the variance is at least as protective of natural resources and the environment.
1012.6 Compatibility with other buffer regulations and requirements.
This ordinance is not intended to interfere with, abrogate or annul any other ordinance, rule or regulation, statute or other provision of law. The requirements of this ordinance should be considered minimum requirements, and where any provision of this ordinance imposes restrictions different from those imposed by any other ordinance, rule, regulation or other provision of law, whichever provisions are more restrictive or impose higher protective standards for human health or the environment shall be considered to take precedence.
1012.7 Additional information requirements for development on buffer zone properties.
Any permit applications for property requiring buffers and setbacks hereunder must include the following:
(1)
A site plan showing:
a.
The location of all streams on the property;
b.
Limits of required stream buffers and setbacks on the property;
c.
Buffer zone topography with contour lines at no greater than five-foot contour intervals;
d.
Delineation of forested and open areas in the buffer zone; and
e.
Detailed plans of all proposed land development in the buffer and of all proposed impervious cover within the setback;
(2)
A description of all proposed land development within the buffer and setback; and
(3)
Any other documentation that the city engineer may reasonably deem necessary for review of the application and to insure that the buffer zone ordinance is addressed in the approval process.
All buffer and setback areas must be recorded on the final plat of the property following plan approval.
1012.8 Responsibility.
Neither the issuance of a development permit nor compliance with the conditions thereof, nor with the provisions of this ordinance shall relieve any person from any responsibility otherwise imposed by law for damage to persons or property; nor shall the issuance of any permit hereunder serve to impose any liability upon the city, its officers or employees, for injury or damage to persons or property.
1012.9 Inspection.
The city engineer may cause inspections of the work in the buffer or setback to be made periodically during the course thereof and shall make a final inspection following completion of the work. The permittee shall assist the city engineer in making such inspections. The city shall have the authority to conduct such investigations as it may reasonably deem necessary to carry out its duties as prescribed in this ordinance, and for this purpose to enter at reasonable time upon any property, public or private, for the purpose of investigating and inspecting the sites of any land development activities within the protection area.
No person shall refuse entry or access to any authorized representative or agent who requests entry for purposes of inspection, and who presents appropriate credentials, nor shall any person obstruct, hamper or interfere with any such representative while in the process of carrying out official duties.
1012.10 Violations, enforcement and penalties.
Any action or inaction which violates the provisions of this ordinance or the requirements of an approved site plan or permit may be subject to the enforcement actions outlined in this section. Any such action or inaction which is continuous with respect to time is deemed to be a public nuisance and may be abated by injunctive or other equitable relief. The imposition of any of the penalties described below shall not prevent such equitable relief.
1012.10.1 Notice of violation.
If the city engineer determines that an applicant or other responsible person has failed to comply with the terms and conditions of a permit, an approved site plan or the provisions of this ordinance, it shall issue a written notice of violation to such applicant or other responsible person. Where a person is engaged in activity covered by this ordinance without having first secured the appropriate permit therefor, the notice of violation shall be served on the owner or the responsible person in charge of the activity being conducted on the site.
The notice of violation shall contain:
(1)
The name and address of the owner or the applicant or the responsible person;
(2)
The address or other description of the site upon which the violation is occurring;
(3)
A statement specifying the nature of the violation;
(4)
A description of the remedial measures necessary to bring the action or inaction into compliance with the permit, the approved site plan or this ordinance and the date for the completion of such remedial action;
(5)
A statement of the penalty or penalties that may be assessed against the person to whom the notice of violation is directed; and,
(6)
A statement that the determination of violation may be appealed to the City Engineer by filing a written notice of appeal within thirty (30) days after the notice of violation (except that in the event the violation constitutes an immediate danger to public health or public safety, 24 hours notice shall be sufficient).
1012.10.2 Penalties.
In the event the remedial measures described in the notice of violation have not been completed by the date set forth for such completion in the notice of violation, any one or more of the following actions or penalties may be taken or assessed against the person to whom the notice of violation was directed. Before taking any of the following actions or imposing any of the following penalties, the city engineer shall first notify the applicant or other responsible person in writing of its intended action, and shall provide a reasonable opportunity, of not less than ten days (except that in the event the violation constitutes an immediate danger to public health or public safety, 24 hours notice shall be sufficient) to cure such violation. In the event the applicant or other responsible person fails to cure such violation after such notice and cure period, the city engineer may take any one or more of the following actions or impose any one or more of the following penalties.
(1)
Stop work order. The city engineer may issue a stop work order which shall be served on the applicant or other responsible person. The stop work order shall remain in effect until the applicant or other responsible person has taken the remedial measures set forth in the notice of violation or has otherwise cured the violation or violations described therein, provided the stop work order may be withdrawn or modified to enable the applicant or other responsible person to take necessary remedial measures to cure such violation or violations.
(2)
Withhold certificate of occupancy. The city engineer may refuse to issue a certificate of occupancy for the building or other improvements constructed or being constructed on the site until the applicant or other responsible person has taken the remedial measures set forth in the notice of violation or has otherwise cured the violations described therein.
(3)
Suspension, revocation or modification of permit. The city engineer may suspend, revoke or modify the permit authorizing the land development project. A suspended, revoked or modified permit may be reinstated after the applicant or other responsible person has taken the remedial measures set forth in the notice of violation or has otherwise cured the violations described therein, provided such permit may be reinstated (upon such conditions as the city engineer may deem necessary) to enable the applicant or other responsible person to take the necessary remedial measures to cure such violations.
(4)
Civil penalties. In the event the applicant or other responsible person fails to take the remedial measures set forth in the notice of violation or otherwise fails to cure the violations described therein within ten days (or such greater period as the city engineer shall deem appropriate) (except that in the event the violation constitutes an immediate danger to public health or public safety, 24 hours notice shall be sufficient) after the city engineer has taken one or more of the actions described above, the city engineer may impose a penalty not to exceed $1,000.00 (depending on the severity of the violation) for each day the violation remains unremedied after receipt of the notice of violation.
(5)
Criminal penalties. For intentional and flagrant violations of this ordinance, the city engineer may issue a citation to the applicant or other responsible person, requiring such person to appear in (appropriate municipal, magistrate or recorders) court to answer charges for such violation. Upon conviction, such person shall be punished by a fine not to exceed $1,000.00 or imprisonment for 60 days or both. Each act of violation and each day upon which any violation shall occur shall constitute a separate offense.
1012.11 Administrative appeal and judicial review.
1012.11.1 Administrative appeal.
Any person aggrieved by a decision or order of city engineer, may appeal in writing within 15 days after the issuance of such decision or order to the city council and shall be entitled to a hearing before the city council within 30 days of receipt of the written appeal.
1012.11.2 Judicial review.
Any person aggrieved by a decision or order of city engineer, after exhausting all administrative remedies, shall have the right to appeal such decision or order by filing a petition for writ of certiorari in the Superior Court of Fayette County, Georgia.
1012.12 Severability.
If any article, section, subsection, paragraph, clause, phrase or provision of this ordinance shall be adjudged invalid or held unconstitutional, such decision shall not affect or invalidate the remaining portions of this ordinance.
(Ord. No. 927, § 1, 1-17-2008)
Sec. 1013. - Reserved.
Sec. 1014. - Enforcement.
(a)
Enforcement. The Peachtree City Community Development director (and public services director) shall enforce the provisions of this article as follows:
(1)
The community development director is designated to enforce the grading, vegetation, erosion control, sedimentation, flood control, and drainage provisions of this article for all development and construction projects with the following duties and responsibilities:
a.
Review all development permits to assure that the permit requirements of this ordinance have been satisfied.
b.
Advise permittee when additional federal or state permits may be required, and if specific federal or state permits are known to be required that copies of such permits be provided and maintained on file with the development permit.
c.
Notify adjacent communities and the Georgia Department of Natural Resources prior to any alteration or relocation of a watercourse, and submit evidence of such notification to the Federal Insurance Administration.
(2)
The public services director is designated to enforce those provisions of this section which apply to developed and occupied areas and to property in an undeveloped state affecting city responsibility for maintenance of the storm drainage system. The public services director shall assure that maintenance is provided within any altered or relocated portion of any watercourse so that flood-carrying capacity is not diminished.
(b)
Inspection and right of entry. Upon presentation of identification to the developer, contractor, owner, owner's agent, operator or occupants, employees of the city may enter during all reasonable hours any property under proposed or existing development and construction. These employees may make inspections of the facilities for the purpose of determining plan requirements or compliance with ordinance provisions. These designees may inspect any drainage system within or outside of an existing drainage easement. All drainage facilities located on private property, whether dedicated to the city or not, shall be accessible at all times for city inspection. Where drainage facilities are accepted by the city for maintenance, public access easements shall be provided. Reasonable access shall be provided to all drainage easements for inspection and maintenance functions. Where an easement does not exist for the drainage system, the permission of the owner shall be obtained before entrance; however, in the event of emergency maintenance requirements, permission of the owner shall not be mandatory.
(c)
Emergency maintenance. The public services director may conduct emergency maintenance operations on private land and on drainage systems where emergency conditions exist. Emergency maintenance shall constitute the removal of trees and other debris, which in the judgment of the public services director create a condition potentially injurious to life and/or property of the public road system. Emergency maintenance conducted on any drainage system shall not be construed as constituting a continuing maintenance obligation on the part of the city.
(d)
Notice of violation. Whenever the community development director determines that activity on a property does not comply with the approved development and construction plans, he may issue a notice of violation. Whenever he determines that the drainage system has been unlawfully altered, causing inadequate drainage, he may issue a notice of violation. The notice of violation of the provisions of this chapter or of any rule or regulation adopted pursuant thereto, shall be to the owner of the property or his agent and shall:
(1)
Be in writing;
(2)
Include a description of the property sufficient for identification of where the violation has occurred;
(3)
List the specific provisions of this chapter which have been violated; and
(4)
State that, if these repairs, construction or alterations are not completed within a reasonable time period specified by the inspector, a citation shall be issued for the owner to appear in city court. Each day the violation continues shall constitute a new and separate violation. However, in the judgment of the community development director, where the violation is willful, in wanton disregard of the provisions of this chapter or constitutes a public health and safety hazard, he may obtain a court citation in lieu of a notice of violation.
(e)
Penalties. Any person violating this ordinance shall be punished as provided in section 1-11 of the City of Peachtree City Code for each offense. Each day such violation continues shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. No. 791, 9-19-2002; Ord. No. 981, § 3, 7-16-2009)
