ARTICLE III. - OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES[4]
Footnotes:
--- (4) ---
Cross reference— Any ordinance fixing the salary of any city officer or employee saved from repeal, § 1-6(4); personnel, ch. 62.
State Law reference— Personal liability of councilmembers and other municipal officers, O.C.G.A. § 36-33-4; power to define, regulate and alter the powers, duties, qualifications, compensation and tenure of municipal officers, agents and employees, O.C.G.A. § 36-34-2(2); municipal or county governments not to require residence as condition of employment, O.C.G.A. § 45-2-5.

DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Secs. 2-66—2-85. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - CHIEF ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER

Sec. 2-86. - Reservation of powers.
The corporate existence and jurisdiction of the city, and all corporate rights, powers and privileges, and all duties, obligations and liabilities of the city are preserved unto the mayor and council, except as expressly or by necessary implication altered or amended by this division; and all ordinances and resolutions of the council and all laws of the state pertaining to the city now in force shall not be affected or changed by this division, except insofar as they may be inconsistent with this division or may be expressly or by necessary implication, repealed or altered by this division.
(Code 1980, § 2-20)
Sec. 2-87. - Appointment; term; salary as fixed; function.
The mayor and council may appoint a chief administrative officer who shall serve subject to the pleasure of the mayor and council. The title of such officer shall be chief administrative officer of the city. His salary shall be determined by the mayor and council. Such officer shall be the administrative head of the city government and shall perform such executive duties as may be delegated by the mayor.
(Code 1980, § 2-21)
Sec. 2-88. - Qualifications.
(a)
The chief administrative officer shall be selected on the basis of his character and his executive and administrative qualifications with special reference to his actual training and experience in the administration of city government.
(b)
Neither the mayor, nor any councilman shall receive such appointment during the term for which he shall have been elected, nor within two years after the expiration of his term.
(Code 1980, § 2-22; Ord. No. 1014, § 1, 11-18-2010)
Sec. 2-89. - Removal from office.
The council may remove the chief administrative officer by a majority vote. At least 30 days before such removal shall become effective, the mayor shall set forth the reasons for his removal. The chief administrative officer may, within ten days, reply in writing and may request a public hearing, which shall be held not earlier than 20 days, nor later than 30 days, after the filing of such request. After such public hearing, if one is requested, and after full consideration, the council by majority vote may adopt a final resolution of removal. By the preliminary resolution, the council may suspend such officer from duty.
(Code 1980, § 2-23)
Sec. 2-90. - Designation of acting officer; filling vacancy.
(a)
The council may designate a person to perform the functions and duties of the chief administrative officer during his absence, disability or suspension.
(b)
Vacancies in such office shall be filled by the council as early as practicable; and until such vacancy is filled, the council shall have full powers to make a temporary appointment or to perform the functions and duties of chief administrative officer.
(Code 1980, § 2-24)
Sec. 2-91. - Official bond.
The chief administrative officer may give bond in the penal sum fixed by the council, with surety approved by the council, payable to the city and its successors and assigns, for the benefit of the city and for use and benefit of the public, to secure and indemnify the city and each member of the public by reason of his default, misfeasance, malfeasance or nonfeasance in the performance of his duties. The premiums for such bond shall be paid by the city.
(Code 1980, § 2-25)
Sec. 2-92. - Powers and duties.
In addition to those elsewhere provided in this Code, the following powers and duties are conferred upon the chief administrative officer:
(1)
Enforcement. To see that all laws and ordinances are enforced.
(2)
Conduct of city business affairs. To see that the business affairs of the city are efficiently organized and handled.
(3)
Administrative authority. To exercise administrative control over all regular departments and divisions of the city.
(4)
Advisory authority. To attend all meetings of the council with the right to take part in all discussions but having no vote. The chief administrative officer shall act in an advisory capacity to the mayor and council in the formulation and operation of the city government.
(5)
Recommendation of legislation. To recommend to the mayor and council for adoption such measures as he may deem necessary or expedient.
(6)
Preparation, submission of budget. To prepare and submit to the mayor and council an annual budget.
(7)
Preparation, submission of financial reports. To prepare and submit to the mayor and council, within 90 days after the end of each city year, a complete annual report on the finances and administrative activities of the city for the preceding year, and make such other financial reports from time to time as may be required by the mayor or council or by the Charter of the city.
(8)
Contracts, expenditures, claims. To negotiate and approve all lawful contracts, purchases or obligations on behalf of the city as to matters within his jurisdiction, and which are funded line items in the current city budget, except those obligations such as may be otherwise provided by law, or by ordinance or resolution of the council, provided that no contract, purchase or obligation involving more than the sum(s) authorized by the financial ordinances that have been approved by the city council shall be valid or binding until approved by the council.
(9)
Appointments; creation, abolition of offices and functions. To hire, as required, department heads and employees for departments authorized by the council. Nothing in this subsection shall prevent the council from creating, abolishing, consolidating, altering or modifying departments; however, the chief administrative officer is authorized to recommend, subject to the approval of the council, the change, consolidation or abolishment of any of the offices, departments or functions over which he exercises supervision and control and to recommend the creation of new departments and offices.
(10)
Obtaining legal advice. To request the counsel, advice or opinion of the city attorney concerning any matter affecting the interest of the city; and it shall be the city attorney's duty to respond to such request to the best of his abilities.
(11)
Other duties. To perform such other duties as may be required by him by the council.
(Code 1980, § 2-26; Ord. No. 803, 3-20-2003)
Secs. 2-93—2-125. - Reserved.
