ARTICLE IV. - ZONING DISTRICT STANDARDS AND PERMITTED USES

Sec. 34-177. - District, lot and height standards.
The requirements regarding lot size, building size, and building placement on the lot for each zoning district shall be met as indicated in sections 34-7 through 34-13 and the following table:
Table 34-177.1. District Area, Yard and Height Requirements
EXPAND
Zoning Districts Minimum Lot Area Minimum Lot Width at Setback Line (feet) Front Yard Distance From Arterial & Collector /Local Street (feet) Side Yard (feet) Rear Yard (feet) Maximum Building Height (feet)
A25 Agricultural 25 acres 250 100 30 50 40
RR Rural Residential 5 acres 200 100 25 40 35
RD Rural Development 2 acres 150 50 20 30 35
R-1 Single Family Residential 1 acre 125 50 20 30 35
MFR Multifamily Residential 1 acre 100 50 20 30 35
GC General Commercial Subject to health department approval Refer to commercial design standards
I Industrial Refer to industrial design standards
HD Historic Overlay District Refer to historic overlay for requirements
AI Airport Overlay District Refer to article X of this chapter 35
  (Res. of 10-12-2004(3), § 7.1)
Sec. 34-178. - Appearance standards.
Appearance standards shall apply to all single-family detached dwellings, including site-built housing, industrialized housing, and manufactured houses. Approval shall be granted upon finding that such development shall meet or exceed the appearance standards as shown in the following table:
Table 34-178.1. Appearance Standards for Single Family Detached Dwellings
EXPAND
Type I Type II Type III
Minimum dwelling width 24' 20' 16'
Minimum roof pitch 5/12 4/12 3/12
Minimum heated floor area 1,500 sf 1,250 sf 1,240 sf
Roof materials (1) (1) (1)
External siding materials (2) (2) (2)
Permanent foundation Required (3)
Utility meter Mounted on Structure Only
Landing area N/A (4) (4)
Towing devices N/A (5) (5)
  Notes:
(1)
The roof shall have a surface of wood shakes, asphalt composition, wood shingles, concrete, fiberglass tiles, metal tiles, slate, built-up gravel materials or other materials approved by the building inspectors.
(2)
The exterior siding materials shall consist of wood, masonry, concrete, stucco, masonite, metal lap, vinyl lap, or other materials approved by the building inspector.
(3)
Permanent foundations shall meet the requirements of standard building code requirements for manufactured homes. For manufactured homes, a masonry curtain wall, unpierced except for the required ventilation and access, must be installed so that it encloses the area under the manufactured home to the ground level.
(4)
For manufactured homes, a landing area is required and its width and length must be greater than or equal to 20 square feet.
(5)
Manufactured homes are required to remove all towing devices. Manufactured homes, which cannot remove towing devices, shall be screened by plantings and the structure shall be skirted.
(Res. of 10-12-2004(3), § 7.2)
Sec. 34-179. - Permitted uses.
No principal building, structure or land use shall be permitted except in the zoning districts indicated and for the purposes permitted in Table 34-179.1. Each use is mutually exclusive and does not encompass other uses listed in the table. A principal use denoted by the letter S is permitted only if a special exception permit is granted by the city planning commission. Special exception permits are subject to standards for special exceptions stated in article XI of this chapter. For uses not included on this list where the code enforcement officer is unable to determine clear placement, application shall be made to the planning commission for an amendment to this table under provisions of this chapter for text amendments to this chapter and in accordance with the Zoning Procedures Act as set forth in O.C.G.A. § 36-66-1 et seq.
Table 34-179.1. Permitted Uses
EXPAND
Permitted Uses Zoning Districts
A25 R-R R-D R-1 C I
Accessory uses, subject to requirements in section 34-59 X X X X X X
Advertising display, sales and manufacturing X X
Agriculture equipment sales, supply and storage S X X
Ambulance services X X
Animal care facility, provided animal hospitals or clinics shall be located at least 100 feet from any property zoned for residential use X X
Antique shop X
Apparel and accessory store X
Appliance sales and repair X
Art gallery X
Athletic/health club and facilities X X
Assembly hall, civic center X X
Automobile and truck sales, service and repair X X
Automobile repair and body shop X X
Bait shop X
Bakery/pastry shop X X
Bank or financial institution, full service X X
Bank auto teller X X
Barber shop S S S S X X
Baseball batting cages X X
Beauty shop S S S X X
Bed and breakfast home, provided that rooms for rent are within a single-family dwelling occupied by the owner as his principle residence; the same rental occupants shall not reside at the bed and breakfast for more than seven consecutive days; breakfast is the only meal served and only to registered overnight guests; all employees must reside at the bed and breakfast home; the exterior appearance of the dwelling is not altered from its residential character except for safety purposes; and the identification sign shall be no larger than two square feet and not internally lighted S S X
Bed and breakfast inn—A building, not necessarily owner-occupied, that offers transient lodging accommodations and breakfast for four or more guest rooms for compensation, provided that: a) There is compliance with the same licensing, inspection and taxation requirements as hotels, motels, and restaurants; b) If within a residential district, the building shall be residential in character; c) Breakfast is the only meal served and only to overnight guests; d) The owners may have nonresident employees; e) In a residential district, signage shall be limited to one sign and maximum size of two square feet S S X
Boat sales, service and repair X X
Books, cards and stationary stores X
Bottling plant X
Bowling alley X
Builder supplies and storage X X
Building materials sales, supplies and storage X X
Car wash manual or automatic X X
Carpet cleaning store X X
Carpet and rug sales, floor covering and storage X X
Cemetery, public - A plot of ground, building, mausoleum, or other enclosure not located on property owned by or adjacent to a religious institution but used for the burial of persons S S S
Cemetery, religious institution—A plot of ground, building, mausoleum, or other enclosure owned by or adjacent to a religious institution but used for the burial of persons who are generally members of that religious institution S S
Child care center, group X
Child care facility X
Child care home S S S
Churches S S S S X X
Cinema, movie theater X
Clinic, public or private X X
Clubs and lodges X
College, university or junior college S S X
Concrete/stone cutting, fabrication X
Congregate personal care home X
Contractor equipment—material storage X X
Convenience stores without fuel pump service X X
Convenience stores with fuel pump service, provided that all fuel pumps shall be at least 15 feet from the street right-of-way X X
Curio and souvenir shops X
Drug stores, pharmacies X
Dwelling, multifamily X
Dwelling, single-family detached Type I X X X X
Dwelling, single-family detached Type II X X X
Dwelling, single-family detached Type III—Regulated to existing nonconforming manufactured home parks
Equipment rental, industrial X X
Equipment supplies (business/industrial) X X
Farming, horticulture for personal use X X X S
Flea market X X
Florist shop X
Funeral home, mortuary X X
Furniture, home furnishings and equipment store X X
Garden landscaping supplies X X
Gasoline station with auto service, provided all fuel pumps shall be at least 15 feet from the street right-of-way X X
Golf driving range X X
Government buildings S S S S X X
Grocery/general merchandise store X X
Group care personal home S S S X
Hardware, paint and wallpaper store X X
Hobby, toy and game store X
Home occupation, subject to section 34-60 regulations. X X X X
Hospital, health and medical institution X X
Hotel X X
Jewelry store X
Junkyard, salvage yard S
Kennel S X
Laundry, commercial services X X
Laundry, pick up and dry clean services X X
Laundry coin-operated X X
Library X
Livestock—Raising/keeping for personal pleasure, provided that all structures used for housing or feeding livestock shall be at least 100 feet from any property line X X
Machine shop, fabrication, welding, sales etc. X
Machinery sales, service and repair X X
Manufacturing facility involving the mechanical or chemical conversion of raw materials into semi-finished or finished products X
Manufacturing facility involving only the assembly of pre-manufactured component parts. X
Massage therapy—Secondary use to health clubs, chiropractic office, beauty salon, physical therapy clinic, medical facility and athletic club. S X
Motel X
Museum X
Nursery and greenhouse, provided that no structure shall be located closer than 50 feet to any adjoining residential property S X X
Office, business and professional X X
Office supplies X X
Parking lot or garage, commercial X X
Parks and recreation facilities S S S S X S
Pet and dog grooming shop X X
Print shop X X
Recycling center with processing facilities X
Recycling collection station X X
Repair service, general merchandise X
Repair service, heavy equipment X X
Restaurant, drive-in X
Restaurant, non-drive-in X
Retail stores offering common merchandise X
Roominghouse and boardinghouse S S S X
School, public, private or parochial X X X X X X
Public water or sewer treatment facilities S S S X
Shoe repair X
Shopping center X
Taxidermy S X X
Tire sales and service X X
Travel center S X
Truck terminals, freight handling X
Veterinary clinic/animal hospital/grooming X X
Video sales and rental X
Vocational school X X
Water treatment facilities X
Wholesale trade/warehouse/distribution facilities X
Wreckage services, temporary storage of wrecked and inoperable vehicles. S
  (Res. of 10-12-2004(3), § 7.3)
Secs. 34-180—34-195. - Reserved.
