Chapter 12 - EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT[1]

Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
State Law reference— Georgia Mutual Aid Act, O.C.G.A. § 36-69-1 et seq.; Georgia Emergency Management Act of 1981, O.C.G.A. § 38-3-1 et seq.

Sec. 12-1. - Placement of street numbers.
(a)
Each property owner, tenant, and occupant (so long as such occupancy has exceeded two consecutive weeks) of any building or structure to which a street number is assigned shall be responsible for placing the assigned street number at the building or structure in clear and plain view from the street. The numbers shall be three-inch or larger. Said numbers shall be placed in such a manner as will make them reasonably identified with the applicable building or structure. The number shall be reflective, so that they are likewise visible at night.
(b)
If such building or structure is clearly and plainly visible from the street, then the street numbers shall be placed on both sides of the mailbox serving such building or structure. However, if no mailbox is available, then the street numbers shall be exhibited prominently upon the house, in clear and plain view from the street, or it shall be exhibited upon a stake displaying the numbers in clear and plain view from the street.
(c)
If the building or structure is not in plain view from the street, the street numbers shall be placed on both sides of the mailbox. In this event, if no mailbox is available, then a stake displaying the numbers shall be placed at the end of the driveway serving the building or structure with the numbers displayed in clear and plain view from the street.
(d)
For any such building or structure whose driveway serves more than one building or structure, such street number shall be placed on both sides of the mailbox (or display stake, as the case may be) at the street and at such locations at, near or on said building and/or structure in plain view from the route along the driveway that would ordinarily be taken by any emergency responders, emergency vehicles, or water department personnel, so as would reasonably alert such water department and emergency response personnel as to the identity of the applicable business and/or structure by said postings of the street numbers.
(e)
Any person violating this section shall, upon conviction, be punished in accordance with section 1-13.
(f)
Each day an owner, tenant, or occupant is not in compliance with the terms of this section shall be deemed a separate and distinct offense.
(g)
The provisions of this section are intended to be in addition to existing ordinances, and to the extent there is a conflict, this section shall supersede any provisions of other ordinances, including the zoning ordinance, which is in conflict with this section.
(Ord. No. 05-06-005, 7-3-2006)
Sec. 12-2. - Access by public safety, fire, and EMS.
(a)
Each residence will have a driveway adequate in surface composition to accommodate fire rescue equipment, ambulance, and law enforcement equipment.
(b)
Driveway must have a minimum width of 14 feet and a minimum cleared height of 12 feet.
(c)
Driveway must allow all aforementioned equipment the ability to approach all structures serviced by driveway to a distance not greater than 100 feet.
(d)
Driveways with culverts, bridges, stream crossings, of lake dams must have a width and load bearing capacity to support aforementioned equipment.
(e)
Determination of a driveway's compliance will be made by the City of Mount Zion in conjunction with Carroll County Fire Rescue and West Georgia Ambulance Service.
(f)
In the case of rental properties, it is the responsibility of the landlord and not the tenant to maintain the driveway in a compliant manner.
(g)
Any person violating this section shall, upon conviction, be punished in accordance with section 1-13.
(h)
Each day an owner or occupant is not in compliance with the terms of this section shall be deemed a separate and distinct offense.
(i)
The provisions of this section are intended to be in addition to existing ordinances, and to the extent there is a conflict, this section shall supersede any provision of other ordinances, including the zoning ordinance, which is in conflict with this section.
(Ord. No. 2022-001, 3-8-2022)
