PART I - CHARTER[1]
House Bill 468 (AS PASSED HOUSE AND SENATE).
By: Representative Cooke of the 18th
A BILL TO BE ENTITLED
AN ACT
To provide a new charter for the City of Mount Zion; to provide for incorporation, boundaries, and powers of the city; to provide for a governing authority of such city and the powers, duties, authority, election, terms, vacancies, compensation, expenses, qualifications, prohibitions, conflicts of interest, and suspension and removal from office relative to members of such governing authority; to provide for inquiries and investigations; to provide for oaths, organization, meetings, quorum, voting, rules, and procedures; to provide for ordinances and codes; to provide for a city manager, mayor, and mayor pro tempore, and certain duties, powers, and other matters relative thereto; to provide for administrative affairs and responsibilities; to provide for boards, commissions, and authorities; to provide for a city attorney, a city clerk, police chief and other personnel and matters relating thereto; to provide for rules and regulations; to provide for a municipal court and the judge or judges thereof and other matters relative to those judges; to provide for the court's jurisdiction, powers, practices, and procedures; to provide for the right of certiorari; to provide for elections; to provide for taxation, licenses, and fees; to provide for franchises, service charges, and assessments; to provide for bonded and other indebtedness; to provide for auditing, accounting, budgeting, and appropriations; to provide for city contracts and purchasing; to provide for the conveyance of property and interests therein; to provide for regulation of streets, utilities, rights-of-way and eminent domain; to provide for bonds for officials; to provide for prior ordinances and rules, pending matters, and existing personnel; to provide for penalties; to provide for definitions and construction; to provide for other matters relative to the foregoing; to provide for effective dates; to provide a specific repealer; to repeal conflicting laws; and for other purposes.
BE IT ENACTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF GEORGIA:
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Editor's note— Printed herein is the Charter of the City of Mount Zion as set forth in 2015 Ga. Laws (Act No. 227), page 3862. Amendments to the Act are indicated by parenthetical history notes following amended provisions. The absence of a history note indicates the provision remains unchanged from the original Act. Obvious misspellings have been corrected without notation. For stylistic purposes, a uniform system of headings and catchlines has been used. Additions made for clarity are indicated by brackets.

ARTICLE I. - INCORPORATION AND POWERS

Section 1.10. - Incorporation.
The City of Mount Zion in Carroll County is reincorporated by the enactment of this charter and is constituted and declared a body politic and corporate under the name of the "City of Mount Zion." References in this charter to "the city" refer to the City of Mount Zion. The city shall have perpetual existence. The legal situs of the city shall be Carroll County.
Section 1.11. - City property.
Title to any property, real or personal, within or without the corporate limits of said city, heretofore acquired by the City of Mount Zion, with or without proper charter authority, is vested in the City of Mount Zion created by this Act, the acquisition thereof being ratified and made lawful. The City of Mount Zion, created by this Act, is authorized and empowered to purchase, hold, rent, lease, and receive by gift or otherwise, and to enjoy, possess and retain, temporarily or permanently, any property, real or personal, of any kind whatsoever, either within or without the corporate limits of said city, for corporate purposes.
Section 1.12. - Corporate boundaries.
(a)
The boundaries of this city shall be those existing on the effective date of this charter with such alterations as may be made from time to time by local law or the manner provided by general state law. The boundaries of this city at all times shall be shown on a map, a written description, or any combination thereof, to be retained permanently in the office of the city clerk and to be designated, as the case may be: "the official map or description of the corporate limits of the City of Mount Zion, Georgia." Photographic, typed, or other copies of such map or description certified by the city clerk shall be admitted as evidence in all courts and shall have the same force and effect as the original map or description.
(b)
The city council may provide for the redrawing of any such map by ordinance to reflect lawful changes in the corporate boundaries. A redrawn map shall supersede, for all purposes, the earlier map or maps which it is designated to replace but such earlier maps shall be retained in the office of the city clerk.
Section 1.13. - Examples of powers.
The powers of this city shall include, but not be limited to, the following powers:
(1)
Ad Valorem taxation. To levy, assess, and collect ad valorem taxes on all taxable property in the city;
(2)
Other taxes. To levy, assess, and collect other taxes allowed by general law;
(3)
Business regulation and taxation. To levy, assess, and collect occupational and business taxes and to license and regulate occupations and businesses;
(4)
Appropriations. To make appropriations and expend funds for the support of the city and other lawful purposes;
(5)
Municipal debts. To borrow money and issue bonds as authorized by general law;
(6)
Gifts. To accept gifts and grants for any purpose related to the powers and duties of the city on such terms as the donor may impose;
(7)
Municipal utilities. To acquire, lease, operate, and dispose of public utilities;
(8)
Public utilities. To grant franchises or make contracts for public utilities and to prescribe the conditions of such franchises and contracts;
(9)
Roadways. To open, maintain, improve, and close streets and roads and to grant franchises and right[s]-of-way thereon;
(10)
Public facilities. To acquire, operate, and dispose of public buildings, public projects, parks, cemeteries, golf courses, and other public improvements, inside or outside the city;
(11)
Building regulation. To regulate the building trades and the construction of buildings and to adopt and enforce building, housing, plumbing, electrical, gas, heating, and air-conditioning codes;
(12)
Planning and zoning. To provide for city planning by zoning, subdivision regulations, and the like;
(13)
Police powers. To exercise the police power for the public safety, peace, order, and well-being of the city;
(14)
Roadside regulation. To prohibit or regulate signs, billboards, and other items upon or adjacent to streets and roads;
(15)
Health. To prescribe and enforce health and sanitation standards;
(16)
Pollution. To regulate and enforce standards of emissions which pollute the air, water, or soil;
(17)
Fire safety. To fix fire limits and to prescribe and enforce fire safety regulations;
(18)
Public hazards. To provide for the destruction or removal of public hazards;
(19)
Waste disposal. To provide for and regulate the collection, disposal, and recycling of garbage and wastes;
(20)
Garbage fees. To fix and collect garbage fees;
(21)
Sewer fees. To fix and collect sewer fees;
(22)
Water fees. To fix and collect water-use fees;
(23)
Nuisances. To define and provide for the abatement of nuisances;
(24)
Property protection. To preserve and protect the property of the city and its citizens;
(25)
Animal control. To regulate, enforce, or provide for the keeping of animals;
(26)
Prisoners. To provide for the public work by municipal prisoners and their confinement;
(27)
Motor vehicles. To regulate the operation and parking of motor vehicles;
(28)
Taxicabs. To regulate vehicles operated for hire in the city;
(29)
Special assessments. To levy, assess, and collect special assessments to cover the cost of public improvements;
(30)
Contracts. To enter into lawful contracts and agreements;
(31)
City agencies. To create, alter, or abolish departments, offices, boards, commissions, and agencies of the city and to confer appropriate authority upon them;
(32)
Penalties. To provide penalties for violations of municipal ordinances;
(33)
Police and fire protection. To exercise the power of arrest through duly appointed policemen and to establish, operate, and contract for a police and a fire-fighting agency;
(34)
Emergencies. To provide for the determining, proclamation, and combating of emergencies;
(35)
Urban redevelopment. To organize and operate an urban redevelopment program;
(36)
Public transportation. To organize and operate public transportation systems;
(37)
General health, safety, and welfare. To define, regulate, and prohibit any act, practice, conduct, or use of property which is detrimental to health, sanitation, cleanliness, welfare, and safety of the inhabitants of the city;
(38)
Quality of life. To develop or cause to be developed areas conducive to the establishment of retail and wholesale businesses;
(39)
Other powers. To exercise and enjoy all other powers, functions, rights, privileges, and immunities necessary or desirable to promote and protect the safety or general welfare of the city and its inhabitants; to exercise all implied powers necessary to carry into execution all powers granted in this charter, and to exercise all powers now or in the future authorized or exercised by other municipal governments under other laws of the state of Georgia. No listing of particular powers in the charter shall be held to be exclusive of others, nor restrictive of general words and phrases granting powers;
(40)
Condemnation. To condemn property inside or outside the corporate limits of the city, for present or future use and for any corporate purpose deemed necessary by the governing authority, utilizing procedures enumerated in Title 22 of the O.C.G.A. [O.C.G.A. title 22], or such other laws as are or may hereafter be enacted;
(41)
To provide and maintain a system of pensions and retirement for officers and employees of the city.
Section 1.14. - Exercise of powers.
All powers, functions, rights, privileges, and immunities of the city or its officers, agencies, or employees shall be carried into execution by the Constitution of the State of Georgia, by general law, or by this charter. If general law and this charter make no provision, such shall be carried into execution as provided by ordinance.
ARTICLE II. - GOVERNMENT STRUCTURE, ELECTIONS, AND REMOVAL

Section 2.10. - City council creation, composition, number, election.
The legislative authority of the government of this city, except as otherwise specifically provided in this charter, shall be vested in a city council to be composed of a mayor and four council members who will be elected at large. The mayor and council members shall be elected in a manner provided in Article V of this charter.
Section 2.11. - City council terms and qualifications for office.
The mayor of the city shall serve for a term of four years consecutive and until his or her successor is elected and qualified. The members of the city council shall serve for terms of four years consecutive and until their respective successors are elected and qualified. No person shall be eligible to serve as mayor or council member unless he or she is a qualified municipal voter and shall have been a resident of the city for one year immediately prior to the date of his or her qualifying for said position. The mayor and each council member shall continue to reside within the city limits proper during his or her period of service.
Section 2.12. - Vacancy: filling of vacancies.
(a)
The office of mayor and council member shall become vacant upon the incumbent's death, resignation, forfeiture of office, relocation of residency outside the city limits proper, or removal from office in any manner authorized by this charter or the general laws of the State of Georgia.
(b)
A vacancy in the office of mayor shall be filled by the mayor pro tempore, to serve until the next general election where a mayor shall be elected to serve for the remainder of the unexpired term.
(c)
A vacancy in the office of one or more council members shall be filled by the mayor and city council by the election of any citizens of said city eligible to hold such office, who shall serve until the next election, to be held every two years, where a council member or members shall be elected to fill the remainder of the unexpired term. Should the mayor and council be unable to agree upon the appointment by majority vote of the remaining council, the mayor shall appoint any citizen of said city eligible to hold such office, who shall serve until the earliest special election or general election, whichever could occur first, where a council member or members shall be elected to fill the remainder of the unexpired term.
Section 2.13. - Compensation and expenses.
(a)
Until changed as provided in subsection (b) of this section, the mayor and city council members shall continue to receive the same compensation to which they were entitled immediately prior to the effective date of this charter.
(b)
The compensation of the mayor and city council members may be changed by ordinance; but any increase shall be subject to Code Section 36-35-4 of the O.C.G.A. [O.C.G.A. § 36-35-4] or any similar law hereafter enacted.
(c)
The mayor and city council members shall be entitled to receive their actual and necessary expenses incurred in the performance of their duties of office in accordance with the standard policies of the city as set forth by the city council.
Section 2.14. - Holding other office.
Except as authorized by general state law, the mayor or any city council shall not hold any other city office during the term for which he or she was elected.
Section 2.15. - Conflict of office.
No elected official, appointed officer, or employee of the city or any agency or political entity to which this charter applies shall knowingly engage in any business or transaction or have a financial or other personal interest, direct or indirect, which is incompatible with the proper discharge of his or her official duties or which would tend to impair his or her performance of his or her official duties.
Section 2.16. - Inquiries and investigations.
The mayor and/or the city council may make inquiries and investigations into the affairs of the city and the conduct of any department, office, or agency thereof and for this purpose may subpoena witnesses, administer oaths, take testimony, and require the production of evidence. Any person who fails or refuses to obey a lawful order issued in exercise of these powers by the mayor and/or the city council shall be punished as provided by ordinance.
Section 2.17. - General power and authority of mayor and city council.
Except as otherwise provided by this charter, the mayor and city council shall be vested with all powers of government as provided in Article 1 of this charter.
Section 2.18. - Oath of office.
Upon taking office, the mayor and each council member shall take an oath of office as follows:
"I do solemnly swear that I will faithfully perform the duties of Mayor (or Council member as the case may be) of the City of Mount Zion, Georgia, and that I will support and defend the charter thereof as well as the Constitution and laws of the State of Georgia and of the Constitution of the United States of America."
Section 2.19. - Regular and special meetings.
(a)
The city council shall hold regular meetings at such times and locations as prescribed by ordinance.
(b)
Special meetings of the city shall be held on call of the mayor or three members of the city council. Notice of such special meetings shall be served on all members personally, or by telephone personally, at least 24 hours in advance of the meeting. Such notice of any special meeting may be waived by a council member before or after such a meeting, and attendance at the meeting shall also constitute a waiver of notice on any business transacted in such council member's presence. Except where waived by all members, if affected by their presence or in writing, only the business stated in the call may be transacted at the special meeting.
(c)
All meetings of the city council shall be public to the extent required by general state law and notice to the public of all meetings shall be made as required by general state law.
Section 2.20. - Rules of procedure.
(a)
The city council shall adopt its rules of procedures and order of business consistent with the provisions of this charter and shall provide for keeping minutes of its proceedings, which shall be a public record.
(b)
All officers of the city council, committees, and committee chairpersons shall be appointed by the mayor, followed by a majority vote of approval of the city council. The mayor shall have the power to remove members of any committee and the power to appoint new members to any committee, at any time, within the mayor's discretion, followed by a majority vote of approval of the city council.
Section 2.21. - Quorum: voting.
Two city council members and the mayor or the mayor pro tempore shall constitute a quorum and shall be authorized to transact business of the city council. Voting on the adoption of ordinances shall be taken by voice vote and the "ayes" and "nays" shall be recorded in the minutes, but any member of city council shall have the right to request a roll-call vote. The affirmative vote of a majority of the votes cast shall be required for the adoption of any ordinance, resolution, or motion except as otherwise provided in this charter.
Section 2.22. - Ordinance form: procedure.
(a)
Every proposed ordinance shall be introduced in writing and in the form required for final adoption. The enacting clause shall be "The Council of the City of Mount Zion, Georgia hereby ordains…." and every ordinance shall contain this enacting clause.
(b)
An ordinance may be introduced by any city council member, the mayor, or the city manager, if any, and read at any regular or special meeting of the city council.
(c)
Upon passage, all ordinances must be signed by the mayor, or mayor pro tempore if presiding, and the city clerk.
(d)
Failure to comply with the technical requirements of this section shall not invalidate an ordinance if [it is] the intention of the governing authority that the ordinance be effective is evident.
Section 2.23. - Action requiring an ordinance.
In addition to other acts required by general law or by specific provisions of the charter to be done by ordinance, acts of the city council which have the force and effect of law shall be done by ordinance.
Section 2.24. - Emergencies.
To meet a public emergency affecting life, health, property, or public peace, the city council may convene on the call of the mayor or three city council members and promptly adopt an emergency ordinance, but such ordinance may not levy taxes, grant, renew, or extend a franchise, regulate the rate charged by any public utility for its service, or authorize the borrowing of moneys except for loans to be repaid within 30 days. An emergency ordinance shall be introduced in the form prescribed for ordinance generally, except that it shall be plainly designated as an emergency ordinance and shall contain, after the enacting clause, a declaration stating that an emergency exists and describing it in clear and specific terms. It shall become effective upon adoption or at such later time as it may specify. An emergency ordinance may also be repealed by adoption of a repealing ordinance in the manner specified in this section for adoption of emergency ordinances. A state of emergency may be declared by the mayor prior to the convening of the city council providing public safety personnel the resources and authority to ensure the safety of the citizens of the city. The state of emergency proclamation of the mayor shall have all the authority and power provided by general and state law and the Constitution of the State of Georgia.
Section 2.25. - Codes of technical regulations.
(a)
The city council may adopt any standard code of technical regulations by reference thereto in an adopting ordinance. The procedure and requirements governing such adopting ordinance shall be as prescribed for ordinances generally.
(b)
Copies of any adopted code of technical regulations shall be made available by the city clerk for distribution or for purchase at a reasonable price.
Section 2.26. - Signing, authenticating, recording codification, printing.
(a)
The city clerk shall authenticate by his or her signature and record in full in a properly identified book or file kept for the purpose, all ordinances adopted by the city council.
(b)
All ordinances of the city having the force and effect of law, together with all amendments thereto and such codes of technical regulations and other rules and regulations that the city council may specify, shall be compiled, known, and cited officially as "The Code of Ordinances of the City of Mount Zion, Georgia." Copies of the code shall be furnished to all officers, city council members, departments, and agencies of the city, and made available for purchase by the public at a reasonable price as fixed by the city council.
(c)
The city council shall cause each ordinance and each amendment to the charter to be published as soon as is practical following its adoption, and the published ordinances and charter amendments shall be made available for purchase by the public at reasonable prices to be fixed by the city council. The ordinances and charter amendments shall be printed in substantially the same style as the code currently in effect and shall be suitable in form for incorporation therein.
Section 2.27. - Chief executive officer.
The mayor shall be the chief executive officer of the City of Mount Zion, Georgia. He or she shall possess all the executive powers granted to the city under the Constitution and laws of the State of Georgia and all the executive powers contained in this charter.
Section 2.28. - Powers and duties of mayor.
(1)
See that all laws and ordinances and duties of the city are faithfully executed.
(2)
Preside over all meetings of the mayor and city council and have the right to take part in the deliberations of said council, and to vote on all matters.
(3)
Sign all deeds and contracts, except deeds for property sold under execution at a public sale.
(4)
Be clothed with veto power as set out in this charter.
(5)
Keep the city council advised from time to time of the general condition of the city and recommend such measures as he or she may deem necessary or expedient for the welfare of the city.
(6)
Call the city council together at any time when deemed necessary by him or her.
(7)
Be responsible for the administration of personnel matters subject to policies and rules created by the mayor and/or the council.
(8)
Be the chief economic/operations officer of the city in all day to day activities and functions.
Section 2.29. - Mayor pro tempore.
The mayor and city council shall elect by a majority vote from among the city council members a mayor pro tempore who shall assume the duties and powers of the mayor upon the mayor's disability or absence.
Section 2.30. - Veto power.
Every ordinance and resolution passed and every election of an officer or employee by the mayor and city council shall be subject to the veto of the mayor and in the following manner. The mayor shall, within five days, write out his or her objections to such resolution, ordinance, or election and the mayor and city council shall, at the next regular or called meeting at which a quorum shall be present, order said objections entered on the minutes and take a vote on the question as to whether said ordinance, resolution, or other action shall become adopted over said veto. Should as many as three city council members vote in the affirmative, said resolution, ordinance, or other action shall stand affirmed and become effective without the approval of the mayor, otherwise not. The "ayes" and "nays" shall in all cases be entered upon the minutes. Any resolution, ordinance, or other action failing to receive three or more affirmative votes necessary to circumvent a veto shall not be reintroduced for consideration by the council for a period of one year. The mayor may disapprove or reduce any item or items of appropriation in any ordinance. The approved part or parts of any ordinance making appropriations shall become law, and the part or parts disapproved shall not become law unless subsequently passed by the city council over the mayor's veto. The reduced part or parts shall be presented to the city council as though disapproved and shall not become law unless overridden by the council.
ARTICLE III. - ADMINISTRATIVE AFFAIRS

Section 3.10. - Appointment of city manager.
The mayor and city council may appoint a city manager to serve subject to the pleasure of the mayor and city council and shall fix the salary of the city manager. The city manager shall be chosen on the basis of his or her character and his or her executive and administrative qualification, with special reference to his or her actual training and experience in his or her knowledge of accepted practices of his or her duties.
Section 3.11. - Removal of city manager.
The mayor and city council may remove the city manager by majority vote. The mayor may suspend the city manager without notice for reason prior to consideration by the city council.
Section 3.12. - Temporary city manager.
If, on account of the temporary absence or disability of the city manager, it should be necessary in the judgment of the mayor and city council members to designate some person to serve as acting city manager during the temporary absence or disability of the city manager, the mayor and city council may execute one of the following options:
(1)
The mayor may assume the responsibilities of the duties of the city manager until the city manager returns to his or her office;
(2)
The mayor and city council may appoint the city clerk to assume the responsibilities and duties of the city manager;
(3)
The mayor and city council may appoint any qualified person to temporarily serve as city manager and fix his or her compensation.
Section 3.13. - City manager: duties and powers.
In addition to those elsewhere in this charter provided, the following powers are conferred on the city manager and the following duties are required of him or her:
(1)
He or she shall be the chief administrative officer of the city and head of the administrative branch of the city government.
(2)
He or she shall be responsible to the mayor and city council for the proper administration of the affairs committed to this charge.
(3)
He or she shall have the right to request the counsel, advice, or opinion of the city attorney and assistant city attorneys concerning any matter affecting the interest of the city; and it shall be his or her duty to respond to such request to the best of his or her abilities.
(4)
He or she shall have the power, subject to the approval of the mayor and council, to change, consolidate, or abolish any of the offices, departments, or functions over which he or she exercises supervision and control, and create in lieu thereof, such other offices, departments, and functions as he or she may deem best, which offices, department, and functions when so created, shall be under his or her supervision and control.
(5)
He or she shall have jurisdiction over, to remove when he or she deems it for the good of the city, all of the employees of each and every department of the city.
(6)
No claim against or in favor of the city shall be paid or collected without prior approval of the city manager.
(7)
All bonds required of the officers and employees shall be subject to the approval of the city manager.
(8)
He or she shall attend all meetings, stated and special, of the city council with the right to take part in the discussions, but not vote.
(9)
He or she shall have the right to recommend to the mayor and city council for its adoption such measures as he or she may deem necessary or expedient.
(10)
He or she shall see that all terms and conditions in favor of the city and its inhabitants in contracts with public utilities and others are faithfully kept and performed.
(11)
He or she shall prepare the budget of the city annually and submit it to the mayor and city council and be responsible for its administration after its adoption by the city council.
(12)
He or she shall have the power to investigate the affairs, records, accounts, and expenditures of the various commissions, boards, and agencies created either by ordinances of the mayor and city council or by Acts of the General Assembly or the State of Georgia in relation to the affairs of the city and to report thereof at least once a year to the mayor and city council such matters in reference thereof as he or she deems advisable.
(13)
He or she shall keep the mayor and city council advised of the financial condition of the city and make such recommendations as may seem desirable to him or her.
(14)
He or she shall perform such other duties as may be required of him or her by the mayor and city council, this charter, or by general state law.
Section 3.14. - City attorney.
The mayor shall appoint a city attorney, without necessity of periodic reappointment, upon approval by the city council, together with such assistant city attorney as may be authorized, to serve subject to the pleasure of the mayor and council and subjected to removal as provided below. The mayor and council shall provide for the payment of such attorney or attorneys for services rendered to the city. The city attorney shall be responsible for representing and defending the city in all litigation in which the city is a party, may be the prosecuting officer in the municipal court, shall attend the meetings of the city council as directed, shall advise the city council, mayor, city manager, and other officers and employees of the city concerning legal aspects of the city's affairs, and shall perform such other duties as may be required of him or her by virtue of his or her position as city attorney. The mayor may remove the city attorney or assistant city attorneys by a majority vote of the mayor and city council with all members present.
Section 3.15. - City clerk.
The mayor shall appoint a city clerk, without the need for periodic reappointment, upon approval by the city council, who shall not be a city council member. The city clerk shall be the custodian of the official city seal, maintain city council records and minutes as required by this charter, serve as the city treasurer, and perform other duties as may be required by the mayor or city council. The city clerk should also be qualified to maintain and control the city's financial records and general bookkeeping.
Section 3.16. - Police chief.
The mayor shall appoint a qualified person to serve as Chief of Police of the City of Mount Zion, without the need for periodic reappointment, upon approval of the city council. The police chief will be responsible for the enforcement of the police powers of the city and shall perform the duties allocated to him or her by the mayor and city council, this charter, ordinances, and general state laws. He or she shall supervise and control all employees of the City of Mount Zion Police Department.
Section 3.17. - Boards, commissions, and authorities.
The mayor and city council shall create by ordinance such boards, commissions, and authorities to fulfill any investigative, or quasi-judicial, or quasi-legislative functions as the mayor and city council deems necessary and shall by ordinance establish the composition, period of existence, duties, and powers thereof. All boards, commissions, and authorities should be bound by the following general regulations:
(1)
All members of boards, commissions, and authorities of the City of Mount Zion shall be appointed by the mayor, upon approval of the city council, for such terms of office and in such a manner as shall be provided by ordinance, except where other appointing authority, term of office, or manner of appointment is prescribed by this charter or general state law.
(2)
The mayor and city council, by ordinance, may provide for the compensation and reimbursement for actual and necessary expenses of the members of any board, commission, or authority.
(3)
Except as specifically authorized by general law, no member of any board, commission, or authority shall hold any elective office in the city.
(4)
Any vacancy on a board, commission, or authority of the city shall be filled for the unexpired term in the manner prescribed for original appointment, except as otherwise provided by this charter, general law, or by ordinance.
(5)
No member of a board, commission, or authority shall assume the office until he or she has executed and filed with the city clerk, an oath obligating himself or herself to faithfully and impartially perform the duties of his or her office, such oath to be prescribed by ordinance and administered by the mayor.
(6)
Any member of a board, commission, or authority may be removed from office for cause by the mayor with the right to appeal to the city council for reinstatement by majority vote.
(7)
Except as otherwise provided by this charter or by general state law, each board, commission, or authority of the city shall elect one of its members as chairperson and may elect one member as vice chairperson and one member as secretary.
(8)
Each board, commission, or authority of the city government may establish such bylaws, rules, and regulations, not inconsistent with this charter, ordinances of the city, or general state law, as it deems appropriate and necessary for the fulfillment of its duties or the conduct of its affairs, copies of which shall be filed with the city clerk, subject to approval of the mayor and city council.
Section 3.18. - Personnel policies.
The mayor and city council may adopt rules and regulations consistent with this charter concerning:
(1)
The method of employees' selection and probationary periods of employment.
(2)
The administration of a position classification and pay plan, methods of promotion, and application of service ratings thereto, and transfer of employees within the classification plan.
(3)
Vacation, sick leave, and other leaves of absence, overtime pay, and the order and manner of which layoff shall be affected.
(4)
Such dismissal hearings as due process may require.
(5)
Such other personnel policies as may be necessary to provide for adequate and systematic handling of personnel affairs.
ARTICLE IV. - JUDICIAL BRANCH

Section 4.10. - Creation, name.
There shall be a court to be known as the Municipal Court of Mount Zion, Georgia.
Section 4.11. - Chief judge, associate judges.
(a)
The municipal court shall be presided over by a chief judge and such part-time, full-time, or standby associate judges as shall be provided by ordinance. The method of selection and terms of such judges shall be provided by ordinance.
(b)
No person shall be qualified or eligible to serve as a judge of the municipal court unless he or she shall have obtained the age of 21 years and is a member of the State Bar of Georgia.
(c)
Compensation for the judges shall be set by the mayor and council.
(d)
Judges shall serve at the pleasure of the mayor and council, without the need for periodic reappointment, and may be removed from office by majority vote of the mayor and council with all members present.
(e)
Before entering on duties of his or her office, each judge shall take an oath given by the mayor that he or she will honestly and faithfully discharge the duties of his or her office to the best of his or her ability without fear, favor, or partiality. The oath shall be entered upon the minutes of the city council.
Section 4.12. - Convening.
The municipal court shall be convened at regular intervals as provided by ordinance.
Section 4.13. - Jurisdiction, powers.
(a)
The municipal court shall try and punish violations of all city ordinances and state offenses as provided by state law.
(b)
The municipal court shall have the authority to punish those in its presence for contempt, provided that such punishment shall not exceed $1,000.00 and six months in jail.
(c)
The municipal court may fix punishment for state misdemeanor offenses within its jurisdiction not exceeding a fine of $1,000.00 or imprisonment for 360 days or both, or any part of the maximum fine or imprisonment, and a $1,000.00 fine or imprisonment for six months for city ordinance violations.
Section 4.14. - Certiorari.
The right of certiorari from the decision and judgment of the municipal court shall exist in all criminal cases. And such certiorari shall be obtained under the sanction of a Judge of the Superior Court of Carroll County under the laws of the State of Georgia regulating the granting and issuance of writs of certiorari.
Section 4.15. - Rules for court.
With the approval of the city council, the judge shall have full power and authority to make rules and regulations necessary and proper to secure the efficient and successful administration of the municipal court, provided, however, that the city council may adopt in part or in toto, the rules and regulations for procedure in the municipal court under the general laws of the State of Georgia. The rules and regulations made or adopted shall be filed with the city clerk, shall be available for public inspection, and upon request, shall be furnished to all defendants in municipal court proceedings.
ARTICLE V. - ELECTIONS

Section 5.10. - Applicability of general law.
All primaries and elections shall be held and conducted in accordance with Chapter 2 of Title 21 of the O.C.G.A. [O.C.G.A. title 21, ch. 2], the "Georgia Municipal Election Code," as now or hereafter amended.
Section 5.11. - Regular elections, time for holding.
(a)
On the first Tuesday following the first Monday in November, 2015, and on that day every two years thereafter, there shall be an election for successors to the city council members and mayor, if applicable, whose terms will expire the following January. The terms of office shall begin at the time of taking the oath of office as provided in Section 2.18 of the charter.
(b)
The mayor shall be elected in 2015 and every four years thereafter.
(c)
The city council members from Post 3 and Post 4 shall be elected in 2013 and every four years thereafter.
(d)
The city council members from Post 1 and Post 2 shall be elected in 2015 and every four years thereafter.
(e)
The mayor and city council members in office on the effective date of this charter shall remain in office until their successors are elected and take office as provided in this charter.
Section 5.12. - Nonpartisan election.
Political parties shall not conduct primaries for city offices and all names of candidates for city offices shall be listed without party labels.
Section 5.13. - Election by majority.
(a)
The person receiving a majority (50 percent plus one) of the votes cast for any city office shall be elected.
(b)
In the event that no candidate receives a majority of the votes cast, then a run-off election will be held in accordance with ordinance and Chapter 2 of Title 21 of the O.C.G.A. [O.C.G.A. title 21, ch. 2], the "Georgia Municipal Election Code."
(c)
In the event that there is a tie vote between the two candidates receiving the most votes, then a special election will be held in accordance with ordinances and Chapter 2, Title 21 of the O.C.G.A. [O.C.G.A. title 21, ch. 2], the "Georgia Municipal Election Code."
ARTICLE VI. - FINANCE

Section 6.10. - Property tax.
The city council may assess, levy, and collect an ad valorem tax on all real and personal property within the corporate limits of the city that is subject to such taxation by the state and county. The tax is for the purpose of raising revenues to defray the cost of operating the city government, providing governmental services, for the repayment of principal and interest on general obligations, and for any other public purpose as determined by the city council at its discretion.
Section 6.11. - Millage rate, due dates, payment methods.
The city council, by ordinance, shall establish a millage rate for the city property tax, a due date, and in what length of time these taxes must be paid. The city council, by ordinance, may provide for the payment of these taxes by installments or in one lump sum and may authorize the voluntary payment of taxes prior to the time when due.
Section 6.12. - Licenses, permits, fees.
The city council, by ordinance, shall have the power to require any individuals or corporations who transact business in the City of Mount Zion or who practice or offer to practice a calling therein to obtain a license of permit for such activity or permit where such activities are not now regulated by general state law in such a way to preclude city regulation. Such fee, if unpaid, shall be collected as provided in Section 6.16 of this charter. The city council, by ordinance, may establish reasonable requirements for obtaining or keeping such licenses as the public health, safety, and welfare necessitates.
Section 6.13. - Franchises.
The city council shall have the power to grant franchises for the use of the city's streets and alleys for the purpose of railroads, street railways, telephone companies, electric companies, cable companies, gas companies, transportation companies, and other similar organizations. The city council shall determine the duration, provisions, terms, whether the same shall be exclusive or nonexclusive, and the consideration for such franchises.
Section 6.14. - Service charges.
The city council, by ordinance, shall have the power to assess and collect fees, charges, and tolls for water, sewer, sanitary, health services, or any other services rendered within and without the corporate limits of the city. If unpaid, such charges shall be collected as provided in Section 6.16 of this charter.
Section 6.15. - Construction, other taxes.
The city shall be empowered to levy any other tax allowed now or hereafter by state law and the specific mention of any right, power, or authority in this article shall not be construed as limiting in any way the general powers of the City of Mount Zion to govern its local affairs.
Section 6.16. - Collection of delinquent taxes and fees.
The city council, by ordinance, may provide generally for the collection of delinquent taxes, fees, or other revenue due the city by whatever reasonable means which are not precluded by general state law. This shall include providing for the dates when taxes or fees are due, late penalties or interest, issuance and execution of fi. fa's., creation and priority of liens, making delinquent taxes and fees personal debts of the persons required to pay the taxes of fees imposed, revoking city licenses and failure to pay any city taxes or fees, allowing exceptions for hardships, and providing for the assignment or transfer of tax executions.
Section 6.17. - General obligation bonds.
The city council shall have the power to issue bonds for the purpose of raising revenue to carry out any project, program, or venture authorized under this charter or the general laws of the state. Such bonding authority shall be exercised in accordance with the laws governing bond issuances by municipalities in effect at the time said issue is undertaken.
Section 6.18. - Revenue bonds.
Revenue bonds may be issued by the city council as state law now or hereafter provides. Such bonds are to be paid out of any revenue produced by the projects, programs, or venture for which they were issued.
Section 6.19. - Short-term loans.
Any short-term loan obtained by the city must be repaid by the end of the City of Mount Zion's fiscal year of the year in which the loan was obtained unless otherwise provided by state law.
Section 6.20. - Fiscal year.
The city council shall set the fiscal year by ordinance. This fiscal year shall constitute the budget year and the year for the financial accounting and reporting of each and every department, office, agency, and activity of the city government, unless otherwise provided by general state or federal law.
Section 6.21. - Action by city council on budget.
(a)
The city council shall adopt and may thereafter amend an annual budget, except that the budget as finally adopted and amended must provide for all expenditures required by state law or by other provisions of this charter and for all debt service requirements for the ensuing fiscal year and the total appropriations from any fund shall not exceed the estimated fund balance, reserves, and revenues.
(b)
The city council, by ordinance, shall adopt the final budget for the ensuing fiscal year not later than the first day of the fiscal year. If the city council fails to adopt the budget by this date, the amounts appropriated for their operation for the current fiscal year shall be deemed adopted for the ensuing fiscal year on a month to month basis, with all items prorated accordingly until such time as the city council adopts a budget for the ensuing year. Such adoption shall take the form of an appropriations ordinance, setting out the estimated revenues in detail by sources and making appropriations according to fund and by organizational unit, purpose, or activity.
(c)
The amount set out in the adopted budget for each organizational unit shall constitute the annual appropriation for such; and no expenditure shall be made or encumbrance created in excess of the otherwise unencumbered balance of the appropriations or allotment thereof to which it is chargeable unless by a majority vote of the city council.
Section 6.22. - Tax levies.
As soon as possible after adoption of the budget, the city council shall levy, by ordinance, such taxes as are necessary. The taxes and tax rates set by such ordinance shall be such that reasonable estimates of revenues from such levy shall at least be sufficient, together with other anticipated applicable revenues, fund balances, and applicable reserves, to equal the total amount appropriated for each of the several funds set forth in the annual operating budget for defraying the expenses of the general government of the city.
Section 6.23. - Changes in appropriations.
The city council, by majority vote, may make changes in the appropriations contained in the current operating budget at any regular meeting or special or emergency meeting called for such purpose.
Section 6.24. - Independent audit.
There shall be an annual independent audit of all city accounts, funds, and financial transactions by a certified public accountant selected by the city council. The audit shall be conducted according to generally accepted accounting principles. Any audit of any funds by the state or federal governments may be accepted as satisfying the requirements of this charter. Copies of all audit reports shall be available at printing cost to the public. The city council may prescribe procedures for a system of centralized purchasing for the city.
Section 6.25. - Sale of city property.
(a)
The city council may sell and convey any real or personal property owned or held by the city for governmental or other purposes as provided by general state law.
(b)
The city council may quit claim any rights it may have in property not needed for public purposes upon a report by the mayor or city manager and adoption of a resolution, both finding that the property is not needed for public or other purposes and that the interest of the city is of no readily ascertainable monetary value.
(c)
Whenever in opening, extending, or widening any street, avenue, alley, or public place of the city, a small parcel or tract of land is cut off or separated by such work from a larger tract or boundary of land owned by the city, the city council may authorize the mayor to execute and deliver in the name of the city a deed conveying said cutoff or separated parcel or tract of land to an abutting or adjoining property owner or owners in exchange for rights-of-way of said street, avenue, alley, or public place or in settlement of any alleged damages sustained by said abutting or adjoining property owner. All deeds and conveyances hereafter so executed and delivered shall convey all title and interest the city has in such property, notwithstanding the fact that no public sale after advertisement was or is hereafter made.
ARTICLE VII. - MUNICIPAL SERVICES AND REGULATORY FUNCTIONS

Section 7.10. - Streets.
The council is hereby vested with the power to lay out, open, widen, change, straighten, alter, improve, vacate, abandon, and otherwise to exercise complete control over the streets, alleys, squares, and sidewalks of the City of Mount Zion. The council shall provide for the removal of any and all obstacles and nuisances in regard to the streets, alleys, or sidewalks or other public places within the city and shall adopt appropriate ordinances to accomplish this purpose.
Section 7.11. - Municipal utilities.
The city council shall have the power and authority to acquire, own, hold, build, maintain, and operate a system of waterworks and sewerage, and to establish rates and charge fees for services rendered in any of said systems and to finance any of said systems through appropriate bond issues in accordance with the laws of the State of Georgia. The city council shall have the power to exercise the power of eminent domain in regard to any of said systems, both within and without the corporate limits and to contract to furnish the services of any of said systems to consumers outside the corporate limits of the City of Mount Zion.
Section 7.12. - Sewers and drains.
The council shall have the power and authority to provide for the establishment, extension, and maintenance of a system of sewers and drains, together with a sewerage disposal system. This power includes the authority to extend said system beyond the corporate limits. For these purposes the city is granted the power of eminent domain both within and without its corporate limits. The council may provide by ordinance for reasonable connection fees for tapping onto the water and sewer lines of said city, and may compel citizens to tap onto the same when such service is made available.
Section 7.13. - Right-of-way.
The City of Mount Zion shall have the right, easement, and franchise of laying the necessary mains, pipes, conduits, and drains for waterworks and sewerage system purposes along the highways in the County of Carroll. The city council shall have full power and authority to enact and enforce such rules, regulations, and ordinances as may be necessary to protect any water basins and watersheds, which are located within its corporate limits from contamination and to protect said waterworks and sewerage system, including the mains, pipes, and conduits whether the same be situated within or without the corporate limits of said city.
Section 7.14. - Eminent domain.
The city council is hereby empowered to acquire, construct, build, operate public grounds, markets, market houses, and charitable, educational, sport, corrective, detentional, penal, and medical institutions, agencies, and facilities, and any other public improvements inside or outside the city, and to regulate the use thereof, and for such purposes, property may be taken pursuant to Paragraph V of Section II of Article IX of the Georgia Constitution and any applicable Georgia law.
Section 7.15. - Franchises.
The council shall have the authority to exercise control over the use of streets of the City of Mount Zion. The power is hereby conferred upon the council to grant franchises for the use of said city streets and alleys, for the purposes of railroads, street railways, telephone companies, electric companies, gas companies, transportation companies, cable television, and other communication companies. The franchise right extends to, but is not limited to, the erection of poles, stringing of wire, laying of pipes, lines, or conduits both above and below the ground surface. The council shall determine the duration, provisions, terms, whether the same shall be exclusive or nonexclusive, and the consideration of such franchises; provided, however, that no franchise shall be granted unless the city receives just and adequate compensation therefor. The council shall provide for the registration of all franchises with the city clerk in the registration book to be kept by said clerk. The council may provide by ordinance for the registration within a reasonable time of all franchises previously granted.
Section 7.16. - Building, housing, electrical, and plumbing regulations.
The council shall have the power and the authority to enact such reasonable rules and regulations as it may deem necessary or expedient regarding the construction and maintenance of buildings, remodeling of buildings, plumbing, and electrical wiring and equipping of buildings, in order to promote the safety and welfare of its citizens, and to guard against fire or other property damage. The power may, in the discretion of the council, be exercised by adoption of any such standard building, housing, gas, heating and air conditioning, electrical, and plumbing codes as may be deemed appropriate. The council shall be empowered to engage the necessary personnel to enforce such rules and regulations as adopted and to charge reasonable fees for inspections and permits, and may require the obtaining of a permit as a condition precedent to any construction, building, electrical, or plumbing work. The council may enact all ordinances necessary to enforce such rules and regulations.
ARTICLE VIII. - GENERAL PROVISIONS

Section 8.10. - Official bonds.
The officers and employees of this city, both elective and appointive, shall execute such bonds in such amounts and upon such terms and conditions as the city council shall from time to time require by ordinance or as may be provided by state law.
Section 8.11. - Prior ordinances.
All ordinances, bylaws, and regulations now in force in the city not inconsistent with this charter are declared valid and of full effect and force until amended or repealed by the city council.
Section 8.12. - Severability.
If, for any reason, any section, provision, clause, sentence, phrase, word, or part of this charter shall be held to be unconstitutional or invalid, then that fact shall not affect or destroy the validity or constitutionality of any other section, provision, clause, or part of this charter which is not in and of itself unconstitutional or invalid, and the remaining portions of this charter shall be enforced without regard to the provisions, clause, or part so held to be invalid or unconstitutional.
Section 8.13. - Pending matters.
Except as specifically provided otherwise by this charter, all rights, claims, actions, orders, contracts, and legal or administrative proceedings shall continue; and any such ongoing work or cases shall be dealt with by such city agencies, personnel, or offices as may be provided by the city council.
Section 8.14. - Effective dates.
Those provisions of Article V of this Act relating to municipal elections in November, 2015, and November, 2017, shall become effective upon the Governor's approval or upon this Act becoming effective without such approval. The remainder of this Act shall become effective on January 1, 2018.
Section 8.15. - Specific repealer.
An Act approved March 24, 1978 (Ga. L. 1978, p. 4171), and all amendatory Acts thereto are hereby repealed.
Section 8.16. - General repealer.
All laws and parts of laws in conflict with this Act are repealed.
