ARTICLE XV. - REQUIRED IMPROVEMENTS

Sec. 1501. - [Streets and Utilities.]
In every major subdivision the following street improvements shall be planned for and provided by the subdivider, by installation and/or payment, prior to the approval of the final plat:
a.
Street grading and street base and paving shall be in accordance with county and state requirements.
In every minor and major subdivision the following utilities shall be planned for and provided by the subdivider, by installation and/or payment, prior to the approval of the final plat:
a.
Where a public sanitary sewer is within five hundred (500) feet of the subdivision at its nearest point and connection by gravity flow is feasible, the subdivider shall connect with such sanitary sewer and provide a connection for each lot. The subdivider shall be responsible for the cost of all taps, lift stations, manholes, and extension to existing public facilities. Where sanitary sewers are not available, as determined by the planning commission, the subdivider shall provide a private sewage disposal system as follows:
1.
An oxidation pond, septic tank, or other disposal device designed according to the county environmental health specialist or the department of natural resources, environmental protection division (DNR EPD) shall be installed and operable.
For the purposes of this paragraph, a public sanitary sewer shall be any service provided by any public sewage provider, regardless of political boundaries.
b.
Where a public water main is within one thousand five hundred (1,500) feet of the subdivision at its nearest point, the subdivider shall connect with such water main. The subdivider shall be responsible for the cost of all taps, fire plugs, and extension to existing public facilities in accordance with applicable county standards. Where a public water main is not reasonably accessible as determined by the planning commission, the subdivider shall provide a water supply as follows:
1.
A water source approved by the Harris County Health Department shall be required for a subdivision of one (1) to five (5) acre lots.
2.
Each lot within a subdivision, regardless of lot size, shall be served by its own independent water source (well); such water source (well) may serve only one (1) residence.
For purposes of this paragraph, a public water main or source shall be any service provided by any public water provider, regardless of political boundaries.
(Ord. No. 4-92, 12-15-92; Ord. No. 05-02, 7-2-2002)
Arterial Street Parking
Reverse Frontage with Protective Screen Easement
