Chapter 3.5 - PARKS AND RECREATION[5_1]
modified
Footnotes:
--- (5_1) ---
Cross reference— Recreation board, § 2-26 et seq.; zoning, app. A; subdivisions, app. B.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 3.5-1. - Hours of operation.
County public parks and/or recreation area facilities shall open at 7:00 a.m. and shall close at sunset, except that parks containing lights for night use shall close at 11:00 p.m. Only those areas of parks and/or recreation facilities which are illuminated and in use at night shall be interpreted as being open and all other portions of the facilities not illuminated are considered to be closed. Signage showing applicable open and closing times shall be posted at all park and/or recreation facilities and any deviation from these times must be approved in writing by the county recreation board. The county may close to the public certain particular recreation areas (e.g. ballfields) for maintenance or other purposes.
(Ord. No. 12-98, § I, 8-18-98)
Sec. 3.5-2. - Motor vehicles.
No person shall operate a motorized vehicle of any kind or nature in or on any public park and/or recreation area owned or operated by the county; provided that this section shall not apply to vehicles utilized to accommodate individuals with handicaps or disabilities (e.g. wheelchairs, scooters, etc.) or to vehicles used for maintenance purposes or to vehicles using driveways and parking areas. Motor vehicles shall observe a posted ten miles per hour speed limit while traveling on driveways and in parking areas.
(Ord. No. 12-98, § II, 8-18-98)
Cross reference— Motor vehicles and traffic, ch. 3.
Sec. 3.5-3. - Alcoholic beverages and tobacco products.
(a)
No person shall possess, serve, consume or transport any alcoholic beverages, including but not limited to, beer, wine and malt liquor within a county park and/or recreation area.
(b)
No person shall smoke or use tobacco products, to include but not limited to, snuff and chewing tobacco, within a county public park and/or recreation area. Signs prohibiting smoking and use of tobacco products shall be conspicuously posted in all public parks and recreational areas. Smoking and use of tobacco products in a county public park and/or recreation area shall, in addition to a violation of this article, be a violation of O.C.G.A. § 16-12-2 which prohibits smoking in designated public places.
(Ord. No. 12-98, § III, 8-18-98; Ord. No. 08-04, § 1, 11-16-2004; Ord. No. 05-08, § 1, 9-2-2008)
Sec. 3.5-4. - Animals.
It is unlawful for any person who harbors, possesses or is in charge of any domestic animal, restrained or unrestrained, to bring said animal, including but not limited to, dogs and cats, onto the athletic fields, tennis courts, seating areas or any other areas of any county public park and/or recreational area.
A person may, subject to the restraint requirement provided hereinafter, bring an animal on an area designated as a walking trail, except while an athletic event or other activity, to include practice sessions, is in progress or being played or for one-half hour before an event or activity begins or for one-half hour after an event or activity ends. It is further unlawful for any person to bring an animal as defined herein onto any area designated as a walking trail without said animal being restrained (e.g. leashed) within six feet of said person and under the direction control of said person at all times.
It is further unlawful for said person to ride, graze or walk a horse or any other type of hoofed equine or bovine within the county parks and/or recreational areas to include walking trails. The provisions of this section shall not apply to an animal aiding the handicapped (e.g. guide dog) or an animal utilized by law enforcement or recreational activities.
(Ord. No. 12-98, § IV, 8-18-98; Ord. No. 02-04, § 1, 5-4-2004)
Cross reference— Animal control, § 5-41.
Sec. 3.5-5. - Firearms.
No person shall bring a loaded or unloaded firearm onto county property serving as a public park and/or recreation area.
This section does not apply to law enforcement personnel.
(Ord. No. 12-98, § V, 8-18-98)
Sec. 3.5-6. - Noises and sounds.
It shall be unlawful for any person to make, continue or cause to be made or continued any loud music or profanity on the grounds of a public park and/or recreation area which either annoys or disturbs the comfort, repose, health, peace or safety of others in the county and which is audible to a person of normal hearing ability more than 50 feet from the point of origin of the sound.
No public address system, loud speaker or amplifying devices (e.g. boom boxes, air horns) shall be used in county parks and/or recreation areas unless written authorization is first obtained from the county recreation board.
(Ord. No. 12-98, § VI, 8-18-98)
Sec. 3.5-7. - Solicitation.
Without the written consent of the county recreation board, it shall be unlawful for any person to beg, solicit, sell goods, wares, or other objects or services within any building or on any grounds of county parks and/or recreation areas.
(Ord. No. 12-98, § VII, 8-18-98)
Sec. 3.5-8. - Special prohibitions.
(a)
No person shall possess a glass container (e.g. soft drink bottle, etc.) in or on county public parks and/or recreation areas.
(b)
The use of bicycles or other nonmotorized vehicles, roller blades, roller skates and skateboards is not permitted, at any time, in or on any athletic field or tennis court of county public parks and/or recreation areas. Usage of bicycles or other non-motorized vehicles, roller blades, roller skates, and skateboards is permitted, except as prohibited by signage, in other areas of county public parks and/or recreation areas.
(c)
No person shall, while on the grounds of county public parks and/or recreation areas, dispose of refuse, garbage, or trash except to place same in appropriate receptacles.
(Ord. No. 12-98, § VIII, 8-18-98; Ord. No. 14-98, § 1, 12-15-98)
Sec. 3.5-9. - Violation.
A person violating sections 3.5-1 through 3.5-8 is guilty of a misdemeanor and, on conviction, shall be punished by a fine not exceeding $1,000.00 or be imprisoned not exceeding six months, or both.
(Ord. No. 12-98, § IX, 8-18-98)
Secs. 3.5-10—3.5-30. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - TRAFFIC REGULATIONS[5_2]
modified

Footnotes:
--- (5_2) ---
Editor's note— Ord. No. 02-06, §§ 1, 2, adopted May 16, 2006, deleted and amended the former Art. II, § 3.5-31, and enacted a new Art. II as set out herein. The former Art. II pertained to Charles Moultrie Recreation Complex and derived from Ord. No. 2-95, adopted Feb. 21, 1995.

Sec. 3.5-31. - Traffic regulations.
(a)
Parking. The following parking and traffic rules apply in the Charles Moultrie Recreation Complex, the E.C. Pate Park, and all other recreation areas now or hereafter owned, operated or leased by Harris County, Georgia:
(1)
Parking of vehicles shall be in designated lined and/or marked parking spaces only. Parking along the edges or on the shoulders of the parking area may be permitted in areas where no signs are placed prohibiting parking.
(2)
It shall be unlawful to park a vehicle along the entrance/exit drive to and from the complex.
(3)
It shall be unlawful to park a vehicle at any point where limit lines or signs are so placed as to make it clearly appear that parking at such point is prohibited.
(4)
The public works director is hereby authorized to post "no parking" signs as appropriate within the premises of said recreation complex.
(b)
Enforcement. The director of recreation or such other person as may be designated by subsequent resolution of the board of commissioners, is hereby authorized to exercise enforcement powers and duties with respect to parking of vehicles as provided in this section.
(c)
Violation. Citations shall be issued under this section for violations and cases will be heard in the Probate Court of Harris County. Any person convicted of violating this section shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, and shall be fined in an amount (1) not to exceed $50.00 for the first offense, (2) not to exceed $100.00 for the second offense, and (3) not to exceed $150.00 for the third or subsequent such offense.
(Ord. No. 02-06, §§ 1, 2, 5-16-2006)
Sec. 3.5-32. - Walking trails.
(a)
Vehicles. No person shall drive or operate a motor vehicle of any type and regardless of the power source thereof, to include but not limited to, automobiles, trucks, motorcycles or motor scooters, all terrain or utility vehicles, golf carts, on, over or upon the Palmetto Creek Walking Trail or any other walking trail operated, owned or leased by Harris County. Excluded herefrom are motor vehicles used by Harris County or its agents in the maintenance, repair or upkeep of the Harris County walking trails. Also, excluded herefrom are wheelchairs or devices for use by the handicapped under Americans with Disability Act.
(b)
Enforcement. The director of recreation, or such other person as may be designated by subsequent resolution of the board of commissioners, is hereby authorized to exercise enforcement powers and duties with respect to operation of motor vehicles on walking trails.
(c)
Posted signs. The public works director shall post appropriate signs on and along the walking trails prohibiting use of such vehicles thereon.
(d)
Violation. Citations shall be issued under this section for violations and cases will be heard in the Magistrate Court of Harris County. Any person convicted of violating this section shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, and the punishment for violation shall not exceed $1,000.00 or imprisonment for 60 days or both.
(Ord. No. 02-06, § 3, 5-16-2006)
Secs. 3.5-33—3.5-40. - Reserved.
ARTICLE III. - RAILROAD RECREATION TRAIL

Sec. 3.5-41. - Name.
The railroad recreation trail means that trail, path or right-of-way hereinafter designated on right-of-way property acquired by Harris County from the Georgia Southwestern Railroad, Inc. under the National Rails to Trails Act, 16 U.S.C. § 1247(d).
(Ord. No. 01-09, § 1, 3-17-2009)
Sec. 3.5-42. - Description of trail.
The railroad recreation trail governed hereby is the Georgia Southwestern Railroad, Inc. (formerly the Central of Georgia Railroad) railroad right-of-way which commences at the Meriwether County line at Railroad Mile Post C-33.5 and runs in a southerly direction to Railroad Mile Post C-12.0 located north of the Muscogee County line and includes any sidings, sidetracks, bridges and/or culverts formerly used as a part of the railroad right-of-way.
(Ord. No. 01-09, § 2, 3-17-2009)
Sec. 3.5-43. - Use of trail.
The railroad recreation trail shall be used for recreation purposes only which shall include walking, jogging, running or bicycling. Except as provided herein, the railroad recreation trail shall not be used for any other purpose.
(Ord. No. 01-09, § 3, 3-17-2009)
Sec. 3.5-44. - Operation of motorized vehicles.
No person shall drive or operate a motor vehicle of any type and regardless of the power source thereof, to include but not limited to, automobiles, trucks, motorcycles, motor scooters, all terrain or utility vehicles or golf carts on or over or upon the railroad recreation trail. Excluded herefrom are motor vehicles used by Harris County or its agents in the maintenance, repair or upkeep of the railroad recreation trail and wheelchairs or devices for use by the handicapped under the Americans with Disabilities Act.
(Ord. No. 01-09, § 4, 3-17-2009)
Sec. 3.5-45. - Horses and hoofed animals.
No person shall ride, lead, walk, graze or otherwise take a horse, donkey, mule or other type of hoofed animal, onto any portion of the railroad recreation trail, except such animals as may be utilized by law enforcement or Harris County personnel.
(Ord. No. 01-09, § 5, 3-17-2009)
Sec. 3.5-46. - Dogs under restraint.
No person shall bring any dog onto the railroad recreation trail except when such animal is under the direction and control of its owner and is secured by a leash, chain or lead and is at all times restrained so as to prevent the animal from escaping from its owner.
(Ord. No. 01-09, § 6, 3-17-2009)
Sec. 3.5-47. - Bridges and trestles.
No person shall climb on the exterior of, repel from or jump from any bridge, trestle, overpass, wall, cliff, rock outcropping, embankment, building or monument which is located on or adjacent to the railroad recreation trail.
(Ord. No. 01-09, § 7, 3-17-2009)
Sec. 3.5-48. - Disposing of refuse.
No person shall dump or dispose of refuse, garbage or trash of any type except in appropriate trash receptacles on any portion of the railroad recreation trail.
(Ord. No. 01-09, § 8, 3-17-2009)
Sec. 3.5-49. - Firearms.
No person shall bring any firearm, loaded or unloaded, or any bow and arrow onto the railroad recreation trail. No firearm or bow and arrow shall be discharged onto, across, or from the railroad recreation trail. No hunting of any type shall be conducted on the railroad recreation trail to include the erection of hunting stands or blinds, whether temporary or permanent in nature.
(Ord. No. 01-09, § 9, 3-17-2009)
Sec. 3.5-50. - Alcoholic beverages, drugs and tobacco products.
(a)
No person shall possess, use, serve, consume or transport or be under the influence of any alcoholic beverage (including but not limited to, beer, wine and malt liquor) or any illegal drug or controlled substance on any part of the railroad recreation trail.
(b)
No person shall smoke or use tobacco products on any portion of the railroad recreation trail except in those areas specifically designated as tobacco use areas by the Harris County.
(Ord. No. 01-09, § 10, 3-17-2009)
Sec. 3.5-51. - Hours of operation.
The railroad recreation trail shall open and shall be used from sunrise and shall close at sunset daily. No camping, cooking or overnight use of the trail shall be permitted.
(Ord. No. 01-09, § 11, 3-17-2009; Ord. No. 05-19 , § 1, 11-5-2019)
Sec. 3.5-52. - Posting of signs.
The public works director shall post appropriate signs on and along the length of the railroad recreation trail designating those portions of the trail which are open for public use, those portions which are closed for public use and the recreational uses by the public authorized along the open portions of said trail and specifically, giving notice to the public prohibiting the use of any motorized vehicle on any portion of the railroad recreation trail.
(Ord. No. 01-09, § 12, 3-17-2009)
Sec. 3.5-53. - Portions available for public use.
The portion of the railroad recreation trail commencing at the intersection of the Meriwether County line in the Town of Pine Mountain and running South to the point of intersection of the railroad recreation trail with Georgia Highway 116 in the City of Hamilton shall be open for use by the general public for walking, jogging, running and bicycling. The portion of the railroad recreation trail commencing at the point of intersection of the railroad recreation trail with Georgia Highway 116 in the City of Hamilton and running South to the Muscogee County line is and shall be closed to all public use to include walking, jogging, running and bicycling except for access as provided hereafter.
(Ord. No. 01-09, § 13, 3-17-2009)
Sec. 3.5-54. - Driveways and crossings.
(a)
Existing driveways. All those persons who as of March 17, 2009 had driveways crossing the railroad recreation trail shall continue to be entitled to cross the railroad recreation trail for the sole purpose of access[ing] their respective property along the entire length of the railroad recreation trail.
(b)
New driveways or crossings. Driveways or crossings of the railroad recreation trails not existing on March 17, 2009 shall not be permitted or authorized to be constructed or cross the railroad recreation trail except with and under the following limited conditions:
(1)
All requests for new driveways and crossings must be submitted in writing to and approved by the Board of Commissioners of Harris County based on all of the terms and conditions which follow hereafter;
(2)
A survey with proposed grade, drainage, utilities and public rights-of-way shall be prepared at the cost of the applicant and submitted along with a written request for a new driveway or crossing;
(3)
No new driveways or crossings shall be authorized or approved by the Board of Commissioners of Harris County if the property for which a driveway or crossing is sought fronts on or has access to a public road or a private road or access easement. New driveways or crossings may be permitted or approved only if the property to be accessed by the new driveway or crossing is otherwise landlocked;
(4)
All proposed new driveways or crossings shall not cause or result in any increase or decrease in the elevation of the existing surface of the former railroad bed;
(5)
Any proposed new driveways or crossings shall not negatively impact the drainage path within the railroad right-of-way or roadway ditches and drainage. Driveways or road culverts and ditch grading may be required for any proposed new driveways or crossings;
(6)
Any proposed new driveways or crossings to a federal, state or county road or highway shall have the approval of the respective road or highway entity as for sight distance or other requirements of the entity owning or controlling the public right-of-way;
(7)
Multiple side-by-side new driveways or crossings shall not be permitted; new driveways or crossings from a land area must be limited to one;
(8)
All costs for construction and maintenance of approved new driveways or crossings shall be at the expense of the person or entity seeking the driveway or crossing and any subsequent owners thereof; and
(9)
If a new driveway or crossing is permitted and approved by the Board of Commissioners of Harris County, the applicant shall be granted only a license to use such crossing of the railbed. The license is permissive in use and shall be a mere accommodation and shall be revocable at any time by the Board of Commissioners of Harris County. The license shall not grant and the applicant shall not acquire any ownership rights to the railbed property, whether in fee simple, by prescription or by adverse possession.
(Ord. No. 01-09, § 14, 3-17-2009; Ord. No. 05-19 , § 2, 11-5-2019)
Sec. 3.5-55. - Enforceability.
The Harris County Code Enforcement Officer or the Sheriff of Harris County and his authorized deputies are hereby authorized to exercise enforcement powers and duties with respect to the use of the railroad recreation trail specified herein and to issue citations for violations of this article, which citations shall be returnable and heard in the Magistrate Court of Harris County. Any person convicted of violating this article or any portion thereof shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be punished by a fine not to exceed $1,000.00 or imprisonment in the county prison or jail for 60 days or both. Each day of any violation of this article shall continue and shall constitute a separate offense punishable as provided herein.
(Ord. No. 01-09, § 15, 3-17-2009)
