ARTICLE VII. - PLACEMENT OF MAILBOXES, ETC., IN RIGHT-OF-WAY

Sec. 4-151. - General.
No mailbox or newspaper delivery box (hereafter referred to as a mailbox) or any other structure will be constructed on county rights-of-way if it interferes with the safety of the traveling public or the function, maintenance, or operation of the road system. A mailbox installation that does not conform to the provisions of this article is an unauthorized encroachment.
The location and construction of mailboxes shall conform to the rules and regulations of the U.S. Postal Service as well as to standards established by the county.
A mailbox installation that conforms to the following criteria will be considered acceptable unless in the judgment of the public works director of the county, the installation interferes with the safety of the traveling public or the function, maintenance, or operation of the road system.
(Ord. No. 2-94, 2-15-94)
Sec. 4-152. - Location.
(a)
No mailbox will be permitted where access is obtained from the lanes of a freeway or where access is otherwise prohibited by law or regulation.
(b)
Mailboxes shall be located on the right-hand side of the roadway in the direction of the delivery route except on one-way streets where they may be placed on the left-hand side. The bottom of the box shall be set at an elevation established by the U.S. Postal Service, usually between three feet, six inches and four feet above the roadway surface. The roadside face of the box shall be offset from the edge of the traveled way a minimum distance of the greater of the following: A foot (where no paved shoulder exists), the width of the all-weather shoulder present plus eight to 12 inches, or the width of an all-weather turnout specified by the county plus eight to 12 inches.
(c)
Exceptions to the lateral placement criteria above will exist on residential streets and certain designated rural routes where the county deems it in the public interest to permit lesser clearances or to require greater clearances. On curbed streets, the roadside face of the mailbox shall be set back from the face of curb a distance between six and 12 inches. On residential streets without curbs or all-weather shoulders and that carry low-traffic volumes operating at low speeds, the roadside face of a mailbox shall be offset between eight and 12 inches behind the edge of pavement. On very low-volume rural roads with low-operating speeds, the county may find it acceptable to offset mailboxes a minimum of six feet, eight inches from the traveled ways and under some low-volume, low-speed conditions may find clearance as low as two feet, eight inches acceptable.
(d)
Where a mailbox is located at a driveway entrance, it shall be placed on the far side of the driveway in the direction of the delivery route.
(e)
Where a mailbox is located at an intersection road, it shall be located a minimum of 100 feet beyond the center of the intersecting road in the direction of the delivery route. This distance shall be increased to 200 feet when the average daily traffic on the intersecting road exceeds 400 vehicles per day.
(Ord. No. 2-94, § I, 2-15-94)
Sec. 4-153. - Structure.
(a)
It shall by unlawful for mailbox supports or any other structure to be constructed on the right-of-way of brick, stone or concrete material.
(b)
Mailboxes shall be of light sheet metal or plastic construction conforming to the requirements of the U.S. Postal Service. Newspaper delivery boxes shall be of light sheet metal or plastic construction of minimum dimensions suitable for holding a newspaper.
(c)
No more than two mailboxes may be mounted on a support structure unless the support structure and mailbox arrangement have been shown to be safe by crash testing. However, lightweight newspaper boxes may be mounted below the mailbox on the side of the mailbox support.
(d)
Mailbox supports shall not be set in concrete unless the support design has been shown to be safe by crash tests when so installed.
(e)
A single four-inch by four-inch or a 4½-inch diameter wooden post or a metal post with a strength no greater than a two-inch diameter standard strength steel pipe and embedded no more than 24 inches into the ground will be acceptable as a mailbox support. A metal post shall not be fitted with an anchor plate, but it may have an anti-twist device that extends no more than ten inches below the ground surface.
(f)
The post-to-box attachment details should be of sufficient strength to prevent the box from separating from the post top if the installation is struck by a vehicle.
(g)
The minimum spacing between the centers of support posts shall be three-fourths the height of the posts above the groundline.
(h)
Mailbox support designs not described in this regulation will be acceptable if approved by the public works director of the county.
(Ord. No. 2-94, § II, 2-15-94)
Sec. 4-154. - Shoulder and parking area construction.
It will be the responsibility of the postal patron to inform the county of any new or existing mailbox installation where shoulder construction is inadequate to permit all-weather vehicular access to the mailbox.
(Ord. No. 2-94, § III, 2-15-94)
Sec. 4-155. - Removal of nonconforming or unsafe mailboxes and other structures.
(a)
Any mailbox or any other structure constructed after the [effective date, February 15, 1994,] of this article that is found to violate the intent of this regulation shall be removed by the owner upon notification by the county. At the discretion of the county, based on an assessment of hazard to the public, the owner will be granted not less than 24 hours nor more than 30 days to remove an unacceptable mailbox/structure. After the specified removal period has expired, the unacceptable mailbox/structure will be removed by the county at the owner's/patron's expense.
(b)
Nonconforming boxes in existence prior to the effective date of this article[, February 15, 1994,] will not be affected unless removal is required by the Georgia Department of Transportation or unless a complaint is filed showing that such nonconforming box poses a danger to the traveling public.
(Ord. No. 2-94, § IV, 2-15-94)
Secs. 4-156—4-160. - Reserved.
