ARTICLE II - RULES OF INTERPRETATION AND DEFINITIONS

2-A - RULES OF INTERPRETATION
When referring to this Ordinance the following rules of interpretation shall be applied, except when the context clearly requires otherwise.
1.
Board of Commissioners means the Taliaferro County, Georgia, Board of Commissioners.
2.
County means Taliaferro County, Georgia.
3.
County Attorney means a registered, practicing attorney, licensed by the State of Georgia, hired by the County to carry out the applicable provisions of this Ordinance.
4.
County Clerk means the Clerk of Taliaferro County, Georgia.
5.
County Engineer means a registered, practicing engineer, licensed by the State of Georgia, hired by the County to carry out the applicable provisions of this Ordinance.
6.
Health Department means the health department of Taliaferro County, Georgia
7.
Land Development Officer means the person appointed by the county to carry out the applicable provisions of this Ordinance.
8.
Planning Commission means the Taliaferro County Planning Commission.
9.
Words used in the present tense include the future tense.
10.
Words used in the singular include the plural, and words used in the plural include the singular.
11.
The word shall is always mandatory.
12.
The word "person" includes a firm, association, organization, partnership, trust company, or corporation as well as an individual.
13.
The word lot includes the word tract, plot or parcel.
14.
The word building includes the word structure.
15.
The word used or occupied, as applied to any land or building, shall be construed to include the words intended, arranged, or designed to be used or occupied.
2-B - DEFINITIONS
Words in the tables and text of this Ordinance shall be interpreted in accordance with the provisions in this section. Where words have not been defined, the standard dictionary definition shall prevail.
Alley: A minor, permanent service-way which is used for secondary vehicular access to the back or the side of properties which otherwise have primary vehicular access to a public street.
Building: a structure created to shelter any form of human activity, such as a house, barn, church, hotel, or similar structure. Building may refer to an historically related complex such as a courthouse and jail or a house and barn.
Building area: The total area taken on a horizontal plane at the main grade level of the principal building and all accessory buildings, exclusive of uncovered porches, terraces and steps.
Building height: the vertical distance measured from the level of the established grade opposite the middle of the front of the building, to the highest point of the roof surface of a flat roof; to the deck line of a mansard roof; and to the mean height level between eaves and ridge for a gable, hip, or gambrel roof.
Building setback line: The distance between the building line and the property line in a district, lot tract, or parcel of land.
Building setback, front: The minimum allowable distance between the centerline of an abutting street, or an official future street, and the front of a building or structure on a lot. The front setback distance is applied to the full width of the lot and is parallel to or concentric with the street centerline.
Building setback, rear: The minimum allowable distance between the rear property line and a building or structure on a lot. Unless otherwise stated in the provisions contained within this Ordinance. The rear setback applies to and extends across the full width of the lot.
Building setback, side: The minimum allowable distance between the side property line and a building or structure on a lot. The side setback applies to the full depth of a lot.
Building site: The ground area of a building or buildings together with all open spaces surrounded by said building or buildings.
Common contiguous parcel: A contiguous quantity of land or properties, in the possession of or owned by or recorded as the property of the same claimant or person.
Dwelling: Any building or portion thereof, which is designed or used exclusively for residential purposes.
Easements: A grant by a property owner to the use of land by the public, a corporation, or persons for specific purposes such as the construction of utilities, drainage ways or streets. See figure 1
Figure 1
Grade: The slope of a road, street, or other public way, specific in percentage (%) terms from the horizontal.
Individual sewage disposal system: A septic tank, seepage tile sewage disposal system, or any other sewage treatment device.
Infrastructure: Streets, water and sewer lines, and other public facilities necessary to the functioning of a community.
Lot: A measured parcel or tract of land having fixed boundaries and designated on a plat or survey.
Lot, corner: a lot situated at the intersection of two or more streets, or at the intersection of a street and railway right-of-way, or a lot abutting on one or more parts of the same street, in which an interior angle of less than 135 degrees is contained, between the front and side lot lines abutting the said street or streets. See figure 2.
Lot, double frontage: A lot having frontage on two streets as distinguished from a corner lot. See Figure 2.
Figure 2
Lot, flag: A tract or lot of land of uneven dimensions in which the portion fronting on a street is less than the minimum width required for construction of a building or structure on that lot. No flag lots shall be created within the unincorporated area of Taliaferro County, Georgia. See Figure 2.
Lot, interior: A lot other than a corner lot. See Figure 2.
Lot area: The total horizontal ground area inside lot lines, exclusive of any area open to the public.
Lot coverage: The computed ground area occupied by buildings and other impervious surfaces, including but not limited to parked structures, driveways, roads, sidewalks, and areas covered with concrete asphalt, within a lot.
Lot depth: The mean horizontal distance between the front and rear lot lines measured in the general direction of the side lines of the lot.
Lot frontage: The distance for which the front property line and street line coincide.
Lot improvement: Any building, structure, place, work of art, or other object, or improvement of the land on which they are situated constituting a physical betterment of real property, or any part of such betterment.
Lot of record: A lot or parcel of land whose existence, location, and dimensions have been recorded in the Office of the Clerk of Superior Court, Taliaferro County, Georgia.
Lot width: The horizontal distance across the lot measured at right angles to the depth of the lot at the center of the minimum front yard setback lines. See Figure 3
Figure 3
Public sewerage: A sanitary sewerage system for the collection of water borne wastes complete with a sewage treatment plant or stabilization pond. The entire system must be either operated by the County or have been approved by the County, in the case of a privately owned system.
Public improvement: Any drainage ditch, roadway, parkway, sidewalk, pedestrian way, tree, lawn, off-street parking area, lot improvement, or other facility for which the County may ultimately assume the responsibility for maintenance and operation, or which may affect an improvement for which the County responsibility is established.
Public utilities: Water, gas, sanitary and storm sewer, electrical, and communication lines and facilities, and natural or improved drainage.
Plat, final: A map or drawing of a proposed major subdivision prepared in a manner suitable for recording in the County records and prepared in conformance with the conditions of any preliminary plat approval previously granted by the County.
Plat, preliminary: A map or drawing of a proposed major subdivision illustrating the features of a proposed development submitted as a required part of an application for preliminary approval. Approval of a preliminary plat in no way constitutes final approval of a proposed development, and is not suitable for recording in the County records.
Plat, summary: A map or drawing of a proposed minor subdivision prepared in a manner suitable for recording in the County records. Summary plats are not subject to prior preliminary plat approval.
Rural development area: Areas exhibiting rural characteristics and qualities. Within rural development areas, the intensity of future development is likely to remain low due to the lack of supporting public infrastructure such as water and sewer facilities, and/or the anticipated provision of new major thoroughfares.
Sketch plan: A cursory drawing or sketch, drawn to scale depicting the proposed layout of a subdivision. Street, arterial: High volume streets that carry traffic between communities and other developed areas. ;b0; Street, collector: Street that conveys vehicular access between arterials and local streets.
Street, local: Street which provides access to residential dwelling units and is not intended to carry large volumes of traffic.
Street, marginal access: a minor street which is parallel to and adjacent to major thoroughfares, and which provides access to abutting properties and protection to local traffic from fast through-moving traffic.
Structure: anything constructed or erected with a fixed location on or in the ground, or attached to something having a fixed location on the ground. Structures include, but are not limited to the following: site built buildings, manufactured homes, signs, swimming pools, satellite dishes, fallout shelters, and other constructions greater than thirty inches in height. Excluded are fences less than eight feet in height and structures less than thirty inches in height.
Subdivision: The division of a tract or parcel of land into two or more lots or building sites. "Subdivision" also relates to the process of subdividing or to the land or area subdivided. The term shall also include the platting and/or dedication of a new street, road, or public right-of-way. The combination or recombination of portions of previously platted lots where the total number of lots is not increased and the resultant lots meet the standards of the county subdivision regulations are not included within this definition
Tract: A lot. The term tract is used interchangeably with the term lot, particularly in the context of subdivisions, where one "tract" is subdivided into several "lots."
Urban development area: Areas where concentrated or dense development patterns exist, or are likely to occur, due to the current or anticipated provision of the supporting infrastructure such as public sewer, water and/or major thoroughfares and streets as identified by the Taliaferro County Joint Comprehensive Plan.
