VII. - Industrial Districts

7.1 - Intent.
The purpose of the Industrial district is to encourage the orderly development of areas containing wholesale and light industrial uses where resultant noise, odors, pollution, and congestion are minimized. This district includes commercial uses consistent in character with wholesale and light industrial uses.
7.2 - Table of Standards.
EXPAND
M-1
Minimum Lot Size (sq. ft) 43,560
Minimum Lot Width (ft) 100
Front Yard Setback (ft) 50
Rear Yard Setback (ft) 50
Side Yard Setback (ft) 20
Road Frontage Planted Buffer Width (ft) 5
  7.3 - M-1 Industrial District.
1.
Permitted Uses:
a.
Ice plants;
b.
Contractor's storage and equipment yards when located entirely within a building or fenced area and properly screened;
c.
Wholesale and storage warehouses and distribution centers;
d.
Trade shops, including sheet metal, roofing, upholstering, electrical, plumbing, drapery, cabinet making, rug and carpet cleaning, and sign painting shops, provided that all operations are conducted entirely within a building which shall not have any openings other than stationary windows or doors for pedestrian ingress and egress, facing a residential district within 100 feet of any residential district;
e.
Agriculture, forestry, livestock, and poultry production, provided that the operation is conducted on a tract of land not less than ten acres in area and that no structure containing poultry or livestock and no storage of manure or odor or dust producing substances or use shall be located within 200 feet of a property line;
f.
Truck terminals, provided that they are not located adjacent to residential uses, and that acceleration and deceleration lanes of at least 200 feet in length are provided for trucks entering and leaving the site;
g.
Auto auctions;
h.
Single-wide manufactured homes or other single-family dwellings for the exclusive use of a watchman or caretaker when located on the same tract as an industrial use;
i.
Establishments for light manufacture, repair, assembly, or processing, including, but not limited to, confectionery manufacture, clothing manufacture, laboratories for testing materials, scientific, optical, and electronic equipment manufacture, food processing equipment manufacture, and toy manufacture;
j.
Food processing plants which do not involve the slaughtering or cleaning of animal carcasses on the premises;
k.
Outdoor entertainment facilities, including stadiums, theaters, and concert facilities, provided that acceleration and deceleration lanes of at least 200 feet are provided for the use of vehicles entering and leaving the facility or its parking areas;
l.
Public or private schools;
m.
Public uses or structures;
n.
Public and private parks and open space, including commercial facilities;
o.
Churches;
p.
Accessory Buildings may be constructed in the I Zone, subject to the restrictions outlined in Section 9.8;
q.
Automobile service stations;
r.
Business or professional offices;
s.
Retail uses, such as clothing, hardware, or other establishment where a customer must visit the site to obtain goods;
t.
Drive-in retail uses where a customer is waited upon in an off-street parking area, or where customer conducts business directly from a vehicle with an agent in the building;
u.
Service uses, including, but not limited to, appliance repair, beauty/barber shop, tailor, or gasoline filling station;
v.
Signs: One exterior non-illuminated sign per lot pertaining only to a use conducted within the building shall be permitted in the I zone. A sign not located flat against the building shall be less than three square feet in area and less than six feet in height. Such sign shall not be located within twenty feet of an R zone nor shall it be located within 25 feet of the intersection of the right-of-way lines of intersecting streets;
w.
Food and beverage sales establishments, such as restaurants, bakeries, confectionery stores, etc.;
x.
Uses customarily incidental to any of the above uses and accessory buildings, when located on the same lot, including garages for the use of patrons and for employees;
y.
Liquor Store, subject to restrictions in Section 9.11;
z.
Adult Entertainment uses, subject to restrictions in Section 9.11.
2.
Lot Size and Setback Requirements:
a.
Lot Size: All lots in an M-1 Zone shall have a minimum width of 100 feet and a minimum area of 43,560 square feet (1 acre). Irregularly shaped lots shall measure a minimum of one hundred feet in width along the building setback line;
b.
Setback Requirements: No building or structure in an M-1 Zone may be located closer than 50 feet to a front or rear lot line and 20 feet to a side lot line. Where an industrial structure shares a common firewall with an adjacent industrial or commercial structure, the side yard setback may be waived. Where an industrial lot abuts a residential lot, the side yard setback requirement will be strictly enforced. Accessory uses shall have a setback of not less than ten feet from a side or rear lot line, and shall be no closer than 20 feet to the principle structure on the lot;
c.
Landscaping Requirement: In the M-1 zone, a planted buffer strip shall be placed along all road frontages. The buffer strip shall be installed by the owner of the property, and shall contain grass or other ground covering, and shall be a minimum of five (5) feet in width. The property owner shall maintain such buffer strip with appropriate watering and debris, tall grass, weed, and rubbish removal. No buildings, structures, storage of materials, or parking shall be permitted in the buffer area. Trees and/or shrubs may be used in the buffer area where appropriate if branches are kept to a height so as not to obstruct or impair traffic or vision from a roadway.
