ARTICLE III. - OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES

Sec. 2-71. - Selection of chief judge and associate court judges.
(a)
The mayor of the city shall recommend and the council of the city shall confirm and approve by majority vote, a qualified person to serve as the chief judge of the municipal court of the city who shall serve until his resignation, death, disability or removal under section 4.11(d) of the Charter of the city.
(b)
Any necessary associate judges shall be nominated by the chief judge and then approved by majority vote of the city council of the city. Any associate judges shall serve at the pleasure of the chief judge and may be removed at any time with or without cause by the chief judge.
(c)
Compensation of associate judges shall be set by resolution of the mayor and council of the city.
(Comp. Ords. 2005, § 3-200)
State Law reference— Appointment of judges of municipal courts, O.C.G.A. § 36-32-2.
Sec. 2-72. - Selection of assistant city attorneys.
(a)
Any necessary assistant city attorneys shall be nominated by the city attorney and then approved by majority vote of the city council of the city. Any assistant city attorneys shall serve at the pleasure of the city attorney and may be removed at any time with or without cause by the city attorney.
(b)
Compensation of assistant city attorneys shall be set by resolution of the mayor and council of the city.
(Comp. Ords. 2005, § 3-201)
Sec. 2-73. - City marshal.
(a)
Purpose and intent. The purpose of this section is to do all things necessary in order to be recognized as a law enforcement officer of the state and certified within the standards of the Georgia Peace Officer Standards and Training Act (POST Act), as provided in O.C.G.A. § 35-8-1 et seq.
(b)
Requirements. The requirements for the city marshal's office shall be as follows:
(1)
All officers shall be POST Certified or in the event, the City of Dallas Marshal is not POST Certified, then he/she shall have 12 months from his/her hiring date in which to become POST Certified.
(2)
All officers must be at least 19 years of age, have a high school diploma or GED and a valid state driver's license;
(3)
All officers must be of good moral character and standing in the community which shall require that no officer shall have any convictions of any misdemeanor involving moral turpitude and/or any convictions of any felony.
(c)
Powers of arrest. The City of Dallas Marshal shall have the power of arrest in the enforcement of all ordinances of City of Dallas, Georgia, and the laws of the state.
(d)
Duties and responsibilities.
(1)
To enforce all ordinances enacted by the mayor and council of the city, including but not limited to ordinances involving building codes, building guidelines, development regulations and codes, subdivision regulations, zoning and planning, roads and bridges.
(2)
To issue warnings, notices of ordinance violation, and citations for court appearances for the violation of ordinances.
(3)
To investigate and collect evidence of these ordinance violations.
(4)
To respond to complaints of alleged ordinance violations.
(5)
To appear and testify in court.
(6)
To do any follow-up work that may be necessary.
(7)
To ensure proper collection of fines.
(8)
To coordinate enforcement efforts concerning the building inspection, planning and zoning, public works and/or any other department or division of [the] city as may be deemed necessary.
(9)
To perform any other duties, including arrests for state law violations, which are permissible and allowed under O.C.G.A. § 36-8-5.
(10)
To work in connection with city attorney's office on behalf of the city.
(e)
Placement of position. All employees within the Marshal's Office of the City of Dallas, Georgia shall be under the ultimate control and supervision of the city manager and/or mayor and/or city council.
(f)
Jurisdiction. The jurisdiction of the office of city marshal shall be for the entire incorporated area of the City of Dallas, Georgia.
(g)
Chief marshal.
(1)
There is created in the office of the city marshal a position as chief marshal, which position shall be appointed and approved by the mayor and city council of the city.
(2)
With the prior approval of the mayor and council and/or the city manager, the chief marshal shall be responsible for developing office policy and organization within the department of the city marshal and shall be responsible for supervising all other marshals or other employees within the department of the city marshal and shall also be responsible for the promulgation of all rules and regulations for the conduct, management and control of the department of the city marshal.
(Ord. No. 2011-09, 4-11-2011)
Secs. 2-74—2-102. - Reserved.
