Chapter 1 - GENERAL PROVISIONS

Sec. 1-1. - How Code designated and cited.
The ordinances embraced in the following chapters and sections shall constitute and be designated as "The Code of Ordinances of the City of Dallas, Georgia," and may be so cited. Such Code may also be cited as the "Dallas City Code."
(Comp. Ords. 2005, § 1-101)
Sec. 1-2. - Definitions and rules of construction.
In the construction of this Code and all ordinances found herein, the following rules shall be observed, unless such construction would be inconsistent with the manifest intent of the Mayor and Council of the City of Dallas:
City. The term "the city" or "this city" means the City of Dallas, Georgia.
City limits. The term "city limits" means the corporate limits of the City of Dallas, Georgia.
Code of Ordinances, the Code and this Code. The term "Code of Ordinances," "the Code" and "this Code" means the Codified Ordinances of the City of Dallas, Georgia.
Computation of time. Unless otherwise specifically provided, the time within which an act is required by law to be done shall be computed by excluding the first day and including the last, except that the last day shall be excluded if it is a Sunday or a holiday.
Council, city council. The term "the council" or "the city council" means the mayor and council of the City of Dallas, Georgia.
County. The term "the county" or "this county" means the County of Paulding, Georgia.
Court. The term "court" means the municipal court of the City of Dallas, Georgia, except where otherwise stated.
Delegation of authority. Whenever a provision of this Code requires the head of a department of the city to do some act or perform some duty, it shall be construed to authorize the head of the department to designate, delegate, and authorize subordinates to do the required act or perform the required duty unless the terms of the provision designate otherwise.
Gender. A word importing the masculine gender shall extend and be applied to females and to firms, partnerships and corporations, as well as to males.
Governing authority, governing body. The term "governing authority" or "governing body" means the mayor and council of the City of Dallas, Georgia.
Interpretation. In the interpretation and application of any provision of this Code, it shall be held to be the minimum requirement adopted for the promotion of the public health, safety, comfort, convenience and general welfare. Where any provision of this Code imposes greater restrictions upon the subject matter than the general provision imposed by this Code, the provision imposing the greater restriction or regulation shall be deemed to be controlling.
Joint authority. All words giving a joint authority to three or more persons or officers shall be construed as giving such authority to a majority of such persons or officers.
Judge or municipal judge. The term "judge" or "municipal judge" means the judge of the municipal court of the City of Dallas, except where otherwise stated.
Keeper or proprietor. The term "keeper" or "proprietor" means and includes persons, firms, associations, corporations, clubs and partnerships, whether acting by themselves or through a servant, agent or employee.
Limits, corporation or city. The term "limits," "corporation" or "city" means the corporate limits of the city, the legal boundaries of the City of Dallas, except where the provision clearly intends otherwise.
May. The term "may" is to be construed as being permissive.
Mayor. Whenever the term "mayor" is used, it means the mayor of the City of Dallas, Georgia.
Mayor and council. Whenever the term "mayor and council" is used, it means the mayor and council of the City of Dallas, Georgia.
Number. A word importing only the singular number may extend and be applied to several persons or things as well as to one person or thing.
O.C.G.A. The abbreviation "O.C.G.A." refers to the Official Code of Georgia Annotated.
Oath. The term "oath" includes an affirmation in all cases in which by law an affirmation may be substituted for an oath, and in such cases, the terms "swear" and "sworn" shall be equivalent to the terms "affirm" and "affirmed."
Officials or officers. Whenever reference is made to officials, boards, commissions, departments or other municipal agents by title only, such reference shall be read as though followed by the words "of the City of Dallas, Georgia."
Or, and. The term "or" may be read "and" and the term "and" may be read "or," if the sense requires it.
Owner. The term "owner," applied to a building or land, includes any part owner, joint owner, tenant in common, tenant in partnership, joint tenant or person in possession under a bond for title.
Person. The term "person" extends and is applied to associations, clubs, societies, firms, estates, trusts, cooperatives, receivers, fiduciaries, partnerships and all other bodies politic and corporate as well as to individuals.
Personal property. The term "personal property" includes every species of property except real property, as herein defined.
Preceding, following. The terms "preceding" and "following" mean next before and next after, respectively.
Property. The term "property" includes real and personal property.
Public place. The term "public place" means any park, cemetery, schoolyard or open space adjacent thereto, or any area available and/or accessible to the public.
Real property. The term "real property" includes lands, tenements, and hereditaments.
Shall. The term "shall" is mandatory.
Sidewalk. The term "sidewalk" means any portion of a street between the curbline and the adjacent property line, intended for the use of pedestrians, excluding parkways.
Signature orsubscription. The term "signature" or "subscription" includes the mark of a person intended as such when the person cannot write.
State. The term "the state" or "this state" means the State of Georgia.
Street. The term "street" shall be construed to embrace streets, avenues, boulevards, roads, alleys, lanes, viaducts and all other public highways in the City of Dallas.
Tenant, occupant. The term "tenant" or "occupant," applied to a building or land, includes any person holding a written or oral lease of, or who occupies the whole or part of, such building or land, either alone or with others.
Tense. Words used in the past or present tense include the future as well as the past and present.
Title of officer. Whenever the title of an officer is given, it shall be construed as though the words "of the City of Dallas" were added.
Week. The term "week" means seven days.
Written or in writing. The term "written" or "in writing" includes any representation of words, letters, or figures, whether by printing or otherwise.
Year. The term "year" means a calendar year.
(Comp. Ords. 2005, § 1-102)
State Law reference— Similar provisions, O.C.G.A. §§ 1-3-1, 1-3-3.
Sec. 1-3. - Catchlines, notes, and references.
(a)
The catchlines of the several sections of this Code are intended as mere catchwords to indicate the contents of the section and shall not be deemed or taken to be titles of such sections nor as any part of the section, nor, unless expressly so provided, shall they be so deemed when any of such sections, including the catchlines, are amended or reenacted.
(b)
The history or source notes appearing in parentheses after sections in this Code are not intended to have any legal effect but are intended merely to indicate the source of matter contained in the section. Editor's notes, charter references and state law references that appear after sections or subsections of this Code or which otherwise appear in footnote form are provided for the convenience of the user of the code and have no legal effect.
(c)
All references to chapters, articles, divisions, subdivisions, or sections are to chapters, articles, divisions, subdivisions, or section of this Code, unless otherwise specified.
(Comp. Ords. 2005, § 1-103)
Sec. 1-4. - Certain ordinances not affected by the Code.
(a)
Nothing in this Code or the ordinance adopting this Code shall be construed to repeal or otherwise affect the validity of any of the following:
(1)
Any rates, fees or charges consistent with this Code;
(2)
Any ordinance or resolution promising or guaranteeing the payment of money for the city, or authorizing the issuance of any bonds for the city or any evidence of the city's indebtedness, or any contract or obligation assumed by the city;
(3)
Any ordinance or resolution consistent with this Code prescribing traffic regulations for specific locations, such as prescribing through streets, parking limitations, parking prohibitions, one-way traffic or limitations on loads of vehicles or loading zones;
(4)
Any ordinance or resolution consistent with this code fixing salaries of, or providing policies and programs for, providing retirement, disability or death benefits for, officials, officers or employees of the city;
(5)
Any budget ordinance or appropriation ordinance; any ordinance levying any tax;
(6)
Any right or franchise granted by any ordinance or resolution;
(7)
Any ordinance dedicating, naming, establishing, locating, relocating, opening, closing, paving, widening or vacating any street or public way in the city;
(8)
Any ordinance establishing and prescribing the street grades of any street in the city;
(9)
Any ordinance providing for local improvements or assessing taxes therefor;
(10)
Any ordinance dedicating or accepting any plat or subdivision within the city;
(11)
Any zoning ordinance or any ordinance regulating subdivisions or any ordinance regulating signs or any ordinance regulating building design standards;
(12)
Any ordinance or resolution adopted for purposes that have been consummated;
(13)
Any ordinance that is temporary, although general in effect, or special, although permanent in effect; and
(14)
Any resolution of the city not in conflict with this Code.
(b)
All such ordinances or resolutions are hereby recognized as continuing in full force and effect to the same extent as if set out at length in this Code.
Sec. 1-5. - Effect of repeal of ordinances.
(a)
The repeal of an ordinance shall not revive any ordinances in force before or at the time the ordinance repealed took effect.
(b)
The repeal of an ordinance shall not affect any punishment or penalty incurred before the repeal took effect.
(Comp. Ords. 2005, § 1-104)
Sec. 1-6. - Severability of parts of Code.
It is hereby declared to be the intention of the mayor and council of the city that the sections, paragraphs, sentences, clauses and phrases of this Code are severable, and if any phrase, clause, sentence, paragraph or section of this Code shall be declared unconstitutional or invalid by the valid judgment or decree of any court of competent jurisdiction, such unconstitutionality shall not affect the remaining clauses, sentences, paragraphs and sections of this Code.
(Comp. Ords. 2005, § 1-105)
Sec. 1-7. - Provisions considered as continuation of existing ordinances.
The provisions appearing in this Code, so far as they are the same as ordinances existing at the time of the effective date of this Code, shall be considered as continuations thereof and not new enactments.
(Comp. Ords. 2005, § 1-106)
Sec. 1-8. - Amendments to Code; effect of new ordinances; amendatory language.
(a)
All ordinances passed subsequent to the passage of the ordinances originally included herein which amend, repeal or in any way affect this Code may be numbered in accordance with the numbering system of this Code and added thereto. In the case of repealed chapters, sections and subsections or any part thereof, by subsequent ordinances, such repealed portions may be excluded from the Code by omission from reprinted pages affected thereby. The subsequent ordinances as numbered and included, or omitted in the case of repeal, shall be prima facie evidence of such subsequent ordinances until such time that this Code and subsequent ordinances numbered or omitted are readopted as a new Code by the mayor and council.
(b)
Amendments to any of the provisions of this Code may be made by amending such provisions by specific reference to the section number of this Code in the following language: For example, "That section (or article or chapter) _____ of The Code of Ordinances of the City of Dallas, Georgia, is hereby amended to read as follows:…." The new provisions may then be set out in full as desired.
(c)
In the event a new section not heretofore existing in the Code is to be added, the following language may be used: "That The Code of Ordinances of the City of Dallas, Georgia, is hereby amended by adding a section (or article or chapter) to be numbered _____, which said section (or article or chapter) reads as follows:…." The new section may then be set out in full as desired.
(d)
All sections, articles, chapters, or provisions desired to be repealed may be specifically repealed by section, article or chapter number, as the case may be.
(Comp. Ords. 2005, § 1-107)
Sec. 1-9. - Supplementation of Code.
(a)
By contract or by city personnel, supplements to this Code shall be prepared and printed whenever authorized or directed by the city council. A supplement to the Code shall include all substantive, permanent and general parts of ordinances passed by the city council or adopted by initiative and referendum during the period covered by the supplement and all changes made thereby in the Code. The pages of a supplement shall be so numbered that they will fit properly into the Code and will, where necessary, replace pages that have become obsolete or partially obsolete. The new pages shall be so prepared that, when they have been inserted, the Code will be current through the date of the adoption of the latest ordinance included in the supplement. Charter amendments may be included in like manner.
(b)
In the preparation of a supplement to this Code, all portions of the Code that have been repealed shall be excluded from the Code by the omission thereof from reprinted pages.
(c)
When preparing a supplement to this Code, the codifier (meaning the person, agency or organization authorized to prepare the supplement) may make formal, nonsubstantive changes in ordinances and parts of ordinances included in the supplement, insofar as it is necessary to do so to embody them into a unified code. For example, the codifier may:
(1)
Organize the ordinance material into appropriate subdivisions;
(2)
Provide appropriate catchlines, headings and titles for sections and other subdivisions of the Code printed in the supplement, and make changes in such catchlines, headings and titles;
(3)
Assign appropriate numbers to sections and other subdivisions to be inserted in the Code and, where necessary to accommodate new material, change existing section or other subdivision numbers;
(4)
Change the words "this ordinance" or words of the same meaning to "this chapter," "this article," "this division," etc., as the case may be, or to "sections _____ through ________" (inserting section numbers to indicate the sections of the Code which embody the substantive sections of the ordinance incorporated into the Code); and
(5)
Make other nonsubstantive changes necessary to preserve the original meaning of ordinance sections inserted into the Code; but, in no case shall the codifier make any change in the meaning or effect of ordinance material included in the supplement or already embodied in the Code.
Sec. 1-10. - Altering Code, ordinances or other public notice.
(a)
It shall be unlawful for any person to change or amend by additions or deletions, any part or portion of this Code, or to insert or delete pages or portions thereof, or to alter or tamper with such Code in any manner whatsoever which will cause the law of the city to be misrepresented thereby, except by ordinance or resolution or other official act of the mayor and council.
(b)
It shall be unlawful for any person to deface, mutilate, or in any other manner alter the ordinance book, minutes, notices posted by the city for the benefit of the public, or any other documents or records of the municipal government of the city.
(Comp. Ords. 2005, § 1-108)
Sec. 1-11. - General penalty; continuing violations.
(a)
Whenever in this Code or in any ordinance or resolution of the City any act is prohibited or is made or declared to be unlawful or an offense or a misdemeanor, or whenever in such Code, ordinance or resolution the doing of any act is required or the failure to do any act is declared to be unlawful, where no specific penalty is provided therefor, the violation of any such provision of this Code or any ordinance or resolution shall be punished as a misdemeanor offense according to the provisions of section 4.13 of the Charter of the city.
(b)
Each day any violation of any provision of this Code or of any ordinance or resolution shall continue shall constitute a separate offense.
(Comp. Ords. 2005, § 1-109)
State Law reference— Limitation on penalties, O.C.G.A. § 36-35-6(a)(2).
Sec. 1-12. - Repealer; subjects not affected.
All prior ordinances of a general and permanent nature which are in conflict herewith are hereby repealed from and after the effective date of this chapter, except as hereinafter provided. The repeal provided for shall not affect any offense or act committed or done or any penalty or forfeiture incurred or any contract or right established or accruing before the effective date of this chapter; nor shall such repeal affect any ordinance or resolution promising or guaranteeing the payment of money for the city or authorizing the issuance of any bonds of the city or any evidence of the city's indebtedness, or any contract or obligation assumed by the city; nor shall such repeal affect the administrative regulations or resolutions of the mayor and aldermen not in conflict or inconsistent with the provisions of such Code; nor shall such repeal affect any right or franchise granted by any ordinance or resolution of the mayor and aldermen to any person, firm or corporation; nor shall such repeal affect any ordinance dedicating, naming, establishing, locating, relocating, opening, paving, widening, vacating, etc., any street or public way in the city; nor shall such repeal affect the annual appropriation ordinance; nor shall such repeal affect any ordinance levying or imposing taxes; nor shall such repeal affect any ordinance establishing and prescribing the street grades of any street in the city; nor shall such repeal affect any ordinance providing for local improvements and assessing charges therefor; nor shall such repeal affect any ordinance dedicating or accepting any plat or subdivision in the city; nor shall such repeal affect any ordinance extending the limits of the city; nor shall such repeal be construed to revive any ordinance or part thereof that has been repealed by a subsequent ordinance which is repealed by this Code.
