ARTICLE XII. - APPEALS AND VARIANCE

Sec. 40-251. - Appeals.
These land development regulations shall be administered by the zoning administrator and other staff members, along with the planning commission and city council. However, should an issue concerning these regulations remain unresolved by the city staff and planning commission, or if a written request for appeal should be filed with the zoning administrator or by any interested party within five working days of any action, a hearing shall be held by the city council for final resolution of the dispute. Sufficient information shall be provided by the applicant, affected city staff members, and the planning commission to ensure a timely decision by the city council. For purposes of this section, an interested party shall be an applicant or a city resident who lives within 300 feet of the proposed subdivision or development at issue on appeal.
(Ord. of 7-1-2002, § 1201)
Sec. 40-252. - Variance.
The purpose of this section is to authorize variance from the terms of this chapter as will not be contrary to the public interest so that the spirit of this chapter shall be observed, public safety and welfare secured, and substantial justice done. Only the owner of the property of which a variance is desired, or his agent may submit an application for a variance.
(1)
Variance application shall be filled with the zoning administrator on forms provided by the zoning administrator.
(2)
Any communication relative to a variance request will be guarded as information only until a proper application is made in the form required.
(3)
An application of 50 dollars must accompany each variance application.
(4)
Upon receiving an application, the zoning administrator shall schedule a public hearing on the request before the city council within 45 days after receipt.
(5)
A sign displaying the hearing date and the nature of the hearing shall be placed in a conspicuous location on the property not less than 15 days prior to the hearing date.
(6)
A notice of the public hearing date and the nature of the hearing shall be published in the newspaper of general circulation, which serves as the legal organ for the city. The newspaper notice shall appear at least 15 days prior to the date of the hearing date.
(7)
At the public hearing before the city council, the applicant may appear in person or be represented by an agent of attorney.
(8)
Variance from the provisions of this chapter may be approved by the city council if it is determined that they will not cause substantial detriment to other parties or impair the purpose of intent of this chapter; provided, however that no variance can be granted for a use that is specifically prohibited by this chapter within the zoning in which the property is located.
(9)
In making a determination on a variance request, the city council shall consider the following factors:
a.
Whether or not the special circumstances contributing to the request are peculiar to the property involved;
b.
Whether or not the situation for which the request is being made poses an unnecessary hardship for the applicant; and
c.
Whether or not the request is due to an intentional action of the applicant to violate the requirement of this chapter.
(Ord. of 7-1-2002, § 1202)
Secs. 40-253—40-270. - Reserved.
