Chapter 44 - MUNICIPAL COURT[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Note— All references herein to the Charter shall be to Act No. 75 (H.B. 342, 2013 General Session), signed April 24, 2013. Terms of office established pursuant to this chapter shall commence January 1, 2014.

ARTICLE I. - MUNICIPAL COURT

Sec. 44-1. - Municipal court, established.
Pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 36-32-1 and the Charter, there is hereby established a municipal court for said city having jurisdiction over the violation of municipal ordinances and over such other matters as are by general law or ordinance made subject to the jurisdiction of municipal courts. Said court shall be styled as "The Municipal Court for the City of Senoia, Georgia" and shall be a continuation of the court, by whatever name or style given, created and functioning under prior laws or ordinances of said city. In addition, the judge of said court shall have and may exercise the same powers and authorities as magistrates in the matter of and pertaining to criminal cases of whatever nature in the several courts of this state.
(Ord. No. 13-02, § 1, 7-15-2013)
Sec. 44-2. - Maximum punishment established by general law.
In exercising its jurisdiction, the municipal court, unless otherwise limited by a general or local law, or by ordinance, shall be authorized to impose any punishment up to the maximum(s) specified by general law, expressly including but not limited to the maximum specified in O.C.G.A. § 36-35-6(a)(2)(B) and (C); provided, however, the court shall not impose any punishment of confinement, probation (including community service work), or other loss of liberty, or impose any fine, fee, or cost imposed by ordinance of a penal nature unless the court provides to the accused the right to representation by a lawyer, or provides to those accused who are indigent the right to counsel at no cost to the accused. Such representation shall be subject to all applicable standards adopted by the state public defender standards council for representation of indigent persons in this state. The right of representation shall include all committal hearings conducted when the judge of the court is sitting as a magistrate, regardless of whether the court has jurisdiction to try or dispose of the charges.
(Ord. No. 13-02, § 1, 7-15-2013)
Sec. 44-3. - Trial upon citation or accusation; bench trials, appeals.
Notwithstanding any other law to the contrary, misdemeanor offenses or ordinance violations may be tried upon a uniform traffic citation or accusation. All trials shall be bench trials at which the judge serves as finder of fact. Unless a direct appeal is provided by law, alleged errors of law shall be brought before the superior court on petition for writ of certiorari within 30 days of a final adjudication, with service upon the mayor in the manner provided by law, with copy to the city attorney.
(Ord. No. 13-02, § 1, 7-15-2013)
Sec. 44-4. - Evidence and procedure.
In all respects, the municipal court of the city shall operate in accordance with the uniform municipal court rules, adopted by the supreme court of the state on April 1, 2010, as now exist and as may hereafter be amended. The rules of criminal and civil procedure, and rules of evidence, shall conform as nearly as practicable to the rules of procedure and evidence in the superior and state trial courts; provided, however, there shall be no trials by jury and no civil discovery unless allowed by the judge, by order, to prevent manifest injustice. Subpoenas for the attendance of witnesses and production of evidence at trial shall be issued by the municipal court clerk, upon timely application of a party or defendant.
(Ord. No. 13-02, § 1, 7-15-2013)
Sec. 44-5. - Terms of court.
Regular terms of court shall convene in the courtroom, Senoia Police Department, 505 Howard Road, Senoia, Georgia, at a day and time certain as, from time to time, set by order of the court; special sessions may be convened, as needed, as set by order of the court. Whenever necessity requires, the court may convene at any time or place in, or without, the city.
(Ord. No. 13-02, § 1, 7-15-2013)
ARTICLE II. - BONDS AND RECOGNIZANCES

Sec. 44-6. - Bail bonds; acceptance of driver's license in lieu of bond.
As used in this section, the term "bail" shall include the releasing of a person on such person's own recognizance. Except for those offenses bondable only before a judge of the superior courts of this state, the judge of the municipal court shall have all the power and authority of a magistrate in the matter of and pertaining to criminal cases of whatever nature, including the authority to set and accept bail as provided in O.C.G.A. tit. 17, ch. 6.
For misdemeanors and ordinance violations returnable to the municipal court for trial, the arresting officer shall give due consideration to release on the person's own recognizance, or for a traffic violation other than a parking violation accepting the person's driver's license in lieu of bail; in all other cases, a property, surety, or cash bond may be accepted in an amount sufficient to assure the person's appearance in court. The judge shall prepare and, from time-to-time revise, by order, a schedule of cash bonds for all offenses and penal or traffic ordinance violations triable before the municipal court. Such order shall designate the chief of police or municipal court clerk to accept cash bond payments. The officer assessing and accepting a cash bond shall issue a written receipt for the bond to the person charged; if accepted by an officer other than the municipal court clerk, bond proceeds shall be immediately transmitted to the municipal court clerk, who shall enter payment upon a docket of cash bond payments. Proceeds shall be deposited by the clerk into a separate bank account from other funds and receivables of the city.
(Ord. No. 13-02, § 1, 7-15-2013)
Sec. 44-7. - Failure to appear; bench warrants.
Any person charged with a violation of a misdemeanor offense or ordinance violation returnable to the municipal court who gives a cash bond for his personal appearance in court at a designated date, time and place and who fails to appear on said date and at such time and place shall forfeit the cash bond upon the call of the case for trial. It shall not be necessary for the city to take any further action to forfeit the cash bond. Entry of a cash bond forfeiture shall be made by the municipal court clerk on the cash bond docket; periodically, funds representing forfeited cash bonds shall be transferred from the cash bond account to the general fund of the city. In the discretion of the court a bench warrant may issue for the arrest of the accused. Forfeiture of a cash bond shall not be a bar to a subsequent prosecution of the accused for the violation.
Where a driver's license has been accepted in lieu of bail for a traffic violation other than a parking violation and the person fails to appear and answer to the charges against him or her, the municipal court clerk shall immediately forward to the department of motor vehicle safety the name and driver's license number for suspension of the driver's license and driving privileges of the accused, until the person appears and fully disposes of the charges against him or her. In addition thereto, the court may issue a bench warrant for arrest of the accused.
Upon the failure of a person released upon his own recognizance to appear for trial, if the release is not otherwise conditioned by the court, the court may summarily issue a bench warrant for arrest of the accused which shall be enforced as in cases of forfeited bonds.
(Ord. No. 13-02, § 1, 7-15-2013)
Sec. 44-8. - Bond forfeitures.
Where a property or surety bond has been posted, bond forfeiture shall follow the procedures set forth in O.C.G.A. § 17-6-70, et seq., which by reference is made a part hereof as if fully set out herein. It shall be the duty of the municipal court clerk to issue notice to sureties as provided in O.C.G.A. § 17-6-70(b).
(Ord. No. 13-02, § 1, 7-15-2013)
ARTICLE III. - OFFICERS OF THE COURT

Sec. 44-9. - Municipal court judge.
In accordance with section 3.6 of the Charter, the mayor and council shall appoint, by resolution, a municipal court judge to hold and preside over the municipal court. The municipal court judge shall be licensed to practice law in the state and have served at least seven years as an active member in good standing of the state bar. The judge shall meet all requirements and conform to all policies and procedures of the judicial qualifications commission of the state. The judge shall be appointed by resolution of the governing authority, who shall set his or her compensation by resolution, and shall satisfactorily complete the required training for such office. Before assuming the duties of the office, the person appointed shall subscribe to the following oath:
"I swear (or affirm) that I will well, faithfully, and impartially and without fear, favor, or affection discharge my duties as judge of the municipal court for the City of Senoia, Georgia."
The office of municipal court judge shall be part-time and the person appointed to said office shall not practice law in the municipal court or appear in any matter in which the court has exercised jurisdiction or the underlying accusation arises from investigation and/or arrest by law enforcement officers of the city police department. The term of office of municipal court judge shall be four years; provided, however, an appointee shall hold over in office until his or her successor has been duly qualified and appointed.
Compensation and any related employment benefits for the office shall be fixed in the resolution of appointment and shall be based upon an annual salary for each year of the term, payable in equal monthly amounts. A person appointed to the office of municipal court judge may only be removed, during his or her term, for cause, after written notice and opportunity to be heard before the governing authority.
The governing authority may also appoint one or more assistant municipal court judges to hold and preside over the municipal court in the absence, disability, or disqualification of the municipal court judge, and shall set the term and compensation thereof by resolution. Assistant judges shall possess all qualifications and satisfy all training requirements for the office of municipal court judge. While presiding, the assistant municipal court judge(s) shall have and may exercise all powers and duties of the municipal court judge as granted by law or the Charter.
In addition to the powers and duties granted by law or the Charter, the judge and any assistant judge(s) of the municipal court shall have and may exercise the same powers and authorities as magistrates in the matter of and pertaining to criminal cases of whatsoever nature returnable to the several courts of this state.
(Ord. No. 13-02, § 1, 7-15-2013)
Sec. 44-10. - Solicitor.
The office of solicitor, as established by section 3.7 of the Charter, shall be the prosecuting attorney of the municipal court and shall represent the city, in all matters pertaining to quasi-criminal ordinance violations, misdemeanor offenses triable in municipal court, and such other duties as set forth in law, particularly in O.C.G.A. § 15-18-96. The solicitor shall be licensed to practice law in the state and have served at least three years as an active member in good standing of the state bar. The solicitor shall be appointed by resolution of the governing authority, who shall set his or her compensation by resolution, and shall satisfactorily complete the required training for such office. Before assuming the duties of the office, the person appointed shall subscribe to the following oath:
"I swear (or affirm) that I will well, faithfully, and impartially and without fear, favor, or affection discharge my duties as solicitor of the municipal court for the City of Senoia, Georgia."
The office of solicitor shall be part-time and the person appointed to said office shall not practice law in the municipal court or appear in any matter in which he or she appeared before the court or in which the underlying accusation arises from investigation and/or arrest by law enforcement officers of the city police department. The term of office of solicitor shall be two years; provided, however, an appointee shall hold over in office until his or her successor has been duly qualified and appointed.
Compensation and any related employment benefits for the office shall be fixed in the resolution of appointment and shall be based upon an annual salary for each year of the term, payable in equal monthly amounts. A person appointed to the office of solicitor may only be removed, during his or her term, for cause, after written notice and opportunity to be heard before the governing authority.
If the solicitor is disqualified from engaging in the prosecution of a particular case or is unable to perform the duties of said office due to illness or incapacity, the city attorney, or his designee, shall serve as substitute prosecuting attorney unless an assistant solicitor has been duly appointed by resolution of the mayor and council.
(Ord. No. 13-02, § 1, 7-15-2013)
Sec. 44-11. - Municipal court clerk.
In accordance with section 3.8 of the Charter, the office of municipal court clerk shall be the primary person most directly responsible for the administration of the municipal court other than the judge of said court. The municipal court clerk or his or her deputy clerks shall attend all sessions when the court is convened and perform the duties set forth in the Charter and laws, or as delegated by order of the court. The person appointed as clerk shall be at least 18 years of age, a graduate of a state-accredited high school or possess an equivalent diploma, and satisfactorily complete the required minimum training prescribed by the state municipal courts training council. The clerk shall serve at the pleasure of the governing authority, who shall set the compensation for the office by resolution.
(Ord. No. 13-02, § 1, 7-15-2013)
Sec. 44-12. - Costs of mandatory training.
Whenever an officer of the municipal court is required by law to complete and/or maintain training from the state municipal courts training council or prosecuting attorneys council of the state, the cost of training (registration, travel, lodging and meals) shall be paid from city funds as an expense and shall not be considered additional compensation paid to the officer.
(Ord. No. 13-02, § 1, 7-15-2013)
