ARTICLE XIV. - ADDITIONAL POWERS AND DUTIES OF THE CITY COUNCIL

Sec. 74-300. - Additional powers and duties of the city council.
The city council shall have the following powers and duties:
(1)
To hear and decide appeals where it is alleged there is error in any order, requirement, decision or determination made by the zoning administrator in the enforcement of this article.
(2)
To authorize upon application a variance from the terms of the article, but only where by reason of exceptional narrowness, shallowness or shape of a specific piece of property, which, at the time of adoption of this article was a lot or plat of record; or where, by reason of exceptional topographic conditions or other extraordinary or exceptional conditions of a piece of property, or where by reason of other extraordinary or exceptional circumstances the strict application of the requirements of this article would result in practical difficulties of, or undue hardship upon, the owner of this property, provided that this relief may be granted without substantially impairing the intent and purpose of this article. In granting a variance, the city council may attach such conditions regarding the location, character and other features of the proposed building, structure or use as it may deem advisable so that the purpose of this article will be served, pubic safety and welfare secured and substantial justice done. However, the city council shall not be authorized to grant a use variance to permit a use in a district in which the use is prohibited.
(Ord. No. 07-05, Art. 14, § 14.1, 12-3-2007)
Sec. 74-301. - Appeals and hearings.
Applications for an appeal to the city council may be taken by any person aggrieved or by any officer, department, board, or bureau of City of Senoia affected by a decision of an official or the city authorized under this zoning article. Such appeal shall be taken with 30 days of said decision by filing with the city clerk a written notice of appeal specifying the grounds thereof. Application for a variance or appeal must be filed with the city clerk at least 21 days before the scheduled public hearing. The contents of the application for variance or appeal shall be determined by the city council. The city clerk shall forthwith transmit to the city council all documents constituting the record upon which the action appealed from was taken or constituting the record upon which the application for a variance is based.
(Ord. No. 07-05, Art. 14, § 14.2, 12-3-2007)
Sec. 74-302. - Notice of hearings.
(a)
Notice of said hearing on said request for a variance or appeal shall be advertised once a week for two consecutive weeks in a Legal Organ of Coweta County. The first date of such publication shall be at least 15 days prior to but not more than 45 days prior to the date of said public hearing. The cost of the advertisement shall be borne by the applicant.
(b)
The applicant for said variance or appeal shall also give notice of said request for variance or appeal and the public hearing thereon to the adjoining property owners of the property subject to the variance application or appeal by certified mail, return receipt requested, to the last known address of said adjoining property owner as shown upon the county tax records. Notice must be mailed no later than 15 days prior to the date of said scheduled public hearing. Proof of said notice shall be provided to the city council. In determining adjoining property owners, street or other right-of-way shall be disregarded and notice shall be given to a property owner whose property adjoins the same right-of-way at the location of the property, which is the subject of an application.
(c)
The notice shall be required herein to be mailed to an adjoining property owner and shall include the following information:
(1)
Name and address of the applicant;
(2)
Address and location of the property for which the variance or appeal is sought;
(3)
Current zoning of the property for which the variance or appeal is sought;
(4)
The variance or appeal requested and the reason for the requested variance or appeal; and
(5)
The date, time and place of the public hearing on said requested variance or appeal.
(d)
All applications shall be accompanied by a fee of $50.00, plus advertising costs.
(Ord. No. 07-05, Art. 14, § 14.3, 12-3-2007)
Sec. 74-303. - Stay of proceedings.
An appeal stays the enforcement of the provisions of this article under appeal until a final decision on the appeal is made, except the city council may revoke the stay of enforcement if such stay would cause immediate peril to life and property.
(Ord. No. 07-05, Art. 14, § 14.4, 12-3-2007)
Sec. 74-304. - Decisions of the city council.
(a)
In exercising its powers, the city council may, in conformity with the provisions of this article, reverse or affirm, wholly or partly, or may modify the order, requirements, decision, or determination, and to that end shall have all the powers of the city official whose decision is appealed and may issue or direct the issuance of a building permit.
(b)
On all appeals, applications and other matters brought before the city council, said council shall inform, in writing, all the parties involved of its decisions and the reasons therefor. Recourse from a decision by the city council shall be to a court of competent jurisdiction by the filing of a writ of certiorari within 30 days of the decision of the city council.
(Ord. No. 07-05, Art. 14, § 14.5, 12-3-2007)
Sec. 74-305. - Conduct of hearing.
(a)
All persons who wish to testify to the city council at a hearing concerning an appeal or variance under consideration by the council shall first sign up on a form to be provided by the city prior to the commencement of the hearing.
(b)
The secretary will read the proposed appeal under consideration. The zoning administrator, or his designee, shall then present the basis of the appeal, along with the pertinent department reviews, if any, prior to receiving testimony on the proposed appeal. Appeals shall be called in the order in which they were filed.
(c)
The mayor or his or her designee shall then call each person who has signed up to testify on the appeal or variance then before the council in the order in which the persons have signed up to testify, except the applicant and the witnesses for the applicant who may speak first. Prior to testifying, the witness will identify himself or herself and state his/her current address.
(d)
Each witness shall testify only to the merits of the proposed appeal under consideration and shall address his/her remarks only to the members of the city council. Each witness shall refrain from the discussion of facts or opinions irrelevant to the proposed appeal under consideration. The mayor may limit a witness, if after being cautioned, the witness continues to violate this subsection.
(e)
No person who has an interest in the decision of the council shall be denied the right to be represented by counsel or to examine a witness who addresses the council.
(f)
Nothing contained herein shall be construed as prohibiting the mayor from conducting the hearing in an orderly and decorous manner to assure that the public hearing on the appeal is conducted in a fair and orderly manner.
(Ord. No. 07-05, Art. 14, § 14.6, 12-3-2007)
Sec. 74-306. - Administrative variance.
The zoning administrator is empowered to review and approve a request for an administrative variance. Applications may be considered only if the following requirements are met:
(1)
The request only pertains to a zoning setback requirement; and
(2)
The request is for an encroachment that would not exceed ten percent of the required setback, up to a maximum of ten feet.
In reviewing the application, the zoning administrator shall analyze the application to determine whether granting the request would cause substantial detriment to other property owners in the surrounding area or would impair the purposes of the zoning ordinance. If the request is in conformance with these requirements and does not adversely affect the area, the zoning administrator shall issue an official determination in writing approving the request. The property owner, the town clerk, and the building official shall be provided with a copy of this determination. If the request is not in conformance with these requirements or may possibly have an adverse effect on the surrounding area, the zoning administrator shall deny the appeal in writing, stating the reasons for the denial. The zoning administrator shall act on all requests within 15 working days after the application is filed. If the request is denied by the zoning administrator, the property owner many go through a variance process.
Limitations on authority.
Notwithstanding anything to the contrary provided herein, certain issues are not eligible for variances:
(1)
There shall be no variance to the minimum lot area or size; and
(2)
There shall be no variance to the minimum lot frontage on a street.
( Ord. No. 17-04, 11-6-2017 )
Secs. 74-307—74-315. - Reserved.
