ARTICLE IX. - SEPARATION[3]

Footnotes:
--- (3) ---
Note— An employee may be separated from the service of the city by any one of the eight different methods as described herein this article.

Sec. 50-171. - Resignation.
To resign in good standing, an employee of the city must give 14 days' notice to his/her department head of his/her intention to resign. Employees who terminate their employment other than by discharge will receive their final paycheck on the next scheduled payday provided all issued equipment owned by the city is returned.
( Ord. of 12-2-2013 )
Sec. 50-172. - Abandonment of position.
An employee who, without valid reason, fails to report to work for three consecutive work days without authorized leave shall be separated from the payroll and reported as having abandoned his position. The employee is not eligible for re-employment for a period of two years and shall be considered as resigning not in good standing.
( Ord. of 12-2-2013 )
Sec. 50-173. - Disability.
An employee may be separated for disability when he/she has contracted some mental or physical ailment or defect which incapacitated him/her for usefulness in the city's service. Action may be initiated by the employee, his legal representative, or the city, but in all cases it must be supported by medical evidence acceptable to the city manager. The city may require an examination at its expense, performed by a physician of its choice.
A department head/chief of police may direct an employee under his jurisdiction to be examined by a designated physician of the city. When a disability of any kind is discovered which impairs the effectiveness of an employee or makes his continuance on the job a danger to himself/herself or others the following action shall be taken:
(1)
If the disability is correctable, the employee shall be allowed a specified time as determined by the city manager to have it corrected. If he failed to take steps to have the disability corrected within the specified time, he/she shall be subject to disciplinary action.
(2)
If, in the opinion of the examining physician, the disability cannot be corrected, the department head/police chief subject to the approval of the city manager shall:
a.
Attempt to place the employee in another position which he can perform satisfactorily. If that cannot be accomplished successfully, the city manager and department head shall:
1.
Take steps to separate the employee from the city service through retirement or lay-off.
( Ord. of 12-2-2013 )
Sec. 50-174. - Loss of job requirement.
An employee who is unable to do his/her job adequately because of loss of a necessary license or other requirement may be separated by a layoff until such license or requirement is acquired.
( Ord. of 12-2-2013 )
Sec. 50-175. - Dismissals.
Regular employees shall be discharged only after having been presented the reasons for the discharge, unlike the discharge of a probationary employee serving an initial probationary period (as may be extended) who may be dismissed without cause. An original report stating the reasons for the discharge shall be forwarded in a timely manner, after the effective date of the action, to the personnel officer for inclusion in the employee's file.
( Ord. of 12-2-2013 )
Sec. 50-176. - Retirement.
Retirement shall be governed by policies set forth in the city retirement plan. Upon retirement the employee shall be paid for any used vacation leave accumulated and accrued sick leave if applicable.
( Ord. of 12-2-2013 )
Sec. 50-177. - Layoff.
It is the policy of the city to ensure proper staffing levels to meet operational requirements, and to maintain a stable work force as a vital part of its overall employee relations objectives. However, certain economic and budgetary considerations and changes in the organization and programs of the city government may necessitate layoffs to reduce the size of its workforce. Employee(s) are to be laid off in order of the following criteria. Once a criteria is reached upon which a decision can be made, the remaining criteria are not considered.
(1)
Availability of funding source.
(2)
Availability of funding within the department.
(3)
Deletion of job classification or position within the department.
(4)
Job performance as shown on the last two performance evaluations or any such evaluation within a two-year period.
(5)
Length of service with the city.
When an employee possesses a critical skill essential to the efficient operation of the department, he/she may be retained in preference to a person with a higher rating. Documentation and request for such action must be presented to the personnel officer for presentation to the city manager who will make the final decision. The request shall set forth in detail the specific skills and abilities possessed by the individual and the reasons why such individual is essential to the effective operation of the department.
( Ord. of 12-2-2013 )
Sec. 50-178. - Death.
An employee who dies while in the city service shall be separated effective as of the date of death. Any salary due the employee, accumulated annual leave and sick leave accrued (if applicable) shall be paid to the estate of the deceased.
( Ord. of 12-2-2013 )
Secs. 50-179—50-190. - Reserved.
