ARTICLE X. - PROGRESSIVE DISCIPLINE

Sec. 50-191. - Disciplinary action-methods.
It is the policy of the city that employees conduct themselves and city affairs in accordance with the highest standards of personal integrity and ethical business practices. Every employee must clearly understand that any misappropriation, misuse, or conversion of city funds or property, regardless of the value for personal use or gain will not be tolerated. An employee who violates established policies will be subject to disciplinary action up to and including immediate termination and criminal prosecution, if warranted. Disciplinary action is intended to correct or modify recurring patterns of behavior which are detrimental to the city's operations. Such action should be initiated as soon after the behavior is observed as possible. Disciplinary action should also be undertaken in private meetings when possible. It is recognized that, given the nature of the city's operations, it is not always possible to do this. However, every effort should be made to execute disciplinary action in a timely manner while respecting the integrity of the process.
( Ord. of 12-2-2013 )
Sec. 50-192. - Types of action.
The following types of disciplinary action may be taken against employees violating established policies. These actions are to be taken in the sequence in which they appear below. It is recognized that some violations are so severe as to require circumvention of the established sequence.
(1)
Reprimand defined. Reprimand is an oral or written notice of policy violation, mistakes, inefficiency or other factor which may adversely influence employee's ability to efficiently an defectively carry out his/her duties and responsibilities.
(2)
Oral reprimand. Oral reprimands will be considered the normal means of correcting the action of employees; such reprimands will not affect the employee's privileges or status but will be recorded in his/her departments personnel file.
(3)
Written reprimand. The employee will receive a written statement describing the problem and what must be done to correct it. The written reprimand, with reference to prior oral reprimands, if applicable will also contain a statement describing the probable consequences of not correcting the problem. The written reprimand will be given to the employee who will acknowledge receipt of same over his/her signature. If he/she feels the written reprimand to be unjust, will so state in writing, giving his/her reasons. Original acknowledgement and reply thereto, if any, will be forwarded for inclusion in the individual's official personnel file.
(4)
Appeals from reprimands. Oral or written reprimands may be appealed through the appeal procedure prescribed in this manual, provided such appeal is instituted within ten working days of date of oral reprimand or receipt of written reprimand.
( Ord. of 12-2-2013 )
Sec. 50-193. - Suspension defined.
Suspension is the temporary removal of an employee from city service for cause for a specified period of time. A suspended employee shall not receive pay during the suspension period and may accrue benefits during the suspension only as specifically provided in other parts of this rule.
(1)
Suspension without pay. An employee may be suspended without pay for a violation of accepted policies governing performance and/or conduct. The suspension without pay shall not exceed 30 working days in one calendar year. Employees who serve suspensions without pay will not be authorized to make up lost time during the pay period in which they serve the suspension by working extra hours, overtime or by utilizing any accrued time.
(2)
Disciplinary salary reduction. An employee's salary may be reduced up to five percent for disciplinary purposes. This does not constitute a demotion.
(3)
Disciplinary demotion. An employee may be demoted to a lower compensation grade for disciplinary reasons if a lower position is open and if the employee is qualified to perform the work at the lower position. A disciplinary demotion must include a decrease in compensation as follows:
a.
An employee who is demoted shall have his/her compensation reduced to a level not to exceed the maximum of the lesser range. If compensation before demotion falls within the range for the lower class, the employee's compensation shall be reduced at least to the next lower step in the new range. Compensation shall not be placed at a point higher than the employee could have reached had employment been continuous in the lower position. All compensation reductions shall be based upon quality and quantity of work as reflected by service ratings and upon other recorded measures of performance giving due consideration to length of service, and shall correspond with the steps of the approved range. Exceptions to this procedure may occur based on circumstances unrelated to the employee's performance (i.e., reorganization, shortage of funds, etc.).
(4)
Dismissal defined. An employee may be dismissed for disciplinary reasons when all other alternatives have failed to solve the problem, or when it is necessary to remove the employee from the workplace immediately and/or permanently.
(5)
Dismissal recommendation. When he/she determines that such action is necessary, appropriate and in the best interest of the city service, a department head will notify the city manager. The recommendation will be in writing and shall contain the reasons why it is necessary for the department head to dismiss an employee along with all necessary support and documentation. All documentation will then be forward to the personnel officer that an employee has been dismissed.
(6)
Dismissal notification. Notification of dismissal shall be in writing and shall contain the reasons and effective date. A regular status employee shall also be informed in his/her notification that he/she has the right of appeal, pursuant to this policy.
( Ord. of 12-2-2013 )
Secs. 50-194—50-210. - Reserved.
