Chapter 39 - HISTORIC NEIGHBORHOOD PRESERVATION
ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 39-1. - Intent.
The purpose of the ordinance from which this chapter is derived is to protect the city's historic neighborhoods from incompatible development and to advance long term plans for these areas. The town finds that its historic neighborhoods are important cultural and economic assets, critical to the city's downtown development, heritage tourism and heritage education goals, and ultimately to the public's long term interest.
Zoning standards and regulations should protect these areas while advancing community development goals and furthering and protecting the public's health, safety and welfare. New construction in these areas should complement rather than interrupt, obscure, or otherwise damage or destroy the historic neighborhoods.
(Ord. of 6-5-2006, § 1; Ord No. 12-07, § 1, 11-19-2012)
Sec. 39-2. - Description of district.
Historic neighborhoods shall be those areas listed and described herein and further delineated on the official zoning map of the city, which is incorporated, by reference, and made a part of this chapter.
Historic neighborhoods shall include that area listed in the National Register of Historic Places on March 17, 1989 as the Senoia Historic District. Additional historic neighborhoods may be designated after public hearing and following the process and protocols described herein.
(Ord. of 6-5-2006, § 1; Ord No. 12-07, § 2, 11-19-2012)
Sec. 39-3. - Applicability.
Within the designated historic neighborhoods, the provisions of this chapter shall apply to:
(1)
New construction, building additions, and material changes to the exterior of existing buildings, as described below,
(2)
Relocation of existing buildings, into or out of the historic neighborhoods,
(3)
Proposed demolition of existing structures, and
(4)
Other applicable issues, if specified herein.
Historic neighborhoods shall function as overlay districts to the zoning ordinance of Senoia.
(Ord. of 6-5-2006, § 3; Ord No. 12-07, § 3, 11-19-2012)
Sec. 39-4. - Definitions.
Building. A building is a structure created to shelter any form of human activity, such as a house, barn, church, hotel, or similar structure. Building may refer to a historically related complex such as a courthouse and jail or a house and barn.
Certificate of appropriateness. Means a document evidencing approval by the historic preservation commission of an application to make a material change in the appearance of a designated historic property or of a property located within a designated historic district.
Exterior architectural features. Means the architectural style, general design and general arrangement of the exterior of a building, structure or object, including but not limited to the kind or texture of the building material and the type and style of all windows, doors, and other appurtenant architectural fixtures, features, details or elements relative to the foregoing.
Historic neighborhood. Means a geographically definable area, possessing a significant concentration, linkage, or continuity of sites, buildings, structures or objects united by past events or aesthetically by plan or physical development, listed and described within this chapter, and further delineated on the official zoning map of the city as the historic overlay.
Historic property. Means an individual building, structure, site, or object including the adjacent area necessary for the proper appreciation thereof designated by the city council as a historic property pursuant to the criteria established in section 39-48 of this chapter.
Material change in appearance. Means a change that will affect either the exterior architectural or environmental features of a historic property or any building, structure, site, or object within a historic district, such as:
(1)
A reconstruction or alteration of the size, shape or facade of a historic property, including relocation of any doors or windows or removal or alteration of any architectural features, details or elements;
(2)
Demolition or relocation of a historic structure;
(3)
Commencement of excavation for construction purposes;
(4)
The erection, alteration, restoration or removal of any buildings or other structure within a historic property or district, including walls, fences, steps and pavements, or other appurtenant features.
Object. An object is a material thing of functional, aesthetic, cultural, historical or scientific value that may be, by nature or design, movable yet related to a specific setting or environment.
Site. A site is the location of a significant event, a prehistoric or historical occupation or activity, or a building or structure, whether standing, ruined, or vanished, where the location itself maintains historical or archaeological value regardless of the value of any existing structure.
Structure. A structure is a work made up of interdependent and inter-related parts in a definite pattern of organization. Constructed by man, it is often an engineering project large in scale.
(Ord. of 6-5-2006, § 4; Ord No. 12-07, § 4, 11-19-2012)
Sec. 39-5. - Penalty provisions.
Violations of any provisions of this chapter shall be punished in the same manner as provided for punishment of violations of other validly enacted ordinances of the city.
(Ord. of 6-5-2006, § 8; Ord No. 12-07, § 8.4, 11-19-2012)
Secs. 39-6—39-20. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - HISTORIC PRESERVATION COMMISSION

Sec. 39-21. - Creation of the commission.
There is hereby created a commission whose title shall be "Senoia Historic Preservation Commission" (hereinafter "commission").
(Ord. of 6-5-2006, § 5.1; Ord No. 12-07, § 5.1, 11-19-2012)
Sec. 39-22. - Commission position within the city of Senoia.
The preservation commission shall be part of the planning functions of the city.
(Ord. of 6-5-2006, § 5.2; Ord No. 12-07, § 5.2, 11-19-2012)
Sec. 39-23. - Commission members: number, appointment, terms and compensation.
The commission shall consist of five members appointed by the mayor and ratified by the city council. All members shall be residents of the city and shall be persons who have demonstrated special interest, experience or education in history, architecture or the preservation of historic resources.
To the extent available in the city, at least two members shall be appointed from among professionals in the disciplines of architecture, history, architectural history, planning, archaeology or related professions, at least one member shall be appointed from among professionals in the disciplines of building construction or real property appraisal, and all members, to the extent available, shall be residents of the city's historic neighborhood(s) overlay. Further, one of the five members shall be a member of the city planning commission.
Members shall serve three-year terms. Members may not serve more than two consecutive terms, unless necessary due to an absence of apparent replacements. In order to achieve staggered terms, initial appointments shall be: one member for one year; two members for two years; and two members for three years. Members shall not receive a salary, although they may be reimbursed for expenses.
(Ord. of 6-5-2006, § 5.3; Ord No. 12-07, § 5.3, 11-19-2012)
Sec. 39-24. - Statement of the commission's powers.
The preservation commission shall be authorized to:
Prepare and maintain an inventory of all property within the city having the potential for designation as historic property;
Recommend to the city council specific districts, sites, buildings, structures, or objects to be designated by ordinance as historic properties or historic districts.
Review applications for certificates of appropriateness and to grant or deny same in accordance with the provisions of this chapter;
Negotiate terms and conditions with applicants for certificates of appropriateness that are satisfactory to the applicant while preserving the aesthetic integrity of the property and district;
Provide guidance to property owners in the historic district who desire to make alterations to properties in the historic district;
Promote the acquisition by the city of facade easements and conservation easements, as appropriate, in accordance with the provisions of the Georgia Uniform Conservation Easement Act of 1992 (O.C.G.A., Section 44-10-1 through 5);
Conduct educational programs on historic properties located within the city and on general historic preservation activities;
Make such investigations and studies of matters relating to historic preservation including consultation with historic preservation experts, the city council or the commission itself may, from time to time, deem necessary or appropriate for the purposes of preserving historic resources provided all costs involved have prior city council approval;
Seek out local, state, federal or private funds for historic preservation, and make recommendations to the city council concerning the most appropriate uses of any funds acquired;
Submit to the historic preservation division of the department of natural resources a list of historic properties or historic districts designated;
Perform historic preservation activities as the official agency of the Senoia historic preservation program;
Employ persons, if necessary, to carry out the responsibilities of the commission provided all costs involved have prior city council approval;
Receive donations, grants, funds, or gifts of historic property and acquire and sell historic properties. The preservation commission shall not obligate the city without prior consent;
Review and make comments to the historic preservation division of the department of natural resources concerning the nomination of properties within its jurisdiction to the national register of historic places;
Participate in private, state and federal historic preservation programs and with the prior consent of the city council enter into agreements to do the same.
(Ord. of 6-5-2006, § 5.4; Ord No. 12-07, § 5.4, 11-19-2012)
Sec. 39-25. - Commission's power to adopt rules and standards.
The preservation commission may adopt rules and standards for the transaction of its business and for consideration of applications for designations and certificates of appropriateness, such as by-laws and removal of membership provisions. All guidelines and criteria are subject to review and approval by council (Adoption of such rules and standards shall not require an amendment to this chapter). The commission shall provide for the time and place of regular meetings and a method for the calling of special meetings. The commission shall select such officers as it deems appropriate from among its members. A quorum shall consist of a majority of the members.
(Ord. of 6-5-2006, § 5.5; Ord No. 12-07, § 5.5, 11-19-2012)
Sec. 39-26. - Conflict of interest.
The commission shall be subject to all conflict of interest laws set forth in Georgia statutes, in the city's charter, code of ethics and/or in the city code.
(Ord. of 6-5-2006, § 5.6; Ord No. 12-07, § 5.6, 11-19-2012)
Sec. 39-27. - Commission's authority to receive funding from various sources.
The commission shall have the authority to accept donations and shall ensure that these funds do not displace appropriated governmental funds.
(Ord. of 6-5-2006, § 5.7; Ord No. 12-07, § 5.7, 11-19-2012)
Sec. 39-28. - Records of commission meetings.
A public record shall be kept of the commission resolutions, proceedings and actions.
(Ord. of 6-5-2006, § 5.8; Ord No. 12-07, § 5.8, 11-19-2012)
Secs. 39-29—39-45. - Reserved.
ARTICLE III. - RECOMMENDATION AND DESIGNATION OF HISTORIC DISTRICTS AND PROPERTIES

Sec. 39-46. - Preliminary research by commission.
(a)
Commission's mandate to conduct a survey of local historical resources. The commission shall compile and collect information and conduct surveys of historic resources within the city.
(b)
Commission's power to recommend districts and buildings to the city council for designation. The commission shall present to the city council recommendations for historic districts and properties.
(c)
Commission's documentation of proposed designation. Prior to the commission's recommendation of a historic district or historic property to the city council for designation, the commission shall prepare a report for nomination consisting of:
(1)
A physical description;
(2)
A statement of the historical, cultural, architectural and/or aesthetic significance;
(3)
A map showing district boundaries and classification (i.e. contributing, noncontributing) of individual properties therein, or showing boundaries of individual historic properties;
(4)
A statement justifying district or individual property boundaries; and
(5)
Representative photographs.
(Ord. of 6-5-2006, § 6.1; Ord No. 12-07, § 6.1, 11-19-2012)
Sec. 39-47. - Designation of a historic neighborhood.
(a)
Criteria for selection of historic districts. A historic neighborhood is a geographically definable area, which contains buildings, structures, sites, objects, and landscape features or a combination thereof, which:
(1)
Have special character or special historic/aesthetic value or interest;
(2)
Represent one or more periods, styles or types of architecture typical of one or more eras in the history of the municipality, county, state or region; and
(3)
Cause such area, by reason of such factors, to constitute a visibly perceptible section of the municipality or county.
(b)
Boundaries of a historic neighborhood. Boundaries of a historic district shall be shown on the official zoning map of the city.
(c)
Evaluation of properties within historic neighborhoods. Individual properties within historic districts shall be classified as:
(1)
Contributing (contributes to the district);
(2)
Non-contributing (does not contribute to the district, as provided in subsection (a).
(Ord. of 6-5-2006, § 6.2; Ord No. 12-07, § 6.2, 11-19-2012)
Sec. 39-48. - Designation of a historic property.
(a)
Criteria for selection of historic properties. A historic property is a building, structure, site, or object; including the adjacent area necessary for the proper appreciation or use thereof, deemed worthy of preservation by reason of value to the nation, city, or the state, for one of the following reasons:
(1)
It is an outstanding example of a structure representative of its era;
(2)
It is one of the few remaining examples of a past architectural style;
(3)
It is a place or structure associated with an event or persons of historic or cultural significance to the city, state, or the region; or
(4)
It is the site of natural or aesthetic interest that is continuing to contribute to the cultural or historical development and heritage of the municipality, county, state or region.
(Ord. of 6-5-2006, § 6.3; Ord No. 12-07, § 6.3, 11-19-2012)
Sec. 39-49. - Requirements for adopting an ordinance for the designation of historic neighborhoods and historic properties.
(a)
Application for designation of historic neighborhoods or property. Designations may be proposed by the city council, the commission, or:
(1)
For historic neighborhoods. A historical society, neighborhood association or group of property owners may apply to the commission for designation;
(2)
For historic properties. A historical society, neighborhood association or property owner may apply to the Commission for designation.
(b)
Required components of a designation ordinance. Any ordinance designating any property or neighborhood as historic shall:
(1)
List each property in a proposed historic neighborhood or describe the proposed individual historic property;
(2)
Set forth the name(s) of the owner(s) of the designated property or properties;
(3)
Require that a certificate of appropriateness be obtained from the commission prior to any material change in appearance of the designated property; and
(4)
Require that the property or district be shown on the official zoning map of the city and kept as a public record to provide notice of such designation.
(c)
Required public hearing. The commission and the city council shall hold a joint public hearing on any proposed ordinance for the designation of any historic district or property.
Notice of the hearing shall be published in at least two consecutive issues in the principal newspaper of local circulation, and written notice of the hearing shall be mailed by the commission to all owners and occupants of such properties. All such notices shall be published or mailed not less than 15 nor more than 45 days prior to the date set for the public hearing. A notice sent via the United States mail to the last-known owner of the property shown on the county tax digest and a notice sent via attention of the occupant shall constitute legal notification to the owner and occupant under this chapter.
(d)
Notification of historic preservation division. No fewer than 30 days prior to making a recommendation on any ordinance designating a property or district as historic the commission must submit the report, required in subsection 39-46(c), to the historic preservation division of the department of natural resources.
(e)
Recommendations on proposed designations. A recommendation to affirm, modify or withdraw the proposed ordinance for designation shall be made by the commission within 15 days following the public hearing and shall be in. The form of a resolution to the city council.
(f)
City council action on the commission's recommendation. Following receipt of the commission recommendation, the city council may adopt the ordinance as proposed, may adopt the ordinance with any amendments it deems necessary, or reject the ordinance.
(g)
Notification of adoption of ordinance for designation. Within 30 days following the adoption of the ordinance for designation by the city council, the owners and occupants of each designated historic property, and the owners and occupants of each structure, site or work of art located within a designated historic district, shall be given written notification of such designation by the city council, which notice shall notify said owners and occupants of the necessity of obtaining a certificate of appropriateness prior to undertaking any material change in appearance of the historic property designated or within the historic district designated. A notice sent via the United States mail to the last-known owner of the property shown on the city tax. digest and a notice sent via United States mail to the address of the property to the attention of the occupant shall constitute legal notification to the owner and occupant under this article.
(h)
Notification of other agencies regarding designation. The commission shall notify all necessary agencies within the city of the ordinance for designation.
(i)
Moratorium on applications for alteration or demolition while ordinance for designation is pending. If an ordinance for designation is being considered, the commission shall have the power to freeze the status of the involved property not to exceed 60 days.
(Ord. of 6-5-2006, § 6.4; Ord No. 12-07, § 6.4, 11-19-2012)
Secs. 39-50—39-60. - Reserved.
ARTICLE IV. - APPLICATION FOR CERTIFICATE OF APPROPRIATENESS

Sec. 39-61. - Approval of material change in appearance in historic districts or involving historic properties.
After the designation by ordinance of a historic property or of a historic district, no material change in the appearance of such historic property, or of a contributing or noncontributing building, structure, site or object within such historic district, shall be made or be permitted to be made by the owner or occupant thereof, unless or until the application for a certificate of appropriateness has been submitted to and approved by the commission. A building permit shall not be issued without a certificate of appropriateness.
(Ord. of 6-5-2006, § 7.1; Ord No. 12-07, § 7.1, 11-19-2012)
Sec. 39-62. - Submission of plans to commission.
An application for a certificate of appropriateness shall be accompanied by drawings, photographs, plans and documentation required by the commission.
(Ord. of 6-5-2006, § 7.2; Ord No. 12-07, § 7.2, 11-19-2012)
Sec. 39-63. - Interior alterations.
In its review of applications for certificates of appropriateness, the commission shall not consider interior arrangement or use having no effort on exterior architectural features.
(Ord. of 6-5-2006, § 7.3; Ord No. 12-07, § 7.3, 11-19-2012)
Sec. 39-64. - Technical advice.
The commission shall have the power to seek technical advice from outside its members from a list of consultants available from the department of natural resources historic preservation division with prior city council approval for costs involved on any application.
(Ord. of 6-5-2006, § 7.4; Ord No. 12-07, § 7.4, 11-19-2012)
Sec. 39-65. - Administrative bypass procedure.
Certain applications for certificate of appropriateness shall be eligible for the administrative bypass procedure. To use the administrative bypass procedure, the property owner submits an application to the city administrator or his designee. If it is determined by the city administrator or his designee that all elements of the approved guidelines have been met, the certificate of appropriateness shall be approved without consideration by the historic preservation commission. Any requests that do not meet the requirements of the approved guidelines shall be submitted to the historic preservation commission for consideration. The following applications shall be considered for administrative bypass: fences, roofs, rear decks, and signs.
(Ord No. 12-07, § 7.5, 11-19-2012; Ord. No. 17-03, 11-6-2017 )
Editor's note— Ord. No. 12-07, adopted November 19, 2012, set out provisions for use herein Art. IV. For the purposes of clarity, and at the editor's discretion, Art. IV was amended by adding a new § 39-65 and renumbering, §§ 39-65—39-74 as §§ 39-66—39-75.
Sec. 39-66. - Meeting on applications for certificates of appropriateness, notices, and public hearings.
At least seven days prior to review of a certificate of appropriateness, the commission shall conspicuously post a sign on the affected property stating the date, time, location and purpose of the meeting at which the application will be reviewed in order to inform the applicant and adjacent owners of property likely to be affected, and shall afford the applicant and such owners an opportunity to be heard at the meeting.
In cases where the commission deems it necessary, it may advertise and hold a public hearing concerning the application. Not less than seven days prior to the day of the hearing, the commission publish notice in the newspaper having the greatest general circulation within the city, and mail written notice to all owners of the subject property, as shown on the most recent tax digest. A sign shall be posted conspicuously on the affected property stating the date, time, location and purpose of the hearing.
The commission shall give the property owner and/or applicant an opportunity to be heard at the public hearing. Other interested persons will be afforded a reasonable opportunity to be heard.
(Ord. of 6-5-2006, § 7.5; Ord No. 12-07, § 7.6, 11-19-2012)
Note— See editor's note, § 39-65.
Sec. 39-67. - Acceptable commission reaction to applications for certificate of appropriateness.
The commission shall approve the application and issue a certificate of appropriateness if it finds that the proposed material change(s) in the appearance would not have a substantial adverse effect on the aesthetic, historic, or architectural significance and value of the historic property or the historic district. The commission will to the best of its ability make the review of certificates of appropriateness a process of negotiating with and providing guidance to property owners in designated districts and sites. The commission will attempt to negotiate certificates of appropriateness which are satisfactory to the applicant, while at the same time preserving the historic, aesthetic integrity of the property and the designated district and site of which it is a part. The goal of the commission in this review process is to preserve the city's historic, aesthetic resources, not to dictate how property owners will develop their property. The commission shall also recognize the importance of approving plans that will be reasonable for the applicant to implement.
In making this determination, the commission shall consider, in addition to any other pertinent factors, the following criteria for each of the following acts:
(1)
Reconstruction, alteration, new construction or renovation. The commission shall grant certificates of appropriateness for the above proposed actions if those actions conform in design, scale, building material, setback and site features, and to the Secretary of Interior's Standards for Rehabilitation and Guidelines for Rehabilitating Historic Buildings.
(2)
Relocation. An action by the commission to approve or deny a certificate of appropriateness for the relocation of a building, structure, or object shall be guided by:
a.
The historic character and aesthetic interest the building, structure or object contributes to its present setting;
b.
Whether there are definite plans for the area to be vacated and what the effect of those plans on the character of the surrounding area will be;
c.
Whether the building, structure or object can be moved without significant damage to its physical integrity; and
d.
Whether the proposed relocation area is compatible with the historical and architectural character of the building, structure, site or object.
(3)
Demolition. An action by the commission to approve or deny a certificate of appropriateness for the demolition of buildings, structure, sites, judged to be 50 years old or older, or objects shall be guided by:
a.
The historic, scenic or architectural significance of the building, structure, site, or object;
b.
The importance of the building, structure, site, tree, or object to the ambiance of a district;
c.
The difficulty or the impossibility of reproducing such a building, structure, site, tree, or object because of its design, texture, material, detail, or unique location;
d.
Whether the building, structure, site, or object is one of the last remaining examples of its kind in the neighborhood or the city;
e.
Whether there are definite plans for use of the property if the proposed demolition is carried out, and what the effect of those plans on the character of the surrounding area would be;
f.
Whether reasonable measures can be taken to save the building, structure, site, or object from collapse; and
g.
Whether the building, structure, site, or object is capable of earning a reasonable economic return on its value.
(Ord. of 6-5-2006, § 7.6; Ord No. 12-07, § 7.7, 11-19-2012)
Note— See editor's note, § 39-65.
Sec. 39-68. - Undue hardship.
When, by reason of unusual circumstances, the strict application of any provision of this article would result in the exceptional practical difficulty or undue economic hardship upon any owner of a specific property, the commission, in passing upon applications, shall have the power to vary or modify strict adherence to said provisions, or to interpret the meaning of said provisions, so as to relieve such difficulty or hardship; provided such variances, modifications or interpretations shall remain in harmony with the general purpose and intent of said provisions, so that the architectural or historical integrity, or character of the property, shall be conserved and substantial justice done. In granting relief, the commission may impose such reasonable and additional stipulations and conditions as will, in its judgment, best fulfill the purpose of this article. An undue hardship shall not be a situation of the person's own making.
(Ord. of 6-5-2006, § 7.7; Ord No. 12-07, § 7.8, 11-19-2012)
Note— See editor's note, § 39-65.
Sec. 39-69. - Deadline for approval or rejection of application for certificate of appropriateness.
The commission shall take action to approve or deny an application for a certificate of appropriateness within 45 days after the filing thereof by the owner or occupant of a historic property, or of a building structure, site, or object located within an historic district.
Notice of the action on a certificate of appropriateness shall be sent by United States mail to the applicant and all other persons who have requested such notice in writing filed with the commission. The failure of the commission to act within said 45 day period constitutes an approval.
(Ord. of 6-5-2006, § 7.8; Ord No. 12-07, § 7.9, 11-19-2012)
Note— See editor's note, § 39-65.
Sec. 39-70. - Necessary action to be taken upon rejection of application for certificate of appropriateness.
In the event the commission denies an application, it shall state its reasons for doing so, and shall transmit a written record of such actions and reasons, in writing, to the applicant and the city council. The applicant, if he or she so desires, may make modifications to the plans and resubmit the application at any time after making said changes.
In cases where the application covers a material change in the appearance of a structure which would require the issuance of a building permit, the rejection of the application for a certificate of appropriateness shall be binding upon the building inspector or other administrative officer charged with issuing building permits and, in such a case, no building permit shall be issued.
(Ord. of 6-5-2006, § 7.9; Ord No. 12-07, § 7.10, 11-19-2012)
Note— See editor's note, § 39-65.
Sec. 39-71. - Requirement of conformance with certificate of appropriateness.
All work performed pursuant to an issued certificate of appropriateness shall conform to the requirements of such certificate. In the event work is performed not in accordance with such certificate, the building official shall issue a cease and desist order and all work shall cease.
The city council shall be authorized to institute any appropriate action or proceeding in a court of competent jurisdiction to prevent any material change in appearance of a designated historic property or historic district, except those changes made in compliance with the provisions of this chapter or to prevent any illegal act or conduct with respect to such historic property or historic district.
(Ord. of 6-5-2006, § 7.10; Ord No. 12-07, § 7.11, 11-19-2012)
Note— See editor's note, § 39-65.
Sec. 39-72. - Certificate of appropriateness void if construction not commenced.
A certificate of appropriateness shall become void unless construction is commenced within six months of date of issuance. Certificates of appropriateness shall be issued for a period of 18 months and are renewable.
(Ord. of 6-5-2006, § 7.11; Ord No. 12-07, § 7.12, 11-19-2012)
Note— See editor's note, § 39-65.
Sec. 39-73. - Recording applications for certificate of appropriateness.
The commission shall keep a public record of all applications for certificates of appropriateness and of all proceedings in connection with said application.
(Ord. of 6-5-2006, § 7.12; Ord No. 12-07, § 7.13, 11-19-2012)
Note— See editor's note, § 39-65.
Sec. 39-74. - Acquisition of property.
The commission may, where such action is authorized by the city council and is reasonably necessary or appropriate for the preservation of a unique historic property, enter into negotiations with the owner for the acquisition by gift, purchase, exchange, or otherwise, to the property or any interest therein.
(Ord. of 6-5-2006, § 7.13; Ord No. 12-07, § 7.14, 11-19-2012)
Note— See editor's note, § 39-65.
Sec. 39-75. - Appeals and emergency administrative approval.
(a)
Appeals. Any applicant who is dissatisfied by a decision of the historic preservation commission may appeal such decision to the city council. Such appeal must be in writing to the city administrator and shall be filed within 30 days of the decision being appealed. The city council will schedule the matter for hearing at the next scheduled meeting of the council and at such meeting may continue the matter, affirm, reverse or modify the decision.
Any applicant adversely affected by any determination made by the mayor and council relative to the issuance or denial of a certificate of appropriateness or any other appeal from commission action may petition the superior court of the county, for a writ of certiorari. Any such petition must be filed with the court within 30 days after the issuance of the determination pursuant to section 39-67 of this article.
(b)
Emergency administrative approval. In the event of the need for emergency action to prevent undue hardship due to acts not in the control of the applicant the city administrator shall have the right to grant a COA where to delay the approval would cause undue economic harm. Approval shall granted to the applicant if the proposed change(s) meet the requirements of the guidelines.
(Ord. of 6-5-2006, § 7.14; Ord No. 12-07, § 7.15, 11-19-2012)
Note— See editor's note, § 39-65.
Secs. 39-76—39-90. - Reserved.
ARTICLE V. - MAINTENANCE OF HISTORIC PROPERTIES AND BUILDING AND ZONING CODE PROVISIONS

Sec. 39-91. - Ordinary maintenance or repair.
Ordinary maintenance or repair of any exterior architectural or environmental feature in or on a historic property to correct deterioration, decay, or to sustain the existing form, and that does not involve a material change in design, material or outer appearance thereof, does not require a certificate of appropriateness.
(Ord. of 6-5-2006, § 8.1; Ord No. 12-07, § 8.1, 11-19-2012)
Sec. 39-92. - Failure to provide ordinary maintenance or repair.
Property owners of historic properties or properties within historic districts shall not allow their buildings to deteriorate by failing to provide ordinary maintenance or repair. The commission shall be charged with the following responsibilities regarding deterioration by neglect:
The commission shall monitor the condition of historic properties and existing buildings in historic districts to determine if they are being allowed to deteriorate by neglect. Such conditions as broken windows, doors and openings which allow the elements and vermin to enter, the deterioration of a building's structural system shall constitute failure to provide ordinary maintenance or repair.
In the event the commission determines a failure to provide ordinary maintenance or repair, the commission will notify the owner of the property and set forth the steps which need to be taken to remedy the situation.
The commission shall also recognize the importance of enacting plans that will be reasonable for the applicant to implement. The owner of such property will have 30 days in which to do this. In the event that the condition is not remedied in 30 days, the owner shall be punished as provided in section 39-5 of this chapter and, at the direction of the city council, the commission may perform such maintenance or repair as is necessary to prevent deterioration by neglect. The owner of the property shall be liable for the cost of such maintenance and repair performed by the commission.
(Ord. of 6-5-2006, § 8.2; Ord No. 12-07, § 8.2, 11-19-2012)
Sec. 39-93. - Affirmation of existing building and zoning codes.
Nothing in the ordinance from which this chapter is derived shall be construed as to exempt property owners form complying with existing city or county building and zoning codes, nor to prevent any property owner from making any use of this property not prohibited by other statutes, ordinances or regulations.
(Ord. of 6-5-2006, § 8.3; Ord No. 12-07, § 8.3, 11-19-2012)
