Chapter 34 - FIRE PREVENTION AND PROTECTION[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Cross reference— Administration, ch. 2; buildings and building regulations, ch. 14; cable communications, ch. 22; environment, ch. 30; health and sanitation, ch. 38; law enforcement, ch. 42; solid waste, ch. 54; traffic and vehicles, ch. 66; utilities, ch. 70.
State Constitution reference— Power of city to provide fire protection services, art. IX, § II, para. III(a)(1).
State Law reference— Fire escapes, O.C.G.A. § 8-2-50 et seq.; forest fires, O.C.G.A. § 12-6-89; transmitting false report of fire, O.C.G.A. § 16-10-27; fire protection and safety, O.C.G.A. tit. 25; remedy of unsafe conditions upon failure to comply with court order, O.C.G.A. § 25-2-25; local ordinances, regulations or codes relating to fire prevention or protection, O.C.G.A. § 25-3-4; state grants for public purposes, O.C.G.A. § 36-40-20 et seq.; electronic security systems, installation, service, etc., by counties or municipal corporations, O.C.G.A. § 36-60-12; Georgia Firemen's Pension Fund, O.C.G.A. § 47-7-1 et seq.; liability of officers, agents, etc., of fire departments for activities, O.C.G.A. § 51-1-30.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 34-1. - Open burning.
Open fires within the city are prohibited, except in fireplaces, grills and fire pits, which are exempted from this prohibition; provided, such fires shall be attended at all times by a responsible person. Residents may not burn trash or debris, such as limbs and vegetation, at any time of year when a "burn ban" by the Georgia Forestry Commission is in effect. All open fires shall be contained in a suitable fireplace, grill or other device. Prescribed burning within the city shall be allowed only by permit of the Georgia Forestry Commission.
(Code 1980, § 9-1-7; Ord. No. 20-04 , 7-6-2020; Ord. No. 20-09 , § 1, 11-16-2020)
Editor's note— Ord. No. 20-04 , adopted July 6, 2020, changed the title of § 34-1 from Building fires in open air, to read as herein set out.
Cross reference— Solid waste, ch. 54.
Secs. 34-2—34-30. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - FIRE CODE ADOPTED; LOCAL FIRE MARSHAL; FIRE INSPECTIONS, ENFORCEMENT AND PLAN REVIEWS

Sec. 34-31. - Code adopted.
The "State Minimum Fire Safety Standards", as promulgated by the Georgia Safety Fire Commissioner pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 25-2-4, and the rules and regulations enacted thereby, shall hereby be enforced within the City of Senoia on all buildings and structures except one and two-family dwellings and those buildings and structures listed in O.C.G.A. § 25-2-13 as being within the exclusive jurisdiction of the state fire marshal, to-wit: hospitals, nursing homes, jails, ambulatory health care centers, and penal institutions, and those buildings and structures which are owned and operated or occupied by the State of Georgia.
(Ord. No. 20-04 , 7-6-2020)
Sec. 34-32. - Local fire marshal; duties defined.
There is hereby created the position of local fire marshal, who shall be the employee of and report to the city manager, who shall set the compensation, qualifications, and terms of employment for the position, subject to mayor and council approval. Based upon the city manager's assessment of workload, the person appointed to this position may hold other employment with the city as a fire chief, building official or building inspector. The person holding this position shall not have arrest powers, unless he or she is a POST-certified law enforcement officer or has been deputized by the state fire marshal.
(1)
It shall be the duty of the local fire marshal to enforce fire safety standards within the city, including but not limited to:
a.
Conducting annual fire safety inspections of all existing buildings and structures within the city for compliance with the state minimum fire safety standards, except for those buildings and structures heretofore listed as exempt from local jurisdiction. The duty to inspect includes those existing buildings and structures listed in O.C.G.A. § 25-2-13, except for hospitals, nursing homes, jails, ambulatory health care centers, and penal institutions, and those buildings and structures which are owned and operated or occupied by the State of Georgia.
b.
Reviewing plans and specifications for proposed buildings and structures, except those which, pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 25-2-13, are within the exclusive jurisdiction of the state fire marshal; and, in conjunction with the city's building official, to issue building permits only when such plans are approved; and
c.
Issuing permanent and temporary certificates of occupancy.
(2)
When making an inspection of a building or structure listed in O.C.G.A. § 25-2-13, or state-owned and operated or occupied, the local fire marshal shall not be authorized to take any enforcement action if violations are observed, however, he or she shall promptly file a written report, noting any violations or conditions observed, and file the same with the state fire marshal. The local fire marshal shall not be authorized to grant any waiver or variance that would excuse any building, structure, or proposed plans for buildings or structures from compliance with the state minimum fire safety standards and/or statewide minimum construction codes. The Georgia Safety Fire Commissioner shall be responsible for all interpretations of the state minimum fire safety standards as promulgated by O.C.G.A. § 25-2-4 and the local fire marshal shall seek his written guidance for interpretation and application of the standards, as needed.
(Ord. No. 20-04 , 7-6-2020)
Sec. 34-33. - Enforcement procedures.
(a)
Upon inspection and discovery of a violation of the state minimum fire safety standards, the local fire marshal shall serve a written notice of the violation upon the owner of the building or structure and upon each tenant therein, if the building or structure is not occupied or operated by its owner as shown on the most recent tax digest of the county. When feasible, such notice shall be served in person in order that the local fire marshal may explain to the owner/tenant the action needed to correct the violation; if not feasible, notice may be served by statutory overnight delivery or certified mail. The notice shall state a reasonable time, depending upon the nature of the violation, in which the owner/tenant shall remedy the violation.
(b)
If the owner/tenant fails or refuses to correct or to repair the violation within the time provided, the local fire marshal shall issue a written citation to the responsible party(s) to appear before the municipal court for the City of Senoia to show cause why such violator should not be sanctioned for maintaining the violation.
(c)
Upon hearing and finding by the court that the condition(s) found to exist in the building or structure constitutes a nuisance, the Court shall enter its order to abate the condition(s) constituting a nuisance and impose a reasonable time within which to do so. The court may also impose such sentence upon the violator as it deems appropriate to compel compliance with its order, including assessment of the costs to the city for bringing an enforcement action.
(d)
In those circumstances where the nature of the violation is so severe as to pose an immediate danger to life or property, the local fire marshal, with consent of the city manager, shall seek an injunction to immediately cause the vacation of the building or structure from the Superior Court of Coweta County.
(Ord. No. 20-04 , 7-6-2020)
Sec. 34-34. - Enforcement of occupancy loads.
Every building or structure, except one and two-story dwellings, shall be issued a certificate of occupancy stating the conditions and limitations on its occupancy; such notice shall be conspicuously posted in the structure at or near the main point of access. The occupancy load, as established by the certificate of occupancy, shall be strictly enforced at all times by the owner/all tenants and any persons responsible for the occupancy of the building or structure. With consent of the owner/tenant, the local fire marshalmay enter onto premises at any reasonable times to inspect and enforce occupancy limits and availability of required fire and life safety equipment in operating condition. If consent is refused, the local fire marshal, with probable cause, may seek a warrant from the municipal court judge or other magistrate in Coweta County. Failure to strictly enforce the occupancy load shall be deemed an offense against the city, subject to citation and punishment before the municipal court.
(Ord. No. 20-04 , 7-6-2020)
Sec. 34-35. - Schedule of rates, fees and charges.
A schedule of rates, fees and charges for permits, inspections, plan reviews, and other services required by article, as from time to time revised, shall be initially adopted by the mayor and council and maintained on file in the office of the city manager.
(Ord. No. 20-04 , 7-6-2020)
