Chapter 6 - CEMETERIES[1]

Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
State Law reference— Cemeteries and funerals, O.C.G.A. § 10-14-1 et seq.

Sec. 6-1. - Maintenance.
It shall be the duty of the city manager to see that the cemeteries are kept in proper condition.
(Code 1969, § 6-2)
Sec. 6-2. - Disposition of revenue.
All revenue derived from the cemeteries of the city shall be paid into the treasury.
(Code 1969, § 6-6)
State Law reference— Receipt of cemetery or burial lots in trust, annual returns, commissions, O.C.G.A. § 36-37-4; sale of municipal cemetery lots without acceptance of bids, O.C.G.A. § 36-37-6(b).
Sec. 6-3. - Laying out and conveying lots.
Burial lots may be laid out at any time. The sizes of the lots shall be as determined by the board of commissioners, as shall the prices therefor. Title to the lot for interment only shall be made by the chairman of the board and the city clerk. Nonresidents of the city may buy lots. Lots of suitable size may be reserved for any public institution. A sufficient number of free lots shall be reserved for resident families who are unable to purchase. Ranges shall be laid out to bury strangers who may die in the city. The board of commissioners may donate lots to the poor, who shall improve them as required by the board of commissioners. No interment shall be permitted in any lot except free lots until the same is fully paid for and deed made to the deceased person's family.
(Code 1969, § 6-9)
Sec. 6-4. - Reversion of lots.
Free cemetery lots improved by those to whom they are donated by the board of commissioners upon condition of such improvements shall revert to the city upon removal of the owner from the city or the extinction of the family without occupying the lot. Any lot sold or donated and the terms not complied with shall revert to the city. Should the owner of any unoccupied lot remove from the city and not transfer his right to someone else before the expiration of three (3) years, at the expiration of such time it shall revert to the city. All future deeds must contain this provision.
(Code 1969, § 6-11)
Sec. 6-5. - Depth of graves; superintendence of burial.
All bodies shall be interred in a grave not less than three and one-half (3½) feet deep or in a properly constructed vault and in no case shall they be permitted to remain aboveground enclosed with brick or other materials. No corpse shall be interred except under the superintendence or direction of the city manager.
(Code 1969, § 6-12)
