Chapter 7 - CIVIL DEFENSE[1]

Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Cross reference— Fire protection and prevention, Ch. 8; police, Ch. 12; traffic, Ch. 17.
State Law reference— Georgia Mutual Aid Act, O.C.G.A. § 36-69-2 et seq.; Georgia Emergency Management Act of 1981, O.C.G.A. § 38-3-1 et seq.; Interstate Civil Defense and Disaster Compact, O.C.G.A. § 38-3-70.

Sec. 7-1. - Civil defense.
As used in this chapter the term "civil defense" shall include measures necessary to provide for the mobilization, organization and direction of the civilian populace and necessary support agencies to prevent or minimize the effects of fire, flood, storm, earthquake and epidemic as well as the effects of enemy or subversive activities against the populace, communities, industrial plants, facilities and other installations.
(Ord. of 6-29-83, § I)
Sec. 7-2. - Council of civil defense—Membership.
The Hawkinsville-Pulaski County council of civil defense is hereby created and shall include the following:
(1)
City manager;
(2)
Director of civil defense (as appointed);
(3)
Police chief;
(4)
Fire chief;
(5)
City health officer;
(6)
City engineer;
(7)
County or city welfare officer;
(8)
American Red Cross representative;
(9)
Others, including representatives of business, labor and patriotic organizations, as appointed by the council.
(Ord. of 6-29-83, § II)
Sec. 7-3. - Same—Powers and duties.
It shall be the duty of the Hawkinsville-Pulaski County council of civil defense and it is hereby empowered to:
(1)
Develop a city civil defense plan. This plan shall provide for the effective mobilization of all the resources of the city, both private and public.
(2)
Prepare and recommend for consideration by the board of commissioners ordinances necessary to implement the civil defense plan.
(3)
Consider and recommend to the board of commissioners for approval mutual aid plans and agreements.
(4)
Have other powers and duties as determined locally.
(Ord. of 6-29-83, § III)
Sec. 7-4. - Civil defense director.
There is hereby created the office of the Hawkinsville-Pulaski County civil defense director. Such officer shall be nominated by the chairman and appointed by the governor as provided by law. The civil defense director is hereby charged to:
(1)
Represent the chairman on all matters pertaining to civil defense;
(2)
Obtain and utilize cooperation of city and county officials in the preparation and implementation of civil defense plans;
(3)
During periods of emergency, direct the services of all city civil defense forces;
(4)
During periods of emergency, obtain vital supplies and equipment lacking, needed for the protection of life and property of people and bind the city for the value thereof and, if required immediately, requisition same.
(Ord. of 6-29-83, § IV)
Sec. 7-5. - Civil defense corps—Generally.
Officers and employees of the city with volunteer forces enrolled to aid them during an emergency and all groups, organizations and persons who make the agreements on operation of law are charged with duties necessary for the protection of the life and property in the city and during such an emergency shall constitute the civil defense corps.
(Ord. of 6-29-83, § V)
Sec. 7-6. - Same—Divisions.
The functions and duties of the Hawkinsville-Pulaski County civil defense corps shall be distributed among the divisions as listed below. Each division shall be under the direction of an assistant deputy director appointed by the council of civil defense. The assistant deputies will be selected from among the best qualified in the city and may include but not be restricted to chiefs of existing community services. Arranged within each division are the various civil defense services, each service under the direction of a chief designated to head this service due to his intimate knowledge of the particular service and his qualities as a leader. The divisions are as follows:
(1)
Communications and warning;
(2)
Public information;
(3)
Search, rescue and recovery;
(4)
Police services;
(5)
Evacuation;
(6)
Fire control;
(7)
Engineering;
(8)
Transportation services;
(9)
Petroleum and solid fuels;
(10)
Utilities;
(11)
Hazardous materials control;
(12)
Health, medical and social services;
(13)
Radiological defense;
(14)
Administrative services;
(15)
State military support;
(16)
Coordination of private organizations and volunteers;
(17)
Training (optional);
(18)
Shelter and temporary housing;
(19)
Damage assessment and reporting;
(20)
Public property assistance;
(21)
Nuclear attack civil protection.
(Ord. of 6-29-83, § VI)
Sec. 7-7. - Volunteers.
All persons other than officers and employees of the city volunteering in service pursuant to the purposes of this chapter shall serve with or without compensation. While engaged in such service, they shall have the same immunities as persons and employees of the city performing similar duties.
(Ord. of 6-29-83, § VII)
Sec. 7-8. - Violations during emergency.
It shall be a misdemeanor punishable by fine not to exceed five hundred dollars ($500.00) and by imprisonment not to exceed six (6) months, or both, for any person during an emergency to:
(1)
Willfully obstruct, hinder or delay any member of the civil defense corps in any enforcement of a lawful rule or regulation issued pursuant to this chapter or in the performance of any duty imposed upon him by virtue of this chapter;
(2)
Do any act forbidden by any lawful rules or regulations issued pursuant to this chapter if such act is of such a nature as to give assistance to the enemy;
(3)
Wear or carry or display without authority any mark or identification specified by the council of civil defense.
(Ord. of 6-29-83, § VIII)
Sec. 7-9. - Civil defense plan.
A complete and adequate civil defense plan shall be formulated by the council of civil defense and chiefs of divisions. This plan will be based upon plans formulated in the state, mutual aid agreements.
(Ord. of 6-29-83, § IX)
