ARTICLE II. - INTERPRETATION OF TERMS AND DEFINITIONS

Sec. 201. - Interpretation of terms.
For the purpose of this Code, the following definitions shall apply:
1.
Words used in the singular shall include the plural, and the plural shall include the singular.
2.
Words used in the present tense shall include the future tense and past tense.
3.
The word "shall" is mandatory and not discretionary.
4.
The word "may" is discretionary.
5.
The phrase "used for" shall include the phrases "arranged for," "designed for," "intended for," "maintained for," and "occupied for."
6.
When the title of code inspector is used, it shall be construed to mean the Community Development, County and/or building department, director, or designee.
7.
Words not defined herein shall be construed to have the meaning given by common and ordinary use.
(Ord. of 2016, § 201)
Sec. 202. - Definitions
1.
Accessory building: A building customarily incidental and subordinate to the main buildings.
2.
Accessory use: A use customarily incidental, appropriate, and subordinate to the principal use of land or buildings located upon the same premises.
3.
Advertising sign or structure: Any cloth, card, paper, metal, painted, glass, wooden, plastic, plaster, stone, or other sign, device, or structure of any character whatsoever, including statuary, placed for outdoor advertising purposes on the ground or on any tree, wall, bush, rock, post, fence, building, [or] structure. The term "placed" shall include erecting, constructing, posting, painting, printing, tacking, nailing, gluing, sticking, carving, or otherwise fastening, affixing, or making visible in any manner whatsoever. The area of an advertising structure other than a sign shall be determined as the area of the largest cross section of such structure. Neither directional, warning, nor other signs posted by public officials in the course of their public duties nor merchandise or materials being offered for [sale] shall be construed as advertising signs for the purpose of this definition.
4.
Alley: A minor right-of-way dedicated to public use which affords a secondary means of vehicular access to the back or side of properties otherwise abutting a street, and which may be used for public utility purposes.
5.
Apartment house or multi-family dwelling: A dwelling unit designed to be occupied by two or more families living independently of each other as separate housekeeping units, including apartment houses, apartments, and flats, but not including auto or trailer courts or camps, hotels or resort type hotels.
6.
Average daily traffic (ADT): The number of trips generated during a 24-hour period by the total number of residential units having access to the street. Ten trips per day per residential unit shall be used for design purposes in this Code.
7.
Board: Pierce County joint planning commission/board of appeals.
8.
Board of appeals: Pierce County joint planning commission.
9.
Boarding house: A dwelling unit other than a hotel where, for compensation and by pre-arrangement for definite periods, meals or lodging and meals are provided for three or more unrelated persons.
10.
Bonds: Any form of security including a cash deposit, security bond, collateral, property or instrument of credit in an amount and form satisfactory to the affected local government. (All instruments of surety shall be reviewed by the affected local government Attorney and approved by the affected local government wherever a bond is required by these regulations.)
11.
Buffer: Land area used to visibly separate one land use from another, or to shield or block noise, lights, or other nuisances.
12.
Building: Any structure intended for shelter, housing, or enclosure of persons, animals or chattel.
13.
Building height: The vertical distance, from the average line of the highest and lowest ground elevations of that portion of the lot covered by the building, to the highest point or the roof or other structure of the building, excluding chimneys, smoke stacks, and other similar venting devices.
14.
Building line: That line which represents distance a building or structure must be set back from a lot boundary line or a street right-of-way line or street centerline, according to the terms of this ordinance.
15.
Building official: See community development director.
16.
Building, principal: A structure in which the primary use of the lot, on which said structure is situated, is conducted.
17.
Building site: A single parcel of land under one ownership, occupied or intended to be occupied by a building or structure.
18.
Central sewage system: A community sewage system including collection and treatment facilities serving more than one lot in a subdivision.
19.
Central water system: A community water system including treatment and distribution facilities serving more than one lot in a subdivision.
20.
Certificate of occupancy: A permit issued by the community development director or designee, stating the use of the building or land in question is in conformity with the Code, or a legal variance has been granted, as provided by this Development Code.
21.
Club: A building or facilities owned or operated by and for educational or recreational purposes, but not primarily operating rendering a service customarily carried on for gain.
22.
Cluster housing: Residential development which provides for the grouping of attached and/or detached single-family dwelling units. Lots may be smaller than normally permitted in a land development district, for purposes of preserving open space and natural features of the terrain and promoting economy in providing public facilities and services. Such development shall be limited to not more than four units occupying one structure.
23.
Community development director: The individual employed to enforce the Pierce County Development Code regulations, perform plat and subdivision development reviews, issue building permits and certificates of occupancy. The director serves as a resource for the Pierce County Board of Commission and the Cities of Blackshear and Patterson regarding issues of zoning, development, code, and ordinances.
24.
Commission: The joint planning commission of Pierce County, Georgia.
25.
Conditional exception: A use within certain zoning districts specified by this Code and is not permitted as a matter of right, but may be permitted by meeting the specified requirements and approval of the Pierce County planning commission. A conditional exception is of temporary nature for up to one year.
26.
Conditional use: A use which is not permitted as a matter of right within the development districts, but is a permitted use upon approval by the Pierce County planning commission. Such a use can be approved if it does not detract or disturb the intended activities for the district in which the proposed use is located. A conditional use, once permitted, is permanent.
27.
Development: The performance of any construction or mining operation, the making of any material change in the use of any structure or land, or the division of land into two or more parcels, lots, building sites or units.
28.
Dwelling: Any building, or portion thereof, which is designed or used as living quarters for one or more families.
29.
Dwelling, single-family: A structure designed to be occupied by one family.
30.
Dwelling, two-family: A structure designed to be occupied by two families living independently of each other.
31.
Dwelling, multi-family: A structure designed for occupancy by two or more families living independently of each other, exclusive of auto or trailer courts or camps, hotels or resort type hotels.
32.
Dwelling unit: One or more rooms within a structure, constituting a separate, independent housekeeping establishment, with provisions for cooking, eating and sleeping, and physically set apart from any other rooms or dwelling units in the same structure.
33.
Easement: A grant by a property owner of the use of land for a specified purpose or purposes for the general public, corporation or a certain person.
34.
Fair market value: The value of property or structures, as determined by the County Tax Assessor, either before the improvement was started, or if the structure has been damaged and is being restored, before the damage occurred.
35.
Exception: Any parcel or lot splits greater that five acres shall be exempt from any subdividing regulations, provided that all other regulations set forth in this Code are met.
36.
Final plat: A complete and exact subdivision plat prepared for official recording of that subdivision in accordance with the Plat Laws of the State of Georgia.
37.
Flag lot: A lot fronting on a public or private street which is reached via an access strip having a minimum frontage and width of 25 feet. A flag lot shall meet all requirements of these regulations.
38.
Flood or flooding: A general and temporary condition of partial or complete inundation of normally dry land areas and/or the unusual and rapid surface water accumulation of runoff from any source.
a.
Flood plain: The land area subject to inundation by waters of the 100 year flood as delineated by the Department of Housing and Urban Development, Federal Insurance Administration. The 100 year flood has a one percent chance of occurring during any given year. Agricultural areas or farms which are adjacent to fresh water courses and which are irrigated by the use of floodgates or other mechanical devices shall be considered to be the part of the Flood Fringe Area rather than the Floodway.
b.
Flood proofing: A combination of structural and/or non structural additions, changes, adjustments, or provisions to properties or structures subject to flooding which will reduce or eliminate flood damages to properties, water and sewer facilities, structures and contents of buildings.
c.
Flood fringe area: The area of the flood plain lying outside the floodway, but still lying within the area of special flood hazard, i.e., within the 100 year flood plain.
d.
Floodway: The channel of a river or other water course and the adjacent land areas that must be reserved in order to discharge the velocity waters of the regulatory flood.
e.
Regulatory flood: For purposes of this ordinance, a flood event having a one percent chance of occurring in any given year, although the flood may occur in any year, i.e., the 100 year flood.
f.
Regulatory flood elevation: The crest elevation in relation to mean sea level expected to be reached by the regulatory flood at any given point in an area of special flood hazard.
39.
Home occupation: Any occupation or profession carried on by dwelling unit inhabitants, which is clearly incidental and secondary to the use of the structure for residential purposes, does not change the character thereof, and which is conducted entirely within the main or accessory buildings.
40.
Hotel: A building or group of buildings under one ownership containing six or more sleeping rooms occupied, intended or designed to be occupied as the more or less temporary abiding place of persons who are lodged with or without meals for compensation, but not including an auto or trailer court or camp, sanitarium, hospital asylum, orphanage or building where persons are housed under restraint.
41.
Improvements: Those physical additions and changes to the land that may be necessary to produce useable and desirable lots.
42.
Individual sewage disposal system: A septic tank and seepage tile sewage disposal system or any other sewage treatment device for one lot as approved by the county health department.
43.
Junk yards: An open area where waste, used or secondhand material are bought and sold, exchanged, stored, baled, packed, disassembled, or handled, including, but not limited to, scrap iron and other metals, paper, rags, rubber tires and bottles. A "junk yard" includes automobile wrecking yards and includes any area for storage, keeping or abandonment of junk, but does not include uses established entirely within enclosed buildings.
44.
Kennel, commercial: Any lot, structure or premises where two or more dogs and/or cats are kept for a fee.
45.
Loading space, off street: Space logically and conveniently located for pickups and deliveries, scaled to delivery vehicles expected to service, and accessible to such vehicles.
46.
Local governments: The county commission of Pierce County, Georgia and/or City of Blackshear Council and/or City of Patterson Council.
47.
Lot: A parcel of land of varying size which is designed as a single unit of property and which is intended to be occupied by one building, or group of buildings, and accessory buildings and uses as required by this Code. A lot is also that portion of a subdivision intended as a unit for transfer or for development, or both. The word "lot" includes the word "plot" or "parcel."
a.
Lot, area: The total acreage or square footage included within lot boundaries.
b.
Lot, corner: A lot of which at least two adjacent sides abut, for their full lengths on different streets, provided that the interior angle at the intersection of such two sides is less than 135 degrees.
c.
Lot, double loaded: A lot with frontage on two streets, at a point other than at their intersection, as distinguished from a corner lot. This configuration is not allowed in new subdivision plats, but shall be accepted if an existing configuration has been recorded.
48.
Lot of record: An area designated as a separate and distinct parcel of land on a legally recorded subdivision plat or in a legally recorded deed, filed in the records of the Clerk of Pierce County Superior Court.
49.
Lot width: The distance between the side lot lines, measured along the front yard setback line as established by this Code; or if no set back line is established, the distance between the side lot lines measured along the street right-of-way lines.
50.
Master plan: The Development Code and its regulations concerning zoning, land subdivision, and building construction, when combined with the Pierce County Comprehensive Plan, the Tri-County Solid Waste Management Plan, and the Official Land Use Map, form the Master Plan. Other elements and ordinances may be included at the discretion of the Commission.
51.
Mobile home: A detached single-family dwelling unit with all of the following characteristics:
a.
Designed for long-term occupancy, and containing sleeping accommodations, a flush toilet, a bath, and kitchen facilities, with plumbing and electrical connections provided for attachment to outside systems.
b.
Designed to be transported after fabrication on its own wheels, or on a flatbed.
c.
Arriving at the site complete and ready for occupancy and requiring only minor work or assembling before occupancy.
52.
Mobile home park: A parcel of land which is used or intended to be used for the rent, lease or sale of spaces/lots and the provision of services for two or more mobile homes.
53.
Mobile home space/lot: A plot of ground within a mobile home park designed for the accommodation of one mobile home.
54.
Non-conforming use: A structure or parcel of land lawfully occupied by a use that does not conform to the regulations of the land use district in which it is situated.
55.
Person: The word "person" includes a firm, corporation, or partnership.
56.
Plat: A map or drawing upon which the plan of the subdivision is presented for approval.
57.
Preliminary plat: A tentative subdivision plat, indicating approximate proposed layout of a subdivision submitted with supporting documentation as necessary for consideration and approval prior to preparation of the final plat.
58.
Private sewage system: A sewage system including collection and treatment facilities that is owned, maintained and operated by a community corporation, landowners association, or the developer serving more than one lot and approved by the state department of natural resources.
59.
Private water system: A water system, including treatment and distribution facilities, owned, maintained and operated by a community corporation, landowners association, or the developer; serving more than one lot and approved by the state department of natural resources and the county health department.
60.
Public or community sewage system: Any sewage treatment works, pipe lines or conduits, pumping stations and force mains and all other constructions, devices, and necessary appliances, designed for treating or conducting sewage for ultimate disposal into lakes, streams, estuaries or other bodies of surface water, that is owned, maintained and operated by the County or a municipality and serving more than one lot and approved by the environmental protection division, state department of natural resources.
61.
Public utility: Any person, firm or corporation, municipal department, board or commission duly authorized to furnish and is furnishing under federal, state or municipal regulations to the public the following: natural gas, steam, electricity, sewage disposal, communication or water.
62.
Public water system: A water system including treatment and distribution facilities that is owned, maintained and operated by the County or a municipality serving more than one lot and approved by the environmental protection division, state department of natural resources.
63.
Reserved strip: A small strip of land between the terminus of a platted street right-of-way and the plat boundary where ownership could be retained by the subdivider which would prevent the extension of said street into adjacent property.
64.
Right-of-way: A legal right of passage over another person's property, with access over or across particularly described property for a specific purpose or purposes. The usage of the term "right-of-way" for land platting purposes shall mean that every right-of-way hereafter established and shown on a final plat is to be separate and distinct from the lots or parcels adjoining such right-of-way and not included within the dimensions or areas of such lots or parcels.
65.
Right-of-way line: The outside boundaries of a right-of-way, whether such right-of-way be established by usage, recorded easement, deed, dedication or by the official right-of-way.
66.
Screening: A strip of densely planted shrubs or trees at least three feet wide and three feet in height at the time of planting, or a ten foot wide naturally vegetated buffer strip, or an opaque wall or barrier of uniform material at least six feet in height.
Screening should be maintenance free or set back from the property line to allow access for maintenance.
67.
Street: Any public or private thoroughfare which affords the principal means of access to abutting property. Private streets, those access routes which have not been formally dedicated nor are maintained by the County, shall meet the minimum requirements for public streets.
a.
Arterial streets: Major thoroughfares that are primarily intended for fast or heavy traffic.
b.
Collector streets: Thoroughfares which carry traffic from lesser roads to arterial streets and highways, and those streets serving industrial and commercial areas, designed to have limited residential frontage.
c.
Lanes: Minor ways which are used primarily for vehicular service access to the back or side of properties otherwise abutting on a street.
d.
Marginal access streets: Lesser roads which are parallel to and adjacent to arterial streets and highways, providing access to abutting properties and protection from through traffic.
e.
Minor streets: Used primarily for access to abutting residential property and are designed to carry [not] more traffic than that which is generated on the street itself—should be designed to convey an average daily traffic (ADT) volume not greater than 250 for cul-de-sacs and 500 for loop/through streets.
f.
Sub-collector streets: Those streets which are used for access to abutting residential property and also conduct traffic from minor streets that intersect it. Sub-collector streets should be designed to convey an ADT volume not greater than 1,500. Residential streets that can be used as through streets between collector and arterial streets shall be classified as collector streets.
68.
Street centerline: The line surveyed and monumented by the governing authority shall be the centerline of a street, or in the event that no centerline has been determined, it shall be that line running midway between, and parallel to the outside right-of-way lines of such streets.
69.
Street, intersecting: Any street which joins another street at an angle, whether or not it crosses the other.
70.
Structure: Any form constructed or erected, the use of which requires location on the ground or attached to an object having a location on the ground. Structure does not include walls or fences.
71.
Structural alterations: Any change in the supporting members of a building, such as bearing walls or partitions, columns, beams, or girders, or any substantial change in the roof or in the exterior walls.
72.
Subdivider: The owner of land proposed to be subdivided or his designated representative. Consent shall be required from the legal owner of the property.
73.
Subdivision: The division of a tract or parcel of land into two or more lots, building sites, or other divisions for the purpose of immediate or future sale, legacy, gift, or building development; all divisions of land involving a new street or a change in existing streets. The term includes the re-subdivision of land, and when appropriate to the context, relates to the process of subdividing or to the land subdivided.
74.
Subdivision, major: The division of a tract or parcel of land into ten or more lots, building sites, lease lots, or other divisions for the purpose, whether immediate or future, of sale, lease, legacy, or building development. The term shall include the opening of a new street/road, or a change in existing streets; or divisions of land involving the extension public utilities and includes re-subdivision and where appropriate to the context, relates to the process of subdivision or to the land or area subdivided.
75.
Subdivision, minor: The division of a tract or parcel of land into five and no more than nine or less lots, building sites, lease lots, or other divisions for the purpose, whether immediate or future, of sale, lease legacy or building development. The term shall include the opening of a new street/road, or a change in existing streets; or divisions of land involving the extension public utilities and includes re-subdivision and where appropriate to the context, relates to the process of subdivision or to the land or area subdivided.
76.
Subdivision, non: The division of a tract or parcel of land up to four lots for the purpose whether immediate or future, of sale, lease legacy or building development.
77.
Use of right: Activities or structures which are in accord with the intent of the district in which they are located.
78.
Use, principal: The main or primary use for which land or structure is intended.
79.
Variance: A variance is a property-specific relaxation of the terms of the Development Code, where such variance will not be contrary to the public interest and owing to conditions peculiar to the property and not the result of the actions of the applicant, a literal enforcement of the Code would result in unnecessary and undue hardship.
80.
Water body: Any natural or artificial waterway, stream, lake, slough, pond, canal, channel, swamp, or marsh in which water stands or flows either continuously or intermittently including any adjacent bank which is subject to inundation by reason of overflow or pond water.
81.
Yard: The open space at grade between a building and the adjoining lot lines, unoccupied and unobstructed except for accessory uses, landscaping, fences, etc. In measuring a yard for the purpose of determining the width of the side yard, the depth of a front yard, or the depth of a rear yard, the least measured distance at grade between the lot line and the main building shall be used.
a.
Yard, front: That portion of all lots located between the outer wall of the principal use or building and the boundary line along the primary transportation access, usually but not limited to that side of the principal building which contains the perceived primary entrance.
b.
Yard, rear: That portion of all lots, opposite the front yard and divided from the front yard by the principal use or building, which extends the minimum distance from the outer wall of the principal building to the boundary line opposite the front boundary line.
c.
Yard, side: That portion of all lots, measured as the minimum distance between the outer wall of the principal building and side lines of the lot; side lines usually extend from the front lot line to the rear lot line.
(Ord. of 2016, § 202)
