Chapter 6 - ANIMALS[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
State Law reference— Responsible Dog Ownership Law, O.C.G.A. § 4-8-20 et seq.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 6-1. - Burial of dead animals on private property.
(a)
It shall be lawful for the employees of the county, at the request of a citizen of the county, to bury dead animals on the private property of such citizen at the site appointed by the citizen.
(b)
Prior to the burying of such animal by the county, a fee in an amount determined from time to time by action of the board of commissioners and set forth in the consolidated fee schedule, shall be paid to the county by the citizen requesting the burying of such dead animal.
(Code 2005, § 10-1; Ord. of 12-2-1991, §§ 1, 2)
Secs. 6-2—6-20. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - DOGS
DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Secs. 6-21—6-43. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - DANGEROUS DOGS

Sec. 6-44. - Definitions.
(a)
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this division, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Dangerous dog means any dog that, according to the records of an appropriate authority:
(1)
Causes a substantial puncture of a person's skin by teeth without causing serious injury; provided, however, that a nip, scratch, or abrasion shall not be sufficient to classify a dog as dangerous under this subsection;
(2)
Aggressively attacks in a manner that causes a person to reasonably believe that the dog posed an imminent threat of serious injury to such person or another person although no such injury occurs; provided, however, that the acts of barking, growling, or showing of teeth by a dog shall not be sufficient to classify a dog as dangerous under this subsection; or
(3)
While off the owner's property, kills or seriously injures a pet animal; provided, however, that this subsection shall not apply where the death of such pet animal is caused by a dog that is working or training as a hunting dog, herding dog, or predator control dog.
Dog control officer means an individual selected pursuant to the provisions of O.C.G.A. § 4-8-22(b) to aid in the administration and enforcement of the provisions of this division and related laws of the state.
Owner means any natural person or any legal entity, including, but not limited to, a corporation, partnership, firm, or trust owning, possessing, harboring, keeping, or having custody or control of a dangerous or vicious dog. In the case of a dog owned by a minor, the term "owner" includes the parents or person in loco parentis with custody of the minor.
Proper enclosure means an enclosure for keeping a dangerous or vicious dog while on the owner's property securely confined indoors or in a securely enclosed and locked pen, fence, or structure suitable to prevent the entry of young children and designed to prevent the dog from escaping. Any such pen or structure shall have secure sides and a secure top, and, if the dog is enclosed within a fence, all sides of the fence shall be of sufficient height, and the bottom of the fence shall be constructed or secured in such a manner as to prevent the dog's escape either from over or from under the fence. Any such enclosure shall also provide protection from the elements for the dog.
Records of an appropriate authority means records of any state, county, or municipal law enforcement agency; records of any county or municipal animal control agency; records of any county board of health; records of any federal, state, or local court; or records of a dog control officer as provided for in this division and by the laws of the state.
Serious injury means any physical injury that creates a substantial risk of death; results in death, broken or dislocated bones, lacerations requiring multiple sutures, or disfiguring avulsions; requires plastic surgery or admission to a hospital; or results in protracted impairment of health, including transmission of an infection or contagious disease, or impairment of the function of any bodily organ.
Vicious dog means a dog that inflicts serious injury on a person or causes serious injury to a person resulting from reasonable attempts to escape from the dog's attack.
(b)
No dog shall be classified as a dangerous dog or vicious dog for actions that occur while the dog is being used by a law enforcement or military officer to carry out the law enforcement or military officer's official duties. No dog shall be classified as a dangerous dog or a vicious dog if the person injured by such dog was a person who, at the time, was committing a trespass, was abusing the dog, or was committing or attempting to commit an offense under O.C.G.A. title 16, ch. 5.
(Code 2005, § 10-51; Ord. of 11-13-1989, § 1)
Sec. 6-45. - Control board.
(a)
An animal control board is hereby created for the purpose of conducting hearings under O.C.G.A. § 4-8-23 of the Responsible Dog Ownership Law, O.C.G.A. § 4-8-20 et seq.
(b)
The animal control board shall consist of five persons, who shall serve for staggered terms of three years each. The members of this board shall be appointed by the board of commissioners.
(c)
The board of commissioners may appoint alternate members of the animal control board from time to time as the need may arise. Such alternate members shall serve only for a temporary time sitting on the board when a quorum of the animal control board cannot be ascertained due to conflicts which exist by appointed board members.
(Code 2005, § 10-52; Ord. of 11-13-1989, § 2)
Sec. 6-46. - Dog control officer.
(a)
The dog control officer, upon receiving a report of a dangerous or vicious dog within the county from a law enforcement agency, animal control agency, rabies control officer, or county board of health, shall make such investigations and inquiries with regard to such report as may be necessary to determine the validity of such report and whether the dog should be classified as a dangerous or vicious dog.
(b)
Should the dog control officer determine that a dog is a dangerous or vicious dog, such officer shall classify such dog accordingly, and the dog control officer shall notify the dog's owner, in writing by certified mail or statutory overnight delivery, to the owner's last-known address, of such classification or reclassification. Such notice shall be complete upon its mailing.
(Code 2005, § 10-53; Ord. of 11-13-1989, § 3)
Sec. 6-47. - Classification as dangerous or vicious.
In classifying or reclassifying dangerous or vicious dogs, the dog control officer must comply with the procedure for classification set forth in O.C.G.A. § 4-8-23, and the same is incorporated herein as if fully set out in this section.
(Code 2005, § 10-54; Ord. of 11-13-1989, § 4)
Sec. 6-48. - Requirements for possessing dangerous or vicious dogs.
(a)
No one shall have or possess within the county a dangerous or vicious dog without a certificate of registration issued in accordance with the provisions of O.C.G.A. § 4-8-27, and the provisions thereof are incorporated in this division as if fully set forth in this section.
(b)
The owner of each dangerous or vicious dog shall pay an annual registration fee at the time of the issuance of the annual certificate of registration. The annual registration fee shall be in an amount determined by from time to time by action of the board of commissioners and set forth in the consolidated fee schedule for each such dangerous or vicious dog. Registrations shall be renewed in the month of the initial registration.
(c)
The dog control officer shall require evidence from the owner or make such investigation as may be necessary to verify that the dangerous or vicious dog is confined or continuing to be confined in a proper enclosure and that the owner is in compliance with or continues to be in compliance with the provisions of O.C.G.A. § 4-8-27(b) and (c).
(d)
The owner of a dangerous or vicious dog shall notify the dog control officer if the owner is moving from the county.
(e)
The owner of a dangerous or vicious dog who is a new resident of the county shall register the dog as required by this division and the state's Responsible Dog Ownership Law within 30 days after becoming a resident. The owner of a dangerous or vicious dog who moves from one jurisdiction to another within the state shall register the dangerous or vicious dog in the new jurisdiction within ten days after becoming a resident.
(f)
The owner of a dangerous or vicious dog shall notify the dog control officer within 24 hours if the dog is on the loose, unconfined, has attacked a human, has died, or has been sold or donated. If the dog has been sold or donated, the owner shall provide the dog control officer with the name, address, and telephone number of the new owner of the dog.
(g)
The issuance of a certificate of registration or the renewal of a certificate of registration by the county does not warrant or guarantee that the requirements specified in O.C.G.A. § 4-8-27(b) and (c) are maintained by the owner of a dangerous dog or vicious dog on a continuous basis following the date of the issuance of the initial certificate of registration or following the date of any annual renewal of such certificate.
(Code 2005, § 10-55; Ord. of 11-13-1989, § 5)
Sec. 6-49. - Confiscation of dogs and the disposition thereof.
(a)
A dangerous or vicious dog shall be immediately confiscated by the dog control officer or by a law enforcement officer or by another person authorized by the dog control officer if the:
(1)
Owner of the dog does not secure liability or bond required by O.C.G.A. § 4-8-27(c);
(2)
Dog is not validly registered as required by state law and this division;
(3)
Dog is not maintained in a proper enclosure; or
(4)
Dog is outside a proper enclosure in violation of O.C.G.A. § 4-8-29(a) and (b).
(b)
Any dog that has been confiscated under the provisions of this division shall be returned to its owner upon the owner's compliance with the provisions of this division and O.C.G.A. § 4-8-20 et seq., and upon the payment of reasonable cost of confiscation. In the event the owner has not complied with the provisions of this division within 14 days of the date the dog is confiscated, such dog shall be released to an animal shelter, as such term is defined in O.C.G.A. § 4-14-2, or euthanized in an expeditious and humane manner. The owner may be required to pay the costs of housing and euthanasia.
(Code 2005, § 10-56; Ord. of 11-13-1989, § 6)
Sec. 6-50. - Interpretation of adoption of this division.
It is the intention of this division to adopt the minimum standards and requirements for the control of dangerous or vicious dogs in compliance with the state's Responsible Dog Ownership Law. Therefore, as stated by the general assembly of the state, the owner of a dangerous or vicious dog shall be solely liable for any injury to or death of a person caused by such dog. Under no circumstances shall the county or any employee or official of the county which enforces or fails to enforce the provisions of such law or this division be held liable for any damages to any person who suffers an injury inflicted by a dog that has been identified as being a dangerous or vicious dog; or by a dog that has been reported to the proper authority as being a dangerous or vicious dog;, or by a dog that the county has failed to identify as a dangerous or vicious dog; or by a dog which has been identified as being a dangerous or vicious dog but has not been kept or restrained in the manner prescribed by law; or by a dangerous or vicious dog whose owner has not maintained insurance coverage or a surety bond as required by law.
(Code 2005, § 10-57; Ord. of 11-13-1989, § 7)
