ARTICLE I. - BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS, CLERK, COUNTY ATTORNEY, COUNTY MANAGER, AUDIT[1]

Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Editor's note— Printed herein is 1937 Ga. Laws (Act No. 420), page 1397. Amendments are indicated by parenthetical history notes following amended provisions. The absence of a history note indicates that the provision remains unchanged from the original. Obvious misspellings have been corrected without notation. For stylistic purposes, headings and catchlines have been made uniform, and expression of numbers in text as appears in the Code of Ordinances has been used. A consistent scheme of capitalization has also been used. Additions for clarity are indicated by brackets. Catchlines have been editorially supplied. Pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 36-5-20, the term "commissioners of roads and revenues" has been changed to "board of commissioners" and the terms "commissioner of roads and revenues" has been changed to "commissioner."

Sec. 1. - Creation of board.
(a)
There is created the board of commissioners of Pierce County. The board shall be composed of five members to be elected as provided in this section. For purposes of electing members of the board of commissioners, Pierce County is divided into four commissioner districts. The four commissioner districts shall be and correspond to those four numbered districts described in and attached to and made a part of this Act and further identified as Plan Name: piercep2r Plan Type: Local User: Gina Administrator: Pierce Co.
(b)
When used in such attachment, the terms 'Tract' and 'BG' (Block Group) shall mean and describe the same geographical boundaries as provided in the report of the Bureau of the Census for the United States decennial census of 2000 for the State of Georgia. The separate numeric designations in a Tract description which are underneath a 'BG' heading shall mean and describe individual Blocks within a Block Group as provided in the report of the Bureau of the Census for the United States decennial census of 2000 for the State of Georgia. Any part of Pierce County which is not included in any such district described in that attachment shall be included within that district contiguous to such part which contains the least population according to the United States decennial census of 2000 for the State of Georgia. Any part of Pierce County which is described in that attachment as being in a particular district shall nevertheless not be included within such district if such part is not contiguous to such district. Such noncontiguous part shall instead be included within that district contiguous to such part which contains the least population according to the United States decennial census of 2000 for the State of Georgia. Except as otherwise provided in the description of any commissioner district, whenever the description of such district refers to a named city, it shall mean the geographical boundaries of that city as shown on the census map for the United States decennial census of 2000 for the State of Georgia.
(c)
There shall be one member of the board elected by the voters of the entire county who shall be the chairman. Any person desiring to qualify as a candidate for chairman shall designate that he is qualifying for the chairman post. A candidate for chairman may reside anywhere in Pierce County. Any person qualifying for the chairman post shall not be permitted to qualify as a candidate for election to the board from any education district as provided in subsection (d) of this section.
(d)
There shall be one member of the board elected from each commissioner district. Any person qualifying as a candidate shall designate the commissioner district for which he desires to qualify. A person may not offer as a candidate for election to the board from any commissioner district other than from the commissioner district in which he is a legal resident. The members of the board of commissioners elected pursuant to this subsection shall be elected by the voters residing within the commissioner district in which such member has offered as a candidate.
(e)
Commissioner Districts 1, 2, 3, and 4, as they exist immediately prior to June 1, 2002, shall continue to be designated as Commissioner Districts 1, 2, 3, and 4, respectively, but as newly described under this Act, and on and after June 1, 2002, such members of the board serving from those former commissioner districts shall be deemed to be serving from and representing their respective districts as newly described under this Act. Those members of the board of commissioners of Pierce County who are serving as such on June 1, 2002, and any person selected to fill a vacancy in any such office shall continue to serve as such members until the regular expiration of their respective terms of office and upon the election and qualification of their respective successors.
(f)
The members of the board of commissioners of Pierce County provided for in this section shall be elected at the general election of 1986 and shall take office on January 1, 1987. Members elected from Commissioner District No. 1 and Commissioner District No. 3 shall be elected for terms of two years and until their successors are elected and qualified. Members elected from Commissioner District No. 2 and Commissioner District No. 4 and the member elected as chairman shall be elected for terms of four years and until their successors are elected and qualified. Thereafter, successors shall be elected at the general election immediately preceding the expiration of their terms of office and shall take office on the first day of January immediately following their election for terms of four years and until their successors are elected and qualified. All members of said board shall be nominated and elected in accordance with the provisions of Chapter 2 of Title 21 of the O.C.G.A., the 'Georgia Election Code.'
(1985 Ga. Laws (Act No. 478), page 4836, § 1; 1995 Ga. Laws (Act No. 211), page 4235; 2002 Ga. Laws (Act No. 502), page 4132, § 1)
Editor's note— The plan referenced in subsection (a) (Plan Name: piercep2r Plan Type: Local User: Gina Administrator: Pierce Co.) has been omitted from this printing at the discretion of the editor. It may be found at 2002 Ga. Laws (Act No. 502), page 4132.
Sec. 2. - Repealed.
(1985 Ga. Laws (Act No. 478), page 4836, § 1)
Sec. 3. - Vacancies.
Any vacancy on the board shall be filled at a special election called by the ordinary of said county and held within 30 days after such vacancy occurs. All laws, rules and regulations governing regular county elections shall govern all regular and special elections held under this Act. The member elected to fill any vacancy shall serve only for the unexpired term of the commissioner whose office has become vacant. Should there be a vacancy in the office of chairperson, the members of the board may elect one of such members to act as chairperson until such time that the vacancy shall be filled by special election. The board may provide additional compensation for the acting chairperson. Such compensation shall not exceed the regular compensation provided for the chairperson.
(1997 Ga. Laws (Act No. 268), page 4189, § 1)
Sec. 4. - Eligibility.
No person shall be eligible to hold office as a commissioner who is not a registered qualified voter of the county, and only such persons as are registered and qualified to vote for members of the General Assembly shall be allowed to participate in any election for county commissioners.
Sec. 5. - Bond of chairman and other commissioners.
The commissioner named as chairman of the board shall, before entering upon the discharge of the duties of his office, give bond with a surety company licensed to do business in this state, approved by the ordinary of said county, in the sum of $10,000.00, payable to the ordinary of the county and his successors in office, and conditioned for the faithful discharge by said chairman of his duties and the carrying out of the conditions thereof.
Each of the other commissioners shall, before entering upon the discharge of the duties of such office, give bond with a security company licensed to do business in this state and approved by the judge of the probate court of said county in the sum of $5,000.00 payable to the judge of the Probate Court of Pierce County and his or her successors in office and conditioned upon the faithful discharge of the duties of the county commissioners. The premiums of the security bond provided for in this section shall be paid by Pierce County out of the county's treasury.
(1997 Ga. Laws (Act No. 268), page 4189, § 1)
Sec. 6. - Official oath.
Each of said commissioners shall, before entering upon the discharge of the duties of his office, make and subscribe to an oath before the ordinary of the county to faithfully discharge his duties and to carry out the provisions of this Act, to the best of his skill and knowledge, and to the best interest of the county.
Sec. 7. - Chairman's compensation and expenses.
The chairperson of the board of commissioners shall serve on a part-time basis and shall receive a salary in the amount of $18,000.00. The chairperson shall receive an expense allowance to be determined by the board in its annual budget and payable in equal monthly installments out of the funds of Pierce County. The chairperson shall be entitled to travel and lodging expenses for travel outside of Pierce County in performance of his or her official duties. The chairperson shall receive a mileage allowance for travel at the rate allowed by the Internal Revenue Service.
(1943 Ga. Laws (Act No. 96), page 1098, § 1; 1955 Ga. Laws (Act No. 282), page 2961, § 1; 1955 Ga. Laws (Act No. 362), page 3331, § 1; 1957 Ga. Laws (Act No. 419), page 3132; 1961 Ga. Laws (Act No. 40), page 2115, § 1; 1965 Ga. Laws (Act No. 68), page 206, § 1; 1968 Ga. Laws (Act No. 853), page 2649; 1971 Ga. Laws (Act No. 335), page 2888, § 1; 1974 Ga. Laws (Act No. 795), page 2086, § 1; 1987 Ga. Laws (Act No. 188), page 4024, § 1; 1997 Ga. Laws (Act No. 268), page 4189, § 3; 2000 Ga. Laws (Act No. 600), page 4210; 2010 Ga. Laws (Act No. 296), page 3894, § 1)
Sec. 8. - Compensation and expenses of other members.
The compensation of each of the members of the board other than the chairperson shall be not more than $6,000.00 annually, the exact amount to be determined by the majority vote of the board of commissioners of Pierce County and paid in equal monthly installments from the funds of Pierce County. The members of the board other than the chairperson shall receive an expense allowance as approved by the board in its annual budget and payable in equal monthly installments out of the funds of Pierce County. The members other than the chairperson shall be entitled to travel and lodging expenses for travel outside of Pierce County while performing their official duties. Such members shall be paid a mileage allowance for travel at the rate allowed by the Internal Revenue Service.
(1955 Ga. Laws (Act No. 282), page 2961, § 2; 1955 Ga. Laws (Act No. 362), page 3331, § 2; 1961 Ga. Laws (Act No. 40), page 2115, § 2; 1974 Ga. Laws (Act No. 68), page 2068, § 2; 1987 Ga. Laws (Act No. 188), page 4024, § 2; 1991 Ga. Laws (Act No. 233), page 4620; 1997 Ga. Laws (Act No. 268), page 4189, § 4)
Sec. 9. - Clerk's duties and salary.
The board is hereby authorized and empowered to appoint a clerk for said board who shall serve at the pleasure of the board. The board shall have the authority to fix the salary of said clerk. It shall be the duty of said clerk to keep a proper and accurate book of said minutes, wherein shall appear all orders, resolutions and proceedings had and passed with reference to county matters. The clerk shall also keep a full and accurate book of county vouchers wherein shall appear in itemized detail all orders and warrants drawn by the board of the county treasurer or depository showing for what purposes and on what fund such orders or warrants were drawn. He shall also in a well bound book keep an inventory of all county property of whatever nature, listing the valuation of each item of property so recorded, where located, in whose custody, and in what condition, which inventory shall be carefully revised each year, and he shall keep such other books and records as the board may require, all of which shall be open to public inspection during the office hours by any citizen or taxpayer of the county.
(1941 Ga. Laws (Act No. 4), page 949; 1945 Ga. Laws (Act No. 36), page 548; 1955 Ga. Laws (Act No. 282), page 2961, § 3; 1955 Ga. Laws (Act No. 362), page 3331, § 3; 1961 Ga. Laws (Act No. 40), page 2115, § 3)
Sec. 10. - Meetings; concurrence; election of chairman.
The board shall hold regular meetings on the first Tuesday in each month, and at such other times as said board may fix, for the transaction of the business of the county. Three members of said board shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business. The chairman may vote on all questions before the board and the vote of each commissioner shall have equal weight and dignity as that of the chairman or any other member. A majority of the board present at a meeting must concur in order to pass any order or resolution or let any contract or grant or allow any claim against the county, and their acts on all such matters must be duly entered on the minutes of the board in order to be valid.
(1985 Ga. Laws (Act No. 478), page 4836, § 2)
Sec. 11. - Jurisdiction; powers.
The Board of Commissioners shall have and they are hereby vested with exclusive jurisdiction and control over the following matters, to wit: In directing, controlling and caring for all property of the county, according to law; in levying taxes for county purposes, according to law, in establishing, altering or abolishing public roads, private ways, bridges and ferries in conformity to law; in establishing, abolishing or changing election precincts and Militia Districts, according to law; in supervising the tax collector's and tax receiver's books and in allowing the insolvent list for said county, according to law; in examining, settling and allowing all claims against the county; in examining and auditing all claims and accounts of officers having the care, management, keeping, collection or disbursement of money belonging to the county or appropriated for its use and benefit and bringing them to a settlement, and especially are they charged with frequently examining and auditing the books of the county treasurer or county depository, the tax collector, the tax receiver, the sheriff, the superintendent of public schools, and other officers of said county, through whose hands county funds may pass, and this may be done by any member of the board or through accountants or bookkeepers employed for the purpose, and he or they may require from all such officers, subject to examination, such reports as may be necessary to keep said commissioner fully informed at all times of the financial condition of the county; in controlling, calling for and managing the convicts of the county, according to law; in making rules, regulations and provisions for the support of the poor of the county, according to law; in promoting and preserving the public health of the county, with authority to quarantine against contagious diseases and epidemics, according to law; in regulating and fixing license fees as authorized by law; in providing for the levy and collection of the commutation road taxes, fixing the amount to be paid in money or the number of days' work to be performed in lieu thereof; in trying all road defaulters, in accordance with the law, and generally to have and exercise all powers heretofore vested in the ordinary of said county when sitting for county purposes and to exercise such other powers as are granted by law, or as may be indispensable to the jurisdiction over county matters or county finances; in selecting and appointing all minor officers of the county whose election or appointment is not otherwise provided by law, such as superintendent and guards of convicts in the chain gang, janitor of the courthouse, county physician and health officer, tax assessors, county policemen, and other officers and guards as needed and authorized by law. All appointees of the board shall be subject to suspension or dismissal at any time, and no appointee so suspended or dismissed shall be entitled to any salary or compensation during suspension or after dismissal, no matter whether the time for which he was appointed has expired or not.
Sec. 12. - County attorney.
The board shall have authority to employ a competent attorney at law as county attorney to advise them and represent the county in any litigation which may arise in which said county is a party. Said attorney may be retained only in an advisory capacity, and in the event of litigation, the board may make such agreement with said attorney, or any other attorney, for legal representation, as they may deem advisable. Whenever it is deemed necessary, the board may employ additional counsel to assist the county attorney. The board is hereby authorized to employ such other help as they may deem necessary and also a Warden for the county at a salary not to exceed $150.00 per month together with an allowance of $50.00 per month in addition to said salary for the use of the Warden's automobile and to pay such other expenses and to furnish said Warden with materials, parts and gasoline as they may deem necessary in the discharge of his duties.
(1943 Ga. Laws (Act No. 96), page 1098, § 3)
Sec. 13. - County manager; creation and duties.
(a)
Pursuant to Code Section 36-5-22 of the O.C.G.A. [O.C.G.A. § 36-5-22], there is created the office of county manager for Pierce County. The county manager shall be the chief administrative officer and head of the administrative branch of the county government. The county manager shall be responsible for the efficient administration of all county departments.
(b)
The county manager shall be appointed by a majority vote of the board of commissioners of Pierce County who shall determine and prescribe his or her compensation and term of office. Said board of commissioners may contract with the county manager on such terms as it may deem reasonable and prudent. No member of the board of commissioners shall be appointed county manager on either a permanent or interim basis during the term of office for which he or she is elected or for a period of one year after terminating his or her office as a commissioner of Pierce County.
(c)
The county manager shall devote all of his or her working time and attention to the affairs of the county and shall be responsible to the board of commissioners for the efficient administration of all of the affairs of the county over which the county manager has jurisdiction. The powers and duties of the county manager shall be:
(1)
To see that all laws, county codes, and ordinances are enforced;
(2)
To appoint all department heads with the approval of the board of commissioners;
(3)
To appoint and remove all subordinate officers and employees in all departments;
(4)
To exercise control over all departments and divisions created therein or which may hereafter be created by the board of commissioners;
(5)
To attend all meetings of the board of commissioners with the right to take part in all discussions but having no vote;
(6)
To recommend to the board of commissioners such measures for adoption which he or she may deem necessary and expedient;
(7)
To prepare and submit to the board of commissioners an annual budget;
(8)
To keep the board of commissioners fully advised as to the financial condition and needs of the county;
(9)
To supervise and direct the official conduct of all county officers and employees except as otherwise provided in this Act;
(10)
To supervise the performance of all contracts made by any person for work done for the county, to make all purchases of materials and supplies for the county, and to see that the same are received as contracted for; and
(11)
To perform such other duties as may be prescribed in this Act or required of the county manager by ordinance or resolution of the board of commissioners.
(d)
In the event of a vacancy in the office of county manager, the board of commissioners shall expeditiously proceed with due diligence to appoint an interim county manager. In no such event shall the board of commissioners allow the office of county manager to remain vacant for a period in excess of four weeks from the date said office became vacant. Specifically, the board of commissioners shall, at the least, fill any vacancy in the office of county manager with an interim county manager within four weeks from the date of vacancy. Furthermore, the board of commissioners shall advertise for the permanent position of county manager at the first opportunity upon vacancy of the office of county manager.
(1997 Ga. Laws (Act No. 268), page 4189, § 5; 2010 Ga. Laws (Act No. 296), page 3894, § 2)
Sec. 14. - Chairman's duties.
The chairman of the board shall, at the end of each quarter, with the aid and assistance of the clerk of the board, make up a condensed statement showing all amounts collected and expended on behalf of the county during that quarter, the balance on hand at the beginning of the quarter and at the end of the quarter, and shall verify said statement by an affidavit that the statement is a full and true statement of the monetary transactions of the board of commissioners for the preceding quarter, said statement shall be published either in the official organ of the county, or by posting upon the bulletin board in the rotunda of the courthouse.
Sec. 15. - Financial interest unlawful; penalty.
It shall be unlawful for the board of commissioners, or any member thereof, or the chairman, to have any financial interest in the sale or purchase of any articles to or from the county, or to receive any rebate, expense account, transportation, or other valuable consideration in connection with or through the purchase of any equipment or supplies for the county, or the awarding of any contract for said county, and if any commissioner shall violate any provision of this section he shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, and upon conviction shall be punished for such in the manner prescribed by law, and he shall immediately forfeit his office, and such conviction shall create a vacancy in said office, which said vacancy shall be filled as provided in section 3 of this Act. The chairman of the county commissioners is hereby given authority, in the event of an emergency, to purchase supplies for the county in an amount not to exceed $500.00.
Sec. 16. - Purchase of materials.
No material for public building, bridges or roads shall be purchased by said board, for the county, except upon written specifications as to quality, and all such material must be suitable for the purpose intended and of good quality and generally recognized as standard for the purpose to be used. Metal culverts shall be bought according to size and gauge and such as recognized by the State Highway Department and the United States road building authorities as standard for road purposes. All laws of Georgia as to competitive bidding for all such material shall be strictly observed.
Sec. 17. - Audit.
The board of commissioners of Pierce County is hereby given authority to employ in its discretion an auditor to audit all books, accounts, vouchers, warrants, and other records of the board.
Sec. 18. - Severability.
Should any section, provision, clause, or any other part of this Act be held unconstitutional and invalid, it shall not affect or destroy the validity or constitutionality of any other section, provision, clause or part of this Act which is in and of itself unconstitutional or invalid, and the remaining portions of this Act shall be enforced without regard to the section, provision, clause or part so held to be invalid.
Sec. 19. - General repeal.
All laws or parts of laws in conflict with this Act are hereby repealed.
