ARTICLE II. - COUNTY TREASURER ABOLISHED[2]

Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
Editor's note— Printed herein is 1915 Ga. Laws (Act No. 177), page 327, which created and established the board of commissioners of the county. Amendments are indicated by parenthetical history notes following amended provisions. The absence of a history note indicates that the provision remains unchanged from the original. Obvious misspellings have been corrected without notation. For stylistic purposes, headings and catchlines have been made uniform, and expression of numbers in text as appears in the Code of Ordinances has been used. A consistent scheme of capitalization has also been used. Additions for clarity are indicated by brackets. Catchlines have been editorially supplied.

Sec. 1. - Office abolished.
Be it enacted by the general assembly of Georgia, and it is hereby enacted by authority of same, that the office of county treasurer of the County of Pierce is hereby abolished, said office to be abolished and this Act to go into effect on January 1, 1917.
Sec. 2. - Bank depository.
Be it further enacted, that the county commissioners of the County of Pierce are hereby authorized and directed to select any bank in the County of Pierce to do and to perform all the duties and functions of the office of county treasurer of said county, and said bank thus selected shall do all of said work without any compensation or pay, either directly or indirectly.
Sec. 3. - Bond.
Be it further enacted, that the bank thus selected shall give a good bond to the county commissioners of said county in the sum of $20,000.00 for the faithful performance of all its duties connected with the county business. The board of commissioners of Pierce County, or any other official or board which may be hereafter in charge of said county's fiscal affairs, may, in his or their discretion, accept from the county depository of Pierce County, designated as provided by law, a bond with personal sureties instead of a surety company bond, or, if said official or board thinks proper to do so, he or they may accept from said county depository a surety-company bond for a part of the amount of the bond required and a bond with personal sureties for the remainder of said amount, the latter bond to protect the county from additional losses in excess of the amount covered by the surety-company bond.
(1933 Ga. Laws (Act No. 140), page 646, § 2)
Sec. 4. - Deposit of revenue.
Be it further enacted by the authority aforesaid, that all moneys collected for the county, including all tax moneys, shall be deposited by the county officers of Pierce County in said county depository as required by law.
(1933 Ga. Laws (Act No. 140), page 646, § 3)
Sec. 5. - General repeal.
Be it further enacted, that all laws and parts of laws in conflict with this Act be and the same are hereby repealed.
