PART I - CHARTER[1]
ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 1. - City incorporated, designated, constituted body corporate and politic.
The City of Adel in the County of Cook is hereby incorporated under the name and style of the City of Adel.
Said City of Adel as a municipality shall have perpetual succession and is vested with the right to contract and be contracted with, to plead and be impleaded, to buy, own, enjoy and sell property of all kinds and to have and use a common seal and do all other things and acts as may be necessary or needful to exercise such rights, powers, functions, privileges and immunities as ordinarily belongs to municipal corporations generally under the law, as well as those hereinafter enumerated. Said corporate body under the name and style of the City of Adel shall have all rights, powers and privileges to purchase, acquire by gift, lease or otherwise to receive, hold, possess, enjoy and retain in perpetuity or for any term of years, or dispose of in any manner known to law any interest in any real or personal property of whatsoever kind or nature or description within or without the limits of said city for corporate purposes, subject to the restrictions contained in this Act. Said city shall have the right to adopt such ordinances, rules, regulations and resolutions for the welfare and proper government of the city and for the transaction of the business thereof as may be deemed good and proper, consistent with the laws and Constitution of the State of Georgia and of the United States.
Said City of Adel shall be the legal successor to the City of this Act, and shall receive all of the property of said former city, and be responsible for all debts, contracts and obligations for which said former city is now obligated.
State Law reference— Powers of municipal corporations generally, Ga. Const. 1983, art. IX, sec. II, para. III, O.C.G.A. § 36-34-1 et seq.
Sec. 2. - Responsibility for prior debts, contracts, obligations.
The City of Adel is hereby made responsible as a corporate body for all legal debts, contracts and obligations for which the City of Adel as incorporated under an Act approved July 29, 1919 [1919 Ga. Laws, page 792], as amended, is now obligated.
Sec. 3. - Existing ordinances, rules, bylaws, regulations, resolutions preserved.
All existing, valid ordinances, rules, bylaws, regulations and resolutions of the City of Adel not inconsistent with this Charter shall remain in full force and effect for the City of Adel until altered, amended or repealed.
Sec. 4. - Corporate limits.
The corporate limits of the City of Adel shall be as follows:
Beginning at a point in the southern portion of the City of Adel, said point being the intersection of the west margin of the Georgia Southern and Florida Railroad and the southeast margin of a certain road commonly called the I-75 south interchange connector road and the old Adel-Quitman Road, said road is further identified as being designated by the department of transportation as Federal-Aid secondary route S-1281; thence from said point of beginning running northeasterly along the east margin of said Federal-Aid secondary route S-1281 approximately 960 feet to a point, said point being the intersection of the east margin of Federal-Aid secondary route S-1281 and the west margin of U.S. [Highway] 41; thence running southeastwardly along the said west margin of U.S. Highway 41, a distance of 1,750 feet more or less to a point, said point being a point on the west margin of U.S. Highway 41 and being the northeast corner of the property of Preston Green's two-acre tract; thence running due west along the property of Preston Green a distance of 315 feet to a point; thence South 8 degrees 51 minutes East along a line 315 feet west of and parallel with the west margin of U.S. Highway 41, a distance of 2,022 feet more or less, to a point and the lands of V.F.W. Post No. 5974; thence due east along lands of the V.F.W. Post No. 5974 and the Rev. G. L. Frey a distance of 315 feet to the west margin of U.S. Highway 41; thence South 6 degrees 06 minutes East along the west margin of U.S. Highway 41 a distance of 205.69 feet to a point which is the southeast property corner of the V.F.W. Post No. 5974 and the Blanton Cabinets, Inc.; thence North 89 degrees 40 minutes West a distance of 701.6 feet to the east margin of the Georgia Southern and Florida Railroad; thence South 16 degrees 31 minutes East along the east margin of the Georgia Southern and Florida Railroad a distance of 538.5 feet to the lands of Dave Jackson; thence North 85 degrees 22 minutes East along the lands of Dave Jackson and Blanton Cabinets, Inc., a distance of 385.1 feet to a point; thence continue North 84 degrees 49 minutes East along lands of the Georgia Forestry Commission and the Blanton Cabinets, Inc., a distance of 208.7 feet to a point on the west margin of U.S. Highway 41; thence South 6 degrees 06 minutes East along the west margin of U.S. Highway 41 a distance of 1,380 feet more or less to a point; thence continue South 19 degrees 30 minutes East along the west margin of U.S. Highway 41 a distance of 300 feet more or less to the intersection of the west margin of U.S. Highway 41 with the north margin of a Georgia Power Company easement; thence North 89 degrees 30 minutes East along the north margin of the Georgia Power Company easement a distance of 1,518 feet more or less to a point and lands of Roscoe Leavens; thence North 0 degrees 30 minutes West along lands of Jim Hood and lands of Roscoe Leavens a distance of 1,566 feet more or less to the south margin of a private road; thence along the west margin of the private road in a northwest direction a distance of 375.31 feet to a point on the south margin of the Val-Del Road; thence continue in a northwest direction across the Val-Del Road a distance of 80 feet more or less to the north margin of the Val-Del Road; thence continue North 70 degrees 15 minutes West along the north margin of the Val-Del Road a distance of 1,670 feet more or less to a point that is the intersection of the north margin of the Val-Del Road and a line that is 100 feet east and parallel to the east margin of U.S. Highway 41; thence continue North 8 degrees 52 minutes 37 seconds West along said line through lands of Mrs. P. M. Parrish a distance of 1,339 feet more or less to a point; thence North 81 degrees 08 minutes East a distance of 24 feet to a point; thence North 0 degrees 47 minutes 37 seconds West 310.18 feet to a point; thence South 81 degrees 09 minutes West a distance of 67.6 feet to a point that is back on line that is 100 feet east and parallel with the east margin of U.S. Highway 41; thence continue North 8 degrees 52 minutes 37 seconds West along said line a distance of 1,122.23 feet to a point that is 100.12 feet east of the intersection of the east margin of Gordon Avenue and the south margin of Sixteenth Street; thence running eastwardly along the south margin of Sixteenth Street a distance of 2,724.30 feet to the run of Bear Creek; thence running northwestwardly along the run of Bear Creek to a point, said point being the intersection of the south margin of Ninth Street projected eastwardly and the run of Bear Creek; thence running North 75 degrees 00 minutes East along a line, said line being an eastward extension of the south margin of Ninth Street, 1,570 feet more or less to a point; thence running North 16 degrees 47 minutes West along the east boundary of property of Charles Shiflett a distance of 2,030 feet more or less to a point, said point being the southwest corner of property of Jim Paulk; thence running North 84 degrees 07 minutes East and approximately parallel to Georgia Highway 37 a distance of 460.4 feet to a point; thence running North 8 degrees 05 minutes East a distance of 309 feet to a point on the north margin of Georgia Highway 37; thence running North 81 degrees 55 minutes West along the north margin of Georgia Highway 37 a distance of 262 feet more or less to a point; thence running North 6 degrees 34 minutes East a distance of 145 feet to a point; thence running North 81 degrees 55 minutes West a distance of 108 feet more or less to a point on the east margin of Cox Still Road; thence running North 36 degrees 50 minutes East along the east margin of Cox Still Road a distance of 519 feet to a point; thence running North 78 degrees 00 minutes West a distance of 1,000 feet more or less to the west high water mark of a certain lake formed by the damming of Spring Branch; thence running northerly and easterly along the west high water line of said lake to a point, said point being the point where the run of Spring Branch enters the said lake and being 480 feet more or less north of the north margin of Melba Street; thence running northwardly along the run of said Spring Branch 565 feet more or less to a point, said point being a point in the center of the run of Spring Branch directly opposite the northeast corner of and in line with the north boundary of Lot 7, Block D, Unit 5, of the Spring Branch Estates subdivision; thence running North 82 degrees 32 minutes 49 seconds West along said north boundary of said Lot 7 a distance of 272.19 feet more or less to the east margin of Newton Avenue; thence running North 82 degrees 32 minutes 49 seconds West a distance of 60 feet across the right-of-way of said Newton Avenue to a point on the west margin of said Newton Avenue; thence running South 23 degrees 45 minutes West along the west margin of Newton Avenue a distance of 368 feet more or less to a point, said point being the point of intersection of the north margin of Gloria Street with the west margin of Newton Avenue; thence running South 75 degrees 56 minutes West along the north margin of said Gloria Street a distance of 1,017 feet more or less to a point, said point being the point of intersection of the north margin of Gloria Street with the east margin of Bear Creek Road; thence running northwardly along the east margin of Bear Creek Road a distance of 1,740 feet more or less to a point, said point being a point on the east margin of the Bear Creek Road, 595 feet south of the south margin of the Old Adel-Nashville Road; thence running in an eastwardly direction perpendicular to the Bear Creek Road, a distance of 200 feet; thence running in a northerly direction and parallel to the Bear Creek Road a distance of 595 feet to a point on the south margin of the Old Adel-Nashville Road; thence running eastwardly along the south margin of the Old Adel-Nashville Road, a distance of 150 feet more or less to a point; thence in a northwest direction across the Old Adel-Nashville Road, a distance of 80 feet more or less, said point being the point where the Old Adel-Nashville Road north margin intersects with the east margin of the Massey Post Road; thence running in a northeast direction along the east margin of the Massey Post Road a distance of 500 feet more or less to a point that intersects with the south property line of the Frank Tyson Estate and the north property line of the Assembly of God Church property and the east margin of the Massey Post Road; thence North 76 degrees 18 minutes 32 seconds West along said line a distance of 720 feet more or less to the east margin of Bear Creek Road; thence North 25 degrees 08 minutes West along [the] east margin of Bear Creek Road a distance of 1,424.08 feet to a point that is the northwest corner of the Frank Tyson Estate property; thence South 73 degrees 52 minutes 39 seconds West along the north property line of the Frank Tyson Estate a distance of 736.10 feet to a point that is on the west margin of the Massey Post Road; thence continue South 73 degrees 52 minutes 39 seconds West across right-of-way of Massey Post Road a distance of 80 feet more or less to a point on the east margin of the Massey Post Road that is located 550 feet more or less south of the southwest corner of the Cook County School Board property; thence running in a northeasterly direction along the east margin of the Massey Post Road a distance of 550 feet more or less to the southwest corner of the property of the Cook County School Board; thence South 29 degrees 09 minutes East along the lands of the Cook County School Board and the Georgia Power Company Easement a distance of 722.17 feet to a point; thence North 71 degrees 01 minutes East a distance of 552.2 feet to a point; thence North 14 degrees 23 minutes 30 seconds East a distance of 1,806.87 feet to a point; thence South 81 degrees 03 minutes West a distance of 832.8 feet to a point, which point is located on the east margin of the Massey Post Road, 631.3 feet south of the intersection of the north land lot line of Land Lot No. 316 and the east margin of the Massey Post Road; thence southwest along the east margin of the Massey Post Road a distance of 570 feet more or less to a point that intersects with the north property line extension of Iva Sutton property and the east margin of the Massey Post Road; thence in a northwest direction across the right-of-way of the Massey Post Road and along the north property line of Iva Sutton property a distance of 520 feet to the east margin of Bear Creek Road extension; thence in a northeast direction along the east margin [of the] Bear Creek Road extension a distance of 560 feet more or less to the southwest corner of James G. Connell property; thence in a southeast direction along the south line of the James G. Connell property a distance of 405 feet more or less to a point that intersects with the south property line extension of James G. Connell and the east margin of the Massey Post Road; thence in a northeasterly direction along the east margin of the Massey Post Road a distance of 3,900 feet more or less to the intersection of the west land lot line of Land Lot No. 283 with the east margin of the Massey Post Road; thence running with the land lot line south a distance of 230 feet more or less to a point on said land lot line that will intersect with a line that is 150 feet southeast and parallel with the southeast margin of the Massey Post Road; thence continue along said line a distance of 2,650 feet more or less to a point; thence running north and parallel to the west land line of Land Lot No. 282 a distance of 295 feet more or less to the north land line of Land Lot No. 282; thence westwardly along the north land lot line of Land Lot No. 282 a distance of 2,040 feet to the northwest corner of Land Lot No. 282; thence south along the west land lot line of Land Lot No. 282 a distance of 1,950 feet more or less to the north margin of the Sparks-Massey Road; thence North 82 degrees 59 minutes West along the north margin of the Sparks-Massey Road a distance of 1,100 feet more or less to land of Eddie Sumner; thence North 7 degrees 01 minute East along land of Eddie Sumner a distance of 658 feet to a point; thence North 82 degrees 59 minutes West and parallel with the Sparks-Massey Road a distance of 210 feet to lands of Kent Thomas; thence South 7 degrees 01 minute West along lands of Kent Thomas and Eddie Sumner a distance of 448 feet to a point that is 210 feet north of the north margin of the Sparks-Massey Road; thence North 82 degrees 59 minutes West along a line that is 210 feet north and parallel with the north margin of the Sparks-Massey Road a distance of 2,638 feet more or less to a point; thence South 7 degrees 01 minute West a distance of 210 feet to a point on the north margin of the Sparks-Massey Road; thence South 82 degrees 59 minutes East along the north margin of the Sparks-Massey Road a distance of 296 feet to a point; thence South 7 degrees 01 minute West across the Sparks-Massey Road, a distance of 346 feet to a point; thence North 82 degrees 59 minutes West a distance of 296 feet to a point; thence South 7 degrees 01 minute West a distance of 649 feet to a point; thence South 82 degrees 59 minutes East a distance of 296 feet to a point; thence South 7 degrees 01 minute West a distance of 1,950 feet more or less to the south side of Moore Street and the Old City Limits Line, said point being on the north land lot line of Land Lot No. 316, 9th Land District; thence running South 89 degrees 22 minutes West, a distance of 740 feet more or less along said north line of Land Lot No. 316 to the northwest corner of Land Lot No. 316; thence running southward along the west land lot line of Land Lot No. 316 a distance of 1,470 feet more or less to the north boundary of Oak Terrace Estates subdivision; thence continue running South 1 degree 04 minutes East along the west land lot line of Land Lot No. 316 which is also the west margin of Oak Terrace Estates subdivision, sections 1 and 2, said west margin being parallel to and approximately 150 feet west of Breckendridge Drive, a distance of 1,298 feet more or less to a point, said point being 500 feet north of Mitchell Street; thence running South 89 degrees 08 minutes West, a distance of 1,000 feet more or less to the run of Bear Creek; thence running northwesterly along the center of the run of Bear Creek to a point, said point being the point of intersection of the center of the run of Bear Creek and the center of the run of Giddens Mill Creek; thence running westwardly along the center of the run of Giddens Mill Creek to a point, said point being the point of intersection of the center of the run of Giddens Mill Creek with the east margin of the Georgia Southern and Florida Railroad right-of-way; thence running southward along said east margin of said Georgia Southern and Florida Railroad right-of-way to a point, said point being the point of intersection of the said east margin of the right-of-way of the Georgia Southern and Florida Railroad with the north margin of a certain unnamed paved county road, which is identified here as a westward extension of Mitchell Street; thence running westwardly along the north margin of said unnamed paved road a distance of 9,900 feet more or less to a point, said point being on the north margin of said unnamed paved road directly opposite from the point of intersection of the south margin of said unnamed paved road and the north margin of Georgia Highway 37; thence running from said point on a line perpendicular to the tangent of the unnamed paved [road] to the point of intersection of the north margin of Georgia Highway 37 with the south margin of unnamed road; thence running on a line perpendicular to Georgia Highway 37 to a point on the south margin of Georgia Highway 37; thence running east along the south margin of Georgia Highway 37 a distance 870 feet more or less to the east margin of a certain graded county road, said east margin of said road being the west boundary of the Cook County Airport property; thence running South 1 degree 24 minutes West along the east margin of said road a distance of 1,408.75 feet to a point; thence running South 23 degrees 53 minutes West along the east margin of said road a distance of 2,117.09 feet to a point; thence leaving the said county road and running along a fence line South 1 degree 29 minutes East a distance of 1,814.65 feet to a point; thence running North 88 degrees 14 minutes East along a fence line a distance of 1,061.84 feet to a point; thence running North 44 degrees 32 minutes East along a fence line a distance [of] 2,250 feet to a point; thence running South 45 degrees 28 minutes East along a fence line 950 feet to a point; thence running North 49 degrees 15 minutes East along a fence line 90 feet more or less to a point of the southwest margin of a certain graded county road; thence running southward along the west margin of said graded county road a distance of 2,950 feet more or less to the south margin of a certain graded county road, commonly called the County Farm Road; thence running eastwardly along the south margin of said county road a distance of 3,180 feet more or less to a point on the north margin of said County Farm Road, said point is further described as being 297 feet west of the centerline of the Adel-Berlin Road; thence running South 7 degrees 40 minutes West a distance of 406.46 feet to the west margin of the Adel-Berlin Road; thence running South 37 degrees 49 minutes West along the west margin of said Adel-Berlin Road a distance [of] 372.94 feet to a point; thence continuing to run along the west margin of said Adel-Berlin Road South 47 degrees 01 minute West a distance of 920.46 feet to a point; thence continuing to run along the west margin of said Adel-Berlin Road South 36 degrees 31 minutes West a distance of 343.18 feet to a point, said point being on the west margin of the Adel-Berlin Road and being 280.5 feet north of the run of Morrison Creek; thence running South 54 degrees 06 minutes East a distance of 439.70 feet to a point; thence running South 47 degrees 14 minutes East a distance of 459.83 feet to a point on the west margin of the Adel-Quitman Road, said road is further described as being the Georgia State Highway 76; thence running South 36 degrees 51 minutes West along the west margin of said Georgia Highway 76 a distance of 233.7 feet to the center of the run of Morrison Creek; thence running eastwardly along the center of the run of Morrison Creek, a distance 4,000 feet more or less to a point on the south margin of the Old Adel-Quitman Road; thence running eastwardly along the south margin of the Old Adel-Quitman Road a distance of 1,408 feet more or less to the centerline of Interstate Highway I-75; thence continuing to run along the south margin of the Old Adel-Quitman Road a distance of 900 feet more or less to a point, said point being 68.80 feet southwest of the point where the Old [Adel]-Quitman Road right-of-way reduces from 100 feet [in] width to 80 feet [in] width, said last point being the east end of the construction right-of-way for the I-75 interchange; thence running South 0 degrees 38 minutes West along an existing dirt drive a distance of 217.08 feet to a point; thence running South 13 degrees 33 minutes East a distance of 114.03 feet to a point; thence running North 88 degrees 09 minutes East a distance of 301.41 feet; thence running North 0 degrees 58 minutes West along a fence line a distance of 419.75 feet to a point, said point being a point on the south line of the original northeast quarter of Land Lot 376 of the 9th Land District; thence running North 88 degrees 22 minutes East along the south line of the said northeast quarter of Land Lot 376 a distance of 1,370 feet more or less to a point on the west margin of a certain graded county road; thence running northward along the said county road a distance of 215 feet more or less to a point; thence crossing said county road and running approximately North 89 degrees 00 minutes East along a fence line a distance of 950 feet more or less to a point on the west margin of the Georgia Southern and Florida Railroad; thence running northward along the west margin of said railroad a distance of 2,225 feet more or less to the point of intersection of the southwest margin of the Old Adel-Quitman Road and the west margin of the Georgia Southern and Florida Railroad, said point being the point of beginning.
(1962 Ga. Laws, page 2711; 1971 Ga. Laws, page 3428; 1976 Ga. Laws, page 2757)
Editor's note— Various ordinances annexing or de-annexing territory to the city are as follows: Ord. of Dec. 21, 1964; Ord. of Feb. 21, 1972; Ord. of July 6, 1972; Ord. of Jan. 4, 1973; Ord. of Feb. 5, 1973; two Ords. of March 5, 1973; Ord. of April 23, 1973; Ord. of May 21, 1973; Ord. No. 75-5, 4-21-75; Ord. No. 77-4, 4-4-77; Ord. No. 77-10, 10-3-77; Ord. No. 79-2, 1-2-79; Ord. No. 79-11, 8-6-79; Ord. No. 81-5, 12-7-81; Ord. No. 84-3, 6-4-84; Ord. No. 95-4, 6-19-95; Ord. No. 95-16, 12-4-95; Ord. No. 95-17, 12-4-95; Ord. No. 96-9, 6-3-96; Ord. No. 96-20, 12-2-96; Ord. No. 97-8, 7-7-97; Ord. No. 97-10, 7-21-97; Ord. No. 97-16, 11-3-97; Ord. No. 98-1, 1-20-98; Ord. No. 98-2, 1-20-98; Ord. No. 98-3, 1-20-98; Ord. No. 99-6, 4-19-99; Ord. No. 99-7, 5-3-99; Ord. No. 99-8, 5-3-99; Ord. No. 02-06, 7-15-02; Ord. No. 02-11, 11-18-02; Ord. No. 02-12, 11-18-02; 04-04, 9-7-04; Ord. No. 04-10, 11-1-04; Ord. No. 05-07, 7-5-05; Ord. No. 07-01, 2-19-07; Ord. No. 07-06, 8-6-07; Ord. No. 08-01, 3-17-08; Ord. No. 09-17, 11-2-09)
Sec. 5. - Organization of city government.
The government of the City of Adel shall be vested in a mayor and five (5) councilmen, to be called the city council, to be elected as hereinafter provided:
(a)
Mayor. The mayor shall be recognized as the official head of the city by the courts for the purpose of serving civil process; by the government in the exercise of military law; and for all ceremonial purposes. He shall preside at all meetings of the city council and perform such other duties consistent with his office as may be imposed by it.
(b)
Legislative authority of council; ordinances; veto power of mayor. The council of the City of Adel shall be the legislative body. It may pass all ordinances for the government of the city. Ordinances shall be proposed and read at either a special or regular meeting of the council and shall be adopted at either a special or regular meeting, provided that either the proposal and reading or the adoption, one or the other, shall be done in a regular meeting; and provided further that at least six (6) days shall lapse between the proposal and reading and the adoption; and provided further that a copy of the proposed ordinance shall be posted on the bulletin board of the city hall from the day after its proposal until its adoption. The mayor may veto any ordinance passed by the council, in which event such ordinance shall become null and void unless it shall be repassed by four (4) of the members of the council. The council shall fix an annual budget for the city and approve all expenditures made by the city.
(1971 Ga. Laws, page 3428; 1976 Ga. Laws, page 2757)
State Law reference— Municipal authority to adopt ordinances, rules and regulations, O.C.G.A. § 36-35-3(a).
Sec. 6. - Council meetings; selection, function of mayor pro tem.
The council shall meet in regular session on first and the third Monday in each month and such other times as the council may set by ordinance. Special meetings of the council may be called at any time by the mayor or by a majority of the members of the council. The mayor shall preside over all meetings of the council, but shall have no vote except when the vote of the council is equally divided.
At the first regular meeting of each calendar year, the council shall elect one of its members as mayor pro tem who shall, in the event of the absence, disability or disqualification of the mayor, perform all the duties and exercise all the rights and powers and privileges of the office of mayor.
(1976 Ga. Laws, page 2757; Ord. No. 01-14, § 1, 1-7-02)
State Law reference— Conduct of public meetings, O.C.G.A. § 50-14-1 et seq.
Sec. 7. - Qualifications of mayor and councilmen.
To be eligible to be mayor of the City of Adel, a person shall be at least twenty-five (25) years of age, the owner of real property in the corporate limits of said city, shall have resided in the City of Adel a period of at least two (2) years and shall be a registered, qualified voter of the State of Georgia and of the City of Adel. To be eligible to be a member of the council of said city, a person must be at least twenty-one (21) years of age, the owner of real property in the corporate limits of said city, a resident of the City of Adel for a period of at least one year and a registered, qualified voter of the State of Georgia and the City of Adel.
Should the mayor or any councilman during his or their term of office remove his residence from the corporate limits of said city or cease to be a bona fide resident thereof, his or their office shall thereby become vacant.
State Law reference— Eligibility and qualifications for office, O.C.G.A. § 45-2-1 et seq.
Sec. 8. - Compensation of mayor and councilmen.
The council, with the approval of the mayor of the city, shall determine the compensation of the mayor and councilmen.
Sec. 9. - Election, terms of mayor and councilmen; qualification; fees.
(a)
Beginning in 1983, and continuing each year thereafter, there shall be an annual election held on the third Wednesday in October for the election of the mayor and councilmembers of the City of Adel whose terms expire in said year. All persons elected at such election shall take office instanter following their election and serve for a term of two years, except as provided in this subsection for certain councilmembers elected in 1983, and until their successors are elected and qualified. Councilmembers elected to district 1, post 1, district 2, post 1, and to post at large in the election held on the third Wednesday in October 1983 shall serve for a term of one year and until their successors are elected and qualified. Thereafter, in succeeding years terms of all council posts shall be for a term of two years and until their successors are elected and qualified.
(b)
The mayor and two councilmembers, formerly seat 1 and seat 2, elected in the election held on the third Wednesday in October 1981 shall remain in office until the third Wednesday in October 1983 and until their successors are elected and qualified. The three councilmembers, formerly seat 3, seat 4, and seat 5, elected in the election held on the third Wednesday in October 1980 shall remain in office until the third Wednesday in October 1983 and until their successors are elected and qualified.
(c)
The City of Adel shall be divided into two election districts by a line running generally northerly and southerly creating an eastern district and a western district as described in subsection (d) of this section. The westerly district shall be known as election district 1 and the easterly district shall be known as election district 2. The mayor and one councilmember, whose seat shall be known as council post at large, may reside in any part of the City of Adel and shall be elected by the voters of the entire city on a citywide basis. Two councilmembers, whose seats shall be known as district 1, post 1 and district 1, post 2, shall reside in district 1 as described in subsection (d) of this section and shall be elected exclusively by the voters within said district. Two councilmembers whose seats shall be known as district 2, post 1 and district 2, post 2 shall reside in district 2 as described in subsection (d) of this section and shall be elected exclusively by the voters within said district.
(d)
The line dividing the City of Adel for purposes of creating said election district 1 and election district 2 is described as follows:
Beginning at the intersection of U.S. Highway 41 (Ga. Highway 7) with the northerly City limits of Adel and extending through the City of Adel along said highway in a southernly direction until it intersects with Rogers Street; continue in an easternly direction until said street intersects with South Gordon Avenue; continue in a southernly direction until said avenue intersects with East 16th Street; continue in an easternly direction until said streets ends. All area within the City of Adel lying and being to the west and south of the demarcation noted above shall be District 1 and all area within the City of Adel to the east and north of said demarcation shall be District 2.
Furthermore, District 1 and District 2 shall be reapportioned and comprised of the census blocks as delineated by the 2010 United States Census and as described in Exhibit "A" which is incorporated in this Ordinance by specific reference.
(e)
The district boundaries shall remain unchanged until publication of the 1990 decennial census by the U.S. Bureau of Census at which time said district boundaries shall be changed and the districts reapportioned in accordance with the provisions of O.C.G.A. § 36-35-4.1.
(f)
Candidates for the office of mayor and council of the City of Adel shall qualify for such office with the city clerk of said city during the period from Monday thirty (30) days prior to the third Wednesday in October of each year, during office hours, until 5:00 p.m. the following Friday, twenty-six (26) days prior to the third Wednesday in October prior to election of office which such candidate is seeking. The city council shall set qualifying fees for said offices.
(1976 Ga. Laws, page 2757; 1983 Ga. Laws, page 4294; Ord. No. 01-14, § 2, 1-7-02; Ord. No. 11-10, 9-19-11)
State Law reference— Municipal elections and primaries generally, O.C.G.A. § 21-3-1 et seq.; fixing qualification fees, O.C.G.A. § 21-3-90; filing notice of candidacy, O.C.G.A. § 21-3-91.
Sec. 10. - Vacancies in office of mayor, councilman.
In the event that the office of mayor or of councilman of the City of Adel should become vacant by death, resignation, removal or otherwise, said vacancy shall be filled by an election ordered by the council to take place not more than forty (40) days from the time such vacancy occurs under the same rules and regulations that govern regular elections in said city. The clerk of said city shall cause notice of the holding of such election, and the time and place thereof, to be published once a week for two (2) weeks prior to said election in the newspaper in which sheriff's advertisements of Cook County are published.
In the event such vacancy in the office of mayor occurs within six (6) months preceding the expiration of term of office of said mayor, then in that event, the said vacancy shall be filled by the mayor pro tem, for the remainder of the term; and provided, further, in event such vacancy should occur within six (6) months prior to a regular annual election to be held on the third Wednesday in October, then, in that event no special election shall be called or held, and [the] vacancy shall be filled by [the] mayor pro tem, who shall serve until such regular annual election, and the vacancy shall be filled by election of a mayor for the remainder of the unexpired term.
To be eligible for election in any special election authorized by this section, a person shall qualify with the city clerk not less than ten (10) and not more than twenty (20) days prior to the date of the election.
In the event that the council cannot for want of a quorum or any other reason call the elections authorized by this section, it shall be the duty of the ordinary of Cook County [county judge] to issue the call for the elections.
Sec. 11. - Special runoff elections.
Should any election held in and for said city under the provisions of this Act result in a tie vote, then in that event, the council of said city shall call a special election within ten (10) days; and said special election shall be held in the same manner as any other election, except that no person shall be a candidate in said special election other than those who received the same number of votes in the prior election; and no person shall be allowed to vote in said special election unless he or she shall have been qualified to vote in the regular election held just prior to said special election.
Sec. 12. - Installation into office; oath of office.
The mayor and councilmen elected under this Act shall take office instanter upon their election and shall be installed in office by taking and subscribing the following oath:
"I do solemnly swear that I will faithfully discharge the duties devolved upon me as mayor or councilman (as the case may be) of the City of Adel; that I will faithfully execute and enforce the laws of said city to the best of my ability, skill and knowledge; and that I will do all in my power to promote the general welfare of the inhabitants of said city and common interest thereof."
[Text deleted]
And on the third Wednesday in October of each year thereafter the mayor and councilmen elect, or councilmen elect, shall be installed in office by taking and subscribing said oath. If any such officers fail to be installed on that day, such installation shall take place as soon thereafter as practicable.
Editor's note— The final paragraph of the oath, which related to membership in the Communist Party, is deleted as unconstitutional. It is not being used by the city.
Sec. 13. - Qualifications of voters.
The qualifications of a person seeking to vote in the city elections shall be determined by the provisions of the Georgia Municipal Election Code, as now or hereafter amended.
(1976 Ga. Laws, page 2757)
State Law reference— Qualifications of voters in municipal elections generally, O.C.G.A. § 21-3-125.
Sec. 14. - Registration of voters.
The registration of voters in city elections shall be in conformity with the provisions of the Georgia Municipal Election Code, as now or hereafter amended.
(1976 Ga. Laws, page 2757)
State Law reference— Registration of voters on municipal elections, O.C.G.A. § 21-3-120 et seq.
Sec. 15. - Mayor's or recorder's court; established, operation, authority.
There shall be established in the City of Adel created by this Act a mayor's or recorder's court which shall be clothed with all the power and authority usually conferred upon such courts in this state, as well as those hereinafter set forth:
(a)
Presiding officer, other officers. Said court shall be held as often as necessary for the trial of offenders. The mayor shall preside over said court and perform the duties thereof unless he shall have appointed a recorder. Any recorder appointed as judge of said court shall be any upright and intelligent registered voter of the City of Adel. The clerk of the city shall act as clerk of the court, and the chief police officer of the city or other police officers shall attend said court and perform all such duties therein and in the enforcement of its sentences as they may be required by ordinances of said city or by the orders of the judge of said court.
(b)
Jurisdiction. The jurisdictional limits of said court shall include the corporate limits proper of said city; and said court shall have jurisdiction to try offenses against the laws and ordinances of said city, committed within the said jurisdictional limits.
(c)
Penalties for contempt. The mayor or recorder, when sitting as such court, shall have the power and authority to punish for contempt by fine not exceeding fifty dollars ($50.00) and imprisonment in the prison of said city not to exceed twenty-five (25) days, either or both, in the discretion of said court.
(d)
Penalties for ordinance violation. Upon the conviction of any defendant of violation of any law or ordinance of said city, said court shall have the right to sentence said defendant to pay a fine not exceeding five hundred dollars ($500.00) and to imprisonment in the prison of said city or in the common jail of Cook County, not exceeding sixty (60) days, and to work and labor in the city prison or on the streets or public works of said city, whether within or without the corporate limits, not exceeding sixty (60) days, either or all or any part of all. And all sentences may be in the alternative, and fines may be imposed with the alternative of the other punishment in the event the fines are not paid. Said court shall have power to assess costs against each defendant convicted, to be collected and enforced, in addition to, and in the same manner as fines; all of which costs shall be paid into the city treasury. Notwithstanding the above limitations, upon the conviction of any defendant of driving under the influence of alcohol or drugs as set forth in O.C.G.A. § 40-6-391 the mayor's or recorder's court shall have the right and authority to impose sentences as provided in O.C.G.A. § 40-6-391. Said court may issue executions for any unpaid fines and costs, to be enforced in the same manner as ad valorem tax executions are enforced.
(e)
Cases; warrants, other processes. All cases made in said court shall be in the name of the City of Adel; all warrants for offenses against the laws and ordinances of said city shall be signed by the presiding officer of said court, or the mayor of said city, or some officer authorized by law to issue state warrants; and all other processes of said court, including subpoenas, summonses, etc., shall be signed by the clerk, deputy clerk, or anyone authorized by him, if one should be elected or employed, or marshal, and shall bear teste in the name of the mayor or the presiding officer of said court.
(f)
Conduct of court; binding defendant over, fixing bail. The mayor or recorder shall have power to administer oaths and perform all other acts necessary or proper in the conduct of said court and, where it appears that a state law has been violated, shall have power to bind the offender over to the proper court of Cook County for trial, to assess bail for his appearance, and to commit to the jail of Cook County, in default of bond.
(g)
Securing attendance of witnesses. Said court shall have the right to compel the attendance of witnesses, either within or without the jurisdictional limits of said city; and may issue attachments where necessary to secure the attendance of witnesses, which may be served by any sheriff, deputy sheriff or any constable in any county in this state; but said city shall not be required to incur any expense in securing the attendance of any nonresident subpoenaed by a defendant.
(h)
Fixing bail; accepting bond, action on bond. Said court shall have the power to fix bail, accept bond for the appearance of defendants, and to forfeit and enforce collection of said bonds. Upon failure of a defendant to appear in accordance with the terms of his bond, he shall be solemnly called to come into court and his bail shall be warned to produce the body of his principal; and on the failure to do so, said court shall issue a scire facias directed to the marshal and other police officers of said city and to all and singular the sheriffs, their lawful deputies, and constables of said state, and be served upon said principal as soon as possible and upon his surety, which scire facias shall be returnable upon a date fixed in said scire facias, not earlier than thirty (30) days thereafter; that upon failure to show good cause, a rule absolute issue on that date and be enforced in the same manner as tax executions are enforced in said city. And where any person charged with an offense against the laws or ordinances of said city has deposited or had deposited in his behalf cash in lieu of a bond for his appearance, and fails to appear at the time appointed to answer said charge, said court shall have power to forfeit said cash bond instanter and order same paid into the treasury of said city. Said court shall have power to issue warrants for the rearrest of any defendant whose bond has been forfeited.
(i)
Rules, regulations to implement functions. Said court shall have full power and authority and the council is hereby empowered to adopt such rules and regulations as may be necessary to perfect the functions of said court and the enforcement of its judgments.
(Ord. No. 83-7, 9-6-83)
Editor's note— The local court is referred to as the municipal court.
State Law reference— Municipal courts generally, O.C.G.A. § 36-32-1 et seq.
Sec. 16. - Return of property for taxation; authority to tax real, personal property.
The city shall have the right to levy a tax on all real and personal property within the corporate limits of the municipality. The assessment of such property for taxation, the levy of taxes and the collection thereof shall all be in accordance with the general laws of the state now or hereafter in effect. The council may, however, adopt ordinances providing for the method of levy and collection of such taxes, consistent with the general laws of the state.
(1976 Ga. Laws, page 2757)
State Law reference— Municipal authority to levy and collect taxes, Ga. Const. 1983, art. IX, sec. IV, para. I; municipal taxation generally, O.C.G.A. §§ 48-5-350—48-5-361.
Sec. 17. - Appointment, compensation, duties and oath of tax assessors.
The council may appoint a board of tax assessors which, if appointed, shall consist of three (3) upright freeholders residing in the city. Their appointment shall be for one-year terms. Their compensation shall be determined by the council but shall not exceed fifteen dollars ($15.00) per day for each day worked by each tax assessor. The duties of such assessors shall be as provided by ordinance of the mayor and council not in conflict with the general laws of the state providing for the return, assessment and collection of taxes.
(1976 Ga. Laws, page 2767)
Editor's note— The last sentence of section 17 is deleted as superceded by O.C.G.A. §§ 48-5-352, 48-5-353.
Sec. 18. - Due date, execution to enforce collection of taxes; interest; costs.
The taxes of said city shall fall due as provided by the general laws of the state. Tax executions shall be issued against all persons who have not paid their taxes by that time. All tax executions shall be signed by the clerk and bear teste in the name of the mayor of the city. All past due taxes shall bear interest at the highest rate provided or allowed by the general laws of the state. The police officers of the city, the sheriffs and their deputies shall have authority to execute all tax executions by levy and sale and the other means provided by chapters 92-43 and 92-44 of the Code of Georgia, sections 92-4301, etc., and 92-4401. The council may adopt ordinances providing the procedure for enforcement of collection of such taxes, not in conflict with the general laws of the state, including costs and fees for issuing tax executions, levying executions on property, serving notices of levy and sale, holding sales and preparing tax deeds.
(1976 Ga. Laws, page 2757)
Editor's note— The statutes cited in the above section have apparently been repealed.
Sec. 19. - Authority to license, regulate, prohibit businesses and occupations; lien of license tax.
The City of Adel, created by this Act, shall have full power and authority to license, regulate, control, or prohibit all businesses, including but not limited to theatrical exhibitions, merry-go-rounds, circuses, dance halls, skating rinks, shows and exhibitions of all kinds, drays, automobiles, jitneys, trucks, taxis, and public and private vehicles of all kinds; traveling vendors of patent medicines, soaps, notions, and all other articles; also hotels, boardinghouses, restaurants, lunch stands, drinking stands, fish stands or markets, meat markets, mercantile establishments, chain stores, laundries, billiard, pool, and other kind of tables, tenpins, shooting galleries, and bowling alleys, slot machines or any games operated by "coin-in-slot" devices for carrying on games; also bakeries, dairies, barbershops, livery stables, sales stables, slaughterhouses, tanyards, garage or motor vehicle repair shops, blacksmith shops, gins, sawmills, planing mills; also auctioneers, peddlers and pawnbrokers; all agents of fire, health, accident, indemnity, casualty and life insurance companies; the sale of all kinds of beverages, cigars, cigarettes, and tobacco products of all kinds; also dealers in and/or dispensers of gasoline, either at wholesale or retail, from tanks, or otherwise; and all businesses, occupations, professions, callings, trades or avocations, which under the laws of this state are subject to license. And said city shall have the power to require registration of, and to assess and collect a license tax on all such businesses, etc., and all other businesses, trades, professions, occupations or callings conducted or engaged in within the corporate limits of said city, and such occupation tax or license tax shall constitute a lien upon all the property of the taxpayer or person liable, and shall take rank and be enforceable by execution in the same manner as ad valorem taxes due said city; and said city may require the registration of, and payment of license tax on, all such businesses, etc., as a prerequisite to the right to operate or engage in said business in said city, and shall have power to punish anyone conducting or engaging in any such business, etc., without first registering and paying said license taxes. Said city shall have full and complete power to provide by ordinance for classification of all classes and businesses, and all other rules and regulations necessary and proper in the premises.
State Law reference— Specific, business and occupation taxes, O.C.G.A. § 48-13-1 et seq.
Sec. 20. - Streets, sidewalks, alleys, etc.; pavements, repair, improvement.
(a)
Authority. The City of Adel, created by this Act, shall have full power and authority in their discretion, to grade, pave, macadamize, and otherwise improve for travel and drainage the streets, sidewalks, and public lanes and alleys of said city; to put down curbing, cross drains, crossings, intersection, and otherwise improve the same. In order to carry into effect the authority above delegated, the Act of the General Assembly of Georgia, approved August 25, 1927 (Acts of 1927, pp. 321—335), (chapter 69-4 of the Code of Georgia, as amended, with the exception of Code section 69-402), providing a method for making improvements in municipalities having a population of six hundred (600) or more population, is hereby adopted and made a part of this Act, and the council of the City of Adel, created by this Act, is hereby made the governing body referred to and authorized to act under the terms of said Act hereby adopted and made a part hereof.
(b)
Mains, conduits in streets. In all cases where street paving or repairing is contemplated on any street in said city, in which water mains, sewers, pipes or electric wiring conduits are laid or are to be laid, said city shall have the power to extend such mains, sewers, pipes, etc., from the main line to the property line, to thereafter avoid the necessity of tearing up or damaging said paving, to make house collections, and to assess and collect the cost of making such property line extensions against the property to which said connections are made, and in the same manner as assessments for street paving are made and collected.
State Law reference— Municipal authority to construct and maintain streets and sidewalks, Ga. Const. 1983, art. IX, sec. II, para. III(a)(4), O.C.G.A. §§ 32-4-90—32-4-123, 36-34-3; municipal authority with respect to water and sewage systems, O.C.G.A. § 36-34-5.
Sec. 21. - Utility systems, services; ownership, operation.
Said City of Adel shall have full power and authority to furnish water, electric lights and power, gas, heat, and other public utility service for the public use of said city, and for private use and charge therefor; to own, construct, enlarge, operate, and maintain a system of waterworks and sewerage, a system of electric light and power lines, a system for the manufacturing and/or supplying gas and/or heat, and any other public utility system or plants; to purchase or generate electric energy and to maintain the supplying of public utility service.
State Law reference— Municipal authority to provide sewage collection and disposal systems, Ga. Const. 1983, art. IX, sec. II, para. III(a)(6); municipal authority to provide water distribution systems, Ga. Const. 1983, art. IX, sec. II, para. III(a)(7); acquisition, construction of municipal water and sewage systems, O.C.G.A. § 36-34-5.
Sec. 21.1. - Telecommunications.
The City shall have the power and authority to acquire, own, hold, lease, sell, resell, build, maintain, operate and contract with respect to a telecommunications systems network in order to provide telecommunications services and similar other services, including cable television services (CATV), to establish and charge rates, fees, tolls and charges for the services, facilities or commodities furnished or made available by such undertaking; to interconnect its system or services or both with the systems or services of consumers and other providers, to use telecommunications to respond to community needs, encourage the development of information-based organizations in the City of Adel, Georgia, to finance from time to time any such telecommunications systems through the issuance of revenue bonds as then permitted by the Constitution and laws of the State of Georgia; and to make any contract with respect to and furnish the services of any said systems to consumers within or outside the corporate limits of the City.
(Ord. No. 01-13, § 1, 1-7-02)
Sec. 22. - Utility charges; collection, enforcement.
Said City of Adel shall have full power and authority to regulate and enforce the collection of and insure payment of charges for supplying of water, electric lights or power energy, gas, heat, sewer service, and other public utilities and service by the following methods:
(a)
Generally. By making said charges for water, electric energy, gas, heat, sewer service, and other public utilities and service a charge upon the property or real estate served, and in case prompt payment is not made for any such service, it may be provided that the water, electric light and power energy, gas, heat, or sewer services or other public utilities and service shall be shut off from the building, place, or premises, and shall not be compelled to again supply said building, place or premises, until said arrears, with interest and other charges thereon, is fully paid; and further it may be provided for the issuance of an execution for the unpaid charges for water, electric energy, gas, heat, or sewer service against the real estate [2] served and the owner thereof, which shall be a lien on said real estate, and enforceable in the same manner as ad valorem taxes are enforced.
(b)
Security for payment. Said city shall have full power to require prompt payment in advance for all water, electric energy, gas, heat, sewer service, and all other public utilities and services furnished by said city; or require of each consumer or person served a reasonable deposit, which may be varied according to the estimated consumption, to insure the prompt payment for such utilities and service; and shut off and refuse to furnish water, electric energy, gas, heat, sewer service, and other utilities and services, where payment in advance or deposit, as the case may be, is not promptly made; and to enforce by execution against any consumer or person served, in the same manner as ad valorem taxes are enforced, any unpaid charges for water, electric energy, gas, heat, sewer service or other utilities or services. Should any consumer fail to pay all water, or electric light, gas, heat, sewer charges or other utilities or services from the premises and, should he move to another place in said city, [the city may] refuse to furnish such service at the new place of residence unless and until all past due accounts are paid in full.
(c)
Adoption of ordinances. Said city shall have power to adopt all necessary ordinances to put either method in force in said city, and to change from one method to the other in their discretion, and to adopt such methods of enforcing said charges as they may deem necessary and proper.
(d)
Scope of section. The provisions of this section shall be applicable to charges for any public utility service provided or furnished by said city, including but not limited to water, electric energy, gas, heat, and sewer service, or other utilities and service, and the enumeration of particular classes of service shall not be construed as to exclude any other service that may be provided or furnished by said city, from the operation and provisions of this Act.
Sec. 23. - Fire district, establishment; regulation of construction; removal of structures.
Said city is authorized to enact any and all ordinances, rules and regulations, necessary to lay out and prescribe a fire district [limits] in said city, and to enlarge, change, or modify its limits from time to time; to prescribe when, how, and of what material buildings in said limits may be erected, repaired, or covered, how thick the walls may be, how the chimneys, stoves, pipes, and flues are to be constructed; to provide for fire escapes in said buildings; and generally to do all such things and to pass such laws and ordinances as the city may deem necessary in order to protect said city as far as possible from fire, and to prevent the spread of fire from one building to another, and for the protection and safety of the people. It shall also have the authority to order any changes in the construction or arrangement of buildings, chimneys, stove pipes, or flues and to order the removal thereof when in their judgment the same are dangerous or likely to become so, and to make the owner of the premises pay the expenses of such changes or removal, which expense may be collected as taxes are collected; and if any person, firm or corporation shall erect or maintain any building that is not in accordance with the laws and ordinances of said city, the city may order such building removed or altered and if such person, firm or corporation shall not remove or alter such buildings after notice to do so, as may be prescribed, then said mayor and council shall have authority to remove or alter the same at the expense of the owner, which expense may be collected by execution issued and enforced in the same manner that executions for ad valorem taxes are enforced.
State Law reference— Municipal authority to provide for fire protection, Ga. Const. 1983, art. IX, sec. II, para. III(a)(1).
Sec. 24. - Planning and zoning regulations.
(a)
Authority; zoning commission. The City of Adel may, in the interest of public health, safety, order, convenience, comfort, prosperity, or general welfare, adopt by ordinance a plan or plans for the districting or zoning of the city for the purpose of regulating the location of trades, industries, apartment houses, dwellings, or other uses of property; or for the purpose of regulating the height of the buildings, fences, or other structures, or the area or dimensions of lots or of the yards used in connection with buildings or other structures, or for the purpose of regulating the alignment of buildings or other structures near street frontages. The zoning regulations may be based upon one or more of the purposes above described. The city may be divided into such number of zones or districts, and such districts may be of such shape and area as the mayor and council shall deem best suited to accomplish the purpose of the zoning regulations. In the determination and establishment of districts and regulations, classification may be based on the nature or character of the trade, industry, or other activity conducted, or to be conducted, upon the premises; the number of persons, families, or other group units to reside in or use buildings; the public, quasi-public, or private nature of the use of premises; or upon any other basis or bases relevant to the promotion of the public health, safety, order, morals, conveniences, prosperity, or welfare. Said mayor and council may provide by ordinance for a zoning commission to be composed of not more than three (3) members to be elected by said mayor and council and to prescribe their powers and duties; and are authorized to provide the method of appeal from finding of said zoning commission; and to provide for a board of zoning appeals, to be elected by said mayor and council, to hear such appeals, and to provide their powers and duties; and to provide for the right of certiorari from said board of zoning appeals to the Superior Court of Cook County.
(b)
Authority in lieu of (a). In lieu of the above power of planning and zoning, the City of Adel is authorized to adopt any Act of the General Assembly conferring planning and zoning powers upon municipalities, counties or municipalities and counties.
State Law reference— Municipal authority in regard to planning and zoning, Ga. Const. 1983, art. IX, sec. II, para. IV.
Sec. 25. - Condemnation of private property.
The City of Adel shall have full power and authority to condemn private property for any public purpose, including but not limited to, establishing public streets, sidewalks, parks, and playgrounds; for rights-of-way for any electric light, water supply, gas, or sewer line, or sewerage disposal plant; for sites for the building or enlarging of any public building, reservoir, or structure necessary for the operation and conduct of the fire department, water plant, electric light and power plant, gas works or system, sewerage system, including lines and disposal plants, or any other department of said city; and for any other public use whatsoever, whenever same is necessary in their opinion.
Whenever the city shall desire to exercise the power and authority to condemn property as granted and conferred herein, said power and authority shall be exercised, whether the land sought to be condemned is in the hands of the owner or trustees, executor, administrator, guardian or agent; and all proceedings for condemnation shall be in the manner provided by the general laws of the State of Georgia for condemnation of private property by towns and cities as contained in Georgia Code, 1933, section 36-301 et seq. [O.C.G.A. title 22]
State Law reference— Municipal authority to exercise power of eminent domain, Ga. Const. 1983, art. IX, sec. II, para. V.
Sec. 26. - Incurring debts, issuing bonds.
The council of said City of Adel shall have power and authority to contract debts and issue bonds of said city as the valid obligations thereof, under and in accordance with the limitations provided in the constitution and laws of said state, for the purpose of refunding valid existing debts, establishing, improving, and maintaining a water supply system, establishing, improving and maintaining a sewerage system, a system of lights or electric power, and other public service or utility system, for the paving or otherwise improving streets, sidewalks or public places, and for any other improvements, convenience, or necessity for the use of said city or the citizens thereof, or for any other lawful purposes.
State Law reference— Limitation on local debt, Ga. Const. 1983, art. IX, sec. V.
Sec. 27. - Ordinances, regulations for enumerated purposes.
In addition to the powers and authority vested in said City of Adel created by this Act, by the general laws of this state, and to those heretofore and herein granted by this Act, the said mayor and council are hereby authorized and empowered to adopt such ordinances and regulations as they may deem proper, not in conflict with the constitution and laws of the United States or of this state:
(a)
Health and welfare. To protect and advance the morals of said city; to secure peace, good order, and quiet in said city, and to protect the health and welfare of said city; to prevent the spread of and to suppress infectious, contagious or dangerous diseases in said city;
(b)
Public health. To create and elect a board of health in said city and to prescribe its powers and duties, and to maintain said board; to provide for the quarantine in, and treatment of contagious, infectious or dangerous diseases, either in or outside of said city; and to cooperate in the management and control of any public hospital or clinic for treatment generally of diseases and accidents, and to contribute money to the same;
(c)
Cemeteries, parks, recreation; municipal market. To own and regulate cemeteries and parks, either within or without said city; to establish, control, and govern a municipal market in the said city, to own or contribute to the support and maintenance of swimming pool, golf links, parks and playgrounds, either within or without the corporate limits of said city;
State Law reference— Municipal authority to acquire and operate parks and recreational facilities, O.C.G.A. § 36-34-3; cemeteries generally, O.C.G.A. § 44-3-100 et seq.
(d)
Explosives, other dangerous conditions. To regulate and prohibit the keeping of explosives and other dangerous substances in the fire limits and at other places in said city; to regulate or prohibit sale and shooting of fireworks and other explosives in said city; and to regulate the erection and maintenance of steam boilers and electrical apparatus in said city;
(e)
Erection, maintenance of buildings. To regulate the character of buildings to be erected in said city, and to adopt and enforce building requirements and/or permits, and to condemn buildings which are or may become dangerous to life or health, and require removal or repair of same; and to regulate plumbing and electric wiring in structures in said city;
(f)
Encroachments, obstructions upon public way. To prevent or condemn encroachments or obstructions in, upon, or over any sidewalk, street or alley, and to require removal of such;
(g)
Franchises, easements. To grant franchises, easements, and rights-of-way over, in, under, or along the public streets, sidewalks, alleys, parks or other property of said city, on such terms and conditions as may be prescribed; and to regulate all public services or utility corporations doing business in said city in any manner not in conflict with state or federal law;
State Law reference— Municipal authority to grant franchises, O.C.G.A. § 36-34-2(7).
(h)
Fire department. To establish, equip and maintain a fire department;
(i)
Nuisances. To define and prohibit nuisances within the corporate limits of said city, and to prescribe the mode of trial for all nuisance cases, and to abate the same;
State Law reference— Municipal authority to abate nuisances, O.C.G.A. § 41-2-5.
(j)
Prison, chaingang. To provide, equip, and maintain a prison and chaingang, and to regulate the same; and to provide for the working of convicts on the streets of said city, or any public works of said city, both within and without the corporate limits;
Editor's note— O.C.G.A. § 42-5-58 prohibits shackling of prisoners.
State Law reference— Municipal authority to organize work gangs, O.C.G.A. § 36-30-8.
(k)
Use of streets; traffic, vehicles for hire. To prescribe and regulate the use of its streets and to classify said streets, and regulate the use thereof according to such classifications; to prohibit the sale or barter of any merchandise or thing from any stand, vehicle, or conveyance on the public streets, sidewalks, or ways of said city; to limit and regulate the speed of all animals, trains, engines (diesel or steam), vehicles, or motor vehicles on said streets and the operation thereof; to prescribe and regulate the fees of drays, hacks, taxis, jitneys, and transfer companies operating in said city, and to regulate the operation thereof;
State Law reference— Municipal authority to provide public transportation, Ga. Const. 1983, art. IX, sec. II, para. III(9); municipal authority to regulate traffic on streets and highways under its jurisdiction, O.C.G.A. § 40-6-371.
(l)
Disorderly houses. To suppress and prohibit houses where illegal, immoral, or disorderly practices are had;
(m)
New streets, alleys. To lay out and open new streets and alleys in said city; and to change the grades thereof;
State Law reference— Municipal authority pertaining to streets, O.C.G.A. § 32-4-92.
(n)
Scale of costs; collection, payment. To provide a uniform scale of costs of the clerk and police officers of said city for all service in the arrest and prosecution of offenders in the mayor's court and in the issuance and collection of tax and other executions; and for their collection and payment into the city treasury;
(o)
Water, sewer connections. To require connection with water and/or sewerage by property owners whose property abut[s] on streets having water and/or sewer mains therein;
(p)
Organization and maintenance of police force; fines, forfeitures, etc. To provide for the organization and maintenance of a police force and to impose fines, forfeitures, penalties and terms of imprisonment for offenses against the ordinances of the city.
State Law reference— Municipal authority to provide police protection, Ga. Const. 1983, art. IX, sec. II, para. III(a)(1).
(1976 Ga. Laws, page 2757)
Sec. 28. - Enumerated powers not exclusive; authority to implement powers.
The enumeration of powers contained in this Act shall not be considered as restrictive; but the City of Adel and the authorities of said city may exercise all powers, rights, and jurisdictions as they might if such enumeration were not made, and the council may pass all laws and ordinances, rules, and regulations they may deem needful and proper for the general welfare and protection of said city; and where under this Charter rights are conferred or powers granted, but the manner of exercising them is not fully defined, the council may prescribe additional regulations and modes of procedure, not repugnant to the interest and purpose of this Act or the laws of this state.
Sec. 29. - Sale, other disposition of public property.
No electric light, gas, water, or other public utility plant or system, now or hereafter owned by the City of Adel, shall ever be sold, leased or otherwise disposed of by the City of Adel, created by this Act, except in the manner provided by, and in strict compliance with, the Act of the General Assembly of Georgia approved August 25, 1925 (1925 Ga. Laws, pages 177—179), sections 91-901—91-904 of the Code of Georgia [O.C.G.A. §§ 36-37-7—36-37-10]; and the provisions of said Act are hereby incorporated as a part of this section by this reference, and shall be a valid part hereof regardless of any decision invalidating said Act for any reason. Any other property, real or personal, now or hereafter owned by said city (including any property connected with a public utility plant or system owned by said city, which particular property is no longer serviceable or necessary in the continued and efficient operation of such plant or system) may be sold, leased or otherwise disposed of by said city by resolution of the mayor and council thereof, setting forth and approving the terms of any such sale, lease, or other disposition; the mayor, by direction of said council, making conveyance thereof; provided however, that no conveyance of any property worth over one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) shall be made unless public notice is given of intention to convey in the newspaper of general circulation in the county in which sheriff's advertisements are made at least once a week for three (3) consecutive weeks immediately prior to such sale or encumbrance; provided further, that nothing in this section shall vary the laws regarding bond issues.
Sec. 30. - Fiscal year; system of accounting; restriction on debt.
The fiscal year shall be determined by the council with the approval of the mayor. No employee or official of the city shall have authority to bind the city for any debts for current operating expenses to be paid at a time other than in the fiscal year. The council shall determine the system of accounting.
(1976 Ga. Laws, page 2757)
State Law reference— Establishment of municipal fiscal year, O.C.G.A. § 36-81-3.
Sec. 31. - Act repealed.
An act incorporating the City of Adel, approved July 29, 1919 (1919 Ga. Laws, page 792), as amended, is hereby repealed in its entirety, including the amendatory acts thereto.
Sec. 32. - Repeal of conflicting laws.
All laws and parts of laws in conflict with this Act are hereby repealed.
ARTICLE II. - CITY MANAGER

CHARTER COMPARATIVE TABLE
ORDINANCES
This table shows the location of the sections of the basic Charter and any amendments thereto.
EXPAND
Ordinance
Number  Date Section  Section
this Charter
83-7  9- 6-83 15
01-13  1-7-02 1 21.1
01-14  1-7-02 1 6
2 9(d)
11-10 9-19-11 9(d)
  CHARTER COMPARATIVE TABLE
GEORGIA LAWS
This table shows the location of the Georgia Laws cited in the Charter.
EXPAND
Georgia Laws
Year Page  Section
this Charter
1919 792 2
1960 3055 1—41
1962 2711 4
1970 2332 33—41
1971 3428 4, 5
1976 2757 4—6
9
13, 14
16
18
27
30
36
2767 17
1983 4294 9
  Sec. 33. - Creation of office.
The office of city manager is hereby created.
(1970 Ga. Laws, page 2332)
Sec. 34. - Appointment.
The city manager shall be appointed by the mayor and council for an indefinite term. He shall be chosen solely on the basis of his executive and administrative qualifications with special reference to his actual experience in or his knowledge of accepted practice in respect to the duties of his office hereinafter set forth. At the time of his appointment he need not be a resident of the city or the state, but during his tenure of office he shall reside within the city. No mayor or councilman shall receive such appointment during the term for which he shall have been elected nor within one year after the expiration of his term.
(1970 Ga. Laws, page 2332)
Editor's note— Residency requirements are prohibited by O.C.G.A. § 45-2-5.
Sec. 35. - Removal.
The mayor and council may remove the city manager at any time by a majority vote adopting a resolution to that effect. The city manager may, within ten (10) days after notice of adoption of such resolution, reply in writing and may request a public hearing, which shall be held not earlier than twenty (20) nor later than thirty (30) days after the filing of such request. The action of the mayor and council in removing the city manager, however, shall be final. Upon his removal as herein provided, the city manager shall be paid forthwith any unpaid balance of his salary for the calendar month in which he is removed and his salary for the next calendar month following.
(1970 Ga. Laws, page 2332)
Sec. 36. - Powers and duties of city manager; bonding.
The city manager shall be the chief administrative officer and head of each operational department of the city. He shall be responsible to the mayor and council for the proper administration of all affairs of the city. To that end, he shall have power and shall be required to:
(a)
Appoint and, when necessary for the good of the service, suspend or remove all officers and employees of the city except as otherwise provided by the city charter or law, and except as he may authorize the head of a department or office to appoint, suspend or remove subordinates in such department or office. He shall not have the right to suspend or remove the city recorder, city attorney or city auditor. The city clerk and treasurer and all other officials and employees who shall sign checks or handle city money shall be bonded in such amount as may be deemed wise by the city council.
(b)
Prepare the budget annually and submit it to the mayor and council together with a message describing the important features and be responsible for its administration after adoption.
(c)
Prepare and submit to the mayor and council as of the end of the fiscal year a complete report on the finances and administrative activities of the city for the preceding year.
(d)
Keep the mayor and council advised of the financial condition and future needs of the city, and make such recommendations as he may deem desirable.
(e)
Recommend to the council a standard schedule of pay for each appointive office, position and employee in the city service, including minimum, intermediate, and maximum rates.
(f)
Recommend to the mayor and council (from time to time) adoption of such measures as he may deem necessary or expedient for the health, safety or welfare of the community or for the improvement of administrative services.
(g)
Consolidate or combine offices, positions, departments, or units under his jurisdiction, with the approval of the mayor and council.
(h)
Attend all meetings of the mayor and council unless excused therefrom and take part in the discussion of all matters coming before them. He shall be entitled to notice of all regular and special meetings of the mayor and council.
(i)
He shall be [the] purchasing agent of the city, by whom all purchases of supplies shall be made subject to the rules and regulations to be prescribed by the mayor and council, and he shall approve all vouchers for the payment of same. In the capacity of purchasing agent he shall also conduct all sales of personal property which the mayor and council may authorize to be sold as having become necessary or unfit for the city's use. All purchases and sales shall conform to such regulations as the mayor and council may from time to time prescribe. Competitive bidding shall be required on all major purchases as defined by ordinance.
(j)
As active head of the public safety department he shall see that all laws and ordinances are duly enforced. He may appoint special police officers whenever he deems necessary. He may exercise within the corporate limits of the city, all the powers conferred on a sheriff or constable to keep [the] peace and suppress riot and disorder.
(k)
Investigate the affairs of the city or any department or division thereof. Investigate all complaints in relation to matters concerning the administration of the government of the city, and in regard to service maintained by the public utilities in the city, and see that all franchises, permits and privileges granted by the city are faithfully observed.
(l)
Devote his entire time to the discharge of his official duties.
(m)
Perform such other duties as may be required by the mayor and council, not inconsistent with the city charter, laws or ordinances.
(n)
All formal contracts to which the City of Adel is a party shall be executed in behalf of the city by the city manager and attested by the city clerk, after an approving resolution of the mayor and council.
(1970 Ga. Laws, page 2332; 1976 Ga. Laws, page 2757)
Sec. 37. - Mayor and council not to interfere with appointments or removals.
Neither the mayor nor council nor any of its members shall direct or request the appointment of any person to, or his removal from, office by the city manager or any of his subordinates, or in any manner take part in the appointment or removal of officers and employees in the administrative services of the city. Except for the purpose of inquiry, the mayor and council and its members shall deal with the administrative service solely through the city manager and neither the mayor nor council nor any member thereof shall give orders to any subordinates of the city manager, either publicly or privately.
(1970 Ga. Laws, page 2332)
Sec. 38. - Emergencies.
In case of accident, disaster, or other circumstances creating a public emergency, the city manager may award contracts and make purchases for the purpose of meeting said emergency; but he shall file promptly with the mayor and council a certificate showing such emergency and the necessity for such action, together with an itemized account of all expenditures.
(1970 Ga. Laws, page 2332)
State Law reference— Emergency management, O.C.G.A. title 38, ch. 3.
Sec. 39. - Bond.
The city manager shall furnish a surety bond to be approved by the mayor and council, said bond to be conditioned on the faithful performance of his duties. The premium of the bond shall be paid by the city. The amount of the bond shall be set by the mayor and council.
(1970 Ga. Laws, page 2332)
Sec. 40. - Compensation.
The city manager shall receive such compensation as the mayor and council shall fix from time to time.
(1970 Ga. Laws, page 2332)
Sec. 41. - Vacancy.
Any vacancy in the office of city manager shall be filled within sixty (60) days after the effective date of such vacancy. During such vacancy, the mayor and council shall discharge the duties and functions of city manager.
(1970 Ga. Laws, page 2332)
