ARTICLE V. - PEDDLERS AND ITINERANT VENDORS[3]

Footnotes:
--- (3) ---
Cross reference— Streets, sidewalks and other public places, ch. 66.
State Law reference— Peddlers regulated, O.C.G.A. § 43-32-1 et seq.

Sec. 18-235. - Exemptions.
The provisions of article V shall not apply to the following:
(1)
Sales made to licensed dealers or permanent merchants located within the city by commercial travelers selling in the usual course of business.
(2)
Sheriffs, constables, bona fide assignees, receivers or trustees in bankruptcy or other public officers selling goods, wares and merchandise according to law.
(3)
Individual vendors who purchase or rent booths or other designated areas for city sponsored festivals, parades and/or similar events for a period of time not to exceed five days.
(4)
Solicitations, sales or distributions made by educational or religious organizations which have their principal place of activity within the city.
(Ord. of 8-11-2008(1), § I)
Sec. 18-236. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Peddler means a transient trader in goods, wares, merchandise or food of any description whatsoever, as well as an agent or canvasser for the sale of proprietary articles or nostrums. The term shall not include charitable, religious or educational organizations.
(Code 1989, § 11-40; Ord. of 8-11-2008(1), § II)
Cross reference— Definitions generally, § 1-2.
Sec. 18-237. - License, registration required.
Each solicitor, itinerant merchant or peddler who contemplates doing or does any business within the city limits shall be required to obtain a license from the city clerk in the manner specified in this article. The applicant must meet the zoning requirements as set forth in chapter 90 pertaining to the land development code. No license shall be issued to the applicant without the approval of the city police department.
(Code 1989, § 11-41; Ord. of 8-11-2008(1), § III)
Cross reference— Licensing and registration generally, § 18-26 et seq.
Sec. 18-238. - Application.
An application for a license under this article shall be made as provided in chapter 18 article II except that such application shall contain the following additional information:
(1)
Name and address of present place of residence and length of residence at such address, also business address if other than present address;
(2)
Address of place of residence during the past three years if other than present address;
(3)
Age of applicant;
(4)
Name and address of the person, firm or corporation or association whom the applicant is employed by or represents and the length of time of such employment or representation;
(5)
Name and address of employer during the past three years if other than the present employer;
(6)
Description sufficient for identification of the subject matter of the soliciting in which the applicant will engage;
(7)
Period of time for which the license is applied;
(8)
Proposed route including streets to be included on each day which applicant intends to follow if soliciting from house to house or road to road;
(9)
The date or approximate date of the latest previous application for license under this chapter if any;
(10)
Whether the applicant has ever been convicted of a felony, a crime of moral turpitude or any other violation of any state or federal law;
(11)
Names of magazines, books or journals to be sold;
(12)
Names of the three most recent communities where the applicant has solicited house to house if any;
(13)
Proposed method of operation;
(14)
Description and license plate number of vehicle(s) intended to be operated by the applicant for the purpose of engaging in soliciting if any;
(15)
Signature of applicant; and
(16)
Social Security number of applicant.
All statements made by the applicant upon the application or in connection therewith shall be under oath. No license shall be issued to any person who has been convicted of a felony or crime of moral turpitude within five years of the date of the application, nor to any person who has been convicted of a violation of any of the provisions of this chapter, nor to any person whose license issued hereunder has previously been revoked as herein provided, nor to any person who has been found to have made fraudulent statements on the application.
(Ord. of 8-11-2008(1), § IV)
Sec. 18-239. - Bond required.
(a)
An application for a license required under this article shall be accompanied by a bond in the penal sum of $5,000.00, signed by the applicant and signed, as surety, by a surety company authorized to do business in the state. The bond shall be conditioned for final delivery of goods, wares, merchandise, services, photographs, magazines and newspapers in accordance with the terms of any order obtained prior to delivery and shall also be conditioned to indemnify all purchasers or customers for any defects in material or workmanship that may exist in the article sold by the principal on the bond, at the time of delivery, and that may be discovered by such purchaser or customer within 30 days after delivery. Such bond shall be for the use and benefit of all persons who make any purchase or give any order to the principal on the bond or to any agent or employee of the principal. Bond may be waived by the mayor and council based upon demonstrated performance.
(b)
If the applicant is engaging in any activity mentioned in section 18-236 through one or more agents or employees, the applicant shall be required to enter into any one bond in the sum of $5,000.00, which bond shall be made to cover the activities of all of such person's agents or employees. Bond may be waived by the mayor and council based upon demonstrated performance.
(Code 1989, § 11-43; Ord. of 8-11-2008(1), § V)
Sec. 18-240. - Applicability to farm products.
The legal right of the local farmer and producer to sell the products of such person's own farm, orchard, poultry yard, etc., is recognized, but any other person in the city offering for sale such articles as eggs, chickens, butter, milk, fruits, vegetables, or any other articles not specifically covered in this article shall be deemed a peddler, and every such peddler selling directly to the consumer even though the delivery may be on orders previously taken, shall be required to purchase a peddler's license from the city clerk. However, no peddler's license shall be required from any bona fide farmer who is selling the products of such farmer's own farm. This provision may be extended to others by the mayor and council based upon demonstrated performance.
(Code 1989, § 11-44; Ord. of 8-11-2008(1), § VI)
Charter reference— Agricultural product license exemption, § 37.
State Law reference— Similar provisions, O.C.G.A. § 48-5-356.
Sec. 18-241. - Exemption from payment of occupation tax, administrative fee or regulatory fee.
Subject to the limitations provided in this article, the following classes of persons may peddle, conduct business, or practice the professions and semiprofessions in any county or municipality in this state without paying an occupation tax, administrative fee, or regulatory fee for the privilege of so doing, provided such person receives a certificate of exemption issued by the commissioner of veterans service:
(1)
Any disabled veteran of any war or armed conflict in which any branch of the armed forces of the United States engaged, whether under United States command or otherwise;
(2)
Any blind person; or
(3)
Any veteran of peacetime service in the United States armed forces who has a physical disability incurred during the period of such service.
(Code 1989, § 11-45; Ord. of 8-11-2008(1), § VII)
Sec. 18-242. - Obstruction of street, highway or sidewalk.
No itinerant vendor or peddler of fruit, vegetable or any other commodity authorized to engage in any business in the city shall, in carrying on such business, use the whole or any part of any sidewalk, street or highway of the city. Any such person peddling in the city or using the streets or sidewalks in the city for the purpose of selling or offering for sale any goods, wares or merchandise of any kind shall continually move from place to place in such city and shall not in the conduct or carrying on of such business obstruct the whole or any part of any sidewalk, street or highway in the city. These provisions may be waived by the mayor and council based on demonstrated performance.
(Code 1989, § 11-46; Ord. of 8-11-2008(1), § VII)
