PART I - THE CHARTER[1]

Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Editor's note— Printed herein is the charter of the city, which consists of Ga. Laws 1957, Act No. 42 (H.B. 662), p. 2139 approved Dec. 9, 1957. Such charter and amendments are included herein in substance as adopted, except as otherwise noted. Amendatory enactments are cited in parentheses following amended provisions. The title and the formal enactment provisions have been omitted. The editor has deleted the phrase "Be it enacted (or further enacted) by the authority aforesaid that" and phrases to like effect throughout the charter. Pursuant to the state constitution of 1983, the term "mayor's court" or "recorder's court" has been changed to "municipal court."

Section 1. - Prior Acts repealed.
The Act of the General Assembly of Georgia providing a new charter for the City of Washington, Georgia, defining its boundaries, powers, duties and liabilities, and to provide for its orderly government and for other purposes, approved July 29, 1929 (Ga. L. 1929, p. 1396 et seq.); the Act of the General Assembly of Georgia amending the charter of the City of Washington, Georgia by providing for the valuation, assessment and collection of taxes approved March 7, 1935 (Ga. L. 1935, p. 1224 et seq.); the Act of the General Assembly of Georgia amending the charter of the City of Washington, Georgia by fixing the salaries of the mayor and councilmen approved March 28, 1935 (Ga. L. 1935, p. 1223); the Act of the General Assembly of Georgia amending the charter of the City of Washington, Georgia by changing the terms of the office of the mayor and councilmen and providing for the election thereof, as approved December 9, 1953 (Ga. Laws, Nov.—Dec. Sess. 1953, p. 2089 et seq.), and all other laws heretofore passed or enacted with reference to the charter of the City of Washington, Georgia, or any amendments thereto, that are in conflict with this Act, be, and they are hereby repealed.
Section 2. - Reincorporated; sue and be sued; service; present mayor and council.
The inhabitants of, and the territory embraced within, the corporate limits of the City of Washington, Georgia, as hereafter defined, be and they are hereby incorporated under the name and style of the "City of Washington, Georgia," and from and after the passage of this Act the municipal government of the City of Washington, Georgia, shall consist of a mayor and six (6) councilmembers who shall hereby constitute a body corporate under the name and style of City of Washington, Georgia, and by that name shall have perpetual succession, shall have and use a common seal, and be capable in law to purchase, hold, receive, enjoy, possess, lease and retain to themselves and their successors in office, for the use and benefit of the City of Washington, Georgia, in perpetuity, or for any term of years or period of time, any property, real and personal, of whatever kind and nature, within or without the corporate limits of the City of Washington, Georgia; to sell, alienate, convey, transfer, exchange or lease the same or any part thereof, in any way whatsoever, or to improve the same, and shall by said name of the City of Washington, Georgia, be capable of suing and being sued in any court or courts of law whatsoever.
Whenever suit is brought against the City of Washington, Georgia, service upon the mayor of any writ or other legal process shall be sufficient, and if the elected mayor shall be deceased or resign his office, service upon a majority of the council shall be sufficient service.
The present mayor and council in office at the time of the passage and approval of this Act, shall be, and they hereby are, continued in office for the full term of office for which each of them were elected, and until their successors in office are duly elected and qualified under the provisions of this Act.
(Mo. of 10-13-03)
Section 3. - Corporate boundaries.
(a)
The corporate boundaries of the City of Washington shall be as described and set forth on a map filed in the office of the city clerk.
(b)
The city council may provide for changes in the map by ordinance to reflect lawful changes in the corporate boundaries.
(Mo. of 10-13-03; Ga. Laws 2004, Act 752, § 1)
Section 4. - Mayor and council terms; oath; vacancy; elections.
The governing authority of the City of Washington shall consist of a mayor and six councilmen to be elected as hereinafter provided. All municipal general and special elections shall be conducted in accordance with current state law.
The municipal general election to fill municipal offices shall be held on the Tuesday next following the first Monday in November in each odd-numbered year. Candidates elected to office in such elections shall take office on the second Monday in January following their election to serve for a term of office of four years and until their successors are duly elected and qualified. Each candidate shall file his or her notice of candidacy in the office of the municipal election superintendent during the qualifying period. Successors to the incumbent elected officers shall be elected in the general election which is conducted immediately prior to the date of the expiration of the respective term of office. For any city employee to be eligible to qualify as a candidate for council, he or she must resign his or her employment at least 30 days before he or she qualifies for office. Once elected, a mayor or councilmember shall not be employed by the city in any capacity other than that of his or her official position as mayor or councilmember.
The candidates elected at such elections shall qualify by taking the oath of office before taking part in any special or regular meeting of the mayor and council. The members of council so elected shall qualify by taking the oath before the mayor or any magistrate, clerk of superior court, probate judge, or other officer qualified to administer oaths in Georgia, and the mayor shall qualify by taking the oath before any officer authorized by law to administer oaths in this state.
The oath taken shall be substantially in the following form: 'I (mayor or councilmember, as case may be) do swear that I will well and truly perform all the duties of the office to which I have been elected. So help me God.' Said oath shall be signed and placed on the minutes of mayor and council.
Should there for any cause fail to be an election held at the time specified or should any vacancy occur from death, removal from the city, or other cause, the council if the vacancy is in the mayor's office shall if the vacancy is of 12 months or less elect from its membership a mayor to serve the unexpired term. If the vacancy is of more than 12 months, the council shall in accordance with current election law call a special election to fill the unexpired term. If the vacancy is in a council office and the vacancy is 12 months or less, the council shall appoint a qualified elector from the district affected to fill the unexpired term. If the vacancy is of more than 12 months, in accordance with current election law, the council shall call for a special election to fill the unexpired term.
In the event any contest is filed to an election, then a hearing shall be conducted as provided by law.
Those candidates who receive the highest number of votes cast for the particular office shall be elected thereto.
(Ga. Laws, 1962, Act. No. 594, § 1; Ga. Laws 1972, Act No. 1027, §§ 1, 2; Mo. of 10-13-03; Ga. Laws 2004, Act 752, § 1)
Editor's note— In this section and throughout, the terms "justice of the peace" and "ordinary" have been changed to "magistrate" and "probate judge" respectively.
Section 5. - Electors.
The persons qualified to vote in any election for mayor and council, or in any other election held in and for the City of Washington, Georgia, for any purpose, shall be those persons qualified to vote in elections for members of General Assembly of Georgia and who shall have bona fide resided in the State of Georgia and within the territorial limits of the City of Washington, Georgia, next preceding said election, provided that such person or persons shall have complied with the laws of the State of Georgia regulating the qualifications of voters and with such registration and voting ordinances as may be adopted by said mayor and council of the City of Washington, Georgia, who are authorized to provide by ordinance for the qualification and registration of voters, provided the same are not in conflict with the laws of Georgia or the laws of the United States of America.
Any person voting illegally at any such election or elections shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, on conviction thereof, shall be so punished as provided by the laws of the State of Georgia.
(Mo. of 10-13-03; Ga. Laws 2004, Act 752, § 1)
Section 6. - Mayor and council qualifications.
Any person of the City of Washington, Georgia, who is qualified to vote for mayor and council shall be eligible to hold either office, provided such person is at least 21 years of age.
(Mo. of 10-13-03; Ga. Laws 2004, Act 752, § 1)
Section 7. - Compensation of mayor and council.
The mayor of the City of Washington, Georgia, shall receive an annual salary of $7,200.00 to be paid in equal payments at the same interval as established for payroll for city employees, and each of the councilmembers of the said City of Washington, Georgia, shall receive an annual salary of $3,600.00 to be paid in equal payments at the same interval as established for payroll for city employees, said salaries to be paid out of the city treasury. The mayor and/or any council member shall receive an additional $100.00 per month if he/she has completed 120 hours of certification from the Georgia Municipal Association. The mayor and/or any councilmember shall also be reimbursed for expenses actually and necessarily incurred by him/her in carrying out his/her official duties. However, the mayor and/or any councilmember shall only be reimbursed travel expenses for one necessary trip or training per year, with the exception of newly elected official training occurring in the same year.
(Ord. of 12-3-1979; Ord. of 7-9-01; Mo. of 10-13-03; Ga. Laws 2004, Act 752, § 1; Ord. of 2-11-08; Ord. of 4-9-18; Ord. of 9-9-19)
Section 8. - Other officers; terms, compensation.
The mayor and council of City of Washington, Georgia, at the first regular meeting held in January of each year, or as soon thereafter as is practicable, shall elect the following officers of the City of Washington, Georgia, to serve for the ensuing year, a majority of the votes cast being in each case sufficient to elect:
(1)
A municipal judge; and
(2)
A city marshal who may be one and the same person as the chief of police.
The terms of these officers shall run for one year, with the right of the mayor and council to discharge such officers at any time for neglect of duty, immoral conduct, conviction of crime, or for other reason which would prevent such officers from satisfactorily filling the positions to which they were elected, provided a hearing shall be given to such officer or officers in the event of discharge, if demanded, before the mayor and council.
The mayor and council shall fix the compensation to be paid to these officers and shall provide for bonds for the clerk, treasurer, municipal judge, city administrator, or any other city official for the discharge of their duties and accounting for the moneys in their hands in such amounts as the mayor and council shall direct. In the event one and the same person shall act as clerk and treasurer only one bond shall be required of such officer. Each of said bonds shall be approved by the mayor, and all of said officers before entering upon their duties shall take and subscribe an oath to faithfully discharge the duties of the office to which each of them has been named. The salaries of such officers shall be paid out of the city treasury.
(Mo. of 10-13-03; Ga. Laws 2004, Act 752, § 1)
Section 9. - City attorney; assistants; compensation.
The mayor and council of City of Washington, Georgia shall be authorized to name and elect a city attorney at the same time the other officers of the city are elected, and to pay him such compensation as they may deem proper. Whenever it shall be deemed advisable the mayor and council shall be authorized to employ additional counsel to assist the city attorney and to pay such compensation to such assistant attorney or attorneys as may be reasonable and proper.
The compensation of the city attorney or any assistant or assistants to [shall] be paid out of the city treasury, unless the duty or duties performed by such city attorney or assistants shall be related to a revenue producing facility or utility of the city, when in such case the mayor and council may direct compensation to such attorney or attorneys to be paid out of a particular fund.
Section 10. - Meetings of mayor and council.
The mayor and council shall meet for the transaction of business of the municipality within the limits of the municipality at such times and places as they may see fit, and any special meeting may be called by the mayor or clerk, or by any four or more councilmembers to consider any business that may legitimately come before the mayor and council. At all such meetings the mayor, if present, shall preside and shall be entitled to vote only in a case of a tie vote, except that he or she shall be authorized to cast a vote in any election of officers of the City of Washington, Georgia, that may be named by the mayor and council, even when there is no tie vote.
A quorum for the transaction of any business at any meeting, regular or special, shall consist of four members of the mayor and council, including the mayor, and if the mayor is absent at any meeting, the council may elect one of their number to act as temporary mayor pro tempore who shall possess all the rights and powers of the duly elected mayor. Each councilmember shall serve eight months as mayor pro tempore in accordance with the following schedule: January—August, September—April, May—December. The first to serve shall be the three councilmembers with two years remaining on their term of office. The second three will be the councilmembers most recently elected to office. The order of service shall be alphabetical.
If a regular mayor pro tempore has been already named by the mayor and council to serve in cases when the mayor is absent, ill, or disqualified, then such mayor pro tempore shall preside at any meeting of the mayor and council, regular or special, without the necessity of a temporary mayor pro tempore being selected.
(Mo. of 10-13-03; Ga. Laws 2004, Act 752, § 2)
Section 11. - Ordinance enactment.
Said mayor and council of the City of Washington, Georgia, shall have the right to pass and enact all ordinances, rules, and regulations, necessary for the good government of the municipality, the protection of persons and property, for the peace, health, good order, comfort, and convenience of the citizens thereof, and fix suitable penalties for the violation of same.
They shall be authorized to inflict penalties for each and every violation of any ordinance or resolution passed by them, by fine, imprisonment in the county jail of Wilkes County, Georgia, or by working on a labor force on the streets, sidewalks, parks, or other public places in such municipality, and all or any of said penalties may be inflicted.
In the event a fine is imposed it shall not exceed $1,000.00 and costs; and, in the event imprisonment in the county jail of Wilkes County, Georgia, is imposed it shall in no case exceed 12 months; and, in the event a sentence is imposed to work on the labor force on the streets, sidewalks, parks, or other public places in the municipality, it shall not exceed 180 days, but any one or all of such penalties may be inflicted. The mayor and council shall be authorized to provide an alternative sentence to be served in the county jail of Wilkes County, Georgia, or on the labor force of said municipality, not to exceed the number of days stated, in the event the fine is not paid.
In case of imprisonment in the county jail of Wilkes County, Georgia, the cost of the board of such prisoner and jail fees shall be borne by the municipality and paid out of the treasury thereof.
Said mayor and council shall have full power and authority to provide for the working of offenders sentenced to work upon the public places of the municipality by the municipal court*, to establish, equip, and maintain a city work force; to establish, equip, and maintain a guardhouse, barracks, or stockade for the safe-keeping of such offenders, either inside or outside the city limits; and to provide for the feeding and care of the same." [2]
(Ga. Laws 1977, Act No. 99, § 1; Mo. of 10-13-03; Ga. Laws 2004, Act 752, § 2)
Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
State Law reference— By virtue of 1983 Const., Art. VI, § 10, ¶ 1, the court is now designated "municipal" court; municipal courts, O.C.G.A. § 36-32-1 et seq.

Section 12. - Publication of ordinances.
All ordinances and resolutions passed by the mayor and council shall be entered on the minutes by the clerk, and said mayor and council shall have the authority whenever it seems proper, to publish any ordinance or resolution passed in the official organ of Wilkes County, Georgia.
Section 13. - Control of public places; nuisances.
The mayor and council shall have full control and superintendence of all streets, lanes, alleys, sidewalks, crossings, rights of way, parks, squares, swimming pools, and all other places of recreation or amusement furnished to or open to the public or used by the public, with the right to pass all necessary ordinances, resolutions and rules regulating the use thereof.
Editor's note— Sections of the 1933 Code of Georgia formerly cited herein, have been changed to the O.C.G.A. section.
The mayor and council shall have the full right to abate or cause to be abated any nuisance existing in said City of Washington, Georgia, in the manner provided by section 41-2-5, Official Code of Georgia Annotated, and as provided in any and all laws amendatory thereof.
Editor's note— Citation to 1933 Code sections 72-401 and 72-402 has been converted to O.C.G.A.
Section 14. - Powers as to streets, etc.
The mayor and council acting for and on behalf of the City of Washington, Georgia, shall have, and there is hereby granted to them, full power and authority to lay out, widen, straighten, grade or otherwise change the roads, streets, bridges, sidewalks, lanes, alleys, parks, squares and places of public amusement and recreation in said city, and shall have full authority and power to lay off, grade, vacate, close, widen, open, curb and pave the roads, streets, bridges, walks, sidewalks, lanes, alleys, cross drains, cross gutters, cross walks, drains and gutters, either or all of them, for the public use, or for the purpose of laying or causing to be laid, any wires, drains, sewer pipes, gas pipes, water pipes, fire plugs, electric lines, water, gas or sewer connections, or any other installation over, in, upon, across, under and through the roads, streets, bridges, sidewalks, lanes, alleys, parks, squares, and places of public recreation and amusement within the limits of said municipality, upon such terms and conditions as they may prescribe.
Section 15. - Powers and construction.
This city shall have all powers possible for a city to have under present or future Constitution and laws of this state as fully and completely as though they were specifically enumerated in this charter. This city shall have all the powers of self-government not otherwise prohibited by this charter or by general law.
The powers of this city shall be construed liberally in favor of the city. The specific mention or failure to mention particular powers shall not be construed as limiting in any way the powers of this city.
With respect to its proprietary and utility services, the city shall have and may fully exercise all powers of a private corporation and as a city to the fullest extent permitted by law.
(Mo. of 10-13-03; Ga. Laws 2004, Act 752, § 3; Res. of 9-12-22, § 15; Res. of 10-10-22, § 1)
Editor's note— A motion adopted October 13, 2003, deleted former § 15 of the Charter and enacted a new section to the Charter which has been designated as § 15 at the editor's discretion. Former § 15, pertained to street and other improvements authorized and derived unamended from the original Charter.
Section 16. - Exercise of powers.
All powers, functions, rights, privileges, and immunities of the city, its officers, agencies, or employees shall be carried into execution as provided by this charter. If this charter makes no provision, such shall be carried into execution as provided by ordinance or as provided by pertinent laws of the State of Georgia.
(Mo. of 10-13-03; Ga. Laws 2004, Act 752, § 3)
Editor's note— A motion adopted October 13, 2003, deleted former § 16 of the Charter and enacted a new section to the Charter which has been designated as § 16 at the editor's discretion. Former § 16, pertained to collection of improvement cost and derived unamended from the original Charter.
Sections 17—23. - Reserved.
Editor's note— A motion adopted October 13, 2003, deleted former §§ 17—23 of the Charter, which pertained to assessing railways and other adjoining owners; making improvements on council's initiative or on petition; improvement contracts, hired labor; lien for street, etc., improvements; affidavit of illegality of improvement assessment; improvement contracts without assessment; and priority of improvement liens, respectively, and derived unamended from the original Charter. Ga. Laws 2004, Act 752, § 4 reaffirmed the deletion of former §§ 17—23.
Section 24. - Eminent domain power; purposes.
Said mayor and council of the City of Washington, Georgia, acting in the name of and on behalf of the municipality, shall have full power and authority to condemn property for the public use for the purpose of laying out and opening new streets, sidewalks, alleys, lanes, roads, squares and parks in said municipality; and for the purpose of widening, changing, straightening, grading, adding to or improving in any way the streets, sidewalks, alleys, lanes, roads, squares and parks of said municipality, upon the payment of compensation therefor. Whenever the mayor and council shall decide that it is necessary to exercise the power of eminent domain for the purpose of condemning property for public use as herein set out, such power and authority shall be exercised as provided by the laws and statutes of the State of Georgia, as found in Title 22, Chapter 2 of the Official Code of Georgia Annotated, and all laws and parts of laws amendatory thereof, providing for the condemnation of private property for public uses by municipalities, whether the property sought to be condemned is in the hands of the owner, trustee, executor, administrator, guardian or agent, or if the owner is unknown.
Said mayor and council acting in the name of and on behalf of the City of Washington, Georgia, shall have the full right and power to condemn and acquire any land, premises, rights of way, easements or appurtenances connected therewith, except property of an existing public utility company, whether within or without the corporate limits of the municipality, upon paying proper compensation therefor, for the purpose of establishing and maintaining an electric light or power plant, gas plant, waterworks system, sewerage or drainage system, incinerator, or sewerage disposal system, together with the necessary streams, wells, ponds, lakes, or dams, with right of way for pipes, mains, sewers, drains, poles, or lines incident to the necessary operation and maintenance of the same, or for the purpose of maintaining, extending, enlarging and improvement of any present system of the kind named, and for either or all of them and for all purposes.
Provided, however, that whenever the right to condemn land, premises, rights of way, easements or appurtenances connected therewith for any purpose, as herein granted is exercised, that it shall be done in appropriate proceeding and in the manner provided by the laws and statutes of the State of Georgia relative to condemnation of private property for public uses as found in Title 22, Chapter 2 of the Official Code of Georgia Annotated, and all laws and parts of laws amendatory thereof.
In all cases provided for in this Act when the power of eminent domain shall be exercised by the municipality, compensation shall be provided for the owner as required by law.
Editor's note— The citation of Chapter 36-1 of 1933 Georgia Code has been converted to O.C.G.A.
Section 25. - Providing utility services by city.
The mayor and council acting for and on behalf of the City of Washington, Georgia shall have full power and authority to maintain, equip, repair, extend, enlarge and improve in any way, any present system of gas, waterworks, sewerage and any electric light and power plants, for the purpose of furnishing and supplying the inhabitants of said municipality, and those residing outside the corporate limits of the municipality, and consumers generally, with water, sewerage facilities, light, power and gas, either or all of them; and to effect this end and purpose the said mayor and council shall have the right to contract with any person, firm or corporation for the purchase of, lease or grant of land, premises or easements, to be used in connection therewith, whether located within or without the corporate limits of the municipality, and if necessary to obtain the same by the power of eminent domain, except property of an existing public utility company, all as provided in this Act.
The mayor and council for and in the name of the City of Washington, Georgia, shall have full power and authority to purchase or lease any plant, machinery or equipment, and any and all articles and things that may be necessary for the proper operation of such plant, machinery and equipment, for the purpose of repairing, enlarging, extending or improving the same; to excavate or bore wells, create ponds, lakes or dams, erect buildings and furnish the same with machinery and equipment, and to do all things that may be necessary for the proper maintenance, upkeep and improvement of said water, sewerage, light, power and gas plants, systems or facilities, or the extension or enlargement thereof.
The right to repair, enlarge, keep up, extend and improve said plants or facilities shall be exercised in the discretion of the mayor and council and in the name of and for the benefit of the municipality, and they shall have the right and authority to make contracts with the residents of the municipality and with consumers generally, whether living within or without said corporate limits, for the furnishing of water, sewerage facilities, electric light, power and gas, either or all of them, whenever it may be deemed advisable, and they shall be authorized to fix the rates and charges for such services.
The mayor and council of the City of Washington, Georgia, shall have full right and authority on behalf of and in the name of the municipality to erect, build, acquire, establish and maintain a new system of waterworks, sewerage facilities, electric light and power plants, gas plants, or other public utility plants whenever it shall be deemed necessary for the growth and expansion of the municipality, and for the comfort and convenience of its inhabitants and consumers, and in order to do so they may acquire any land, easement, or other privilege, right or property, either within or without the corporate limits of the municipality, by purchase, lease, contract, or by condemnation as set out in this Act, except that condemnation shall not apply to the property of an existing public utility company; and for the necessary operation and equipment of said system or systems, plant or plants, may erect, lease or rent buildings and machinery and other equipment; repair, extend, enlarge and improve the same, and enter into such contracts as may be necessary to effectuate such purposes.
Section 25.1. - Telecommunications.
The city shall have the power and authority to acquire, own, hold, lease, sell, resell, build, maintain, operate and contract with respect to a telecommunications systems network in order to provide telecommunications services and similar other services, including cable television services (CATV), to establish and charge rates, fees, tolls and charges for the services, facilities or commodities furnished or made available by such undertaking, to interconnect its system or services or both with the systems or services of consumers and other providers, to use telecommunications to respond to community needs, encourage the development of information-based organizations in the City of Washington, Georgia, to finance from time to time any such telecommunications systems through the issuance of revenue bonds as then permitted by the Constitution and laws of the State of Georgia; and to make any contract with respect to and furnish the services of any said systems to consumers within or outside the corporate limits of the city.
(Ord. of 12-10-01, § 1)
Section 26. - Providing waterworks and sewerage by city.
The provisions of this Act in regard to the purchase, lease, erecting, constructing, or installing of any waterworks, sewerage, and sewerage disposal systems in and for said City of Washington, Georgia, shall not conflict in any way with the present waterworks system, sewerage, and sewerage disposal system now in use in said city but is intended to provide a method of supplementing the water supply of the inhabitants of the municipality and consumers living outside the corporate limits, if the same ever shall become necessary.
(Mo. of 10-13-03; Ga. Laws 2004, Act 752, § 5)
State Law reference— For such law, see O.C.G.A. § 36-82-60 et seq.
Section 27. - Compelling connection to water and sewer systems.
Said mayor and council acting by and for the City of Washington, Georgia, shall have full power and authority to compel any resident or nonresident property owner owning land or premises located within or without the corporate limits of the municipality and over, across, upon or adjacent to whose property any water main, sewer main, pipes or drains may extend, or which may be hereafter extended, whether such property be occupied by the owner or tenant of the owner, to connect the same with the water or sewerage systems now in use or that may be hereafter laid out by the municipality; to compel the property owner, tenants or others, using or controlling the land, premises or buildings located thereon to pay the expenses of such connection, when done either by themselves or by the city; and authority is granted to the mayor and council in the event of the property owner, tenant, or other person shall fail or refuse to make such connection or connections, within a reasonable time after being directed so to do, to make such connection through such employee or employees as they may designate. If the property owner, tenant or other person shall refuse to pay for such expense, the expense may be assessed and collected in the manner provided for the collection of delinquent taxes due the municipality.
The mayor and council shall be authorized to and may require, any and all surface wells, dry wells, cesspools, pits for disposal of waste and garbage and sewerage and outdoor toilets to be filled in or closed at the expense of the property owner, and if he shall fail to do so after notification, the same may be done by the municipality with the expense to be borne by the property owner, and if he shall fail to pay the same upon request, it shall be collected in the manner in which delinquent taxes are collected.
The mayor and council shall be authorized to pass any ordinance or resolution as may be necessary to place these provisions of this Act into effect.
Section 28. - Authority to levy and collect taxes.
Said mayor and council acting on behalf of the City of Washington, Georgia, shall be authorized to levy and collect for general city purpose in each and every year a tax of all real estate, stock in trade, personalty, and all other property that may be at the time be taxable under the laws of the State of Georgia.
The order levying the tax shall be recorded on the minutes of the city and shall specify the amount assessed and levied.
(Mo. of 10-13-03; Ga. Laws 2004, Act 752, § 6)
Section 29. - Reserved.
Editor's note— Section 29, pertaining to city appraisers, has been omitted as obsolete.
Section 30. - Fixing tax rate.
As soon as the appraisers named to value and assess real, personal and all other kinds of property within the corporate limits of the City of Washington, Georgia, shall conclude their work, a meeting of the mayor and council shall be had for the purpose of fixing the tax rate for the current year, which shall not exceed the limits set out in this Act. When the rate of taxation has been fixed by the mayor and council the public shall be notified of the rate fixed for the current year by the publication of a notice in one (1) issue of the official organ of Wilkes County, Georgia published after said tax rate has been fixed.
Sections 31—38. - Reserved.
Editor's note— Sections 31—38 of the Charter have been deleted as being superseded by O.C.G.A. title 48, ch. 13, art. 1 (O.C.G.A. § 48-13-1 et seq.). Former §§ 31—38 pertained to business licenses generally; refusal of license, inspections; specific occupations; control of premises of licensed establishments; licensing auctioneers, etc.; failure to obtain license; agricultural product license exemption; and license tax ordinance, respectively, and derived unamended from the original charter. Ga. Laws 2004, Act 752, § 7 reaffirmed the deletion of former §§ 17—23.
Section 39. - Animals at large.
Said mayor and council shall by ordinance or resolution provide against the running at large of any domestic animal upon the sidewalks, roads, streets, lanes, alleys, parks or public squares of said city, or other public place; for the impounding and keeping of the same; for the keeping or raising of any fowls or species of fowl, domestic animal or other animal, when the keeping of such animals or fowls shall be offensive to the citizens of the municipality or injurious to their health or comfort; for the keeping, taxing and muzzling of dogs; for the inoculation of the same for rabies; for the running at large of any dog or dogs within the municipality whether the same be owned by a resident of the city or not.
In the event it is necessary to impound any animal where the owner is not known, or where the owner if known refuses to keep such animal confined, the municipality shall be authorized to establish a pound for the keeping of such animals, and to provide charges for feeding and keeping the same, and if any dangerous or diseased dog or other animal is running at large, the municipality shall be authorized to destroy the same by its officers or employees, without liability on the part of the municipality or any officer thereof.
Section 40. - Collection of Delinquent Taxes and Fees.
The City Council, by ordinance may provide generally for the collection of delinquent taxes, fees, or other revenue or amounts due the City by whatever reasonable means as are not precluded by law. This shall include providing for the dates when such amounts are due; late penalties or interest; issuance and execution of fi. fa.'s; creation and priority of liens; making delinquent amounts personal debts of the persons required to pay such amounts; revoking city permits for failure to pay any such amounts; and providing for the assignment or transfer of tax executions.
In all cases where any taxes, fines, commutation taxes, or license fees are not paid when due, the mayor shall issue an execution against the delinquents, which execution shall be signed by the mayor of the city and directed to the chief of police or the marshal of the City of Washington, Georgia, or their assistants, and to the sheriff of Wilkes County, Georgia, and his deputies, who shall proceed to levy and collect all such fi. fas. or executions as in cases of fi. fas. issued for state and county taxes.
(Res. of 9-12-2022, § 2; Res. of 10-10-22, § 2)
Editor's note— A resolution adopted September 12, 2022, renamed § 40 from "Fi. Fas." to "Collection of delinquent taxes and fees."
Section 41. - Chief executive of the city.
The mayor shall be the chief executive officer of the City of Washington, Georgia. It shall be his or her duty to see that all laws, ordinances, resolutions, rules, and regulations of the mayor and council are strictly observed and enforced. He or she shall be authorized to name and appoint any standing or special committee or committees from the council as he or she may see fit, and he or she is made an ex officio member of such committee or committees. Prior to appointment of members of boards, commissions, or authorities, to be appointed from the citizens of the city, the mayor shall obtain input and concurrence of the council.
In case of the absence, illness, or disqualification of the mayor of the city, the mayor pro tempore shall be authorized to perform all the duties of the mayor during his or her absence, illness, or disqualification.
(Mo. of 10-13-03; Ga. Laws 2004, Act 752, § 8)
Section 42. - Municipal judge.
The municipal judge shall have jurisdiction to try in a summary manner, unless a plea of guilty be entered, all persons charged with violating the laws, ordinances, resolutions, rules, and regulations of such municipality, without the filing of written charges, and may impose such penalties for the violation of the same as may be prescribed by the mayor and council. He or she shall be authorized to sit as a court at any time, Sunday's excepted. All fines and costs imposed by him or her, when collected, shall be paid into the treasury of the municipality.
Appeals from the municipal court shall be filed with the Superior Court of Wilkes County. The right of appeal and any bond as may be required to secure the costs on appeals to the Superior Court of Wilkes County from the municipal court shall lie in the same manner and under the same procedure as generally prescribed for appeals and appeal bonds from the probate court. Any person who fails to file an appeal within ten days of the date of his or her conviction shall be deemed to have waived any such right. An appeal to the superior court shall be a de novo proceeding.
The municipal judge shall be authorized to issue criminal warrants, hold courts of inquiry, commit offenders to the proper court for trial, or admit them to bail, as in cases tried before a magistrate in this state sitting as a court of inquiry.
The municipal judge, for any hearing held by him or her, shall have the power to summon witnesses, issue subpoenas for persons or for the production of papers or records, and punish for disobedience to a subpoena or writ or for any act of contumacy amounting to a contempt or contempt committed in his or her presence while sitting as a court with authority to fine the offender for such contempt, imprison said offender in the county jail of Wilkes County, Georgia, or inflict either or all of said penalties for each offense. In the event a fine is imposed and not paid, the municipal judge may provide an alternate sentence of imprisonment not to exceed the time stated.
(Ga. Laws 1972, Act. No. 1027, § 3; Mo. of 10-13-03; Ga. Laws 2004, Act 752, § 8; Ord. of 8-8-16)
State Law reference— Court now known as municipal court, Const. 1983, Art. VI, § 10, ¶ 1; municipal courts, O.C.G.A. § 36-32-1 et seq.
Section 43. - Police force; arrest, etc.
It shall be lawful for the chief of police, his assistant, or any policeman or night-watchman lawfully appointed by and serving the municipality, without warrant, to arrest any and all persons violating any of the criminal laws of this state, and the ordinances, laws, resolutions, rules and regulations of this municipality, against disorderly conduct, drunkenness, rioting, fighting, quarreling, idling, loafing, loitering, disturbing the peace, or other disorderly or immoral conduct committed within the confines of the municipality, or within any residence or building therein, or upon the roads, streets, lanes, parks, alleys, squares or sidewalks of said city, and after such arrest to confine the offender in the common jail of Wilkes County, Georgia, and to admit them to bail, until said matter can be heard by the proper official. Such chief of police, his assistant, and any policeman or night-watchman lawfully appointed and serving the municipality as herein set out, shall have the right and authority to call to his assistance the sheriff of Wilkes County, Georgia or any lawful deputy, the county police of Wilkes County, Georgia, the Georgia State Patrol, or any constable or bystander, to assist him in arresting and detaining such offender or offenders.
They are also authorized to arrest without warrant and detain any escaped criminal from the state, any city or county thereof, or from another state, and such officers shall have generally all the rights and powers given to officers of this state for making arrests without warrants.
Section 44. - Appearance bond.
The municipal judge of said municipality shall have the right to take, receive, and approve any appearance bond with good security in an amount to be fixed by such official, payable to the mayor of the City of Washington, Georgia, and conditioned on the accused person appearing at such time as may be fixed for a hearing on the charges against him or her. For good cause shown the hearing may be continued from time to time by the municipal judge. If such bond is given, the accused shall be required to appear at the time fixed for a hearing of the charges before the municipal judge, and, if no appearance is made, such bond may be forfeited by serving the defendant and his or her surety or sureties with a rule nisi in the same manner as bonds are forfeited and rule nisi served in the superior courts of this state, requiring them to appear within 30 days after such service and show cause why such bond should not be forfeited. If the defendant and his or her sureties reside within the limits of the municipality, service of such rule nisi may be made by the chief of police of said city or any of his or her assistants. If the said defendant or any of his or her sureties reside outside the limits of the municipality, service shall be made by the sheriff of this county or his or her lawful deputy, or by the sheriff or his or her lawful deputy of any other county if such defendant lives outside Wilkes County, Georgia.
If the defendant, any surety, or either of them shall fail to appear as required by said rule nisi, the said bond shall be declared forfeited, and, thereupon, an execution or fi. fa. shall be issued by the municipal judge against the defendant and his or her sureties, which execution shall be levied and collected in the manner provided by this Act for the levy and collection of tax fi. fas. and executions. Any sum or sums received from such forfeitures shall be paid into the treasury of the city.
The municipal judge shall have the right to receive cash from the accused in lieu of personal bond, and if the offender fails to appear at the time set for the hearing or fails to give a good reason for not appearing, the cash shall be ordered forfeited by order in writing of the officer before whom the case is heard without the issuance and service of a rule nisi. In all cases where a cash bond is taken a receipt shall be issued to the accused. The forfeiture may be reopened for good cause shown within 30 days after the cash is forfeited.
(Mo. of 10-13-03; Ga. Laws 2004, Act 752, § 9)
Section 45. - Reserved.
Editor's note— Section 45, pertaining to city physician, has been omitted as obsolete.
Section 46. - Urban redevelopment law.
Said mayor and council acting for and on behalf of the municipality shall be authorized to provide by ordinance or resolution for the acquisition, construction, building, maintenance, improvement and upkeep of any slum clearance project, low cost housing project or other project necessary to the development, prosperity and health of the municipality, whether such project or projects be conducted by the municipality or in cooperation with any agency, board, department or bureau of the state or federal government, and to that end and purpose the municipality, or any board or agency appointed by it for the purposes stated, in compliance with the laws of this state or of the United States, shall have the right and authority to acquire by the exercise of eminent domain as provided by law, upon proper compensation being paid to the owner, any real estate, easement or other property necessary for such development, or the construction, building, maintenance and improvement of the same. The mayor and council shall be authorized to comply with any and all provisions of the "Urban Redevelopment Law" of the General Assembly of Georgia approved March 3, 1955 (Ga. L. 1955, pp. 354 et seq.) (Official Code of Georgia Annotated, Title 36, Chapter 61), and all amendments that may be hereafter made thereto.
Editor's note— Citation to Chapter 69-11 of 1933 Georgia Code has been converted to O.C.G.A.
Section 47. - Reserved.
Editor's note— A motion adopted October 13, 2003, deleted former § 47 of the Charter which pertained to care of indigent sick and derived unamended from the original Code. Ga. Laws 2004, Act 752, § 10 reaffirmed the deletion of former § 47.
Section 48. - Statutory street improvement power.
The mayor and council acting for and on behalf of the municipality shall be authorized to provide for street improvements in the municipality under the provisions of the Official Code of Georgia Annotated, Title 36, Chapter 39 and all laws amendatory thereof. These powers shall be in addition thereto and not in conflict with the other powers vested in said mayor and council by this Act relating to improvements of roads, streets, lanes, alleys, sidewalks, parks, squares and other public places in the municipality.
Editor's note— Citation to 1933 Georgia Code, Ch. 69-4 has been converted to O.C.G.A.
Section 49. - Municipal bonds.
Said mayor and council acting for and on behalf of the municipality, shall be authorized by ordinance, resolution or contract, to comply with any and all of the provisions and purposes of the Act in the General Assembly of Georgia approved March 31, 1937 (Ga. L. 1937, pp. 761 et seq.) (Official Code of Georgia, Title 36, Chapter 82 and all laws amendatory thereof, said Act formerly known as The Revenue Certificate Law of 1937, now known as Revenue Bond Law, and with Article seven, Section seven, Paragraph five of the Constitution.
Editor's note— Citation to 1933 Georgia Code, ch. 87-8 has been converted to O.C.G.A.
Section 50. - Loans.
The mayor and council of the City of Washington, Georgia, acting for and on behalf of the municipality, shall be authorized to make and incur temporary loans between January 1 and December 31 in each year to pay the expenses of such year upon compliance with all the provisions of Article IX, Section V, Paragraph V of the Constitution of this state and all laws amendatory thereof.
(Mo. of 10-13-03; Ga. Laws 2004, Act 752, § 11)
Section 51. - Public improvement bond authorization.
The City of Washington, Georgia, shall be authorized to issue bonds for public improvements or other public purposes authorized by law in accordance with and under the provisions of the laws of Georgia now in force or that may be hereafter enacted.
Section 52. - Bond elections.
The mayor and council acting for and on behalf of the City of Washington, Georgia, are hereby authorized and empowered to call elections by the qualified voters of the municipality in accordance with the provisions of the constitution and laws of Georgia and all acts and laws amendatory thereto, at such time or times as the mayor and council shall designate in conformity with law, to determine whether or not bonds shall be issued by the municipality for the purpose of providing funds to pay the pro-rata part, as set out in this Act, of the expense of constructing, reconstructing, building, rebuilding, paving, repaving, widening, grading, regrading, improving or reimproving any or all of the roads, streets, lanes, alleys, squares, parks, byways and bridges in said municipality, or any other public place therein, or any portion thereof, for which the municipality would be liable under this Act; and for the purpose of providing funds for the expense of constructing, reconstructing, building, rebuilding, paving, repaving, widening, grading, regrading, improving or reimproving any or all of the roads, streets, lanes, alleys, squares, parks, byways and bridges in said municipality wherein the city would be solely liable for such expense; and for the purpose of providing for the payment of the whole or any part thereof, of the engineering fees and other expenses for which the municipality would be liable as provided by this Act.
Section 53. - Bond validation.
Any bonds provided for in this Act shall be issued and validated as provided by the laws of Georgia relating to the issuance and validation of bonds by municipalities, and the mayor and council of the City of Washington, Georgia are authorized, empowered and required, in the event any of such bonds are issued and validated, to levy and collect a tax annually during the life of said bonds, upon all the property in the municipality liable for such tax, in addition to all the other taxes assessed and collected by the municipality, in an amount sufficient to discharge, pay off and retire the bonded debt that may be incurred under the laws of Georgia and this Act, according to the manner and terms of the issuance and validation of the bonds, and according to the terms, stipulation and tenor of the same, providing that any sum or sums so realized shall be used for no other purpose.
Section 54. - Sinking funds.
Said mayor and council acting for and on behalf of the City of Washington, Georgia, shall be authorized to provide a sinking fund for the retirement of any bond or bonds issued in pursuance of this Act as may be authorized by the laws of Georgia, and to invest and reinvest the same in such securities and in such manner as is authorized by law, said sinking fund to be used for the payment of any bond or bonds issued under the provisions of this Act and the laws of Georgia and for no other purposes.
Section 55. - Refunding bonds.
The mayor and council acting for and on behalf of the municipality shall be authorized to issue refunding bonds in the event the municipality is not able to meet or reduce any bonded debt now existing or hereafter created, as provided by the Constitution of the State of Georgia and any amendment thereof or as provided by any law of the State of Georgia now in force or that may be hereafter enacted, under such terms as shall be fixed by such law or by any commission created by law.
(Mo. of 10-13-03; Ga. Laws 2004, Act 752, § 12)
Section 56. - Election after bond issue rejected by voters.
In the event any election for bonds called under the provisions of this Act and the laws of Georgia, shall be determined against the municipality, that the mayor and council acting for and on behalf of the municipality, shall be authorized at any time after the expiration of twelve (12) months from such election, to call another election under the provisions of this Act and the laws of Georgia, in which the qualified voters of the municipality shall be called upon to vote for or against the issuance of such bonds.
Section 57. - Validation according to law.
When any bonds shall be issued by the municipality under this Act and in accordance with the laws of Georgia, they shall be validated in the manner provided by the laws of this state then in force.
Section 58. - Fire department.
The mayor and council of the City of Washington, Georgia, shall have full power and authority by ordinance or resolution to establish, keep, equip, maintain and operate a fire department in and for the municipality; to provide for a chief, assistants and personnel of the same, and to provide compensation out of the city treasury therefor; to purchase, contract for, lease or rent any trucks, ladders, hose, chemical wagons, chemicals, or any other machinery, accessories and equipment that may be necessary for and used by a modern fire department; and to construct, purchase, rent or lease any building or buildings necessary to house or store the same or provide quarters for the personnel. The mayor and council shall be authorized to make all needful rules and regulations in connection with such fire department.
Section 59. - Building and fire regulations.
Said mayor and council acting for and on behalf of the municipality shall be authorized to enact all ordinances, rules, and regulations necessary to lay out and prescribe a district or districts in such city and to enlarge, change, or modify the limits thereof from time to time; to prescribe when, how, and of what materials any building or buildings in such district or districts may be constructed, repaired, or covered; how thick the walls shall be required to be constructed and what type chimneys, stove pipes, flues, and stacks for escape of smoke are to be constructed; to provide for fire escapes from buildings and how they shall be erected and of what materials in any building in the city where the same are required, provided such provision does not conflict with the fire laws of this state; and generally to do any and all things necessary by rule, regulation, or ordinance as will protect the inhabitants and the property within the municipality from danger by fire and damage from smoke and water.
The mayor and council shall have the right to order and direct any change or changes in the construction or arrangement of any roof, buildings, chimneys, stove pipes, flues or stacks, and to order the removal thereof by the owner, when in their judgment the same constitute a fire or smoke hazard, and may require the owner to pay the expense of such change or removal, and if said owner refuses to do so, after being directed to make such change or removal, the mayor and council acting by and through their employees shall have the right to remove, change, or rearrange such chimney, pipe, flue or stack at the expense of the owner. Such expense to be collected from the owner in the same manner provided for the collection of municipal taxes.
The mayor and council shall have full right and authority to provide for the storage and keeping, for sale or otherwise, of any gunpowder, ammunition, gasoline, oils, dynamite, naphtha, benzine, tar, pitch, coal, rosin, kerosene, or any other combustible, explosive or inflammable chemical, material or substance; and may by ordinance or resolution prohibit the storage of the same in the municipality, when in their judgment the same constitutes a fire hazard, or is dangerous to life, property or health.
(Mo. of 10-13-03; Ga. Laws 2004, Act 752, § 13)
Section 60. - Building permits.
Said mayor and council acting by and for the municipality shall have the right by ordinance or resolution to provide for the issuance, granting or refusal of permits to erect, improve, or change any building or buildings, business or residential, fence, wall, or any appurtenance thereto, and shall be authorized to require any person, firm or corporation contemplating the erection, building or improvement of any property to obtain a permit before undertaking such erection or construction.
The person, firm, or corporation contemplating any such erection, building, improvement, or change of any such enumerated property shall furnish to the clerk of said municipality on a printed form to be furnished by the clerk, a description of the proposed erection, building, construction, or improvement, where the same is to be located, when the work will start, the cost of same, and materials proposed to be used in the construction.
(Mo. of 10-13-03; Ga. Laws 2004, Act 752, § 14)
Section 61. - Planning.
Said mayor and council acting for and on behalf of the municipality or through any committee, board or other authority appointed or designated by it, or by the general law of this state, shall be authorized to promulgate and put into effect rules, regulations, resolutions and ordinances from time to time, and to amend, change or revoke the same whereby the provisions of the Acts of the General Assembly of Georgia, may be put into full force and effect wherein they relate to planning for the future development of, and the zoning and districting of said municipality for various uses and purposes, and for prohibiting other uses and purposes therein, with all the rights, restrictions, remedies and authority as contained in such law or laws and all Acts amendatory thereof.
The said mayor and council shall be authorized to provide for and inflict such penalty or penalties for any violation of the zoning or districting ordinances, rules and regulations, as do not conflict with any other provision of this Act.
Editor's note— Reference to repealed 1946 Act at page 191 of Ga. Laws and Ch. 69-8 of 1933 Code of Ga. has been deleted.
Section 62. - Playgrounds, etc.
Said mayor and council shall have the right and authority to establish and maintain public parks, playgrounds, swimming pools, or other places for public recreation and amusement, and to provide for the use thereof under such ordinances, rules and regulations as they may see fit. They shall be authorized, if they see fit, to proceed under the provisions of the Acts of the General Assembly of Georgia.
Editor's note— Reference to repealed 1946 Act and Ch. 69-6 of the 1933 Code of Ga. has been deleted.
Section 63. - Cemetery.
Said mayor and council shall have the right to acquire by purchase, rent, lease, or gift any cemetery or burying ground for the use of the public, either within or without the limits of the municipality, and shall have exclusive jurisdiction over the same, with the right to divide the same into lots, and to construct, grade, pave and improve streets and sidewalks therein; to sell and convey the lots therein to purchasers; to provide for the upkeep and maintenance of the same; to provide by ordinance or resolution for the infliction of penalties upon trespassers therein, to regulate the charge for digging graves, and to do any and all things necessary for the upkeep, preservation and maintenance of any such cemetery or burying ground.
Section 64. - Reserved.
Editor's note— A motion adopted October 13, 2003, deleted former § 64 of the Charter which pertained to weights and measures and derived unamended from the original Code. Ga. Laws 2004, Act 752, § 15 reaffirmed the deletion of former § 64.
Section 65. - Reserved.
Editor's note— Section 65 pertaining to the board of health has been omitted as obsolete.
Section 66. - Easements.
The mayor and council acting for and on behalf of the City of Washington, Georgia, shall have full power and authority to grant unto persons, firms, and corporations franchises enabling them to carry on the business of a public utility within the limits of the municipality, and for the purposes of the utilities the mayor and council shall be authorized to grant easements and rights of way over, in, upon, under, along, and across the public sidewalks, roads, streets, lanes, alleys, parks, squares, and other public places within the municipality for the purpose of laying, erecting, constructing, maintaining, repairing, improving, or changing any poles, stays, wires, anchors, pipes, supports, cables, connections, water mains or pipes, gas mains or pipes, or any other accessory or equipment needed for the operation of any telecommunications, water, gas, or electric utility within the present limits of the municipality or such limits as they may be hereafter extended. The mayor and council shall determine the terms and conditions under which any franchises, may be granted, renewed, or extended and for the term thereof.
(Mo. of 10-13-03; Ga. Laws 2004, Act 752, § 16)
Section 67. - Public transportation.
Said mayor and council acting for and on behalf of the City of Washington, Georgia, shall have the full authority and power to provide by ordinance, resolution or regulation for the operation of taxicabs, trucks and any and all other vehicles operated for hire within said municipality for the transportation of persons, freight or other commodities; to provide for the inspection and weighing of the same; to fix rates for the fares and carriages thereof.
The mayor and council shall have the right, power and authority to prescribe the location of any bus or other depot, or taxi stand, for the public carriage of passengers or freight, and the place on the roads, streets, lanes, alleys or other public places of the municipality that may be used as a stopping place by such vehicles for the loading and discharge of passengers or freight, when no regular depot is provided by the owners or operators of such vehicles used for public transportation of passengers or freight.
The mayor and council shall have the power and authority to control and regulate the operation of and running of bicycles, automobiles, motorcycles, motor scooters, buses, taxicabs, trucks and any and all kinds of vehicles operated in, upon, over and across the roads, streets, lanes, alleys, sidewalks, parks, squares and public places in said municipality, whether such vehicles are propelled by hand, foot, steam, electricity, gasoline or other motive power; to prescribe and fix speed limits and speed zones for all of the enumerated vehicles; to erect stop and warning signs at dangerous intersections or places, at schools or other public places within the municipality, and to do any and all things to provide for the comfort and safety of the inhabitants of the municipality and for others using such roads, streets, lanes, alleys, sidewalks, parks, squares and public places. The mayor and council shall have the right and authority to provide for the registration of the enumerated vehicles, and to prescribe the qualifications of any chauffeur or operator of such vehicles.
The mayor and council shall be authorized to fix and prescribe penalties for the violation of any ordinance, resolution, rule or regulation placing the provisions of this section of this Act into effect.
Section 68. - City engineer.
The mayor and council shall have the right to gain the services of a city engineer and such assistants as they may see fit and to provide compensation for them to be paid out of the city treasury.
They shall be authorized to prescribe the duties of such city engineer and assistants and to provide for the hiring and pay of same as may be deemed necessary. They shall also be authorized to employ and provide compensation for any other employee, regular or casual, to be paid out of the city treasury that may be required for the maintenance and upkeep of the sidewalks, roads, streets, lanes, alleys, parks, cemeteries, squares, and places of public recreation in said municipality; for hauling, collecting, and destroying waste and garbage; and for the maintenance and upkeep of any property, facility, or utility owned by the municipality whether located inside or outside the limits of the city.
(Mo. of 10-13-03; Ga. Laws 2004, Act 752, § 17)
Section 69. - Parks.
Said mayor and council shall have the right and authority to adopt and enforce any rules, regulations, ordinances, or resolutions for the protection of shade trees and shrubs in public places in said city and to hinder and prevent the cutting or trimming of same by any public utility or its employees. They shall have authority to cause to be removed any tree or trees or shrub or shrubs, which in the judgment of the mayor and council or any committee thereof hinders or endangers traffic in said city or which by reason of age or other condition is dangerous to persons and property. If the owner of the property on which any such tree or shrub is located fails or refuses to remove the same after reasonable notice from the mayor and council, they may proceed to have the same removed, the expense to be borne by the property owner, with the right to enforce the collection of such expense as tax assessments are enforced and collected.
(Mo. of 10-13-03; Ga. Laws 2004, Act 752, § 18)
Section 70. - Arrest.
The chief of police and any policeman of the municipality, shall have the right and authority upon proper warrant, to break and enter any house, store, warehouse or any other place in the municipality, where they or either of them, may have reason to suspect that any crime has been or is about to be committed, or that any of the ordinances or resolutions of the municipality are being or about to be violated, and to arrest the persons therein, imprison them and admit them to bail as is provided in this Act in case of arrest.
Section 71. - Ordinances to control crime, etc.
The mayor and council acting for and on behalf of the municipality, shall have the right and authority to enact such ordinances, resolutions, rules and regulations to control crime or juvenile delinquency, and for that intent and purpose may enact and enforce by the proper penalties any curfew regulations relating to the use of the streets, roads, lanes, alleys, sidewalks, parks, squares and other public places in the municipality, and provide for the hours thereof when the same may be used by the inhabitants of the municipality.
The mayor and council shall also be authorized to provide for the assembly or assemblies, meetings or meetings of any group or body in such municipality, whereby the same would likely tend to cause a breach of the peace or public disorder.
Section 72. - New industries.
The mayor and council acting for and on behalf of the municipality shall be authorized to proceed in the manner provided by laws of the State of Georgia, to exempt new industries from ad valorem taxes for a period named by law.
Section 73. - Purchases.
Said mayor and council may direct how all purchases of equipment, supplies and other articles used by and for the benefit of the municipality shall be made, and shall have the right to limit the amount of any expenditures made by any employee for the benefit of the municipality in the purchase of equipment, supplies or other articles, unless such purchase is approved by the mayor and council or by a committee set up by said mayor and council.
Section 74. - Sale of city property.
No personal or real property of a value greater than $1,500.00 owned by the municipality shall be sold to any purchaser without asking for competitive bids for at least ten days before such sale, notice to be given by the running of one advertisement in the official organ of Wilkes County, Georgia, and no personal property of any kind owned by the municipality shall be sold except under the same terms. However, it is expressly provided in this section that the restriction on the sales of personal property shall not apply when any of such personalty in the nature of worn out and obsolete fire trucks and equipment, automobiles, trucks, and other equipment and machinery used by the municipality which is traded in as a part of the purchase price of new fire trucks and equipment, automobiles, trucks, and other equipment and machinery. It is also provided that the restrictions as to sale of real estate shall not apply to sales of cemetery lots.
(Mo. of 10-13-03; Ga. Laws 2004, Act 752, § 19)
Editor's note— The phrase "specified by the council" has been substituted for the obsolete phrase "of three hundred ($300.00) dollars."
Section 75. - Employee group insurance, etc.
The mayor and council acting for and on behalf of the municipality, may be authorized to provide a plan of group insurance for the employees of the municipality, whereby such employees can be covered by group insurance for life, accident, hospitalization, either or all of them, in some company or companies writing such insurance, and to fix the amount of contribution to be made by the municipality and the several employees of the municipality towards such group insurance.
Section 76. - Construction of Act.
The enumeration of the powers of the mayor and council of the City of Washington, Georgia as contained in this Act shall not be considered as restrictions on any power or authority vested in said municipal authorities by the laws of this state, but the mayor and council may exercise all the rights, powers, authority and jurisdiction as they might have exercised were such enumerations not made, and the mayor and council shall be authorized to enact all ordinances, rules and regulations they may deem necessary for the general welfare of the municipality[.] [W]here in this Act rights are conferred or powers granted, but the manner of exercising them is not fully prescribed, said mayor and council may prescribe the method of exercising them or may prescribe additional regulations and mode of procedure not repugnant to the intent and purposes of this Act or to the laws of this state.
The mayor and council shall be authorized to enter into any contract, agreement or obligation, for the promotion of the welfare and improvement of the city, and for the health, convenience and comfort of its inhabitants and for others, which is now permitted or authorized by the laws of this state, or the United States, or that shall be permitted or authorized by any law or laws of this state or of the United States hereafter enacted.
Section 77. - Intent.
In the event any paragraph, section, article, provision or provisions of this Act, in part or in whole as set out herein, be declared illegal by a court of competent jurisdiction, that such declaration shall not have the effect of destroying or impairing the validity of any other paragraph, section, article, provision or provisions of the same, but that it shall remain in full force and effect.
Section 78. - Conflicting Acts.
All laws and parts of laws in conflict with this Act be and the same are hereby repealed.
CHARTER COMPARATIVE TABLE - GEORGIA LAWS; ORDINANCES
This table shows the location of the sections of the basic Charter and any amendments thereto.
EXPAND
Year Act.
No. Section Page
No. Disposition
1929 1396 et seq. 1
1935 1223 1
1224 et seq. 1
1937 761 et seq. 49
62
191 61
1953 2089 et seq. 1
1955 354 et seq. 46
1957 607 37
42 2139 1—78
1962 594 1 4
1972 1027 1, 2 4
3 42
1977 99 1 11
2004 752 1 3—8
2 10, 11
3       Rpld 15, 16
      Added 15, 16
4       Rpld 17—23
5 26
6 28
7       Rpld 31—38
8 41, 42
9 44
10       Rpld 47
11 50
12 55
13, 14 59, 60
15       Rpld 64
16 66
17, 18 68, 69
19 74
  EXPAND
Date Section Disposition
12- 3-79 7
7- 9-01 7
12-10-01 1 25.1
10-13-03(Mo.) 3—8,
10, 11
      Rpld 15—23
      Added 15, 16
26, 28
      Rpld 31—38
41, 42,
44
      Rpld 47
50, 55,
59, 60
      Rpld 64
66, 68,
69, 74
2-11-08(Ord.) 7
8- 8-16(Ord.) 42
4- 9-18 7
9- 9-19 1 7
9-12-22(Res.) 1 15
2 40
10-10-2022 1 15
2 40
