Chapter 2 - ADMINISTRATION[1]
ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 2-1. - City seal; adoption, form.
The corporate seal for the city shall be in substantially the following form: A circular device with the inscription "City of Adel, Georgia" around the outer edge of the circle. The seal shall be procured by the mayor and by him delivered to the city clerk and shall thereupon become the official seal of the city.
(Code 1986, § 2-1)
Sec. 2-2. - Custody of city seal.
The city clerk shall be the official custodian of the corporate seal and shall keep it in a safe place free from molestation.
(Code 1986, § 2-2)
Sec. 2-3. - Use of city seal.
The city clerk shall affix the corporate seal to documents and instruments as directed by the mayor and the city council.
(Code 1986, § 2-3)
Sec. 2-4. - Official tree; official flower.
The dogwood tree shall be the official tree of the city. The day lily shall be the official flower of the city.
(Code 1986, § 2-4; Ord. No. 06-02, § 1, 3-20-06)
Secs. 2-5—2-35. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - MAYOR AND CITY COUNCIL[2]
DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Sec. 2-36. - General duties of mayor.
The mayor shall enforce the rules at meetings of the mayor and city council, exercise supreme control in all cases of emergency or danger within the city, and use such lawful means as he may deem necessary and proper for the prevention or suppression of disorders and riots.
(Code 1986, § 2-21)
Sec. 2-37. - Salaries.
The salaries of the mayor and city councilmen shall be as provided by ordinance from time to time.
(Code 1986, § 2-22)
Charter reference— Compensation of mayor and councilmen, § 8.
Secs. 2-38—2-60. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - MEETINGS ORGANIZATION AND PROCEDURE[3]
Subdivision A. - Meetings Organization

Sec. 2-61. - Open meetings.
All meetings of the mayor and council shall be held in accordance with the provisions of O.C.G.A § 50-14-1 et seq. The public shall at all times be afforded access to all meetings other than executive sessions.
(Ord. No. 01-03, § 1-01, 4-2-01)
Sec. 2-62. - Quorum.
A quorum must be present for conducting meetings of the mayor and council. The presiding officer and at least three council members shall constitute a quorum. It is the duty of the presiding officer to enforce this rule. Any council member may raise a point of order directed to the presiding officer if he believes that a quorum is not present. If, during the course of a meeting, a council member leaves and a quorum no longer exists, the meeting cannot continue. If a quorum is not attained within 15 minutes, the meeting will be rescheduled by the presiding officer with the approval of the council members present.
(Ord. No. 01-03, § 1-02, 4-2-01)
Sec. 2-63. - Voting; majority.
Passage of a motion shall require the affirmative vote of a majority of all council members voting at a meeting at which a quorum is present.
(Ord. No. 01-03, § 1-03, 4-2-01)
Sec. 2-64. - Abstentions.
A council member shall vote on all motions unless he has a conflict of interest which would prevent him from making a decision in a fair and legal manner. If a conflict of interest does exist, the council member shall explain for the record his decision to abstain on any vote.
(Ord. No. 01-04, § 1-04, 4-2-01)
Sec. 2-65. - Mayor.
The mayor is responsible for the orderly conduct of the meeting. In order to fulfill this duty, the mayor must enforce the rules of procedure that are adopted by the mayor and council. The mayor shall be impartial and conduct the meetings in a fair manner.
(Ord. No. 01-03, § 1-05, 4-2-01)
Sec. 2-66. - Mayor pro tem.
The council shall select one of its members to serve as mayor pro tem at the first regular meeting of mayor and council following the regular election of new members thereof. The mayor pro tem shall fulfill the duties of the mayor if the mayor is not in attendance.
(Ord. No. 01-03, § 1-06, 4-2-01)
Sec. 2-67. - Agenda.
(a)
The mayor, with the advice of the city manager, shall prepare an agenda of subjects to be acted on for each meeting. The agenda shall be made available to the mayor and council at least one business day before every board meeting.
(b)
Members of the public may request that a particular subject be placed on the agenda for the following meeting. To be considered, this request must be submitted in writing to the mayor and council and received at least three business days before the meeting. Members of the public are limited to two items being placed on the agenda per meeting.
(c)
The order of the agenda may be changed during a meeting by a majority vote of the council. A new subject that requires urgent attention may be added to the agenda during a meeting by a three-fifths vote of the council.
(d)
A copy of the agenda and a list of those members present shall be made available to the public for inspection within two business days of the adjournment of any meeting.
(Ord. No. 01-03, § 1-07, 4-2-01)
State Law reference— Similar provisions, O.C.G.A. § 50-14-1(e).
Sec. 2-68. - Minutes.
(a)
The city clerk shall promptly record minutes of each meeting of the mayor and council. The minutes serve as the official written record of the mayor and council meeting and shall be open for the public inspection once approved as official by the mayor and council but in no case later than immediately following the next regular meeting of the mayor and council. The minutes shall specify the names of mayor and council members present at the meeting, a description of each motion or other proposal made at the meeting, the council member who proposed each motion, the council member who seconded each motion, and a record of all votes. In the case of a roll-call vote, the name of each council member voting for or against a proposal shall be recorded. It shall be presumed that a council member has voted in the affirmative unless the minutes show otherwise. More detailed information may be included in the minutes at the request of the mayor and council.
(b)
The mayor and council must approve the minutes before they can be considered as an official record of the mayor and council. A copy of the minutes from the previous meeting shall be distributed to the mayor and council at least one business day before the following meeting. The minutes of the previous meeting shall be corrected and approved by the mayor and council at the beginning of each meeting. A majority vote is required for approval. Conflicts regarding the content of the minutes shall be decided by majority vote. Upon being approved, the minutes shall be signed by the mayor and attested to by the city clerk.
(Ord. No. 01-03, § 1-08, 4-2-01)
State Law reference— Similar provisions, O.C.G.A. § 50-14-1(e).
Sec. 2-69. - Order of business.
All regular meetings of the mayor and council should follow an established order of business. The order is as follows:
(1)
Call to order.
(2)
Minutes.
(3)
Public hearings.
(4)
Invited guests.
(5)
Reports from committees and departments.
(6)
Old business.
(7)
New business.
(8)
City manager/staff comments.
(9)
Public comments.
(10)
Adjournment.
(Ord. No. 01-03, § 1-09, 4-2-01)
Sec. 2-70. - Decorum of council members.
(a)
All council members must conduct themselves in a professional and respectful manner. Derogatory personal remarks are inappropriate. A council member is not allowed to speak at a meeting until he has been recognized by the mayor. All comments made by a council member shall address the motion that is being discussed.
(b)
The mayor shall enforce these rules of decorum. If a council member believes that a rule has been broken, he can raise a point of order. A second is not required. The mayor can rule on the question or he can allow the council to debate the issue and decide the issue by majority vote.
(Ord. No. 01-03, § 1-10, 4-2-01)
Sec. 2-71. - Public participation.
Public participation in meetings of mayor and council shall be permitted in accordance with the provisions of this section.
(1)
Public comments. The final agenda item of the meeting shall be reserved for comments from the public. All members of the public who wish to address mayor and council must submit their name and the topic of their comments to the city manager at least three business days before the meeting of mayor and council. The request must specifically state the subject matter to be addressed before mayor and council. In the event the individual has a question to be posed to mayor and council, request must state the exact question to be posed at the meeting. The public comments section of the agenda shall be limited to three individuals per meeting. These individuals will be allotted five minutes to make their comments and their comments must be limited to their chosen topic. These limits can be waived by a majority vote of the council.
(2)
Public participation on agenda items. By a majority vote, the mayor and council may allow public comment on an agenda item at the time the item is being considered. These comments must be limited to the subject that is being debated. Members of the public may speak for five minutes and may only speak once. These limits can be waived by a majority vote of the council. Anyone wishing to speak at any meeting of mayor and council must be recognized by the mayor before addressing the council.
(3)
Decorum. Members of the public shall not make inappropriate or offensive comments at a meeting of mayor and council and are expected to comply with the rules of decorum that are established for mayor and council. Individuals who violate any rules of the mayor and council may be ruled out of order by the mayor or on a point of order made by a council member, a majority vote of the council will rule on the point of order. An individual who violates the rules of decorum may be removed from the meeting at the direction of the mayor.
(4)
Public hearings. The mayor and council may schedule public hearings for the purpose of soliciting public comment on any subject of interest to mayor and council. Hearings may be held immediately prior to or following a meeting of mayor and council or at such other places and times as mayor and council may determine. No official action shall be taken at any such public hearing.
(Ord. No. 01-03, § 1-11, 4-2-01)
Sec. 2-72. - Parliamentarian.
The city attorney shall serve as the parliamentarian for meetings of the mayor and council.
(Ord. No. 01-03, § 1-12, 4-2-01)
Sec. 2-73. - Amendments to rules.
Any amendments to the rules of order must be submitted by a council member in writing to the mayor three business days before a regular meeting of mayor and council. The proposed amendment shall be included in the agenda for that meeting and distributed to all council members.
(Ord. No. 01-03, § 1-13, 4-2-01)
Sec. 2-74. - Regular meeting.
Regular meetings of the mayor and council shall be held at 7:30 p.m. on the first and third Mondays of each month. All regular meetings shall be held in the council chambers of the city hall. A notice containing the foregoing information shall be posted and maintained in a conspicuous place available to the general public at the regular meeting place of mayor and council.
(Ord. No. 01-03, § 1-14, 4-2-01)
State Law reference— Similar provisions, O.C.G.A. § 50-14-1(d).
Sec. 2-75. - Special meetings and rescheduled regular meetings.
A regular meeting may be canceled, rescheduled or moved to a new location within the city by the mayor for any reason. Other special meetings may be scheduled by the mayor or at the request of three council members. Whenever a rescheduled regular meeting or any other special meeting is to be held at a time or place other than the regularly scheduled time or place, written notice of the change shall be posted for at least 24 hours at the place of the regular meetings. In addition, written or oral notice shall be given by the city clerk at least 24 hours in advance of the meeting to either the legal organ of the county or a newspaper having a general circulation at least equal to that of the legal organ and to each member of the council governing authority.
(Ord. No. 01-03, § 1-15, 4-2-01)
State Law reference— Similar provisions, O.C.G.A. § 50-14-1(d).
Sec. 2-76. - Emergency meetings.
When emergency circumstances occur, the mayor and council may hold a meeting with less than 24 hours notice to the public. When such meetings are to be held, the city clerk shall provide notice to the legal organ of the county or a newspaper with a general circulation at least equal to that of the legal organ and to each member of the council as soon as possible. The notice shall include the subjects expected to be considered at the meeting. In addition, the minutes shall reflect the reason for the emergency meeting and the nature of the notice given to the media.
(Ord. No. 01-03, § 1-16, 4-2-01)
State Law reference— Similar provisions, O.C.G.A. § 50-14-1(d).
Sec. 2-77. - Executive sessions.
(a)
Executive sessions of mayor and council may be held for the purpose of conducting business excepted from public access requirements as authorized by O.C.G.A. §§ 50-14-2, 50-14-3. Where a meeting of mayor and council is devoted in part to matters within the authorized exceptions to public access requirements, any portion of the meeting not subject to any such exceptions shall be open to the public. No executive session shall be held except pursuant to a majority affirmative vote of the council taken in a public meeting.
(b)
The minutes of the public meeting shall reflect the names of the council members present, those voting for the executive session and the specific reasons for the executive session. Minutes of the executive session may be maintained by the city clerk at the direction of the mayor. Any such minutes shall be maintained in a confidential file and shall not be subject to disclosure, except that disclosures of such portions of minutes identifying real estate to be acquired by mayor and council may only be delayed until such time as the acquisition of the real estate has been completed, terminated, or abandoned or court proceedings have been initiated.
(Ord. No. 01-03, § 1-17, 4-2-01)
State Law reference— Similar provisions, O.C.G.A. § 50-14-4.
Sec. 2-78. - Suspending the rules of order.
Rules of order may be suspended in the case of an emergency. A motion to suspend the rules requires a second, is debatable and requires a three-fifths vote of the council. Rules governing quorum (section 2-62), voting methods and requirements (section 2-63 and section 2-64), the notification to commissioners of meetings (section 2-75 and section 2-76) and rules necessary for compliance with state law cannot be suspended.
(Ord. No. 01-03, § 1-18, 4-2-01)
Sec. 2-79. - Committees.
The mayor, with the concurrence of the council, may create committees of members of the council to study any issue before mayor and council. Any such committees may make recommendations to the council but no committee shall be empowered to make any final decision on any matter before it for consideration. In addition to council members, committees may include other city officials, staff or citizens at large. Whenever a committee is created, its duties, any limitation on the scope of its duties, and the times, places and periods of time for which the committee may operate shall be determined by the mayor with the concurrence of the council. The mayor shall serve as an ex officio member of all committees.
(Ord. No. 01-03, § 1-19, 4-2-01)
Sec. 2-80. - Visual and sound recordings.
Visual, sound, and visual and sound recordings shall be permitted for all public meetings.
(Ord. No. 01-03, § 1-20, 4-2-01)
State Law reference— Similar provisions, O.C.G.A. § 50-14-1(c).
Subdivision B. - Parliamentary Procedure

Sec. 2-81. - Main motion.
In order for mayor and council to take any official action on any subject, a council member must propose a main motion. A proposed main motion will not be recognized by the mayor until another council member agrees to second the motion. A second does not require the council member seconding the motion to support the motion. A council member may withdraw a main motion that he has made at any time before the council has voted on that motion.
(Ord. No. 01-03, § 2-01, 4-2-01)
Sec. 2-82. - Debate.
(a)
After the main motion is recognized by the mayor, the council shall debate the motion. The debate shall be managed by the mayor in a manner that is fair to all members of the council. Council members can participate in the debate only when they are recognized by the mayor.
(b)
During the course of debate, council member may introduce subsidiary motions that propose that the council take a particular action on a motion (section 2-85). There are two classes of subsidiary motions: debatable subsidiary motions and undebatable subsidiary motions. Debatable subsidiary motions consist of motions to postpone indefinitely, amend, refer to committee, and postpone to a time certain. Debatable subsidiary motions require a second before they can be voted on or debated. There are three undebatable subsidiary motions: limit debate, vote immediately, and, lay on the table. They require a second and cannot be debated.
(c)
Council members may also introduce privileged motions (section 2-86). Privileged motions facilitate the running of the meeting and can be introduced during the course of debate. Privileged motions consist of a motion to raise a question of privilege and motions to recess and adjourn. The motions to recess and adjourn require a second. Debate is not allowed on privileged motions.
(Ord. No. 01-03, § 2-02, 4-2-01)
Sec. 2-83. - Voting; procedure.
Voting on debatable motions and voting on undebatable motions shall take place in accordance with the following provisions:
(1)
Debatable motions. In the case of debatable motions, the vote can be proposed in one of two ways:
a.
If debate has been completed and no other council member wishes to speak, the mayor can call for the vote. If there are no objections, then the mayor can proceed with the vote.
b.
If the mayor calls for the vote and there is an objection, a council member may move to vote immediately ("move the previous question"). If this motion is seconded and approved by a three-fifths vote, debate will stop. The mayor will then read the proposed motion to the council and ask for the votes of the council members.
(2)
Undebatable motions. In the case of undebatable motions, the vote shall occur immediately after the motion is recognized by the mayor. The mayor shall read the proposed motion to the council and then call for the vote.
(Ord. No. 01-03, § 2-03, 4-2-01)
Sec. 2-84. - Ranking of motions.
(a)
Each subsidiary and privileged motion is assigned a specific rank. A motion of higher precedence can interrupt a motion of lower precedence. The higher motion must be decided before the council returns to consider the motion of lower precedence.
(b)
A main motion has the lowest rank and does not take precedence over any other motion. A motion to adjourn has the highest rank and does take precedence over all other subsidiary and privileged motions. The order of precedence of motions shall be in accordance with this section. Motions at the bottom of the following list take precedence over motions at the top of the list:
EXPAND
LOWEST RANK: 1. Main motion
Subsidiary motions (debatable)
2. Postpone indefinitely
3. Amend
4. Refer to committee (commit)
5. Postpone to a time certain (postpone definitely)
Subsidiary motions (undebatable)
6. Limit debate or extend limits
7. Vote immediately (previous question)
8. Lay on the table (postpone temporarily)
Privileged motions (undebatable)
9. Questions of privilege
10. Recess
HIGHEST RANK: 11. Adjourn
  (Ord. No. 01-03, § 2-04, 4-2-01)
Sec. 2-85. - Subsidiary motions.
During the course of debate, council members may introduce motions that propose that the council take a particular action on a main motion. These motions are called subsidiary motions and they allow a board to reach a conclusion on the main motion. Subsidiary motions require a second before they can be voted on or debated. Three subsidiary motions, amend, limit debate and vote immediately, can also apply to other subsidiary motions.
(1)
Postpone indefinitely. If a council member believes that the main motion should not be considered by the council, that council member may move to postpone the consideration of the main motions indefinitely. If the motion is successful, consideration of the main motion stops and the main motion is tabled. A motion to postpone indefinitely can be debated but it cannot be amended. A majority vote is required for the motion to pass.
(2)
Amend. If a council member believes that a main motion that is on the table should be changed in order to make it more acceptable, he can move to amend the motion. Amendments must be closely related to the original motion and must not change the nature of the motion that they amend. Motions to refer, amend, postpone to a time certain and the motion to recess can also be amended. A motion cannot be amended more than two times. Debate is allowed on a motion to amend only if the original motion is debatable. A majority vote is required for the council to adopt an amendment. If the amendment is adopted then the council shall consider the amended version of the motion.
(3)
Refer to a committee (commit). If a council member believes that further information is needed before mayor and council can act on a main motion, he may propose that the motion be referred to a specific committee or department for further study. If an appropriate committee does not already exist, then a committee may be formed as a part of the motion. A motion to refer should specify the date that the committee or department will report back to the mayor and council. This motion is debatable and amendable. A majority is required for the motion to pass.
(4)
Postpone to a time certain (postpone definitely). A motion to postpone to a certain time may be proposed if a council member believes that the main motion should not be considered until a future time. This motion shall set a particular time for the main motion to be considered again. It is debatable and can be amended. If this motion is passed, the mayor will bring the original motion back to the council for consideration at the specified time. A majority vote is required for the motion to pass.
(5)
Limit or extend limits of debate. A motion to limit debate places a time constraint on the length of debate. The details of such a motion are to be decided by the council member who makes the motion. This motion can also be used to extend the limits of debate if a limit on debate already exists. Debate is not allowed on this motion and a three-fifths vote is required.
(6)
Vote immediately (previous question). If a council member believes that the motion that is being considered should be voted on, the council member can move to vote immediately. The motion is undebatable and a vote of three-fifths of the council is required for the motion to pass.
(7)
Lay on the table (postpone temporarily). A motion to lay on the table proposes that the consideration of a main motion be postponed until a later time in the meeting. The motion can be brought up for consideration only if a motion to resume consideration is accepted by the council during the same meeting. The motion will die if it is not taken up during the meeting. Debate is not allowed on this motion and the motion is not amendable. A majority vote is required for the motion to pass.
(Ord. No. 01-03, § 2-05, 4-2-01)
Sec. 2-86. - Privileged motions.
Privileged motions facilitate the running of the meeting. They do not address or relate to a main motion and can be introduced whether or not there is a main motion under consideration. Privileged motions take precedence over all subsidiary motions. Debate is not allowed on these motions.
(1)
Question of privilege. A formal question addressed to the mayor concerning the rights of a council member or of the council as a whole is referred to as a question of privilege. It does not require a second and cannot be debated or amended. The mayor is required to make a ruling on the question.
(2)
Recess. A motion to recess proposes that the meeting be suspended for a particular amount of time. The motion must specify the length of the recess. The motion must also be seconded. Debate is not allowed on this motion but the motion can be amended. A majority vote is required for the motion to pass.
(3)
Adjourn. In order for a meeting to come to a close, a council member must make a motion to adjourn. The motion to adjourn has the highest rank of any motion and as a result it can be introduced at any time. The motion requires a second, but is not debatable or amendable. A majority vote is required for the motion to pass.
(Ord. No. 01-03, § 2-06, 4-2-01)
Sec. 2-87. - Incidental motions.
Incidental motions allow council members to exert their rights as a member of the council. Incidental motions can be introduced at any time during a meeting.
(1)
Appeal. If a council member disagrees with a decision that is made by the mayor, that council member may appeal the decision. If the appeal is seconded, the appeal will be considered by the council. The mayor has the opportunity to explain the ruling that has been challenged. The council may then debate the appeal. The mayor and council shall decide by majority vote if the mayor's decision is to be upheld or overturned. An appeal is highest in precedence and can only be interrupted by a privileged motion or by a motion to lay on the table.
(2)
Parliamentary inquiry. If a council member has a question about the rules of order, he may ask the chair to give an opinion on that question. This question should take the form of a parliamentary inquiry and should relate to the current business of the mayor and council. This motion takes precedence over all motions except privileged motions. This motion does not require a second and is not debatable or amendable.
(3)
Point of order (question of order). If a council member believes that a violation of the rules of parliamentary procedure has occurred, he can raise a point of order. A second is not required. The mayor can make a ruling on the question or can allow the mayor and council to debate and then rule on the question by majority vote. A point of order can only be interrupted by a privileged motion or a motion to lay on the table.
(4)
Point of information (request for information). If a council member has a question about the facts of a particular issue that is being considered, he may ask a point of information. This motion is addressed first to the mayor and then to the appropriate person. A second is not required and the motion is not debatable or amendable.
(Ord. No. 01-03, § 2-07, 4-2-01)
Sec. 2-88. - Supplementary main motions.
Three motions allow the council to act on a main motion that has either been passed or tabled by the council. These motions are considered to be main motions but differ from usual main motions in the ways specified.
(1)
Reconsider. The motion to reconsider allows the council to debate whether or not to overturn a decision made at a meeting that is in progress. It allows the council to consider new information that may affect the decision that has already been made. Any council member can make a motion to reconsider and any council member may second the motion. The motion is debatable but it cannot be amended. A majority vote of the council is required for the motion to pass. If a motion to reconsider is passed, the original decision will be voided and the council will return to debate and revote the original motion.
(2)
Rescind. A motion to rescind proposes that the council overturn a motion passed at a previous meeting. A motion to rescind can be made by any council member. It is in order as long as the original motion has not been implemented. An announcement of the intention to rescind a motion may be made at the meeting where the decision was made, or the council member seeking to rescind may place the matter on the agenda for the next meeting pursuant to section 2-67. The motion to rescind will then be placed on the agenda for the next meeting. At the next meeting, the motion to rescind will be formally made. If it is seconded, then the council shall debate and vote on rescission. A majority vote is required for the motion to pass. If a motion to rescind is passed, the original decision will be voided.
(3)
Resume consideration. The motion to resume consideration allows the council to consider a motion that has been temporarily postponed. This motion requires a second and is not debatable or amendable. It is a main motion but ranks higher than any debatable motion. A majority vote is required for the motion to pass.
(Ord. No. 01-03, § 2-08, 4-2-01)
Secs. 2-89, 2-90. - Reserved.
DIVISION 3. - ADOPTION OF ORDINANCES[4]

Sec. 2-91. - Ordinance to be in writing, read twice.
Every ordinance, before its introduction, must be reduced to writing, and before its passage read twice and published as hereinafter provided.
(Code 1986, § 2-56)
State Law reference— Municipal authority to adopt ordinances, O.C.G.A. § 36-35-3.
Sec. 2-92. - Vote required to enact.
No ordinance shall be passed unless it receives a majority of all the votes of the whole number of city councilmen.
(Code 1986, § 2-57)
Charter reference— Procedure for adoption of ordinances, § 5(b).
Secs. 2-93—2-125. - Reserved.
ARTICLE III. - OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES[5]
DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Sec. 2-126. - Selection of city manager.
A majority vote of the whole number of councilmen shall be necessary to appoint a city manager.
(Code 1986, § 2-71)
Secs. 2-127—2-150. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - CITY CLERK

Sec. 2-151. - Appointment.
The city clerk shall be appointed by and serve at the pleasure of the city manager.
(Code 1986, § 2-86)
Sec. 2-152. - Compensation.
The city clerk shall receive such compensation as shall be fixed by the mayor and city council from time to time.
(Code 1986, § 2-86)
Sec. 2-153. - Bond.
Before entering upon his duties, the city clerk shall be required to give a bond issued by a bona fide surety company, to be approved by the mayor and city council. The premium for such bond shall be paid by the city.
(Code 1986, § 2-86)
Sec. 2-154. - Issuance of written instruments.
The city clerk shall issue licenses, orders, notices or other instruments in writing required of him by the mayor and city council, and shall sign the same.
(Code 1986, § 2-87)
Sec. 2-155. - Attendance of meetings of mayor and city council; attendance of sessions of court.
The city clerk shall attend all meetings of the mayor and council and all sessions of the municipal court, and shall keep fair and correct minutes of each.
(Code 1986, § 2-88)
Sec. 2-156. - Records.
The city clerk shall keep such records as shall be necessary and proper for the proper administration and historical concerns of the city as directed by the mayor and city council.
(Code 1986, § 2-89)
Secs. 2-157—2-180. - Reserved.
DIVISION 3. - CITY TREASURER

Sec. 2-181. - Appointment.
The city treasurer shall be appointed by and serve at the pleasure of the city manager.
(Code 1986, § 2-101)
Sec. 2-182. - Compensation.
The city treasurer shall receive such compensation as shall be fixed by the mayor and city council from time to time.
(Code 1986, § 2-101)
Sec. 2-183. - Bond.
Before entering upon his duties, the city treasurer shall be required to give a bond issued by a bona fide surety company, to be approved by the mayor and city council. The premium for such bond shall be paid by the city.
(Code 1986, § 2-101)
Secs. 2-184—2-205. - Reserved.
DIVISION 4. - CITY ATTORNEY

Sec. 2-206. - Employment.
The mayor and city council shall be empowered to employ on a reasonable annual retainer a duly licensed attorney-at-law to assist them in all matters brought before the mayor and council that require legal attention.
(Code 1986, § 2-111)
Sec. 2-207. - Additional compensation, fees.
The city attorney may be reimbursed additional compensation or fees for special services rendered upon the approval of the mayor and city council.
(Code 1986, § 2-111)
Secs. 2-208—2-240. - Reserved.
ARTICLE IV. - DEPARTMENTS[6]

Sec. 2-241. - Office hours of administrative offices.
All administrative offices of the city shall be kept open Monday through Friday of each week. The hours during which offices shall be kept open shall be determined by the mayor and city council.
(Code 1986, § 2-201)
Secs. 2-242—2-270. - Reserved.
ARTICLE V. - EMPLOYEE BENEFITS[7]

Sec. 2-271. - Personnel policy adopted.
A personnel policy for the city, dated May 16, 1994, is hereby incorporated and made a part of this section, and shall constitute the personnel policy for the city. Said policy shall be reviewed by the mayor and council, at minimum, on a bi-annual basis.
(Code 1986, § 2-301; Ord. No. 2013-4, 2-4-13)
Secs. 2-272—2-300. - Reserved.
ARTICLE VI. - FINANCE[8]

Sec. 2-301. - Handling register receipts.
Each day's cash register receipts shall be deposited the following day.
(Code 1986, § 2-401)
Sec. 2-302. - Contracts.
No contract for public work, amounting to $5,000.00 or more, shall be let except to the lowest and best bidder, and then, only after the contractor shall give the city sufficient performance and payment bonds, as provided in O.C.G.A. § 13-10-1. If the contract for public works amounts to $5,000.00 or more, opportunity for competitive bidding shall be given after reasonable advertisement for at least five days prior to the date set for receiving such bids.
(Code 1986, § 2-402)
Sec. 2-303. - City manager as purchasing and contracting agent; duties specified.
(a)
The city manager shall be the purchasing and contracting agent of the city.
(b)
All purchases and contracts made by the city manager requiring the expenditure of money in the amount of $5,000.00 or more shall be approved by the mayor and city council.
(c)
In the capacity of purchasing agent, the city manager shall conduct all sales of personal property which the mayor and city council may authorize to be sold and which have become unnecessary or unfit for the city's use.
(d)
As contracting agent, the city manager is authorized to execute in the name of and on behalf of the city all contracts for the purchase and sale of personal property and services of every kind and description, and contracts for construction.
(e)
If sales or purchases or other contracts involve amounts in excess of $5,000.00, opportunity for competitive bids shall be given after reasonable advertisement thereof, and in the case of contracts for public work, the requirements of section 2-302 shall be complied with.
(f)
No contract involving the purchase or sale of personal property or services or construction involving an amount in excess of $5,000.00 shall be executed by the city manager without the prior approval of the mayor and city council, but acceptance and approval by the mayor and city council of a bid shall constitute sufficient approval.
(Code 1986, § 2-403)
State Law reference— Local political subdivision purchases through the state, O.C.G.A. § 50-5-100 et seq.
