ARTICLE V. - AI—AGRICULTURE INTENSIVE DISTRICT

Sec. 59-500. - Purpose and intent.
It is the intent of the agriculture intensive district to establish a means by which individuals and family-farm corporations involved in intensive, large-scale, farming operations can be provided protection. Food crop, fiber crop, poultry and livestock farms are a major component of the agricultural economic base in Stephens County and they are worthy of special protection. The use of land in this district may result in odors, noise, dust or other effects that may not be compatible with residential, commercial and industrial uses.
It is also the intent of this district to permit home business uses, which are related to, and/or compatible with, agricultural operations.
Sec. 59-501. - Permitted uses.
modified
(a)
All permitted uses in the AG district are also permitted in the AI district.
Sec. 59-502. - Conditional uses.
(a)
Home occupations and home-based businesses which: (1) are related to and/or compatible with agricultural uses and (2) meet the requirements of the regulations.
(b)
Secondary residences provided that such dwelling is farm-related and subordinate to the principal use of the property, and that the placement of such residence meets all criteria of these regulations and the Stephens County Subdivision Regulations.
(c)
Churches, temples, synagogues, places of worship and cemeteries.
(d)
Public structures and uses.
(e)
Golf courses.
(f)
Livestock and poultry operations provided they meet all district minimum requirements.
_____
Sec. 59-503. - District requirements.
modified
EXPAND
(a) Tract size—Minimum - 10 acres
(b) Tract width at R/W—Minimum - 30 feet
(c) Building height—Maximum - 50 feet
Front Side Rear
(d) Building setbacks—Min. Residence/accessory 40' 10' 10'
(e) Building setbacks—Min. Non-com. livestock 100' 100' 100'
(f) Building setbacks—Min. Broiler house 200' from property line
(g) Building setbacks—Min. Layer house 200' from property line
(Items (f) and (g), if there is an inhabitable dwelling the setback must be 300' from the property line. The exhaust end of the house (area where exhaust fans or other equipment used to release air from the house) must be 600' from an inhabitable dwelling, except those located on the subject property where the poultry operations are to be conducted)
(h) Lagoon setbacks—Min. - 150' from any stream (USGS topo maps) 500' from property line
(i) Building setbacks—Min. from nearest house for commercial livestock
(Feed lots, dairy lots, hog lots) 500' from property line
(j) Poultry structures/stack houses 200' from property line
(k) Site specific nutrient management plan
  _____
Sec. 59-504. - Special district requirements and protection.
Agricultural districts include uses of land primarily for active farming operations resulting in odors, noise, dust and other effects, which are not usually compatible with adjacent single family, multi-family and some commercial developments.
Future abutting development in non-agricultural land use districts shall be provided with a "Notice of Adjacency" affidavit: (1) at the time a rezoning application to a district other than an agricultural district; (2) prior to application for a building or occupancy permit for property adjacent to an AI district.
Prior to administrative action on either the land use rezoning or the issuance of a building occupancy permit, the applicant shall be required to sign a waiver form, prepared by the planning director, which states that the applicant understands that an agricultural operation is adjacent to their proposed use, and that this operation will produce odors, noise, dust and other effects which may not be compatible with the applicant's development. Nevertheless, understanding the effects of the adjacent AI district use, the applicant agrees by signing the form to waive any objection to those effects and understands that the proposed district rezoning and/or proposed building permits are issued based upon their agreement not to bring any action against local governments and adjoining landowners whose property is located in an AI district, by asserting that the adjacent uses in the AI district constitute a nuisance.
Following the execution of a "Notice of Adjacency" agreement, said agreement shall be component of the deed of the adjacent property and shall be honored as property ownership is transferred or until the use in the AI district is no longer in existence. Any such notice or acknowledgement provided to or executed by a landowner adjoining a tract in an AI district shall be a public record.
In order for an existing poultry or livestock operation to receive the "Notice of Adjacency" protection in the agriculture intensive (AI) district, it must first have qualified for the preferential agriculture assessment (or the conservation easement assessment) in accordance with the Official Code of Georgia Annotated (O.C.G.A. § 48-5-7.1).
Sec. 59-505. - Reserved.
