ARTICLE VII. - ATTENDANCE AND PAYROLL ISSUES

Sec. 54-101. - Changes in personal information.
Each employee is responsible for promptly notifying their department head of any changes in their personal data, including changes in name, address, telephone number, marital status, dependent data, emergency contacts, education accomplishments, or other information pertinent to their employment, benefits, or payroll actions.
(Ord. of 5-26-2009, § G-1)
Sec. 54-102. - Hours of work, overtime, and compensatory time
(a)
Hours of work. Hours of work and shift assignments vary for each department, based on services provided by the department and staffing requirements to provide those services. Each department manager will establish employee work schedules in accordance with the needs of the county and of the employees concerned (subject to approval of the county commissioners). Employees are required to work the hours assigned. The actual work schedule is dependent on specific job functions, and operational needs may require deviations from the normal schedule. If an assigned schedule is changed, the change will be communicated to all affected employees.
(b)
Work week. The minimum work week for full-time, covered employees will be 40 hours per week. Due to the difference in job requirements in various departments, the required work period may vary from job to job, and from department to department.
(c)
Overtime. Overtime work may be necessary from time to time, depending on departmental workload. All overtime must be authorized in advance by the supervisor or department manager, and all efforts should be made by department heads to minimize overtime through efficient scheduling.
(1)
Non-exempt (hourly) employees. Overtime compensation is paid to non-exempt employees in accordance with federal and state wage and hour restrictions. Overtime pay is based on actual hours worked; time off for holidays, sick leave, vacation, or other nonworked time will not be considered hours worked for purposes of calculating overtime payments. Actual hours of training time (approved in advance by the county administrator) can be included in worked time for calculation of overtime.
Non-exempt employees whose work period is one week will be paid at the rate of one and one-half the normal rate for hours actually worked over 40 per week. Different work periods may apply to public safety departments, with employees paid overtime for hours worked above the designated number of hours in the work period. All overtime must be reported in the pay period in which it is worked.
(2)
Exempt (salaried) employees. Exempt employees are not eligible for overtime, and will receive their normal salary, regardless of hours worked. It is expected however, that such employees will work a regular schedule of at least 40 hours per week.
(d)
Compensatory time.
(1)
Exempt employees. Exempt employees are not eligible for compensatory time off.
(2)
Non-exempt employees. A non-exempt employee may be granted compensatory time off by a department head in lieu of overtime pay if:
a.
The employee agrees in writing, and
b.
The employee is granted compensatory time at one and one-half hour for each extra hour worked.
c.
Compensatory time accrued must be used within the next pay period following the pay period in which the compensatory time was accrued or the hours will be paid on the payroll check for the next period.
In all cases, the employee must report all worked time, and the supervisor/department head is responsible for accurately maintaining records of accrued time and use of compensatory time.
(Ord. of 5-26-2009, § G-2)
Sec. 54-103. - Attendance and tardiness.
(a)
Attendance. The county is responsible for providing dependable services to the community. This places an obligation on all employees to be on the job and performing their duties every scheduled workday. When employees are absent, their workload falls behind schedule or other employees must assume heavier workloads. For this reason, perfect attendance is desired.
The county recognizes, however, that there are instances when absences are unavoidable. An absence is considered acceptable if it is reported promptly and if the reason for the absence is appropriate. An absence is considered unacceptable whenever proper notification of the absence is not give, or where the reason for the absence is, itself, unacceptable.
Following are procedures for proper notification of absence:
• If an employee will be unable to report to work as assigned, the employee must personally notify his/her supervisor immediately. This notice must be given as far in advance of the time assigned for reporting to work as possible.
• In circumstances where it is impossible for the employee to personally talk to the supervisor, the employee should (a) have someone else make the notification as soon as possible, and (b) personally call and discuss the situation with the supervisor just as soon as circumstances permit.
• An employee absent due to illness should advise his/her supervisor on a daily basis of the employee's status and estimated date of return.
(b)
Tardiness. It is important to arrive to work on time, to promptly return from breaks, and to leave work on schedule. Tardiness is unacceptable and will be dealt with appropriately.
Frequent or excessive absences or tardiness for any reason cannot be tolerated, and may result in disciplinary action, which could result in termination of employment.
(Ord. of 5-26-2009, § G-3)
Sec. 54-104. - Breaks.
Breaks are designed to provide a periodic rest period for the employee during the work shift, independent of the longer meal breaks. A break schedule will be developed within each department, taking into consideration the department's operational and coverage needs. Breaks are contingent upon workload and coverage, and may not be provided in times of heavy workload or insufficient coverage at the discretion of the supervisor. Breaks may not be "saved" or lumped together. If an employee misses a scheduled break, the break is considered lost.
The schedule of most full-time employees provides a meal break that is on the employee's time and is not compensated by the county. Meal breaks should be taken on a staggered schedule in order to provide appropriate coverage. A meal break schedule will be developed within each department, subject to change based on the department's workload and coverage.
(Ord. of 5-26-2009, § G-4)
Sec. 54-105. - Payroll information.
(a)
Paychecks. Paychecks are issued each pay period on a regularly scheduled basis. There are no advances in pay. The payroll office will deduct from employee earnings only those deductions required by law (such as withholding taxes or Social Security taxes) plus any employee-authorized contributions (such as premiums for insurance benefits or retirement contributions). Court-ordered deductions such as wage garnishments or child support payments will be deducted in accordance with the appropriate court order. Other voluntary deductions are prohibited.
The county takes all reasonable steps to ensure that employees are paid promptly on the scheduled payday, and that employees receive the correct amount of pay in each paycheck. In the unlikely event that an error in amount of pay should occur, the employee should promptly bring the discrepancy to the attention of his/her supervisor or manager for the error to be researched and corrected.
(b)
Time cards/time sheets. Employees are required to maintain accurate time reporting, using equipment and/or forms provided by Stephens County in accordance with requirements of the Fair Labor Standards Act. When using a time clock to record hours worked, employees may not clock in ahead of the time they are expected to commence work, nor may they delay their clock-out time when work hours are completed.
Supervisors must ensure that time records are properly maintained and are accurate upon submission for payment. All wage and hour records are subject to audit by the U.S. Department of Labor.
(Ord. of 5-26-2009, § G-5)
Sec. 54-106. - Personnel records.
Stephens County maintains personnel files on each employee. These files include information such as the employee's job application, resume, training records, performance evaluations, documentation of personnel actions (e.g., salary changes, transfers, promotions, or terminations), benefit enrollment forms, and other employment-related records. Personnel files will not include records relating to investigation of a possible criminal offense, or of documents which are being developed or prepared for use in civil, criminal, or grievance procedures. A separate personnel file is maintained for physical examination records, insurance claim forms, or other records of employee illnesses and injuries; access to such files is restricted to protect the employee's medical information. All personnel records will be maintained in accordance with applicable legal requirements and regulatory guidelines.
(1)
Public inspection. Personnel files are the property of Stephens County government, and access to the information they contain is restricted. Generally, only management and supervisory personnel who have a legitimate reason to review information in a file are allowed to do so. However, information relating to employees and former employees may be available for public inspection at reasonable times and in accordance with O.C.G.A. title 50, chapter 18. Employees who wish to review their personnel file should contact the personnel office; with reasonable advance notice, employees may review their own personnel file in county offices and in the presence of an individual appointed by the county.
(2)
Confidentiality of records. Any disclosure of personnel record information to unauthorized persons will require the written authorization of the employee. However, the county will have the right to disclose any such information in the course of an appeal of a disciplinary action initiated by the employee.
(Ord. of 5-26-2009, § G-6)
Sec. 54-107. - Requests for references.
The human resources office is responsible for responding to any inquiries regarding personnel records, employment verification, or employment/credit references on present or previous employees. As a matter of policy, any response to requests for references must be limited to factual information that be substantiated by county records. Any county employee receiving such a request should forward the request to the human resources office for response.
(Ord. of 5-26-2009, § G-6)
Secs. 54-108—54-120. - Reserved.
