Chapter 14 - AVIATION[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
State Law reference— Aviation, O.C.G.A. title 6.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Secs. 14-1—14-30. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - AIRPORT ZONING

Sec. 14-31. - Short title.
This article shall be known and may be cited as the "Toccoa Airport Zoning Ordinance."
(Ord. of 8-7-1962, § I)
Sec. 14-32. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Airport means the Toccoa Airport.
Airport elevation means the established elevation of the highest point on the usable landing area.
Airport hazard means any structure, tree or use of land which obstructs the airspace required for or is otherwise hazardous to the flight of aircraft in landing or taking off at the airport.
Airport reference point means the point established as the approximate geographic center of the airport landing area and so designated.
Board of adjustment means the board consisting of five members appointed by the Toccoa-Stephens County Airport Authority as provided in this article.
Height means, for the purpose of determining the height limits in all zones set forth in this article and shown on the zoning map, the datum shall be mean sea level elevation unless otherwise specified.
Landing area means the area of the airport used for the landing, takeoff or taxiing of aircraft.
Nonconforming use means any structure, tree, or use of land which is lawfully in existence at the time of that regulation prescribed in this article or an amendment thereto becomes effective and does not then meet the requirements of this article.
Noninstrument runway means a runway other than an instrument runway.
Person means an individual, firm, partnership, corporation, company, association, joint stock association, or body politic, and includes a trustee, receiver, assignee, administrator, executor, guardian, or other representative.
Runway means the paved surface of an airport landing strip.
Structure means an object constructed or installed by man, including, but without limitation, buildings, towers, smokestacks, and overhead transmission lines.
Tree means any object of natural growth.
(Ord. of 8-7-1962, § II)
Cross reference— Definitions generally, § 1-2.
Sec. 14-33. - Penalties.
Each violation of this article or of any regulation, order, or ruling promulgated under this article shall constitute a misdemeanor and shall be punishable by a fine of not more than $200.00 or imprisonment for not more than 60 days, or both such fine and imprisonment.
(Ord. of 8-7-1962, § XII)
Sec. 14-34. - Zones.
In order to carry out the provisions of this article, there are created and established certain zones which include all of the land lying within the noninstrument approach zones, transition zones, horizontal zone and conical zone. Such areas and zones are shown on the Toccoa Airport zoning map consisting of one sheet, prepared by the City of Toccoa and dated December 20, 1961, which is attached to the ordinance from which this article is derived and made a part of this article. The various zones are established and defined as follows:
(1)
Noninstrument approach zone. A noninstrument approach zone is established at each end of all noninstrument runways on the Toccoa Airport for noninstrument landings and takeoffs. The noninstrument approach zone shall have a width of 250 feet at a distance of 200 feet beyond each end of the runway, widening thereafter uniformly to a width of 2,250 feet at a distance of 10,200 feet beyond each end of the runway, its centerline being the continuation of the centerline of the runway.
(2)
Transition zones. Transition zones are established adjacent to each noninstrument runway and approach zone as indicated on the zoning map. Transition zones, symmetrically located on either side of runways, have variable widths as shown on the zoning map. Transition zones extend outward from a line 125 feet on either side of the centerline of the noninstrument runway, for the length of such runway plus 200 feet on each end; and are parallel and level with such runway centerlines. The transition zones along such runways slope upward and outward one foot vertically for each seven feet horizontally to the point where they intersect the surface of the horizontal zone. Further, transition zones are established adjacent to noninstrument approach zones. These transition zones have variable widths, as shown on the zoning map. Such transition zones flare symmetrically with either side of the runway approach zones from the base of such zones and slope upward and outward at the rate of one foot vertically for each seven feet horizontally to the points where they intersect the surfaces of the horizontal and conical zones.
(3)
Horizontal zone. A horizontal zone is established as the area within a circle with its center at the airport reference point and having a radius of 5,000 feet. The horizontal zone does not include the noninstrument approach zones and the transition zones.
(4)
Conical zone. A conical zone is established commencing at the periphery of the horizontal zone and extending to a distance of 8,000 feet from the airport reference point. The conical zone does not include the noninstrument approach zones and transition zones.
(Ord. of 8-7-1962, § III)
Sec. 14-35. - Height limitations.
(a)
Except as otherwise provided in this article, no structure or tree shall be erected, altered, allowed to grow, or maintained in any zone created by this article to a height in excess of the height limit established in this article for such zone. Such height limitations are computed from the established airport elevation and are established for each of the zones in question as follows:
(1)
Noninstrument approach zones. One foot in height for each 20 feet in horizontal distance beginning at a point 200 feet from, and of the elevation of, the end of the noninstrument runway and extending to a point 10,200 feet from the end of the runway;
(2)
Transition zones. One foot in height for each seven feet in horizontal distance beginning at any point 125 feet normal to and at the elevation of the centerline of noninstrument runways extending 200 feet beyond each end thereof, extending to a height of 150 feet above the airport elevation which is 990 feet above mean sea level. In addition to the foregoing, there are established height limits of one foot vertical height for each seven feet horizontal distance measured from the edges of all approach zones and extending upward and outward to the points where they intersect the horizontal or conical surfaces;
(3)
Horizontal zone. One hundred fifty feet above the airport elevation or a height of 1,140 feet above mean sea level; and
(4)
Conical zone. One foot in height for each 20 feet of horizontal distance beginning at the periphery of the horizontal zone extending to a height of 300 feet above the airport elevation.
(b)
Where an area is covered by more than one height limitation, the more restrictive limitation shall prevail.
(c)
Nothing in this article shall be construed as prohibiting the growth, construction or maintenance of any tree or structure to a height up to 45 feet above the surface of the land.
(Ord. of 8-7-1962, § IV)
Sec. 14-36. - Use restrictions.
Notwithstanding any other provisions of this article, no use may be made of land within any zone established by this article in such a manner as to create electrical interference with radio communication between the airport and aircraft, make it difficult for flyers to distinguish between airport lights and others, result in glare in the eyes of flyers using the airport, impair visibility in the vicinity of the airport or otherwise endanger the landing, taking off, or maneuvering of aircraft.
(Ord. of 8-7-1962, § V)
Sec. 14-37. - Nonconforming uses.
(a)
Regulations not retroactive. The regulations prescribed by this article shall not be construed to require the removal, lowering, or other changes or alteration of any structure or tree not conforming to the regulations as of August 7, 1962, or otherwise interfere with the continuance of any nonconforming use. Nothing contained in this article shall require any change in the construction, alteration, or intended use of any structure, the construction or alteration of which was begun prior to August 7, 1962, and is diligently prosecuted.
(b)
Marking and lighting. Notwithstanding subsection (a) of this section, the owner of any nonconforming structure or tree is required to permit the installation, operation, and maintenance thereon of such markers and lights as shall be deemed necessary by the Toccoa-Stephens County Airport Authority to indicate to the operators of aircraft in the vicinity of the airport, the presence of such airport hazards. Such markers and lights shall be installed, operated, and maintained at the expense of the Toccoa-Stephens County Airport Authority.
(Ord. of 8-7-1962, § VI)
Sec. 14-38. - Permits.
(a)
Future uses. Except as specifically provided in subsections (a)(1), (2) and (3) of this section, no material change shall be made in the use of land and no structure or tree shall be erected, altered, planted or otherwise established in any zone hereby created unless a permit therefor shall have been applied for and granted. Each application for a permit shall indicate the purpose for which the permit is desired, with sufficient particularity to permit it to be determined whether the resulting use, structure or tree would conform to the regulations prescribed in this article. If such determination is in the affirmative, the permit shall be granted.
(1)
In the area lying within the limits of the horizontal zone and the conical zone, no permit shall be required for any tree or structure less than 75 feet of vertical height above the ground, except when because of terrain, land contour or topographic features such tree or structure would extend above the height limits prescribed for such zone.
(2)
In the areas lying within the limits of the noninstrument approach zones but at a horizontal distance of not less than 2,200 feet from each end of the runways, no permit shall be required for any tree or structure less than 75 feet of vertical height above the ground, except when such tree or structure would extend above the height limit prescribed for such noninstrument approach zone.
(3)
In the areas lying within the limits of the transition zones beyond the perimeter of the horizontal zone, no permit shall be required for any tree or structure less than 75 feet of vertical height above the ground except when such tree or structure, because of terrain, land contour or topographic features would extend above the height limit prescribed for such transition zones.
Nothing contained in any of the foregoing exceptions shall be construed as permitting or intending to permit any construction, alteration or growth of any structure or tree in excess of any of the height limits established by this article except as set forth in section 14-35.
(b)
Existing uses. No permit shall be granted that would allow the establishment or creation of an airport hazard or permit a nonconforming use, structure, or tree to be made or become higher, or become a greater hazard to air navigation, than it was on August 7, 1962, or on the effective date of any amendments to this article or than it is when the application for a permit is made. Except as indicated, all applications for such a permit shall be granted.
(c)
Nonconforming uses abandoned or destroyed. Whenever the building official determines that a nonconforming structure or tree has been abandoned or more than 80 percent torn down, physically deteriorated, or decayed, no permit shall be granted that would allow such structure or tree to exceed the applicable height limit or otherwise deviate from the zoning regulations.
(d)
Variances. Any person desiring to erect or increase the height of any structure, or permit the growth of any tree, or use his property, not in accordance with the regulations prescribed in this article, may apply to the board of adjustment for a variance from such regulations. Such variances shall be allowed where it is duly found that a literal application or enforcement of the regulations would result in practical difficulty or unnecessary hardship and the relief granted would not be contrary to the public interest but will do substantial justice and be in accordance with the spirit of this article.
(e)
Hazard marking and lighting. Any permit or variance granted may, if such action is deemed advisable to effectuate the purpose of this article and be reasonable in the circumstances, be so conditioned as to require the owner of the structure or tree in question to permit the Toccoa-Stephens County Airport Authority at its own expense, to install, operate, and maintain thereon such markers and lights as may be necessary to indicate to flyers the presence of an airport hazard.
(Ord. of 8-7-1962, § VII)
Sec. 14-39. - Enforcement.
It shall be the duty of the building official to administer and enforce the regulations prescribed in this article. Applications for permits and variances shall be made to the building official upon a form furnished by him. Applications required by this article to be submitted to the building official shall be promptly considered and granted or denied by him. Applications for action by the board of adjustment shall be forthwith transmitted by the building official.
(Ord. of 8-7-1962, § VIII)
Sec. 14-40. - Board of adjustment.
(a)
There is created a board of adjustment to have and exercise the following powers:
(1)
To hear and decide appeals from any order, requirement, decision, or determination made by the building official in the enforcement of this article.
(2)
To hear and decide special exceptions to the terms of this article upon which such board of adjustment under such regulations may be required to pass.
(3)
To hear and decide specific variances.
(b)
The board of adjustment shall consist of five members appointed by the Toccoa-Stephens County Airport Authority and each shall serve for a term of three years and until his successor is duly appointed and qualified. Of the members first appointed, one shall be appointed for a term of one year, two for a term of two years and two for a term of three years. Members shall be removable by the appointing authority for cause upon written charges, after a public hearing.
(c)
The board of adjustment shall adopt rules for its governance and procedure in harmony with the provisions of this article. Meetings of the board of adjustment shall be held at the call of the chairman and at such other times as the board of adjustment may determine. The chairman, or in his absence the acting chairman, may administer oaths and compel the attendance of witnesses. All hearings of the board of adjustment shall be public. The board of adjustment shall keep minutes of its proceedings showing the vote of each member upon each question, or, if absent or failing to vote, indicating such fact, and shall keep records of its examinations and other official actions, all of which shall immediately be filed in the office of the building official and shall be a public record.
(d)
The board of adjustment shall make written findings of fact and conclusions of law giving the facts upon which it acted and its legal conclusions from such facts in reversing, affirming, or modifying any order, requirement, decision, or determination which comes before it under the provisions of this article.
(e)
The concurring vote of a majority of the members of the board of adjustment shall be sufficient to reverse any order, requirement, decision, or determination of the building official or to decide in favor of the applicant on any matter upon which it is required to pass under this article, or to effect any variation in this article.
(Ord. of 8-7-1962, § IX)
Cross reference— Other boards and commissions, § 2-61 et seq.
Sec. 14-41. - Appeals.
(a)
Any person aggrieved, or any taxpayer affected, by any decision of the building official made in his administration of this article, if of the opinion that a decision of the building official is an improper application of these regulations, may appeal to the board of adjustment.
(b)
All appeals under this section must be taken within a reasonable time as provided by the rules of the board of adjustment, by filing with the building official a notice of appeal specifying the grounds thereof. The building official shall forthwith transmit to the board of adjustment all the papers constituting the record upon which the action appealed from was taken.
(c)
An appeal shall stay all proceedings in furtherance of the action appealed from, unless the building official certifies to the board of adjustment, after the notice of appeal has been filed with it, that by reason of the facts stated in the certificate a stay would, in his opinion, cause imminent peril to life or property. In such case, proceedings shall not be stayed except by order of the board of adjustment on notice to the agency from which the appeal is taken and on due cause shown.
(d)
The board of adjustment shall fix a reasonable time for hearing appeals, give public notice and due notice to the parties in interest, and decide the same within a reasonable time. Upon the hearing any party may appear in person or by agent or by attorney.
(e)
The board of adjustment may, in conformity with the provisions of this article, reverse or affirm, in whole or in part, or may modify the order, requirement, decision or determination appealed from and may make such order, requirement, decision or determination, as may be appropriate under the circumstances.
(Ord. of 8-7-1962, § X)
Sec. 14-42. - Judicial review.
Any person aggrieved, or any taxpayer affected, by any decision of the board of adjustment, may appeal to the superior court of the county as provided in 1961 Ga. Laws, page 2423.
(Ord. of 8-7-1962, § XI)
Sec. 14-43. - Conflicting regulations.
Where there exists a conflict between any of the regulations or limitations prescribed in this article and any other regulations applicable to the same area, whether the conflict be with respect to the height of structures or trees, the use of land, or any other matter, the more stringent limitation or requirement shall govern and prevail.
(Ord. of 8-7-1962, § XIII)
