Chapter 42 - LAW ENFORCEMENT[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Cross reference— Administration, ch. 2; civil emergencies, ch. 26; courts, ch. 30; personnel, ch. 54; traffic and vehicles, ch. 78.
State Law reference— Sheriffs, O.C.G.A. § 15-16-1 et seq.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Secs. 42-1—42-30. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - PROBATION DEPARTMENT

Sec. 42-31. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Department means the Toccoa-Stephens County Probation Department.
(Res. of 5-4-1993, § 7)
Cross reference— Definitions generally, § 1-2.
Sec. 42-32. - Creation and establishment.
Pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 42-8-100, the board of commissioners, as the governing authority of the county, approves the creation and establishment of a county probation system to provide general supervision and collection services for all moneys to be paid by a defendant according to the terms of the sentence imposed on the defendant as well as any moneys which by operation of law are to be paid by the defendant in consequence of the conviction, to provide counseling, and to provide other probation services for persons convicted of a misdemeanor in the state court of the county and placed on probation in the county.
(Res. of 5-4-1993, § 1)
Sec. 42-33. - Title.
The probation system created by this article shall be known as "the Toccoa-Stephens County Probation Department."
(Res. of 5-4-1993, § 7)
Sec. 42-34. - Services to city.
The probation system established by this article shall likewise provide the same probation services to the Municipal Court of the City of Toccoa upon approval of this article by the City of Toccoa and upon the concurrence of the Judge of the Municipal Court of the City of Toccoa.
(Res. of 5-4-1993, § 2)
Sec. 42-35. - Services to magistrate court.
The probation system established by this article shall likewise, with the concurrence of the chief judge of the magistrate's court of the county, provide the same probation services to the county magistrate court.
(Res. of 5-4-1993, § 3)
Sec. 42-36. - Continuance of system.
The probation system established by this article shall continue in existence on a year-to-year basis and until the occurrence of the earlier of the following events:
(1)
The adoption of a resolution by the board of commissioners terminating the probation system; or
(2)
The adoption of a resolution by the City of Toccoa terminating the City of Toccoa's participation in the probation system created by this article.
(Res. of 5-4-1993, § 5)
Sec. 42-37. - Cost.
The cost of the probation system established by this article shall be paid by the county and the City of Toccoa in accordance with this article.
(Res. of 5-4-1993, § 6)
Sec. 42-38. - Chief probation officer.
(a)
The chief probation officer shall be an employee of the county and, except as may be inconsistent with this article, shall be subject to the general personnel policies established for county employees by the board of commissioners and shall be entitled to the same employee benefits, such as health insurance, as made available to the employees of the county.
(b)
The board of commissioners shall furnish a suitable office and utilities, telephone, desk, typewriter, and appropriate chairs for the use of the department.
(Res. of 5-4-1993, § 8)
Cross reference— Officers and employees, § 2-91 et seq.
Sec. 42-39. - Job description of chief probation officer.
The chief judges of the affected courts shall establish a job description for the chief probation officer, which job description shall set out in such detail as the judges may deem appropriate the duties, responsibilities, and authority of the chief probation officer.
(Res. of 5-4-1993, § 12)
Sec. 42-40. - Selection of chief probation officer.
The position of chief probation officer shall be filled as follows:
(1)
The chief judges of the affected courts shall establish a procedure for the advertisement and solicitation of applications of persons interested in the position of chief probation officer. From the applications submitted, the chief judges of the affected courts shall establish a procedure for the selection of that person deemed best qualified.
(2)
The chief judges of the affected courts (or a majority thereof) shall select the person deemed best qualified and shall submit the name of the person recommended for appointment as chief probation officer of the department along with a proposed salary and method of computation of salary for approval to the board of commissioners. The recommendation shall also propose an effective date of employment.
(3)
Upon approval by the board of commissioners, the person nominated by the majority of the chief judges of the affected courts, shall be elected to the position of chief probation officer, who shall serve at the pleasure of such board and chief judges.
(Res. of 5-4-1993, § 9)
Sec. 42-41. - Duties of chief probation officer.
The chief probation officer shall have such duties, responsibilities, and authority as a probation officer of the department of corrections under existing state law, except as may be inconsistent with this article or except as may be specifically modified, from time to time, in writing by the majority of the chief judges of the affected courts.
(Res. of 5-4-1993, § 11)
Sec. 42-42. - Bond.
The chief probation officer shall be bonded in an amount not less than the annual budget of the department. The cost of the surety bond shall be an expense of the department. The bond shall be approved by the chief judge of the state court of the county and thereafter filed with the clerk of the board of commissioners.
(Res. of 5-4-1993, § 15)
Sec. 42-43. - Chief probation officer to attend court sessions.
(a)
The chief judges of the affected courts shall coordinate court schedules so that, if possible, the chief probation officer may be in attendance at all sessions of the court from which the department receives probationers. The chief judges shall cooperate in an effort to avoid conflicting court schedules. In the event of a conflict regarding instruction to the chief probation officer regarding trial attendance at conflicting times, the chief judge of the state court of the county shall issue appropriate directions to the chief probation officer to resolve the conflict.
(b)
The chief probation officer shall consider each of the judges of the affected courts to be the chief probation officer's supervisor in regard to cases originating from the court of that particular judge. In the event of conflicting instructions from two or more judges, the chief judge of the state court of the county shall resolve the conflicting instructions and the chief probation officer shall act in accordance with instructions of the chief judge of the state court of the county.
(c)
The chief judges of the affected courts shall develop and approve uniform written forms for use by the chief probation officer as well as guidelines for the handling of probation services to the end that all cases handled by the department shall be uniformly administered and the chief probation officer shall administer all cases, as uniformly as possible, regardless of the court from which the case originated.
(d)
If the chief judges, or a majority thereof, of the affected courts become dissatisfied with the chief probation officer of the department, the chief judges, or a majority thereof, may relieve the chief probation officer from his or her duties in such courts, in which event the majority of such judges shall immediately recommend to the board of commissioners that such chief probation officer be discharged, giving reasons therefor, whereupon the board of commissioners shall immediately discharge the chief probation officer.
(Res. of 5-4-1993, § 10)
Sec. 42-44. - Probation fee.
(a)
In every case that a court of this county sentences a defendant to probation or any pretrial release or diversion program under the supervision of the department, in addition to any fine or order of restitution imposed by the court, there shall be imposed a probation fee as a condition of probation, release, or diversion in the amount equivalent to $23.00 per each month under supervision, and in addition, a one-time fee of $50.00 where such defendant was convicted of any felony. The probation fee may be waived or amended after administrative process by the department and approval of the court, or upon determination by the court, as to the undue hardship, inability to pay, or any other extenuating factors which prohibit collection of the fee; however, the imposition of sanctions for failure to pay fees shall be within the discretion of the court through judicial process or hearings. Probation fees shall be waived on probationers incarcerated or detained in a departmental or other confinement facility which prohibits employment for wages. All probation fees collected by the department shall be paid into the general fund of the state treasury, except as provided in O.C.G.A. § 17-15-13(f), relating to sums to be paid into the state crime victims emergency fund.
(b)
In addition to any other provision of law, any person convicted of a violation of O.C.G.A. § 40-6-391 or 16-13-2(b) who is sentenced to probation or a suspended sentence by a municipal, magistrate, probate, state, or superior court shall also be required by the court to pay a one-time fee of $25.00. The clerk of court, or if there is no clerk the person designated to collect fines, fees, and forfeitures for such court, shall collect such fee and remit the same to the general fund of the state treasury not later than the tenth day of the month after such fee is collected and shall be subject to rule and attachment in the same manner as clerks of superior court for failure to so collect and remit.
(Res. of 5-4-1993, § 13)
Sec. 42-45. - Remittance of fees.
The chief probation officer shall collect all probation supervision fees assessed defendants given probated sentences and shall deposit such fees in a separate account daily as received. The chief probation officer shall remit to the board of commissioners at least monthly a check representing all probation supervision fees collected during the second preceding month. For example, on September 1 the chief probation officer shall remit all fees collected during the month of July.
(Res. of 5-4-1993, § 16)
Sec. 42-46. - Accounting of fees.
(a)
The chief probation officer shall maintain an accurate accounting of all probation supervision fees collected. The accounting shall include the total fees collected from defendants sentenced by the Municipal Court of the City of Toccoa, defendants sentenced by the magistrate court of the county and defendants sentenced by the state court of the county.
(b)
Within one month following the close of the fiscal year of the board of commissioners, the chief probation officer shall prepare a summary accounting reflecting thereon the entire cost of the operation of the department, including salary, fringe benefits, office overhead (such as telephone, stationery, long distance telephone calls and support personnel, if any), as well as the employer's share of state and federal tax items (such as social security and unemployment tax) and workers' compensation insurance. The cost of utilities, equipment, and supplies provided by the board of commissioners shall be added as a cost of operation of the department; however, the value of the office space (rental value) shall not be considered as a cost of the department.
(c)
From the total cost of the operation of the department as determined in accordance with subsection (b) of this section, the chief probation officer shall allocate the cost between the City of Toccoa and the county according to the percentage of the fees collected from the respective courts of such governmental entities. The cost allocated to the City of Toccoa shall be in direct proportion to the fees collected from the defendants sentenced by the Municipal Court of the City of Toccoa.
(d)
From the total fees collected during the preceding fiscal year from defendants sentenced by the Municipal Court of the City of Toccoa, the total cost allocated to the City of Toccoa shall be deducted. If the resulting balance is a positive amount, the board of commissioners shall remit a check to the City of Toccoa for the positive amount of the balance within 30 days after receipt of the accounting by the chief probation officer. If the resulting balance is negative, the board of commissioners shall submit a bill to the City of Toccoa upon receipt of the accounting of the chief probation officer. The City of Toccoa shall pay to the board of commissioners the balance of any such bill within 30 days after the receipt thereof.
(Res. of 5-4-1993, § 17)
Sec. 42-47. - Budget.
At such time as requested by the board of commissioners, the majority of the chief judges of the affected courts shall submit a proposed budget for the forthcoming fiscal year, which budget shall be subject to approval by the board of commissioners. In submitting the proposed budget, the judges shall realistically assess the projected collection of probation supervision fees for the forthcoming fiscal year and shall not, except in unusual circumstances, submit a proposed budget wherein the projected anticipated collection of probation fees shall be less than the proposed budget. If a budget is submitted greater than the projected probation supervision fees collected, the judges shall specify the reasons for the anticipated shortfall.
(Res. of 5-4-1993, § 14)
