Chapter 35 - ENVIRONMENTAL HEALTH
ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 35-1. - State-promulgated rules and regulations.
The following rules and regulations of the Georgia DCH [Department of Community Health], including all subsequent amendments, revisions or modifications thereto, and which are expressly incorporated herein, are hereby adopted and approved for enforcement as reference to the State of Georgia as set forth herein under Chapter 35, Environmental Health, in the Stephens County Code of Ordinances.
(a)
Control of Rabies, Comp. R. & Regs. § 290-5-2.
(b)
Food Service, Comp. R. & Regs. § 290-5-14.
(c)
Tourist Accommodations, Comp. R. & Regs. § 290-5-18.
(d)
Land Disposal of Domestic Septage, Comp. R. & Regs. § 290-5-25.
(e)
On-Site Sewage Management Systems, Comp. R. & Regs. § 290-5-26.
(f)
Drinking Water Supply, Comp. R. & Regs. § 290-5-55.
(g)
Solid Waste, Comp. R. & Regs. § 290-5-56.
(h)
Swimming Pools and Recreational Water Parks, Comp. R. & Regs. § 290-5-57.
(i)
Special On-Site Sewage Management Systems, Comp. R. & Regs. § 290-5-59.
(j)
The Georgia Smoke Free Air Act of 2005, Comp. R. & Regs. § 290-5-61.
Copies of those DCH rules and regulations are on file in the office of the clerk of the board of commissioners, where the same are available for inspection and copying by the public during regular county operating hours.
(Ord. No. 2010-35-1, 10-12-2010)
Secs. 35-2—35-39. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - ENACTMENTS

Sec. 35-40. - Local board of health enactments.
Pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 31-3-1 et seq., in addition to the above-referenced rules and regulations of the Georgia DCH, the following rules and regulations have been enacted by the Stephens County Board of Health and are hereby adopted by the Stephens County Board of Commissioners in accordance with state law, and are further hereby adopted and approved for enforcement as set forth herein:
(a)
Rules and regulations concerning rabies control enacted by Stephens County Board of Health resolution dated May 5, 2010, which are hereby set forth verbatim herein and adopted by the board of commissioners upon lawful adoption of this chapter.
Copies of those rules and regulations enacted by the Stephens County Board of Health and having been adopted by ordinance of the board of commissioners are on file in the office of the clerk of the board of commissioners, where the same are available for inspection and copying by the public during regular county operating hours.
(b)
In addition, the rules and regulations concerning minimum lot sizes for the orderly and safe development of property utilizing on-site sewage management systems which are contained in the Department of Community Health Division of Public Health Manual for On-Site Sewage Management Systems, are hereby adopted and made a part of this chapter as though fully set out at length herein. The Stephens County Board of Commissioners may, however, require larger minimum lot sizes for utilization of on-site sewage management systems in zoning or land use districts providing for septic service, and in the event there is a conflict between the minimum lot size(s) set forth in the DCH's Public Health Manual for On-Site Sewage Management Systems and that established by the Stephens County Board of Commissioners, the larger lot size(s) established by the board of commissioners shall control and take precedence.
(c)
A fee schedule for the implementation and confirmation of compliance with the above-referenced state-promulgated rules and regulations and local board of health enactments, including permit and inspection fees, has been established by the Stephens County Board of Health, and is hereby approved and adopted by the Stephens County Board of Commissioners. A copy of this fee schedule, including all subsequent amendments, revisions or modifications thereto, is on file in the office of the clerk of the board of commissioners and is available for inspection and copying by the public during regular county operating hours.
(d)
The enforcement and prosecution of this chapter shall be within the jurisdiction of Stephens County and the Stephens County Board of Health, and their authorized designee(s) or agent(s), and all law enforcement personnel of Stephens County.
(e)
It shall be unlawful for any natural person or persons or any legal entity including, and not limited to, a corporation, partnership, limited liability company, firm or trust, to violate any of the above-identified rules and regulations, and/or to fail or refuse to pay any fee established by the Stephens County Board of Health, and approved and adopted by the Stephens County Board of Commissioners, for the implementation and confirmation of compliance with the above-identified rules and regulations, including all permit and inspection fees.
(f)
. Pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 36-1-20, any person or persons or any legal entity including, and not limited to, a corporation, partnership, limited liability company, firm or trust, violating any provision of the rules and regulations identified and adopted in this Ordinance shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be punished by a fine not to exceed $1,000.00 or by imprisonment in the county jail for not more than 60 days, or both.
(g)
Each day during which a violation of any provision of the rules and regulations identified and adopted in this chapter shall constitute, and shall be considered, a separate offense.
(h)
The Stephens County Magistrate Court shall have original jurisdiction upon any offense charged pursuant to this chapter.
(i)
In addition to the rights and remedies set forth herein, or as otherwise authorized by law, Stephens County and the Stephens County Board of Health retain and reserve the right to seek equitable relief, injunction, abatement, or any appropriate action or proceeding to protect the public health, safety and welfare. Failure or refusal to pay any fee approved for the implementation and confirmation of compliance with the above-identified rules and regulations, including all permit and inspection fees, may result in suspension and/or revocation of any permit issued by the Stephens County Board of Health.
(j)
Violations of all DCH promulgated rules and regulations and all local board of health enactments identified herein may be prosecuted by an accusation or citation with or without a prosecuting attorney in accordance with O.C.G.A. § 15-10-63, and any successor statute; and the Stephens County Board of Commissioners authorizes the county attorney or his designee to prosecute violations of this chapter, pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 15-10-66 and any successor statute. In addition, the solicitor of the county and his or her assistants shall also have the authority to prosecute all citations or accusations issued for violation of the rules and regulations identified and adopted in this chapter.
(k)
This chapter, and the enforcement and prosecution of this chapter by Stephens County and the Stephens County Board of Health and their authorized agent(s) or designee(s), does not in any way effect, stop, prescribe, regulate, limit, or in any way control or prohibit the Georgia DCH, and its agent(s) or designee(s), from initiating or undertaking any action or proceeding to enforce compliance with its rules and regulations.
(l)
This chapter shall become effective immediately upon its adoption by the Stephens County Board of Commissioners. Any and all existing or preexisting ordinances and provisions in conflict with this chapter are hereby repealed.
(Ord. No. 2010-35-1, 10-12-2010)
