ARTICLE XI. - CG—COMMERCIAL GENERAL BUSINESS DISTRICT

Sec. 59-1100. - Purpose and intent.
The commercial general business district is intended to provide adequate space for various types of general business uses that serve both residents and regional consumers, rather than a smaller neighbor. This includes the retailing of major goods and services on a medium to large scale, and other types of somewhat more intensive commercial activities, such as those establishments that rely on high traffic roadways.
Sec. 59-1101. - Permitted uses.
modified
(a)
Any use permitted in the CC and AB district.
(b)
Restaurants, including drive-in and drive-through facilities.
(c)
Retail trade establishments, enclosed and unenclosed.
(d)
Lodging facilities, hotels, motels and inns.
(e)
Hospitals, medical clinics and related medical facilities involving professional care and treatment.
(f)
Institutional uses such as colleges, universities and technical training facilities.
(g)
Financial institutions with drive-through facilities.
(h)
Civic auditoriums, assembly halls, amphitheaters and stadiums.
(i)
Office support, supply and copying establishments.
(j)
Full-service gas stations and convenience stores.
(k)
Manufactured home sales and services.
(l)
Radio and television studios and stations (associated towers must meet requirements of PWSF ordinance (chapter 75 of the Code of Stephens County, Georgia) and/or tower ordinance (chapter 74 of the Code of Stephens County, Georgia).
(m)
Accessory uses and structures normally incidental to permitted principal use.
(n)
Accessory commercial recreational facilities, including health clubs and spas, but not including such businesses as firearm shooting ranges and racetracks.
(o)
Home and office appliances—Sales, service, rental and repair.
(p)
Road and home construction.
(q)
Vehicular and mobile charging stations.
Sec. 59-1102. - Conditional uses.
(a)
Pawn shops.
(b)
Flea markets.
(c)
Pet kennels and grooming establishments.
(d)
Recycling pick-up centers.
(e)
Truck stops and truck terminals.
(f)
Small travel terminals.
(g)
Small printing establishments.
(h)
Indoor shooting ranges.
(i)
Churches and cemeteries.
(j)
Public and private schools.
(k)
Public uses.
(l)
Automotive services, sales and repair.
Sec. 59-1103. - Building requirements.
modified
The minimum area, yard, height and building requirements for the general business commercial district shall be as follows:
(1)
Lot size—Minimum: Minimum lot size shall be 1.5 acres or greater.
(2)
Building setbacks—Minimum:
EXPAND
Front yard - 80 feet on state highways;
- 80 feet on all other collector streets;
Side yard - 25 feet;
Rear yard - 25 feet.
  Where the commercial community business district abuts a residential district, an additional 30-foot setback for a landscaped evergreen vegetative buffer shall be required.
(3)
Building height—Maximum: 40 feet.
(4)
Corner lot ingress/egress: 100 feet from intersection.
(5)
Acceleration, deceleration and turn lanes as called for by the board of commissioners.
Sec. 59-1104. - Full disclosure.
Commercial or industrial businesses shall, as part of their building permit or license application process, provide the planning director with full disclosure of all hazardous or dangerous products used in their commercial or industrial processes together with an explanation of safety measurers, disposal measures and emergency medical and evacuation procedures. The planning director shall then forward this information to the emergency management director, the fire department and the sheriff's department.
Sec. 59-1105. - Reserved.
