Chapter 26 - CIVIL EMERGENCIES[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Cross reference— Administration, ch. 2; law enforcement, ch. 42.
State Law reference— Emergency management, O.C.G.A. § 38-3-1 et seq.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Secs. 26-1—26-30. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT[2]

Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
Cross reference— Any ordinance or resolution relating to civil defense or emergency management saved from repeal, § 1-10(16).

Sec. 26-31. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Emergency management means the preparation for and the carrying out of all emergency functions other than functions for which military forces are primarily responsible to prevent, minimize, and repair injury and damage resulting from emergencies, energy emergencies, disasters, or the imminent threat thereof, of manmade or natural origin caused by enemy attack, sabotage, acts of domestic or international terrorism, civil disturbance, fire, flood, earthquake, wind, storm, wave action, oil spill or other water contamination requiring emergency action to avert danger or damage, epidemic, air contamination, blight, drought, infestation, explosion, riot or other hostile action, radiological action, or other causes. These functions include, without limitation, firefighting services; police services; emergency medical services; rescue; engineering; warning services; communications; defense from radiological, chemical, biological, and other special weapons to include weapons of mass destruction; evacuation of persons from stricken areas; emergency welfare services; consequence management functions to include victim services; emergency transportation; plant protection; temporary restoration of public utility services; and other functions related to civilian protection, together with all other activities necessary or incidental to the preparation for and carrying out of the foregoing functions.
Energy emergency means a condition of danger to the health, safety, welfare, or economic well-being of the citizens of this state arising out of a present or threatened shortage of usable energy resources; also any condition of substantial danger to the health, safety, or welfare of the citizens of this state resulting from the operation of any electrical power-generating facility, the transport of any energy resource by any means whatsoever, or the production, use or disposal of any source material, special nuclear material, or byproduct, as defined by the Atomic Energy Act of 1954, 68 Stat. 919, 42 USC 2011, et seq.; also any nuclear incident, as defined by the Atomic Energy Act of 1954, occurring within or outside this state, substantially affecting the health, safety, or welfare of the citizens of this state.
Energy resources means all forms of energy or power including, without limitation, oil, gasoline, and other petroleum products; natural or synthetic gas; electricity in all forms and from all sources; and other fuels of any description, except wood.
(Res. of 8-20-1957, § 1)
Cross reference— Definitions generally, § 1-2.
State Law reference— Similar provisions, O.C.G.A. § 38-3-3.
Sec. 26-32. - Creation of emergency management council.
The county emergency management council is created and shall include the following:
(1)
County commissioner.
(2)
Director of emergency management.
(3)
County sheriff.
(4)
County health officer.
(5)
County road superintendent.
(6)
County director of family and children services.
(7)
American Red Cross representative.
(8)
Others, including representatives of business, labor, civic and patriotic organizations as appointed by the council.
(Res. of 8-20-1957, § 2)
Sec. 26-33. - Powers and duties of emergency management council.
It shall be the duty of the county emergency management council and it is empowered to:
(1)
Develop a county emergency management plan. This plan shall provide for the effective mobilization of all the resources of the county, both private and public.
(2)
Prepare and recommend for consideration by the board of commissioners a resolution necessary to implement the emergency management plan.
(3)
Consider and recommend to the county emergency management council for approval mutual aid plans and agreements.
(4)
Have such other duties as may be determined by the board of commissioners.
(Res. of 8-20-1957, § 3)
Sec. 26-34. - Office of director created.
There is created the office of the county emergency management director. Such officer shall be nominated by the board of commissioners and appointed by the state director of emergency management. The emergency management director shall:
(1)
Represent the board of commissioners on all matters pertaining to emergency management.
(2)
Require and direct cooperation of county officials in the preparation and implementation of emergency management plans.
(3)
During periods of emergency, direct the services of any county officers or employees.
(4)
During periods of emergency, obtain vital supplies and equipment lacking, needed for the protection of life and property and bind the county for the value thereof and, if required immediately, requisition same.
(Res. of 8-20-1957, § 4)
Cross reference— Officers and employees, § 2-91 et seq.
Sec. 26-35. - Organization generally.
Officers and employees of the county with volunteer forces enrolled to aid them during an emergency and all groups, organizations and persons who make the agreements on operation of law shall be charged with duties necessary for the protection of the life and property in the county during such an emergency and shall constitute the county emergency management organization.
(Res. of 8-20-1957, § 5)
Sec. 26-36. - Divisions of organization.
The functions and duties of the county emergency management organization shall be distributed among the services as listed below. Each division shall be under the direction of a chief and deputy chief appointed by the emergency management council. The chief of services will include public officials such as sheriffs, chiefs of police and fire departments, and heads of agencies dealing with transportation, communications, and other services as well as private business persons who through their profession, knowledge and experience are particularly qualified to head divisions requiring specialized knowledge and experience. The services are established as follows:
(1)
Law enforcement services.
(2)
Fire services.
(3)
Transportation services.
(4)
Medical and health services.
(5)
Communications services.
(6)
Family and children services.
(7)
Information and education services.
(8)
Supply services.
(9)
Rescue services.
(10)
GOC coordinator services.
(11)
Engineering services.
(Res. of 8-20-1957, § 6)
Sec. 26-37. - Volunteers.
All persons, other than officers and employees of the county, volunteering in service pursuant to this article shall serve without compensation. While engaged in such service they shall have the same immunities as persons and employees of the county performing similar duties.
(Res. of 8-20-1957, § 7)
Sec. 26-38. - Prohibited acts.
It shall be unlawful to:
(1)
Willfully obstruct, hinder, or delay any member of the emergency management organization or the enforcement of any lawful rule or regulation issued pursuant to this article or in the performance of any duty imposed upon him by the virtue of this article.
(2)
Do any act forbidden by any lawful rules or regulations issued pursuant to this article if such act is of such a nature as to give assistance to the enemy or to imperil the life or property of any inhabitant of this county or to prevent, hinder or delay the defense or protection thereof.
(3)
Wear, carry or display without authority any mark or identification specified by the emergency management council.
(Res. of 8-20-1957, § 8)
Sec. 26-39. - Plan.
A complete and adequate emergency management plan will be formulated by the emergency management council. This plan will be based upon plans formulated in the state, mutual aid agreements and recommendations by chiefs of divisions.
(Res. of 8-20-1957, § 9)
Secs. 26-40—26-70. - Reserved.
ARTICLE III. - GOVERNMENTAL OPERATIONS DURING STATE OF EMERGENCY

Sec. 26-71. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Fees means any fee or rate charged by the county for building permits, land disturbance permits, zoning applications, special land use permits, temporary land use permits, and other fees relating to the reconstruction, repair and cleanup of areas impacted by the disaster or emergency. The term "fees" shall not include those fees collected by the county on behalf of the federal or state government or those fees charged by the county pursuant to a federal or state statute or regulation.
State of emergency, as defined by O.C.G.A. § 38-3-3(7), means the condition declared by the governor when, in his judgment, the threat or actual occurrence of a disaster, emergency, or energy emergency in any part of the state is of sufficient severity and magnitude as to warrant extraordinary assistance by the state to supplement the efforts and available resources of the several localities and relief organizations in preventing or alleviating the damage, loss, hardship, or suffering threatened or caused thereby.
Subsequent recovery period means the period of time that the disaster or emergency continues to cause disruptions in the area impacted by the disaster or emergency. The subsequent recovery period shall not exceed six months after the state of emergency declaration by the governor is terminated unless extended by official action of the governing authority of the county.
Temporary dwelling means any manufactured home, mobile home or easily movable home, trailer, recreational vehicle or structure not otherwise permitted by the zoning regulations in a particular zoning district or by any other regulations in any area of the county.
(Ord. of 6-1-1999, § 2)
Cross reference— Definitions generally, § 1-2.
Sec. 26-72. - Authority to waive procedures and fee structures.
(a)
Meetings. Upon proclamation by the appropriate state official of an emergency or disaster of manmade or natural causes or enemy attack impending on or affecting the state or the United States, the affairs and business of the county may be conducted at places other than the regular or usual place thereof, within or outside of the county; all actions taken by the local governing body shall be as valid and binding as if performed within the county. Such meetings may be called by the presiding officer or any two members of the governing body without regard to or compliance with time consuming procedures and formalities otherwise required by law.
(b)
Purchasing and public works contracts. Upon the declaration of a state of emergency by the governor, or upon the determination by the county governing authority, or its designee, of the existence of an emergency or disaster, the county governing authority, its designee or the emergency interim successor may contract for public works without letting such contract out to the lowest, responsible bidder and without advertising and posting notification of such contract for four weeks; however, any public works contract entered into pursuant to this subsection may be carried out according to the nature of the emergency described therein.
(c)
Code enforcement. Upon the declaration of a state of emergency by the governor, or upon the determination by the county governing authority, or its designee, of the existence of an emergency or disaster, the county governing authority, its designee or the emergency interim successor may temporarily suspend the enforcement of this Code, or any portion thereof, where:
(1)
The emergency or disaster is of such nature that immediate action outside the Code is required;
(2)
Such suspension is consistent with the protection of the public health, safety and welfare; and
(3)
Such suspension is not inconsistent with any federal or state statutes or regulations.
(d)
Fees. Upon the declaration of a state of emergency by the governor, or upon the determination by the county governing authority, or its designee, of the existence of an emergency or disaster, the board of commissioners, its designee or the emergency interim successor may temporarily reduce or suspend any permit fees, application fees or other rate structures as necessary to encourage the rebuilding of the area impacted by the disaster or emergency.
(e)
Temporary dwellings. Upon the declaration of a state of emergency by the governor, or upon the determination by the county governing authority, or its designee, or the existence of an emergency or disaster, the county governing authority, its designee or the emergency interim successor may issue temporary manufactured home, mobile home, trailer, recreational vehicle or other temporary dwelling structure or park permits in any zoning district or any area of the county while the primary dwelling is being repaired, provided that such temporary dwellings or parks are designed by an engineer and the plans are approved by the county health department and the county building and inspections department. The temporary permit shall not exceed six months in duration. In the case of continuing hardship and in the discretion of the governing authority or its designee, the permit may be extended for a period of an additional six months. Upon expiration of the temporary permit or an extension, the temporary dwelling shall be removed.
(Ord. of 6-1-1999, § 1)
