Chapter 6 - ANIMALS[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
State Law reference— Animals generally, O.C.G.A. title 4.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 6-1. - Hogs permitted within certain limits of streets and adjoining landowners.
No person shall keep any hog in the city within 30 feet of any public street or highway or within 1,000 feet of the residence of any other person without the written consent of such person and the written consent of adjoining landowners, irrespective of how far a hog may be kept from the boundary lines of such adjoining landowners. Such written consent shall be filed with the city clerk and shall be binding from the time expressed therein but not longer than 12 months from such date of filing.
(Ord. No. 6, § 1(5-3), 3-31-1969)
Sec. 6-2. - Sanitary requirements.
Any person keeping any animal in the city shall keep his premises clean and free from filth and stench. Each person shall clean each animal pen or other enclosure at least once every ten days and keep the same well sprinkled with lime or other deodorant.
(Ord. No. 6, § 1(5-4), 3-31-1969)
Sec. 6-3. - Bird sanctuary established; city boundaries to constitute.
The city shall constitute a bird sanctuary, the limits and boundaries of which shall correspond to the limits and boundaries of the city as they now exist, or may hereafter be changed.
(Ord. No. 6, § 1(5-5), 3-31-1969)
Sec. 6-4. - Killing, etc., birds within sanctuary.
It shall be unlawful for any person to kill, wound, molest, trap or capture any bird within the limits or boundaries of said sanctuary.
(Ord. No. 6, § 1(5-6), 3-31-1969)
Sec. 6-5. - Livestock.
No person shall keep any horse, mule, donkey, cow, goat, pig, hog, sheep, chicken, turkey or fowl, or any animal weighing in excess of 50 pounds other than a dog or cat, on any property in the city unless such property includes at least five contiguous acres all owned by the same person; provided, however, that the prohibition contained in this section shall not apply to any person who, as of the date of adoption of this section, was already keeping such an animal on property of less than five acres.
(Ord. No. 130, § 1, 3-24-1988)
Secs. 6-6—6-28. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - ANIMAL CONTROL
DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Sec. 6-29. - Short title and legislative intent.
(a)
This article shall be known and may be cited as the "City of Lookout Mountain, Georgia Animal Control Ordinance."
(b)
It is the intent of the city council that enactment of this article will protect animals from neglect and abuse, protect residents from annoyance and injury, assist in providing housing for animals in an animal control center, and finance the functions of licensing and recovery.
(Ord. No. 64, art. I, § 1, 7-17-1975)
Sec. 6-30. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this division, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Animal means any domesticated dog or cat.
Animal control center means any pound, lot, premises, and/or building maintained by the county for the care and custody of animals.
Bite means an actual puncture or tear of the skin inflicted by the teeth of an animal.
Chief of police means the person designated or appointed to the position of chief of police of the city.
City of Lookout Mountain, Georgia means that area lying within the corporate boundaries of said city.
Estray means any unregistered animal found running at large beyond the boundaries of the premises of the owner.
Licensed veterinarian means a person with a Doctor of Veterinary Medicine degree licensed to practice in the State of Georgia or the State of Tennessee.
Nuisance, for the purpose of this article, means an animal that on one or more occasions commits any of the following acts of nuisance:
(1)
It is observed damaging any property other than that of its owner or custodian;
(2)
By threatening or vicious behavior, it obstructs pedestrian travel or the free passage of any bicycle, motorcycle, moped or other two-wheeled vehicle;
(3)
It is found running in a group of dogs which threatens the well-being of persons or property;
(4)
Without provocation, it bites a person;
(5)
It is found on the premises of a person other than that of its owner or custodian without the consent of such person;
(6)
It is observed running at large on any public playground or schoolyard;
(7)
It is observed scattering any garbage located on public or private property;
(8)
It defecates on the property of any person other than its owner or custodian; or
(9)
By loud and frequent barking, whining or howling, it disturbs the peace and quiet of any neighborhood.
Owner (of an animal) means a person who owns, harbors, or keeps, or knowingly causes or knowingly permits an animal to be harbored or kept, or has an animal in his care, or who permits an animal to remain on or about his premises for more than five days.
Premises means a parcel of land and the structure thereon.
Registered animal means a dog or cat licensed by the city as hereinafter required, or licensed by any other municipality in accordance with that municipality's licensing requirements.
Running at large means strolling about without constraint or confinement as rambling, roving, or wandering at will, unrestrained beyond the immediate neighborhood in which the owner resides.
Vaccination means protection provided against rabies by inoculation with anti-rabies vaccine, given in an amount sufficient to provide immunity from rabies for a minimum of one year.
Vicious animal means any animal which shall bite or in any other manner attack or attempt to attack any person within the city except that any animal that bites, attacks, or attempts to attack any person unlawfully upon its owner's or keeper's premises, or which is provoked to attack, shall not be deemed a vicious animal.
(Ord. No. 64, art. I, § 2, 7-17-1975; Ord. No. 131, § 1, 3-24-1988)
Secs. 6-31—6-48. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT

Sec. 6-49. - Administration of article.
The chief of police is responsible for the administration of this article. Reasonable rules and regulations shall be prescribed by the chief of police or appropriate officers of the county to carry out the intent and purpose of this article, pursuant to standards created by this article. Powers delegated to the chief of police may be delegated by the chief of police to other appropriate city or county employees as he may deem expedient for the effectuation of this article.
(Ord. No. 64, art. II, § 1, 7-17-1975)
Sec. 6-50. - Authority of chief of police.
The chief of police, any member of his department or any animal control officer shall have the authority to issue citations for violations of this article and to perform such other duties as are prescribed herein.
(Ord. No. 64, art. II, § 2, 7-17-1975)
Sec. 6-51. - Authority of animal control officer.
The city may appoint one or more animal control officers who shall have all powers and duties specified in this article and, in particular, the power and duty to take up and impound in the animal control center any estray animal, any rabid animal, any vicious animal or any animal otherwise engaging in behavior contrary to the provisions of this article. Such animal control officer may be an employee of the city, an independent contractor retained by the city, an employee of the county and/or a joint employee or independent contractor of both the city and the county. The animal control officer shall wear such identification as may be required to identify him as an animal control officer.
(Ord. No. 64, art. II, § 3, 7-17-1975; Ord. No. 162, § 1, 7-15-1993)
Sec. 6-52. - Animal control center.
An animal control center already established and operated by the county shall be the animal control center used by the city.
(Ord. No. 64, art. II, § 4, 7-17-1975)
Secs. 6-53—6-77. - Reserved.
DIVISION 3. - OWNER'S DUTIES

Sec. 6-78. - Rabies vaccinations.
(a)
It is the duty of all persons owning any animals to have such animals vaccinated against rabies. The rabies vaccination shall be given in an amount sufficient to provide immunity from rabies for one year and shall be administered by a licensed veterinarian. A certificate from a licensed veterinarian shall be evidence of vaccination. The chief of police may require other forms of animals to receive annual rabies vaccinations.
(b)
The veterinarian administering anti-rabies vaccine to any animal shall issue to the owner or keeper of the animal a numbered vaccination certificate. The certificate shall contain the name and address of the owner or keeper of the animal, a description of the animal vaccinated, the date of vaccination and the expiration date of the period of immunity.
(Ord. No. 64, art. III, § 1, 7-17-1975)
State Law reference— Inoculation of canines and felines against rabies, O.C.G.A. § 31-19-5.
Sec. 6-79. - Rabid animals.
An animal that has rabies or shows signs of having rabies, and every animal bitten by another animal afflicted with rabies or that has been exposed to rabies, shall be confined at once in a secure place by the owner. A person who knows or has reason to know that an animal is infected with rabies shall, immediately upon learning of the infection, notify the chief of police or the animal control center as to the place where the animal is confined and shall surrender said animal to the animal control officer upon demand.
(Ord. No. 64, art. III, § 2, 7-17-1975)
State Law reference— Duty of persons to notify, O.C.G.A. § 31-19-4.
Sec. 6-80. - Animal biting a person.
(a)
The owner of an animal that bites a person and a person bitten by an animal have a duty to report that occurrence to the chief of police or the animal control center within 24 hours. The owner of an animal that bites a person shall surrender said animal to an animal control officer if the chief of police or the animal control officer deems it necessary to impound said animal for a period of observation.
(b)
A physician who renders professional treatment to a person bitten by an animal shall report the fact that he has rendered professional treatment, to the chief of police, within 24 hours of his first professional attendance. The physician shall report the name, sex and address of the person bitten as well as the type and location of the bite. The physician shall give the name and address of the owner of the animal that inflicted the bite and any other facts that may assist the animal control center in ascertaining the immunization status of the animal.
(c)
An animal that bites a person shall be confined securely for such period of time as may be deemed necessary by the supervisor of the animal control center, but not less than ten days. The owner of the animal shall bear the cost of confinement. The supervisor of the animal control center may consent to confinement on the owner's premises, but only if the animal had a current rabies vaccination at the time the bite was inflicted. The premises where the home confinement is to occur shall be inspected and approved for such purpose by an animal control officer. The owner of the animal shall be required to enter into an indemnity agreement on a form approved and prescribed by the chief of police before consent may be given for such home confinement.
(d)
A person who has custody of an animal that has bitten a person shall immediately notify the chief of police if the animal shows any signs of sickness, abnormal behavior or if the animal escapes confinement. If the animal dies while it is in confinement, the person having custody of the animal shall notify the animal control center and surrender the carcass of the animal to the animal control center personnel.
(Ord. No. 64, art. III, § 3, 7-17-1975)
Sec. 6-81. - Restraint of animals.
(a)
Between the hours of sunset and sunrise, animals are permitted on property other than the premises of the owner only if on a secure leash not exceeding eight feet in length, or under the immediate physical control of the person having custody thereof. Between the hours of sunrise and sunset, a registered animal may be permitted to run at large within the city as long as said animal does not create or constitute a nuisance. No animal shall be allowed at any time upon a public playground, park, schoolyard, the Lookout Mountain Golf Club, or the Lookout Mountain Fairyland Club, or within the tourist-oriented commercial district or community convenience commercial district, unless the animal is on a secure leash not exceeding eight feet in length, or under the immediate physical control of the person having custody thereof.
(b)
Nothing in this section shall be construed to allow any animal not under physical restraint to commit any act defined as unlawful in this article.
(Ord. No. 64, art. III, § 4, 7-17-1975; Ord. No. 162, § 2, 7-15-1993)
Sec. 6-82. - Female animals in mating season to be confined.
Any person in control of a female dog or cat in mating season shall confine such dog or cat as to preclude other dogs or cats from either attacking or being attracted to such female animal.
(Ord. No. 64, art. III, § 5, 7-17-1975)
Sec. 6-83. - License required.
(a)
Any person owning, possessing or harboring any animal four months of age or over shall obtain a license for each animal. Application for such license shall be made on such forms as directed by the chief of police, and shall state the name and address of the owner, the name, breed, age, color, and sex of such animal, and any other information deemed necessary by the chief of police. A current rabies vaccination certificate shall be presented at the time of the application for the license. Upon payment of a license fee, as established from year to year by the city council, the chief of police shall issue a license certificate and tag for each animal. In the event a tag is lost, a replacement tag costing $1.00 shall be purchased from the chief of police. The license shall expire on April 30 of each calendar year, and shall be renewed on or before May 1 of each year. New licenses shall be issued with the license fee prorated on a semi-annual basis.
(b)
A current license tag shall be affixed to the licensed animal at all times in a reasonable manner.
(c)
Animals belonging to nonresidents of the city who do not keep said animals within the corporate limits of the city for 30 consecutive days shall be exempt from this section; provided, however, that all the other provisions of this article must be complied with.
(d)
The annual license fee shall be as established from year to year by the city council.
(Ord. No. 64, art. III, § 6, 7-17-1975)
Secs. 6-84—6-109. - Reserved.
DIVISION 4. - PROHIBITED ACTIVITIES

Sec. 6-110. - Animal owners.
(a)
It shall be unlawful for any animal owner to fail to have his animal vaccinated against rabies as required by section 6-78.
(b)
It shall be unlawful for any animal owner to allow or permit his animal or animals to run at large beyond the immediate neighborhood of the owner and in so doing create or constitute a nuisance between the hours of sunrise and sunset, or to allow or permit his animal or animals to leave his premises between the hours of sunset and sunrise when not secured by a leash or under the immediate physical control of the person having custody thereof.
(c)
It shall be unlawful for any animal owner to allow or permit his animal upon a public playground or upon a schoolyard at any time.
(d)
It shall be unlawful for any animal owner to fail to confine any female animal in mating season so as to preclude other animals from either attacking or being attracted to such female animal.
(e)
It shall be unlawful for any animal owner to fail to procure a license in accordance with section 6-83.
(f)
It shall be unlawful for any animal owner to allow or permit his animal or animals to persistently or continually bark, howl, or create or constitute a nuisance or otherwise to disturb the peace and quiet of the inhabitants of the city.
(Ord. No. 64, art. IV, § 1, 7-17-1975)
Sec. 6-111. - Vicious animals.
It is unlawful for any person to keep or harbor a vicious animal in the city. Any person attacked by a vicious animal while on any property other than the premises of the owner of the vicious animal may use reasonable force to repel such an attack. After a judicial determination by the municipal court that an animal is vicious, the owner or keeper of such vicious animal shall destroy it humanely or turn such animal over to the animal control officer for humane destruction.
(Ord. No. 64, art. IV, § 2, 7-17-1975)
State Law reference— Responsible Dog Ownership Law, O.C.G.A. § 4-8-20 et seq.
Sec. 6-112. - Abuse of animals.
(a)
It is unlawful for any person to abandon any animal within the city.
(b)
It is unlawful for any person by any means to make accessible to any animal, with the intent to cause harm or death, any substance which has in any manner been treated or prepared with any harmful or poisonous substance. It is not the intent of this section to prohibit the use of poisonous substances for the control of vermin of significance to the public health.
(c)
It shall be unlawful for any operator of a motor vehicle or other self-propelled vehicle, upon injuring, striking, maiming or running down any animal, to fail to give such aid as is reasonably able to be rendered. In the absence of the owner of the animal, a person may give aid by taking the animal to a veterinary hospital or the animal control center or by notifying the chief of police.
(d)
It is unlawful for any person to have, keep or harbor any animal which is infected with any dangerous or incurable and/or painfully crippling condition except as hereinafter provided. The chief of police may impound such diseased or painfully crippled animal in accordance with the provisions of this division. All such animals impounded may be destroyed humanely as soon thereafter as is conveniently possible.
(Ord. No. 64, art. IV, § 3, 7-17-1975)
Sec. 6-113. - Interference with enforcement of article.
It shall be unlawful for any person to interfere with, molest, hinder or obstruct the animal control officer, the chief of police or any city or county employee or official in the discharge of his official duties under this article.
(Ord. No. 64, art. IV, § 4, 7-17-1975)
Sec. 6-114. - Unlawful detention of animals.
It is unlawful for any person, without the knowledge or consent of the animal owner, to hold or retain in his possession any animal of which he is not the owner for more than 24 hours without first reporting the possession of such animal to the chief of police, giving his name and address, a true and complete statement of the circumstances under which he took up the animal, a description of the animal and the precise location where such animal is confined. It is unlawful for any person to fail or refuse to surrender such animal to the animal control officer upon demand.
(Ord. No. 64, art. IV, § 5, 7-17-1975)
Secs. 6-115—6-141. - Reserved.
DIVISION 5. - VIOLATIONS, IMPOUNDING ESTRAYS, AND CITATION OF ANIMAL OWNERS

Sec. 6-142. - Vaccination; licensing; obstructing enforcement; unlawful detention.
Any person who fails to have his animal vaccinated or licensed as required by this article or interferes in any manner with the enforcement of this article or detains an animal without the knowledge or consent of the animal owner shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
(Ord. No. 64, art. V, § 1, 7-17-1975)
Sec. 6-143. - Restraint of animals.
(a)
Any animal owner allowing or permitting his animal to run at large beyond the immediate neighborhood of the owner and in so doing create or constitute a nuisance during daylight hours, or allowing or permitting his animal to leave his premises at night when not secured by a leash or under the immediate physical control of the person having custody of the animal, or allowing or permitting his animal upon a public playground or schoolyard, or allowing or permitting his animal to destruct the peace and quiet of the inhabitants of the city, or failing to confine his female animal in mating season as required by this article shall be subject to proceedings in the municipal court of the city brought by the chief of police on behalf of the city against said owner, charging him with a violation of this article.
(b)
For the purpose of prosecution for violations of this section, it shall not be necessary in order to obtain a conviction to prove notice or knowledge on the part of the animal owner that said animal was violating any of the sections of this article at the time and place charged, it being the purpose and intent of this section to impose strict liability upon any animal owner for the actions, conduct and condition of his animal.
(Ord. No. 64, art. V, § 2, 7-17-1975; Ord. No. 131, § 2, 3-24-1988)
Sec. 6-144. - Estray animals.
Registered animals whose owners have been convicted of two violations of this article found running at large beyond the immediate neighborhood of the owner and creating or constituting a nuisance in violation of the provisions of this article and estray animals found running at large within the city in violation of the provisions of this article shall be confined in the animal control center as hereinafter set forth.
(1)
A registered animal shall be confined at the animal control center for a period of at least five days after the giving of notice of such confinement to the owner. Such notice shall be given immediately upon confinement by United States Mail or by telephone call to the owner as indicated on the registration records of the city or any other identification tag found on the animal, if the address of such person can be readily ascertained. Such notice shall contain a general description of the impounded animal, the kind of animal, the breed of animal if readily ascertainable, the color of the animal and the sex thereof together with any other information which may be furnished by any identification tag found on the animal. An estray animal shall be confined at the animal control center for a period of at least three days. The animal control officer may dispose of registered animals or estray animals impounded under this section, one day after the required impoundment period, and may either place the animal in an adoptive home, sell the animal, or may destroy said animal in such a humane fashion as the animal control officer may deem appropriate.
(2)
The owner of a registered animal may redeem such impounded animal at any time by paying to the chief of police an arrest fee in the amount determined from time to time by the city council, plus such impoundment fees and boarding fees as may be prescribed from time to time by the county.
a.
The owner of an estray animal may redeem such impounded animal at any time upon compliance with the vaccination and licensing provisions of this article and upon paying to the chief of police an arrest fee in the amount determined from time to time by the city council plus such impoundment fees and boarding fees as may be prescribed from time to time by the county.
b.
Any registered animal not claimed within five days after the giving of notice to the owner of said animal of the confinement, or any estray animal not claimed within three days may be redeemed by a person other than the owner or adopted upon compliance with the provisions of vaccination and licensing of this article and upon payment of such impoundment fees and boarding fees as may be prescribed from time to time by the county. The chief of police shall execute a bill of sale to any such purchaser sufficient to vest title to the animal in such purchaser.
(3)
The animal control officer shall maintain a record of all animals in the animal control center for a reasonable period of time. The record shall contain at least the following information: a complete description of the animal; the manner and date of its acquisition by the animal control center; the date and manner of its disposal; the name and address of the purchaser of any animal; and all fees received.
(Ord. No. 64, art. V, § 3, 7-17-1975)
