Chapter 6 - BUILDINGS AND BUILDING REGULATIONS[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
State Law reference— Construction standards generally, O.C.G.A. § 8-2-1 et seq.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 6-1. - Certificate of occupancy and certificate of completion.
(a)
All buildings in the city prior to occupation shall require a certificate of occupancy and certificate of completion by the city building inspector under the following terms and conditions:
(1)
Building occupancy. A new building shall not be occupied or a change made in the occupancy, nature or use of a building or part of a building until after the building official has issued a certificate of occupancy. Said certificate shall not be issued until all required electrical, gas, mechanical, plumbing and fire protection systems have been inspected for compliance with the technical codes and other applicable laws and ordinances and released by the building official.
(2)
Issuing certificate of occupancy. Upon satisfactory completion of construction of a building or structure and installation of electrical, gas, mechanical and plumbing systems in accordance with the technical codes, reviewed plans and specifications, and after the final inspection, the building official shall issue a certificate of occupancy stating the nature of the occupancy permitted, the number of persons for each floor when limited by law.
(3)
Temporary/partial occupancy. A temporary/partial certificate of occupancy may be issued for a portion of a building, which may safely be occupied prior to final completion of the building.
(4)
Existing building certificates of occupancy. A certificate of occupancy for any existing building may be obtained by applying to the building official and supplying the information and data necessary to determine compliance with the technical codes for the occupancy intended. Where necessary, in the opinion of the building official, two sets of detailed drawings, or a general inspection, or both may be required. When, upon examination and inspection, it is found that the building conforms to the provisions of the technical codes and other applicable laws and ordinances for such occupancy, a certificate of occupancy shall be issued.
(b)
Certificate of completion. Upon satisfactory completion of a building, structure, electrical, gas, mechanical or plumbing system, a certificate of completion may be issued. This certificate is proof that a structure or system is complete and for certain types of permits is released for use and may be connected to a utility system. This certificate does not grant authority to occupy or connect a building, such as a shell building, prior to the issuance of a certificate of occupancy.
(Ord. of 8-7-2012, §§ 1-1, 2-1; Ord. No. 2021-ORD-9, § 3, 11-2-2021)
Sec. 6-2. - Inspection.
(a)
All inspections for compliance with this chapter shall be done by the city building inspector. All fees for the inspection shall be paid prior to the inspection and shall be the responsibility of the person asking to occupy a new building or modify an old building. Inspection fees shall be as fixed from time to time by the city council and will be published as part of a master fee schedule.
(b)
The building official shall issue the certificate of occupancy prior to any utilities being hooked to the building and occupancy being allowed.
(c)
For purposes of this article, the "building official" shall be the same city official who issues building permits pursuant to the city zoning ordinance.
(Ord. of 8-7-2012, § 3-1; Ord. No. 2021-ORD-9, § 4, 11-2-2021)
Sec. 6-3. - Exemption from state water efficient plumbing requirements.
The owner, or his agent, of a building undergoing new construction, or repair or renovation, who is entitled to an exemption as specified in O.C.G.A. § 8-2-3(e), shall obtain the exemption by applying at the office of the mayor or designee. A fee in the amount established in the master fee schedule shall be charged for the inspection and issuance of such exemption.
(Code 2005, § 10-65; Ord. No. 94-01-001, § 5, 4-2-1991)
Secs. 6-4—6-24. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - CONSTRUCTION CODE[2]

Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
State Law reference— State building codes, O.C.G.A. § 8-2-20 et seq.

Sec. 6-25. - Adopted; enforcement.
The construction codes specified in O.C.G.A. §§ 8-2-20(9)(B)(i)(I)—(9)(B)(i)(X) are hereby adopted by reference. Such codes shall be enforced by the city.
(Ord. No. 2021-ORD-9, § 5, 11-2-2021)
