Chapter 14 - AMUSEMENTS AND ENTERTAINMENTS[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Cross reference— Businesses and business regulations, ch. 26.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Secs. 14-1—14-30. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - ADULT ENTERTAINMENT[2]
Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
State Law reference— Restriction of adult bookstores and movie houses to certain areas, O.C.G.A. § 36-60-3.

DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Sec. 14-31. - Application.
The provisions of this article shall only apply to behavior in public. No restriction on behavior in one's home or other private place is in any way intended.
(Code 1976, § 4½-12)
Sec. 14-32. - Certain classifications of public nudity not affected.
The provisions of this article shall not prohibit public nudity in the course of a theatrical or dramatic performance, play, drama, ballet or motion picture at any theater, concert hall, museum of fine arts, school, institution of higher learning or mainstream performance house as those terms have been applied by decisions of the state and United States Supreme Courts.
(Code 1976, § 4½-13)
Sec. 14-33. - Nudity prohibited.
(a)
Except in the course of a theatrical or dramatic performance at any theater, concert hall, museum of fine arts, school, institution of higher learning or mainstream performance house, no person over the age of seven years shall, at any live public performance within the city display his uncovered genital or pubic area, uncovered cleft of the buttocks, or, in the case of a female, uncovered breasts below the top of the areola. The term "uncovered" shall mean not fully covered with an opaque covering. The term "uncovered cleft of buttocks" shall mean any portion of the cleft of the buttocks which is not covered by an opaque covering at least three inches in width at its narrowest point.
(b)
Additionally, no male shall perform in public at any live performance within the city with his genitalia in a discernibly turgid state, whether or not opaquely covered.
(Code 1976, § 4½-14)
Sec. 14-34. - Live sex acts prohibited.
There is hereby prohibited in the city live entertainment in which any person performs acts of or acts which simulate any of the following:
(1)
Sexual intercourse, masturbation, sodomy, bestiality, oral copulation, flagellation or any sexual act which is prohibited by law.
(2)
The touching, caressing or fondling of the breasts, buttocks, anus or genitals.
(Code 1976, § 4½-15)
Sec. 14-35. - Establishments subject to regulations.
Any establishment which pays persons to dance or appear live in public in a state of partial nudity, which is defined as a state of undress such that in the case of a female, her entire breast is not opaquely covered, or in the case of male or female, the entire hips are not opaquely covered, for the purpose of entertaining its guests, shall be subject to the regulations set forth in this article.
(Code 1976, § 4½-16)
Sec. 14-36. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Licensed premises means the four corners of and footprint for the building in which the activities licensed hereby shall be performed and shall not include the exterior of the building which shall be used only for the purposes of parking, ingress and egress and not for any of the other purposes related to the license.
Licensee means the person authorized to provide, offer, perform or present partially nude dancing pursuant to a license issued in accordance with the provisions of this article.
Minor means, for the purpose of this article, any person who has not attained the age of 21 years, partially nude dancing means dancing live at a public establishment with less than the entire buttocks covered opaquely, or, in the case of females, less than the entire breast covered opaquely.
(Code 1976, § 4½-17)
Cross reference— Definitions generally, § 1-2.
Sec. 14-37. - Zoning and premises location.
(a)
Premises for which an application is made for the licensing of partially nude dancing at the time of the application and at the time the license is granted, if granted, shall be located only in an I (general industrial) district as the same is now or hereafter delineated and defined by the zoning ordinances of the city and shall not be located:
(1)
Within 600 feet of any tract or parcel of land which is zoned for residential purposes;
(2)
Within 1,000 feet of any tract or parcel of land upon which is located a church (defined as a place where at least ten persons gather at least weekly to worship, and have so gathered at least one month prior to the application for license under this article), school, governmental building, library, civic center, public park or public playground;
(3)
Within 100 feet of any tract or parcel of land upon which is located another establishment which is licensed, regulated or permitted for the operation of partially nude dancing pursuant to the provisions of this article;
(4)
On a tract of land which shall contain not less than one acre and which shall have not less than 100 feet of road frontage.
(b)
For the purpose of this section, the term "distance" shall mean direct airline measurement from property line to property line, using the closest property line of the parcels of land involved. The term "parcel of land" means any tract of land capable of being described by location and boundary and designated and used or to be used as a unit.
(Code 1976, § 4½-20)
Cross reference— Zoning, app. A.
Secs. 14-38—14-60. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - LICENSE

Sec. 14-61. - Required.
It shall be unlawful to provide, offer, perform, present or allow to be provided, offered, performed or presented in a live, public performance, a partially nude dance or dancer or to advertise or cause the same to be advertised in the city unless or until a valid license is issued pursuant to and in compliance with the provisions of this article after payment of the appropriate license fee and only while such license shall continue in force and shall not have been revoked, terminated or shall not have expired.
(Code 1976, § 4½-18(a))
Sec. 14-62. - Application.
Any person desiring to obtain a license for partially nude dancing shall make an application to the clerk or his designated representative for a license pursuant to the provisions of this division and prior to or at the time of submitting such application, shall pay a nonrefundable application fee as provided in the schedule of fees and charges on file in the office of the city clerk to defray, in part, the cost of investigation of the applicant and the report required by this article. The application shall be referred to the mayor and council for consideration in accordance with the provisions hereof.
(Code 1976, § 4½-18(b))
Sec. 14-63. - Fee.
The license fee for the operation of partially nude dancing entertainment or for the presentation of partially nude dancing shall be as provided in the schedule of fees and charges on file in the office of the city clerk.
(Code 1976, § 4½-18(c))
Sec. 14-64. - Renewal.
Any license issued under this division must be renewed annually not later than February 1 of each year. Such license will be considered for renewal only if the current licensee is in full and complete compliance with all of the provisions of this article and all other appropriate ordinances of the city and state law.
(Code 1976, § 4½-18(c))
Sec. 14-65. - Nontransferability.
The license issued under this division shall not at any time be assigned under any circumstances. Any transfer shall require the issuance of a totally new license after such investigation at the time of such requested transfer or assignment as the city may deem necessary or appropriate. If the licensee is a corporation, any change in the ownership of stock in the corporation, or any change in the officers of the corporation or any change in the accrual of financial benefit to any other persons, firms, or corporations must receive the prior written consent of the city or its designated officer or agent. If the licensee is a partnership or other legal entity, no change in the ownership of any interest, however remote or however direct or indirect shall be effective unless or until such change in ownership has been approved by the city or its designated representative.
(Code 1976, § 4½-18(d))
Sec. 14-66. - Display of license.
The license issued pursuant to the provisions of this division together with all other licenses issued by the city shall be conspicuously displayed for inspection by patrons or appropriate governmental officials at all times.
(Code 1976, § 4½-19(10))
Sec. 14-67. - Suspension, revocation.
If the licensee or if any dancers, waiters, waitresses, bartenders, busperson, or other employee of the licensee or if any stockholder, officer or agent of the licensee, if a corporation, or if any partner, co-owner, joint venturer, or otherwise related to the licensee shall violate any of the provisions of this article or shall be convicted of any crime involving moral turpitude, whether a felony or misdemeanor and other than traffic violations (unless such traffic violation is related to alcoholic beverages or controlled substance abuse) or shall otherwise fail to comply with the provisions hereof, the license granted pursuant to the provisions of this article may be revoked, terminated, suspended or otherwise limited by the mayor and council after a public hearing is held for that purpose in accordance with the appropriate requirements of the due process clause of the Constitution of the United States and the state constitution which provided that a conviction of any felony or crime involving moral turpitude of an employee of an establishment licensed under this article shall be grounds for revocation of the licensed establishments, in which case the conviction shall also be grounds for revocation of the license of the establishment. Upon any such violation by the licensee shall in the opinion of the mayor and council constitute such a violation and shall immediately place in jeopardy or pose an immediate threat to person or to property, sufficient to justify immediate action, the mayor and council may by informally providing limited due process temporarily suspend such license provided they shall within a period of 30 days thereafter, proceed to afford to the licensee a full due process hearing.
(Code 1976, § 4½-21)
Secs. 14-68—14-90. - Reserved.
DIVISION 3. - OPERATIONAL REGULATIONS

Sec. 14-91. - Compliance with law.
Any partially nude dance establishment licensed in the city must be operated pursuant to and in strict conformity with all applicable federal, state and local laws and regulations and in addition, in strict conformity with the provisions of this division.
(Code 1976, § 4½-19)
Sec. 14-92. - Employment of minors.
The licensee under this article shall not employ, engage or contract with any person to perform or to render services in conjunction with the licensed premises who is under the age of 21 years either as a dancer, waiter, waitress, or busperson or in any other capacity.
(Code 1976, § 4½-19(1))
Sec. 14-93. - Employment restrictions for dancers.
(a)
Any person employed by a licensee under this article as a waiter, waitress, busperson or other employee of the licensed establishment shall not while so employed or for a period of one month after being employed or at least one month prior to such employment perform as a dancer in the licensed premises.
(b)
A dancer shall not at any time be employed by the licensee as a waiter, waitress, or busperson or in any capacity for a period of 30 days after having performed as a dancer in the licensed premises or in any premises in the state in which partially nude dancing is offered or allowed.
(c)
It is the intent of this provision that dancers shall perform no function other than that of dancing or providing the entertainment licensed hereby and shall not at any time provide services as waiters, waitresses, bartenders, buspersons or otherwise in or about the licensed premises.
(Code 1976, § 4½-19(2))
Sec. 14-94. - Permit required for dancers.
Any person who shall desire to appear as a partially nude dancer in the licensed premises or who shall appear as a partially nude dancer in any establishment licensed under this article, prior to performing must register with and obtain a permit from the police department of the city and at the time of application must be at least 21 years of age. The applicant for a permit shall file with the chief of police or his designee an application which shall state, truthfully and correctly, the age and current address of the applicant; all prior addresses of the applicant within the immediately preceding three-year period and the marital status of the applicant during such period; any convictions of applicant for violation of federal, state or local laws excluding traffic violations other than violations involving alcohol or controlled substances within the immediately preceding three years; and any other information reasonably requested by the police chief or his designee in conjunction with such application.
(Code 1976, § 4½-19(3))
Sec. 14-95. - Obligation of licensee.
The licensee shall have the continuing obligation and responsibility of ensuring that each dancer performing shall at all times have a valid permit as required by this division.
(Code 1976, § 4½-19(4))
Sec. 14-96. - Employment status of dancers; revocation of permit.
For the purpose of this article, dancers who shall appear in the licensed premises shall be considered as employees of the licensee regardless of the employment relationship the licensee may undertake to define or that licensee shall consider such dancers as independent contractors. The permit of any person as a partially nude dancer pursuant to the provisions of this article may be revoked upon a finding by the chief of police or his designee that material information furnished on the application of such applicant was false or untrue or that such person has been charged with or has violated laws or has been convicted of the violation of any law which, had such violation appeared on the original application, would have prevented the granting of the permit.
(Code 1976, § 4½-19(5))
Sec. 14-97. - Nondancing employees; permits.
Waitresses, waiters, buspersons, or other employees of the licensee shall be required to have such permits and be subject to such rules and regulations as may now exist or may hereafter be imposed by appropriate ordinances enacted by the city.
(Code 1976, § 4½-19(6))
Sec. 14-98. - Employment records.
A licensee shall maintain and retain for a period of not less than three years the names, addresses and ages of all persons employed as dancers in the licensed premises.
(Code 1976, § 4½-19(7))
Sec. 14-99. - Minors prohibited.
No person under the age of 21 years shall be admitted to or at any time be present in or upon the licensed premises. It shall be the continuing obligation of the licensee and the employees and agents of the licensee at all times to take such steps as may be necessary to ensure that all persons in or on the premises shall be at least 21 years of age and shall be capable of proving their age at any time by the presentation of their valid driver's license or other proof deemed appropriate by the chief of police of the city or his designee that such person is in fact 21 years of age or older.
(Code 1976, § 4½-19(8))
Cross reference— Curfew for minors, § 50-76 et seq.
Sec. 14-100. - Closing hours.
The establishment licensed under this article shall be closed from 12:01 a.m. to 4:00 p.m. Monday through Saturday and shall be closed from 12:00 midnight Saturday night through 4:00 p.m. on Monday.
(Code 1976, § 4½-19(9))
Sec. 14-101. - Performance restricted to stage, location.
All partially nude dancing or performances licensed under this article and authorized in the licensed premises shall occur on a raised platform or stage intended for that purpose, such platform or stage to be at least two feet above the level of the floor, and no partially nude dancing or performance shall occur thereon in closer proximity than ten feet to any patron or any person whether an employee or otherwise of the licensee. Only one dancer shall dance or perform on such raised surface or stage at any given time.
(Code 1976, § 4½-19(11))
Sec. 14-102. - Personal contact between performers, customers.
No patron, participant or employee of the licensee or otherwise shall touch, fondle, caress or have any physical contact with a dancer at any time on the premises.
(Code 1976, § 4½-19(12))
Sec. 14-103. - Gratuities for dancers prohibited.
No patron shall directly pay, give, or extend any payment or gratuity to any dancer; no dancer shall solicit from or request any such payment, gratuity or extension from a patron.
(Code 1976, § 4½-19(13))
Sec. 14-104. - Illumination of premises.
All areas of the licensed premises shall be fully lighted at all times that patrons are present, entertainment is being provided, dancers are present in the premises or the premises are open for business. Full lighting as used herein shall mean illumination equal to 3.5 candles per square foot within the premises.
(Code 1976, § 4½-19(14))
Sec. 14-105. - Illumination of parking areas.
All parking areas around the licensed premises shall be fully lighted in all parts and at all times shall be fully visible from the public street. No parking shall be allowed in a part of the premises not visible from the public street, so that a police officer may monitor the parking lot without having to enter the premises.
(Code 1976, § 4½-19(15))
Sec. 14-106. - Loitering.
No loitering shall be allowed by anyone outside the premises. The public shall not be allowed in any place outside the building housing the licensed establishment not fully lighted and visible from the public street. The term "loitering" shall mean to linger outside the building housing the licensed establishment for a period longer than five minutes without leaving the premises or entering the building.
(Code 1976, § 4½-19(16))
Secs. 14-107—14-200. - Reserved.
Sec. 14-201. - Definitions.
The following words, terms, or phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meaning ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Amusement game room means any location where one or more bona fide coin-operated amusement machines are operated that permit non-cash redemption as provided in O.C.G.A. § 16-25-35 (d)(1)(B), (C), or a combination thereof.
Bona fide coin-operated amusement machine means the same as this term is defined in O.C.G.A. § 48-17-1 (2) and any applicable regulations of the State of Georgia.
Location means a business within the city that has complied with the provisions of the ordinances of the city relating to occupation taxes and business licenses.
(Ord. No. 420, § II, 3-12-07)
Sec. 14-202. - Issuance of license.
Application for a license for operating an amusement game room within the corporate limits of the city shall be made to the city clerk upon a form to be supplied by the city clerk for this purpose. The license application shall include the following information:
(1)
Name, address, and age of the applicant, and date of the application;
(2)
Address or place where the bona fide coin operated amusement machine or machines are to be offered to the public for play and the other business or businesses operated at that address or place;
(3)
Name and address of the owner of the machine or machines and a copy of the owner's master license;
(4)
Name and address of any other business owned or operated by applicant within the corporate limits of the city; and
(5)
List of any other licenses or permits from the city held by the applicant.
Upon issuing a license for an amusement game room, the city official or employee shall provide the licensee with a copy of this article. The city shall not require a fee for licensure or registration of an amusement game room. A license issued in accordance with this article shall be valid until December 31 of the year in which the license was issued. The owner or operator of an amusement game room shall be required to pay occupation taxes in accordance with section 74-36 et seq. of the Code of Ordinances.
(Ord. No. 420, § II, 3-12-07)
Sec. 14-203. - Distance.
Every amusement game room in the city shall comply with the proximity provision for business licensed to sell alcohol set out in section 10-58 of the Code of Ordinances. After a hearing, the mayor and council may waive the application of this provision to an individual location if no alcohol is served or sold at such location.
(Ord. No. 420, § II, 3-12-07)
Sec. 14-204. - Number of bona fide coin-operated amusement machines at a location.
No amusement game room in the city shall offer to the public more than six bona fide coin-operated amusement machines offering non-cash redemption in accordance with O.C.G.A. § 16-12-35 (d)(1)(B), (C), or both at the same location. After a hearing, the mayor and council may, after consideration of the nature and character of the business, waive the application of this provision to an individual location.
(Ord. No. 420, § II, 3-12-07)
Sec. 14-205. - Gross receipts from amusement machines and from business.
Every amusement game room shall keep records available for inspection by city officials that set out separately annual gross receipts for the amusement games and the other products and services sold at the location. Income from the amusement game or games shall not constitute for than 50 percent of the income from the location. Compliance with this section requires both the availability of records for inspection and compliance with the 50 percent of income requirement.
(Ord. No. 420, § II, 3-12-07)
Sec. 14-206. - Notice requirement.
Every amusement game room shall post a conspicuous sign with the following similar words: "Georgia law prohibits giving or receipt of any money for winning a game or games on an amusement machine; giving or receipt of money for free replays won on an amusement machine; giving or receipt of money for ay merchandise, prize, toy, gift certificate, or novelty won on an amusement machine; or awarding any merchandise, prize, toy, gift certificate, or novelty of a value exceeding $5.00 for a single play of an amusement machine."
Every amusement game room shall post the license issued by the city conspicuously and permanently.
The owner or operator of each amusement game room shall inform every employee of the acts and omissions prohibited by O.C.G.A. § 16-12-35, and by this article, and of the penalties for violation O.C.G.A. § 16-12-35 and this article.
(Ord. No. 420, § II, 3-12-07)
Sec. 14-207. - Compliance with O.C.G.A. provisions relating to master licenses and stickers for individual machines.
Bona fide coin-operated amusement machines may be used in an amusement game room within the city only if the machines are owned by a person who holds a valid master license in accordance with O.C.G.A. § 48-17-2, and each machine offered to the public for play has a valid permit sticker in accordance with O.C.G.A. § 48-17-9. The city official in charge of issuing business licenses shall notify the state commissioner of revenue of any observed violation of O.C.G.A. § 48-17-2 or 48-17-9.
(Ord. No. 420, § II, 3-12-07)
Sec. 14-208. - Penalties for violations by owners or operators of amusement game rooms.
In addition to penalties set out in the O.C.G.A. provisions for failure to comply with the provisions of O.C.G.A. § 16-12-35 (a.1) through (i), the owner or operator of an amusement game room, after conviction in a court of competent jurisdiction, and a hearing before the mayor and council, may be subject to the following penalties:
(1)
First offense: Suspension for not more than six months of the owner or operator's license for offering any amusement game at the location where the violation occurred.
(2)
Second offense: Suspension for not more than 12 months of the owner or operator's license for offering any amusement game at the location where the violation occurred.
(3)
Third offense: Suspension or permanent revocation of the owner or operator's license for offering any amusement game in the location where the violation occurred, and suspension of other permits and licenses granted by the city for not more than six months.
Penalties for violation of the provisions of sections 14-203 through 14-207 of this article by the owner or operator of an amusement game room, after conviction by the municipal court of the the city are as follows:
(1)
First offense: Fine not to exceed $500.00 for each violation.
(2)
Second offense: Fine not to exceed $750.00 for each violation, suspension of the owner or operator's license for offering any amusement game at the location for not more than three months, or both.
(3)
Third offense: Fine not to exceed $1,000.00 for each violation, suspension or permanent revocation of the owner or operator's license for offering any amusement game at the location, or suspension of other permits and licenses granted by the city for not more than six months, in any combination of these penalties.
The fines listed in the penalties for violation of this article may be imposed by the judge of the municipal court of the the city. Suspension or revocation of the owner or operator's license for offering any amusement game at the location where the violation occurred, and suspension of other permits and licenses granted by the city may be imposed by the mayor and council after a hearing.
Offering one or more bona fide coin-operated amusement games in violation of an order suspending or revoking the license for offering of any amusement game at the location is punishable, after conviction in the municipal court of the the city, by a fine not to exceed $1,000.00, imprisonment not to exceed 30 days or both such fine and imprisonment.
(Ord. No. 420, § II, 3-12-07)
Sec. 14-209. - Penalties for violations by those who play bona fide coin-operated amusement machines.
The municipal court of the city is authorized impose the following penalties on any person convicted of receiving money as a reward for the successful play or winning of any bona fide coin-operated amusement machine from any person owning or possessing such bona fide coin operated amusement machine or any person employed by or acting on behalf of a person owning or possessing a bona fide coin-operated amusement machine:
(1)
First offense: Fine not to exceed $250.00 for each violation.
(2)
Second and subsequent offenses: Fine not to exceed $500.00 for each violation.
(Ord. No. 420, § II, 3-12-07)
