ARTICLE 9. - GENERAL PROVISIONS

Section 9.10. - Official bonds.
The officers and employees of the City of Rossville, both elective and appointive, shall execute such official bonds in such amounts and upon such terms and conditions as the city council may from time to time require.
Section 9.11. - Existing ordinances and regulations.
Existing ordinances and resolutions of the City of Rossville not inconsistent with the provisions of this charter shall continue in effect until they have been repealed, modified, or amended by the council. Existing rules and regulations of departments or agencies of the City of Rossville not inconsistent with the provisions of this charter shall continue in effect until they have been repealed, modified, or amended.
Section 9.12. - Section captions.
The captions to the several sections of this charter are informative only and are not to be considered as a part thereof.
Section 9.13. - Penalties.
The violation of any provisions of this charter, for which penalty is not specifically provided for herein, is hereby declared to be a misdemeanor and shall be punishable by a fine of not more than one thousand ($1,000.00) dollars or by imprisonment not to exceed thirty (30) days or both such fine and imprisonment.
Section 9.14. - Specific repealer.
An Act incorporating the City of Rossville in the County of Walker, approved August 24, 1905, is hereby repealed in its entirety and all amendatory acts thereto are likewise repealed in their entirety and any and all other charters, and any and all amendments thereto, but this in no way repeals any ordinances or resolutions in effect as of this date, but to the contrary, that any and all ordinances and resolutions shall remain in full force and effect until repealed or changed by the city council of Rossville, Georgia.
Section 9.15. - Severability.
If any article, section, subsection, paragraph, sentence, or part thereof of this charter shall be held to be invalid or unconstitutional, such invalidity or unconstitutionality shall not affect or impair other parts of this charter, unless it clearly appears that such other parts are wholly and necessarily dependent upon the part or parts held to be invalid or unconstitutional, it being the legislative intent in enacting this charter that each article, section, subsection, paragraph, sentence or part thereof be enacted separately and independent of each other.
Section 9.16. - Effective date.
This act shall become effective upon December 1, 1974.
Section 9.17. - Repealer.
All laws and parts of laws in conflict with this act are hereby repealed.
