ARTICLE VIII. - MOVING AND DEMOLITION OF BUILDINGS

Sec. 5-160. - Restoration of premises to safe, etc., condition—Agreement.
Whenever any house, dwelling, apartment or other structure formerly used for human habitation, or whenever any commercial building or other structure formerly occupied in the conduct of any trade or business, shall be removed from a location within the city to another and different location whether within or without the city, or demolition of said structure, the owner of the land from which such structure is removed shall, before being entitled to the issuance of a permit, agree in writing that such owner will, following removal of such structure, take all necessary action, including that specified in section 5-161 to insure that the premises or location from which the structure is removed shall be left in a sanitary condition and free from all trash, debris and structures which might become a harboring place for inspects, rodents or vermin.
(Code 1963, § 5-19)
Sec. 5-161. - Same—Performing by owner.
After the removal of such structure, the owner of the location or premises shall be required to take necessary action to insure that such location or premises shall be left in a safe and sanitary condition and shall be specifically required to do the following:
(1)
Trash, debris. To remove from such location or premises all trash, debris, garbage and other similar material.
(2)
Obstructions. To tear down and remove all underpinning, pilaster, steps, plumbing connections and fixtures above ground level. All water, gas and sewer lines shall be closed off, sealed and made to be gastight and watertight.
(3)
Holes, depressions. To fill all holes and depressions caused by the removal of any part of the structure, or caused as a result of compliance with this article, which might become a harboring place of insects, rodents or vermin.
(4)
Erosion, sedimentation and flooding control. To bring into compliance the location of premises with section 5-170 through 5-189 dealing with control of erosion, sedimentation and flooding. For the purposes of this article, two (2) or more adjacent property owners may combine their locations or premises for the purposes of compliance with sections 5-170 through 5-189.
(Code 1963, § 5-20)
Sec. 5-162. - Same—Performance by city.
All persons to whom this article is applicable shall comply with the provisions hereof within ten (10) days following the date of the removal of any structure specified herein. If any such person shall fail to comply with the provisions of this article, the city is authorized to enter upon the premises and to perform the work necessary thereon to comply with this article, such work to be performed by city employees or by contract and the cost thereof charged against the person failing or refusing to comply and against the premises.
(Code 1963, § 5-21)
Sec. 5-163. - Permit to demolish or move building; fees; issuance authorized by building inspector; applicant's bond.
(a)
No person, without having obtained a permit therefor, shall demolish or move any house, dwelling, apartment building, commercial building or other similar structure within the city. No person shall be issued a permit until such person has paid a permit fee to cover the expense to the city, as follows:
(1)
To disconnect and remove electrical lines to structure; remove insulators; remove meters and safety inspection, a fee established by resolution of mayor and council.
(2)
To cut and patch street, to disconnect and cap water and sanitary sewer lines; labor and materials; safety and health inspection, a fee established by resolution of mayor and council.
(3)
Administrative cost to issue permit; coordinate termination of gas, electric, water, and sewer connections; inspection for restoration of premises to sanitary condition, a fee as established by resolution of mayor and council.
(b)
Where application for a permit to demolish or move a structure as defined in subsection (a) has been filed and the requisite permit fee paid, and where all applicable ordinances of the city have been complied with, the building inspector shall be authorized to issue a permit to the applicant.
(c)
No permit to demolish or move a structure as defined in subsection (a) shall be issued until the applicant shall post with the city clerk a cash bond in the sum of one thousand dollars ($1,000.00). Said cash bond shall be returned to the applicant after the permitted structure has been removed and applicant has placed the premises or location in the condition as set forth in sections 5-160 and 5-161. In the event the permit holder shall fail to comply with said requirements, the cash bond shall apply to the cost of the city performing said work as set forth in section 5-162.
(d)
A permittee shall have ten (10) days from the date the permit is issued to move the structure to its final location, if within the city, or to some location outside of the city. At the end of the ten (10) day period, the permit shall cease to be valid.
(Code 1963, § 5-22; Ord. No. 84-21A, 11-19-84; Ord. No. 85-10, 5-29-85; Ord. No. 86-9, § 1, 3-3-86; Ord. No. 2010-25, § 8, 8-16-10)
Sec. 5-164. - Permit to locate building on vacant land required; application; fee; public hearing.
(a)
Whenever any person desires to move a house, apartment, duplex, other similar structure or any building onto any vacant land in the city, such person shall file an application for permit therefor with the city and shall pay a fee as established by resolution of mayor and council. Upon the filing of such application, the Building Official shall post upon the land on which the structure is to be moved a sign of not less than twelve (12) square feet which shall display thereon the fact that application has been filed to move structure onto such land, the type of structure proposed, and that a public hearing will be held before the governing body on a day certain not less than ten (10) nor more than thirty (30) days from the date of filing application, at which hearing all parties interested in such matter will have the right to appear and be heard. The aforesaid sign shall be located at the property in close proximity to a public road or thoroughfare and so that same can be clearly seen by the public.
(b)
After a public hearing as required in subsection (a) has been held and provided the applicant has complied with all applicable ordinances and has paid the additional fee specified in section 5-163, if said fee is required, the governing body shall be authorized to direct the Building Official to issue the permit to move such structure.
(Code 1963, § 5-23; Ord. No. 2010-25, § 9, 8-16-10)
Sec. 5-165. - Same—Placement without; submission of plans; completion time limit.
(a)
It shall be unlawful to move any house or other structure onto vacant land without a permit. No permit to move a house or other building onto vacant land in the city shall be granted, and no house or other structure shall be placed on vacant land in the city, until the person desiring such permit or to move such house or other building shall have submitted plans and specifications showing the proposed additions or changes to be made on such structure, including foundation plans, plans for paving proposed driveways if any, types of materials to be used in additions or changes, the proposed location on the plat of land; any and all pertinent information required for new construction, where applicable, shall likewise be given. Ordinances applicable to new construction shall be complied with as nearly as practicable in applying for permits to move houses or other buildings onto vacant land in the city and in improving houses and other buildings moved onto vacant land in the city.
(b)
Where any building has been moved onto vacant land in the city pursuant to permit properly granted, all improvements proposed to be made thereto, and all improvements required to be made in order that said building will comply with all applicable ordinances of the city, shall be made and completed within sixty (60) days after such building shall be first placed upon the land.
(c)
It shall be unlawful to move any structure as defined in section 5-163(a) onto any land within the city (whether said move is to be temporary or permanent) unless a permit has been granted as provided in section 5-164(a). Any violation of this section shall be a continuing violation and each day of violation shall constitute a new offense.
(Code 1963, § 5-24)
Sec. 5-166. - Eminent domain proceedings; exemption from fees.
Where an owner of a single-family dwelling or the owner of a two-family dwelling, who resides in such dwelling, is effectively evicted by eminent domain proceedings or other governmental action, and desires to move the dwelling to another location in the city where such owner will thereafter reside as such owner's home, such owner shall not be required to pay the permit fee specified in section 5-163, but shall be required to obtain a permit.
(Code 1963, § 5-25)
Sec. 5-167. - Restrictions on moving structures on specific streets.
No structure shall be moved upon the following streets and highways: South East Main, Riverdale Road, West Point Road, and Main Street, U. S. 29 Highway except between the hours of 8:30 a.m. and 2:30 p.m. during the months September through May and 3:30 p.m. during the months of June through August.
(Code 1963, § 5-26)
Secs. 5-168, 5-169. - Reserved.
