ARTICLE IX. - STREET REPAVING, CURBING AND GUTTERING[14]

Footnotes:
--- (14) ---
Cross reference— See also Art. VI.

Sec. 9-1. - Repairing authorized; assessment of cost.
The mayor and council of said city shall have the power and authority at any time, whenever in the judgement of said mayor and council the paving originally laid on any street or alley is worn out to such extent that it is no longer useful or good pavement, to repave such street or alley, or cause same to be repaved, and to carry into effect the authority herein granted, the said mayor and council shall have full power and authority to assess fifty (50) per cent of the actual total cost of repaving said street or alley against the real estate abutting on each side of said street or alley, upon which said work is done, and the owners thereof, in just proportions to the frontage by the foot of said property, that is, twenty-five (25) per cent of the total cost of such repaving shall be assessed against the real estate abutting on one side of said street or alley, and twenty-five (25) per cent of the total cost of such repaving shall be assessed against the opposite side of said street or alley. The city shall pay fifty (50) per cent of the total cost of such repaving. Provided, however, that corner property shall be assessed as follows: (a) where the repaving abuts property only on the front, the property shall be assessed for the amount of frontage, and (b) where the repaving abuts property on both the front and the side, the property shall be assessed for the frontage and for the side, but one hundred (100) feet of the side shall be exempted from assessment, and (c) where the repaving abuts property only on the side, the side shall be assessed, but one hundred (100) feet of the side shall be exempted from assessment.
The mayor and council shall have full power and authority to determine the manner, materials and methods to be employed in the repaving, curbing or guttering of any street.
Whenever the mayor and council determine to repave any street or alley, they shall direct the city clerk to notify the owners of the property abutting such street or alley of the determination to do such work. Such notice may be given by publishing same once in the official newspaper of the city not less than seven (7) days prior to the date of adoption of an ordinance to do such repaving; or such notice may be given by mailing written note to each of such owners at least seven (7) days prior to the date of adoption of an ordinance to do such repaving. If notice is mailed, addressing same to the owners of abutting property at their last address according to the tax records of the city, by first class mail in a properly addressed envelope with adequate postage thereon, shall be sufficient. Notice, however given, shall state a general description of the improvement, its location, its estimated cost per front foot, and shall state the proportionate amount to be assessed against the abutting real estate, and the time and place at which the adoption of an ordinance to do the work shall come up for consideration. The ordinance providing for doing the work may be adopted at any regular meeting after notice has been given as provided in this section of this Act.
When such repaving has been completed, the mayor and council shall adopt an ordinance assessing and apportioning the actual total cost thereof in just proportions to the frontage by the foot against the abutting real estate, as provided in this section of this Act. The cost of such repaving shall not constitute a lien against the abutting real estate until the work has been completed and an ordinance has been adopted assessing the costs thereof, but after such time said assessments shall constitute a lien against the abutting real estate superior to all other liens except liens for taxes, and such liens shall be enforceable, and the assessments collectable by execution in the same manner as provided for the collection of delinquent taxes due the city.
(S. B. No. 289, § 1, 3-10-64)
Sec. 9-2. - Curbing and guttering authorized; assessment of cost.
The mayor and council shall have power and authority to construct and lay and provide for the construction and laying of street curbing and guttering, either or both, and the replacement of worn out or defective curbing or guttering, in and upon the streets of the city or any portion thereof, and shall have power and authority to assess fifty (50) per cent of the total cost thereof against the real estate abutting on the side of the street on which such curbing or guttering, or both, may be laid and constructed, and against the owners of such real estate, in just proportions according to the front footage of such abutting property. Corner property shall be assessed and exempted in the same manner as corner property is assessed and exempted for street repaving, as provided in section 1 of this Act [section 9-1]. Whenever the mayor and council determine to lay or cause to be laid any street curbing or guttering, or both, they shall notify the owners of property abutting the street on which the work is to be done, shall adopt an ordinance to do the work, and upon completion of the work shall adopt an ordinance assessing fifty (50) per cent of the total cost thereof against the abutting real estate, in the same procedural manner as provided in section 1 of this Act [section 9-1] governing the repaving of streets. Assessments for street curbing or guttering shall constitute a lien against the abutting property and owners thereof and shall be enforceable and collectable in the same manner as provided for the collection of delinquent taxes due the city.
(S. B. No. 289, § 3-10-64)
Sec. 9-3. - Contesting assessments.
Should any owner of any property upon which an execution is levied for any unpaid assessment for repaving or curbing or guttering or any one or more thereof, desire to contest the amount of the assessment, they may do so by filing with the levying officer an affidavit of illegality and stating therein the cause of such illegality and the amount admitted to be due, which amount admitted to be due shall be paid to the levying officer before the affidavit shall be received, and the affidavit shall be returned to the superior court of the county in which said property is located to be tried and determined as in other cases of illegality, subject to penalties for delay in such cases made and provided, and it shall be the duty of the judge of the superior court of said county to give preference to those cases over all other pending cases in said court. Said mayor and council shall in all cases, in their discretion, have the power to grant a stay of execution for said assessment for such times as they may see fit, and collect the interest on the same at the rate of seven (7) per cent per annum.
(S. B. No. 289, § 3-10-64)
Sec. 9-4. - Transfer of liens and assessments.
The city shall have the right, power and authority to sell and transfer all such liens and assessments at their full value plus accrued interest, and the purchasers or transferees of such liens and assessments shall be protected by the same lien and to the same extent and in the same manner as said city was protected prior to such sale or transfer of such liens. Nothing in this section shall deprive any abutting lot owner of the right to pay his or her pro rata share of the cost of such improvement in cash at or before completion of the work.
(S. B. No. 289, § 4, 3-10-64)
