ARTICLE II. - GENERAL POWERS[2]

Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
State Law reference— Powers of municipal corporations generally, O.C.G.A. § 36-34-1 et seq.

Sec. 2-1. - General powers enumerated.
The mayor and council of said city shall have power therein to lay off, close, open, alter, cut, pave and keep in good order and repair roads, alleys, streets, sidewalks, crosswalks, drains and gutters, for the use of the public or any of the citizens thereof, and to improve and light the same, regulate the width of the sidewalks on the streets, and to order the sidewalks, crossings, footings, drains and gutters to be curbed and paved and kept in good order, firm and clean by the owner or occupants thereof, or of the real property next adjacent thereto; to establish and regulate markets, to prescribe the time of holding the same, and taking the privilege of selling produce, meats and salable wares of all kinds therein; to prevent injury or annoyance to the public or individuals from anything dangerous, offensive, or unwholesome; to abate or cause to be abated anything which, in the opinion of the majority of the whole council, shall be a nuisance; to regulate the keeping of gunpowder and other combustibles; to provide in or near the city places for the burial of the dead, and to regulate interments therein; to prevent hogs, cattle, horses, sheep and other animals and fowls of all kinds from going at large in said city; to protect places of divine worship and educational institutions in said city; to provide for the regular building of houses and other structures; to make regulations guarding against danger or damages by fire; to protect the property and person of the citizens of said city, and for this purpose the mayor and council may, in their discretion, appoint a police force to assist the marshal in the discharge of his duties; to prescribe the powers and define the duties of the officers appointed by them, to fix their term of service and compensation; to provide for the draining of lots and streets by proper drains and ditches; to erect, authorize or prohibit the erection of gasworks or waterworks in said city, to prevent injury to or pollution to the same, or to the water or healthfulness of said city; to regulate and provide for the weighing of hay, coal and other articles sold or for sale in said city; to provide for the enforcement of said regulations by prescribing, imposing and enacting reasonable fines, penalties and imprisonments for a term not exceeding thirty (30) days, [3] or in lieu of fine and imprisonment to compel wrongdoers to labor on the streets, sidewalks or other public works of said city for a term not exceeding three (3) months.
(Ga. L. 1895, p. 251, § 14)
Footnotes:
--- (3) ---
Cross reference— Ga. Laws 1916, p. 643, § 3, as amended by Ga. Laws 1951, p. 2797, § 7, establishes a ninety-day limit upon imprisonment or for labor on the public works, for violation of city ordinances, see § 7-8.

Sec. 2-2. - Cleanliness, safety of property; assessments, penalties.
The mayor and council of the City of College Park shall have the authority and power, in the interest of health, sanitation and the public safety and welfare to provide for the clearing, cleaning off and making and keeping sanitary and/or free from fire or other hazard, any and all real property, either vacant or improved, within the corporate limits of the City of College Park; to provide for the removal from such property of all debris, grass, weeds or other growth, or other unsanitary or combustible matter or materials; to take necessary and proper means for keeping the corporate limits of the city free from garbage, trash and filth of all kinds; and to provide for the height and trimming of hedges, shrubbery and other growth; to fix and impose penalties upon owners and occupants of property in respect of such requirements; to provide for the performance of such services by the city and for the assessment and collection of charges therefore; for the creation and assessment of liens against property and the owners and occupants thereof so served and for the collection and enforcement of such liens.
(Ga. L. 1947, p. 1040, § 7; Ga. L. 1949, p. 1961, § 11; Ord. No. 2002-19, § 1, 5-20-02)
Sec. 2-3. - Eminent domain.
The said mayor and council shall have the power, right and authority to exercise for said City of College Park, the power of eminent domain, and shall have the power in the discretion of said mayor and council, whenever they deem it to the best interest of the city, to condemn any private property to the use of the city, for the purpose of right-of-way for sewer mains, streets, sidewalks, electric light lines, either underground or overhead, pipe lines either for water or gas, and in every case to pay to the owner of said private property, a sum which the mayor and council may consider to be a fair valuation of the property so condemned or of the damage which may have been done to said property by reason of the exercise of said power of eminent domain. In case no agreement can be reached between the mayor and council of said city and the owner of the property condemned as to what a fair valuation may be, then the said mayor and council shall proceed with said condemnation according to law in such cases made and provided under the constitution and present statutes of the State of Georgia.
(Ga. L. 1913, p. 682, § 9)
Sec. 2-4. - Fines, executions to enforce collection of delinquencies.
The mayor and council shall have power to cause the enforced collection of delinquent taxes and assessments of all kinds by fines and executions against the property of the delinquents and sales under such executions. The time, place and manner of the sale of property, both real and personal, for taxes and assessments due said city, shall be the same as that provided by law for sheriffs sales for state and county taxes; provided, such sale may be conducted and had before the door of the council chamber, or the usual place of meeting of the authorities having control of said municipality; provided, such sale may be conducted by the marshal of said city; provided, the advertisement of sale shall specify the place of sale in addition to the usual matters required in such notice; and provided, the notice or advertisement of sale shall be published in such newspaper as the mayor and council shall designate or select as the official organ of said city. The recitals in deeds, under a sale for municipal taxes or assessments in said city shall be evidence of the facts so recited, in any court in this state, and shall be taken as prima facie true.
(Ga. L. 1895, p. 251, § 17; Ga. L. 1908, p. 544, § 2)
Sec. 2-5. - Franchises; grant, duration, conditions.
(a)
The mayor and council of the City of College Park shall not grant or otherwise transfer to any person, firm or corporation, any franchise, license or right to use or occupy any street, road, alley, sidewalk or other public place in said city, for public utility purpose, such as electric light plant, electric or steam or other streetcar line or road, gas line, railroad line, telephone line, telegraph line, express line, waterworks, or other public utility service, whether the same be surface, underground, overhead or otherwise, except as hereinafter provided.
(b)
Application in writing, signed by the applicant, shall be made to and filed with the mayor and council for such franchise, license or right, setting forth what streets are to be occupied and for what purpose, two (2) weeks' notice of which application shall be given by the clerk of council by posting said notice at the door of the council chamber, before the same is acted on by council; and before such franchise, license or right shall be granted, it shall be passed upon favorably by a two-thirds (%) vote of the entire council at two (2) regular monthly meetings of same, and same shall not be granted for more than ninety-nine (99) years, nor be exclusive.
(c)
Council may grant same upon such terms and conditions as it may deem advisable and revoke same for a violation of such terms and conditions.
(Ga. L. 1908, p. 544, § 3; Ga. L. 1914, p. 647, § 2)
Sec. 2-6. - Parks and recreation grounds.
The mayor and council of said city are hereby authorized and empowered to establish, build, maintain and operate a public park or system of public parks, golf course or courses, and recreational ground or grounds, within the corporate limits of said city, and/or without and adjacent to the corporate limits of said city, for the convenience, recreation and pleasure of the general public, and said mayor and council are hereby authorized and empowered to acquire, by gift, purchase, condemnation or otherwise, the necessary property, rights, franchises and easements therefor.
(Ga. L. 1914, p. 647, § 5; Ga. L. 1929, p. 963, § 8)
Sec. 2-7. - Reserved.
Editor's note— Ga. L. 1933, p. 892, § 3, from which § 2-7 was derived, was repealed by Ga. L. 1968, p. 3640 Act. No. 1209, § 2. Said act required male citizens to perform road work or pay a commutation tax in lieu thereof.
Sec. 2-8. - Zoning and planning; authority generally.
[The] mayor and council of the City of College Park, said municipal corporation, and its governing authorities, are hereby granted authority to pass zoning and planning laws as such power and authority that it is now or hereafter may be, granted to municipalities by the Constitution and general laws of the State of Georgia.
(Ga. L. 1937-1938 Ex. Sess., p. 1050, § 1; Ga. L. 1969, p. 4142, § 2)
Sec. 2-9. - Reserved.
Editor's note— Ga. L. 1923, p. 548, §§ 1—4, from which § 2-9 was derived, was repealed by Ga. L. 1969, p. 4142, § 1. Said act sent out purposes of zoning and regulations and was also amended by Ga. L. 1968, p. 3640, Act. No. 1209, § 1.
Sec. 2-10. - Reserved.
Editor's note— Ord. No. 2002-11, § 4, adopted March 4, 2002, repealed former section 2-10 in its entirety which pertained to the sale of spirituous and intoxicating liquors and derived from Ga. L. 1985, p. 251, § 18.
