ARTICLE XVI. - SURETY FOR COMPLETION OF IMPROVEMENTS

[Sec. 1600. - Deposit.]
In lieu of the completion of the required improvements in a subdivision, the subdivider may deposit surety for the completion of such improvements and present a final plat for approval.
Sec. 1601. - Requirements.
To assure the construction and installation of required improvements, the subdivider shall deliver to the chairman and county commission of Harris County, Georgia, a certified check, surety bond or other acceptable security in such aggregated amount as is estimated by the governing authority to be the total cost of the construction and installation of all public improvements (plus twenty-five (25) percent for errors) which are the responsibility of the subdivider plus one-half of that amount to assure adequate funds for completion.
Sec. 1602. - Conditions.
Bonds or other surety posted shall run to Harris County, Georgia, and provide that the subdivider, his heirs or successors and assigns, and their agents and servants, will comply with all applicable terms, conditions, provisions, and requirements of these regulations and any other applicable requirements; will faithfully perform and complete the work of constructing and installing said facilities or improvements in accordance with these regulations and any other applicable requirements; and that the subdivider shall be responsible to Harris County, Georgia for any expense incurred through the failure of the subdivider, his heirs, successors and assigns, or their agents or servants, to complete the work of said construction in an acceptable manner, and from any damages growing out of negligence in performing or failing to perform said construction and installation. Before acceptance, any surety shall be approved by the Harris County Commission. If a bond is offered it shall be executed by a surety or guaranty company qualified to transact business in the State of Georgia.
Sec. 1603. - Duration and release.
Bonds and/or other surety posted pursuant to these regulations shall be released or returned, as the case may be, at such time as the facilities guaranteed thereby have been installed and accepted. Acceptances shall be in writing accurately identifying the improvements covered. Facilities shall not be accepted unless they conform to the applicable county specifications and requirements.
Sec. 1604. - Default.
If the construction or installation of any improvements or facilities for which a bond or other surety is posted is not completed within three (3) months after substantial completion of any buildings or structures which said improvements or facilities are designed to serve, or within two (2) years after the date of recording of the final plat, whichever is sooner, or if said construction or installation is not in accordance with the applicable specifications and requirements using the proceeds from such surety deposits to pay for such work, such work may be done under contract or by county personnel. To the extent that any portion of a cash deposit is not required or used, said excess cash shall be repaid to the person making the deposit.
Sec. 1605. - Certification of receipt of surety for required improvements.
The following form shall be printed directly on the final plat as follows:
"I hereby certify that a security bond or certified check in the amount of $_____ has been received to assure completion of all required improvements in the subdivision plat attached hereto in the event of default by the developer."
Date: ________, 19___.
_____
Signature, Chairman, Harris County
Commission, Georgia
