ARTICLE VI. - MINOR SUBDIVISIONS

Sec. 601. - Application and fee.
Submission of plat for minor subdivision approval shall be made to the county inspector, or his agent(s), for administrative review. There shall be a fee payable in advance for review of the plat in such amount as in accordance with the current schedule approved by the Harris County Board of Commissioners for the department of community development.
(Ord. No. 7-97, 9-2-97)
Sec. 602. - Number of copies.
Three (3) copies of the plat shall be presented to the county inspector, or his agent(s). The plat shall be complete and shall include all data required by section 603 of this Article.
Sec. 603. - Minor subdivision plat specifications.
The subdivision plat shall include the following information:
a.
Date, north point, map scale, name and address of record owner and subdivider.
b.
Exact boundary lines of tract by bearings and distances, made and certified to by a licensed surveyor. The corners of the tract shall be located on the ground and marked by permanent monuments, and shall be referenced and shown on the plat.
c.
Names of record owners of adjoining land.
d.
Existing streets, utilities, easements, watercourses, and structures on [the] tract.
e.
Number of land lot and land district in which [the] tract is located.
f.
Location of access from existing street to parcel with certification by surveyor of adequate sight distance as found in Geometric Design Standards of the Georgia Department of Transportation.
g.
For minor subdivisions of more than one (1) lot:
1.
Subdivision name and copy of covenants or deed restrictions as are intended to cover all or part of tract, if such are proposed; and
2.
Certification by the environmental health specialist on the plat that the lots meet the minimum specifications for on-site sanitation and water established by the state department of health.
Sec. 604. - Lot width.
Lot width shall not be less than minimum road frontage required by zoning district and shall not narrow between the right-of-way and building line.
Sec. 605. - Remainder of parcel.
The portion of the parcel remaining after the subdivision of new lots shall comply with all applicable zoning requirements.
Sec. 606. - Action on subdivision plat.
The county inspector, or his agent(s), shall, within ten (10) days of submission, approve or disapprove the subdivision plat. If action is not taken within ten (10) days from the date of submittal, the plat shall be considered approved. The subdivider may waive this requirement and consent to an extension of time.
Sec. 607. - Appeal of administrative review.
If the plat is disapproved by the county inspector, or his agent(s), the subdivider may appeal the decision to the Harris County Planning Commission. Five (5) copies of the subdivision plat shall be presented to the Harris County Planning Commission at least ten (10) days prior to the date of the regular monthly meeting of the planning commission. The subdivider, or his duly authorized representative, shall attend meetings of the planning commission to discuss the plat.
Sec. 608. - Recording of approved plat.
The subdivider shall be responsible for the recording of the subdivision plat in the office of the Clerk of Superior Court of Harris County if the plat is approved.
