ARTICLE XIV. - DESIGN STANDARDS FOR BLOCKS AND LOTS

Sec. 1401. - Block lengths and widths.
Block lengths and widths shall be as follows:
a.
Blocks shall be not greater tan [than] eighteen hundred (1,800) feet nor less than four hundred (400) feet in length, except in unusual circumstances.
b.
Blocks shall be wide enough to provide two (2) tiers of lots of minimum depth except where abutting upon major streets, limited-access highways, or railroads or where other situations make this requirement impracticable.
Sec. 1402. - Lot sizes.
Residential lots shall meet the area requirements necessary for adequate sewer treatment and water availability and for compliance with the Harris County Zoning Ordinance [appendix A]. Commercial and industrial lots shall be adequate to provide service areas and off-street parking suitable to use as intended and to meet zoning requirements. Residential corner lots shall have adequate width to meet building setback requirements from both abutting streets.
Sec. 1403. - Lot lines.
All lot lines shall be perpendicular or radial to street lines, unless not practical because of topographic or other features.
Sec. 1404. - Lots abutting public streets.
Each lot shall abut a dedicated public street by at least fifty (50) feet. Each lot shall meet the minimum driveway sight distance requirements of the geometric design standards of the Georgia Department of Transportation.
Sec. 1405. - Lot width.
Lot width shall not be less than minimum road frontage required by zoning district and shall not narrow between the right-of-way and building line.
Sec. 1406. - Double- and reverse-frontage lots.
Double-frontage and reverse-frontage lots should be avoided except where essential to provide separation of residential development from traffic arteries or to overcome specific disadvantages of topography and orientation.
Sec. 1407. - Building lines.
All building lines shall meet the setback requirements established in the Harris County Zoning Ordinance [appendix A].
Setback
