ARTICLE VII. - PROCEDURE FOR TENTATIVE APPROVAL OF PRELIMINARY PLAT FOR MAJOR SUBDIVISION

Sec. 701. - Application for preliminary plat approval.
Following the preliminary plat review of a proposed major subdivision and the payment of a fee in accordance with a current schedule approved by the Harris County Board of Commissioners for the department of community development, the subdivider shall submit to the department of community development, at least twenty-five (25) days prior to the next regular meeting of the planning commission, the following:
a.
A letter requesting review and approval of a preliminary plat and giving the name and address of a person to whom the notice of the hearing by the planning commission of the preliminary plat shall be sent.
b.
Thirteen (13) copies of the preliminary plat and any other related documents to be utilized as follows:
1.
Community Development
2.
Planning Commission
3.
County Sanitarian
4.
County Commission
5.
County Water Department
6.
Council of Fire Chiefs
7.
EMS
8.
EMA
9.
County Health Department
10.
County Public Works
11.
Board of Education
12.
County Sheriff Department
The thirteenth copy shall be returned to the subdivider or his agent with a notation of the action taken by the planning commission.
(Ord. No. 7-97, 9-2-97; Ord. No. 05-01, 8-21-2001)
Sec. 702. - Review of preliminary plat for major subdivision.
The planning commission shall check the plat for conformance to this resolution and shall afford a hearing on the preliminary plat, notice of the time and place of which shall be sent by the chairman of the planning commission or his agent by regular mail to the person designated in the letter requesting preliminary plat review and approval, not less than ten (10) days prior to the date of the hearing.
Thereafter, the planning commission shall give tentative approval or disapproval to the preliminary plat, including a statement of the reasons for disapproval if the preliminary plat is disapproved. One (1) copy shall be returned to the subdivider or his agent and one (1) copy added to the records of the planning commission.
Approval of a preliminary plat does not constitute approval of a final plat. It indicates only approval of the layout as a guide to the preparation of the final plat. Preliminary plat approval shall expire and be null and void after a period of one (1) year or a period specified by the planning commission at the time of approval. The planning commission may grant extensions to the specified period of approval upon request of the subdivider or his agent.
If action on a preliminary plat is not taken by the planning commission within sixty-five (65) days of the date of the public hearing, the preliminary plat shall be considered approved and a certificate of approval shall be issued on demand. However, the applicant for approval may waive this requirement and consent to an extension of time.
