Chapter 1 - GENERAL PROVISIONS[1]

Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
State Law reference— Certificate or attestation of county officer to admit document in evidence, O.C.G.A. § 24-7-20; ordinances for governing and policing of unincorporated areas of county, O.C.G.A. § 36-1-20.
State Constitution reference— Adoption of county ordinances, Ga. Const. art. IX, § II, ¶ I.

Sec. 1-1. - How Code designated and cited.
The ordinances and other enactments embraced in the following chapters and sections shall constitute and be designated as the "Code of Ordinances, Harris County, Georgia," and may be so cited. It may also be referred to as the "Harris County Code."
Sec. 1-2. - General rules of construction; definitions.
In the construction of this Code, the rules in this section shall be observed, unless such construction would be inconsistent with the manifest intent of the board of commissioners.
General. In the interpretation and application of anyprovision of this Code, it shall be held to be the minimumrequirement adopted for the promotion of the public health, safety,convenience and general welfare. Where any provision of the Codeimposes greater restrictions upon the subject matter than thegeneral provision imposed by this Code, the provision imposing thegreater restriction or regulation shall be deemed to becontrolling. The ordinary signification shall be applied to allwords, except words of art or words connected with a particulartrade or subject matter, which shall have the significationattached to them by experts in such trade or with reference to suchsubject matter.
State Law reference— Similar provisions, O.C.G.A. § 1-3-1(b).
Board, board of commissioners. The term "board" or "board of commissioners" shall mean the Board of Commissioners of Harris County, Georgia.
Computation of time. When a period of time measured in days,weeks, months, years, or other measurements of time except hours isprescribed for the exercise of any privilege or the discharge ofany duty, the first day shall not be counted but the last day shallbe counted; if the last day falls on Saturday or Sunday, the personhaving such privilege or duty shall have through the followingMonday to exercise the privilege or to discharge the duty. When thelast day prescribed for such action falls on a public and legalholiday provided for in O.C.G.A. § 1-4-1, the person having theprivilege or duty shall have through the next business day toexercise the privilege or to discharge the duty. When the period oftime prescribed is less than seven days, intermediate Saturdays, Sundays, and legal holidays shall be excluded in the computation.
State Law reference— Similar provisions, O.C.G.A. § 1-3-1(d)(3).
County. The words "the county" or "this county" shall mean Harris County, Georgia.
Delegation of authority. Whenever a provision appearsrequiring the county manager or the head of a department of thecounty to do some act, it is to be construed to authorize him todesignate, delegate and authorize subordinates to perform therequired act unless the terms of the provision or section designateotherwise.
Fee, charge, rate, deposit. The word "fee," "charge,""rate," or "deposit" shall mean a fee, charge, rate or deposit setfrom time to time by the board of commissioners and kept on file inthe office of the board.
Following. The word "following" means next after.
State Law reference— Similar provisions, O.C.G.A. § 1-3-3(8).
Gender. The masculine gender shall include the feminine and the neuter.
State Law reference— Similar provisions, O.C.G.A. § 1-3-1(d)(4).
Joint authority. A joint authority given to any number of persons or officers may be executed by a majority of them.
State Law reference— Similar provisions, O.C.G.A. § 1-3-1(d)(5).
Keeper, proprietor. The words "keeper" and "proprietor"shall include persons, firms, associations, corporations,receivers, trustees, personal representatives, clubs andpartnerships, whether acting by themselves or through a servant,agent or employee.
Month. The word "month" shall mean a calendar month.
State Law reference— Similar provisions, O.C.G.A. § 1-3-3(11).
Number. The singular or plural number shall each include the other.
State Law reference— Similar provisions, O.C.G.A. § 1-3-1(d)(6).
Oath. The word "oath" shall include affirmation.
State Law reference— Similar provisions, O.C.G.A. § 1-3-3(12).
Officers, departments, etc. Whenever titles of various officers, departments or other agencies are used, they shall refer to such officers, departments or agencies of Harris County, Georgia.
O.C.G.A. "O.C.G.A." shall mean the current official codification of Georgia laws, as amended.
Or, and. "Or" may be read "and" and "and" may be read "or," if the sense requires it.
Owner. The word "owner," applied to a building or land, shall include any part owner, joint owner, tenant in common or tenant in partnership of the whole or of a part of such building or land.
Person. The word "person" shall extend and be applied toorganizations, associations, clubs, societies, companies,proprietorships, firms, partnerships, either general or limited,joint ventures, trusts, and bodies politic and/or corporate, aswell as to individuals.
State Law reference— "Person" defined, O.C.G.A. § 1-3-3(14).
Personal property. The term "personal property" shall include every species of property except real property, as herein described.
Preceding. The word "preceding" shall mean next before.
State Law reference— Similar provisions, O.C.G.A. § 1-3-3(15).
Property. The word "property" shall include real and personal property.
State Law reference— Similar provisions, O.C.G.A. § 1-3-3(16).
Public place. The term "public place" shall mean any park, cemetery, school yard or open space adjacent thereto, or any area available and/or accessible to the public, regardless of whether it is privately or publicly owned.
Real property. The term "real property" shall include lands, tenements and hereditaments.
Residence. The term "residence" shall mean the place adopted by a person as his place of habitation and to which, whenever he is absent, he has the intention of returning. When a person eats at one place and sleeps at another, the place where such person sleeps shall be deemed his residence.
Seal. The word "seal" shall mean the county seal.
Shall, may. The word "shall" is mandatory; the word "may" is permissive.
State Law reference— "May" defined, O.C.G.A. § 1-3-3(10).
Sidewalk. The word "sidewalk" shall mean that portion of a street between the curblines, or the lateral lines of a roadway, and the adjacent property lines, intended for use by pedestrians.
State Law reference— "Sidewalk" defined, O.C.G.A. § 40-1-1(57).
Signature, subscription. The "signature" or "subscription" of a person shall include a mark of an illiterate or infirm person.
State Law reference— Similar provisions, O.C.G.A. § 1-3-3(19).
State. The words "the state" or "this state" shall mean the State of Georgia.
Street. The word "street" shall mean the entire widthbetween the boundary lines of every way publicly maintained whenany part thereof is open to the use of the public for purposes ofvehicular travel.
State Law reference— Similar provisions, O.C.G.A. § 40-1-1(63).
Tenant, occupant. The word "tenant" or "occupant," appliedto a building or land, shall include any person holding a writtenor oral lease or who occupies the whole or a part of such buildingor land, either alone or with others.
Tense. The present or past tense shall include the future.
State Law reference— Similar provisions, O.C.G.A. § 1-3-1(d)(7).
Week. The word "week" shall mean seven days.
Writing. The word "writing" shall include printing and all numerals.
State Law reference— Similar provisions, O.C.G.A. § 1-3-3(23).
Year. The word "year" shall mean a calendar year.
State Law reference— Similar provisions, O.C.G.A. § 1-3-3(24).
Sec. 1-3. - Statutory rules of construction.
Except as otherwise provided in this Code, the same rules shall be applied in construing provisions of this Code, and other ordinances of this county, as are applied in construing the statutes of this state, which rules are found in O.C.G.A. §§ 1-3-1—1-3-3, and the same meanings are to be given words found in the ordinances as are given similar words found in the statutes of this state.
Sec. 1-4. - Catchlines of sections; headings of articles and divisions.
The catchlines of the sections of this Code and the headings of articles and divisions thereof are intended as mere catchwords to indicate the contents and shall not be deemed to be titles, nor as any part, of the section, article or division, nor unless expressly so provided, shall they be so deemed when any of such sections, articles or divisions, including the catchlines and headings, are amended or reenacted.
State Law reference— Notes and catchlines of Code sections not part of law, O.C.G.A. § 1-1-7.
Sec. 1-5. - Provisions considered as continuations of existing ordinances.
The provisions appearing in this Code, so far as they are the same as those of ordinances existing on the adoption date of this Code, shall be considered as continuations thereof and not as new enactments.
Sec. 1-6. - Severability.
The sections, paragraphs, sentences, clauses and phrases of thisCode, and of codes or other provisions adopted by reference herein,are severable, and if any such phrase, clause, sentence, paragraphor section or the application thereof to any person or circumstanceshall be declared invalid by the valid judgment or decree of anycourt of competent jurisdiction, such invalidity shall not affectany of the remaining phrases, clauses, sentences, paragraphs andsections of this Code and provisions adopted by reference, nor theapplication thereof to other persons or circumstances, since thesame would have been enacted by the board without the incorporationtherein of any such invalid phrase, clause, sentence, paragraph or section.
State Law reference— Severability of statutes, O.C.G.A. § 1-1-3.
Sec. 1-7. - Penalties; continuing violations.
(a)
Whenever in this Code, or in any other ordinance of the county,any act is prohibited or is made or declared to be unlawful or anoffense, or the doing of any act is required or the failure to doany act is declared to be unlawful, where no specific penalty isprovided therefor, the violation of such provision shall bepunishable by the imposition of a fine not to exceed $500.00, byimprisonment in the county jail for a period of time not to exceed60 days, or by both such fine and imprisonment, or up to the limitsof any penalty provided by state law for the ordinance.
(b)
Each day any violation of this Code or other ordinance shall continue shall constitute a separate offense.
(c)
The county building inspector and deputy building inspectorsand the county environmental health specialist and the assistantenvironmental health specialist are hereby authorized to issuecitations for the violation of any county ordinance in effect as ofthe date of this subsection [August 6, 1991].
(Ord. of 6-20-86, §§ 3, 4; Res. No. 3-91, 8-6-91)
Editor's note— The editor has included the provisions of Res. No. 3-91, adopted Aug. 6, 1991, as § 1-7(c).
State Law reference— Violations of county ordinances, O.C.G.A. §§ 15-10-60 et seq., 36-1-20; punishment for misdemeanors, O.C.G.A. § 17-10-3; nuisances, O.C.G.A. title 41.
Sec. 1-7.1. - Additional penalty for jail fund.
(a)
In every case in which any court in this county, including anycourt of a municipality which enters into the intergovernmentalcontract as provided for by state law, shall impose a fine, whichshall be construed to include costs, for any offense against acriminal or traffic law of this state or any offense against acounty or municipal ordinance, there shall be imposed as anadditional penalty, a sum equal to ten percent of the originalfine, as limited by state law up to $50.00.
(b)
At the time of posting bail or bond in any case involving aviolation of a criminal or traffic law of this state or a violationof a county or municipal ordinance, an additional sum equal to tenpercent, as limited by state law up to $50.00 of the originalamount of bail or bond shall be posted. In every case in which anycourt of this county, including any court of a municipality whichhas entered into the intergovernmental contract as provided bystate law, shall order the forfeiture of bail or bond, theadditional sum equal to ten percent of the original bail or bond upto $50.00 shall be collected.
(c)
The additional penalties set forth above shall be in additionto that amount required by O.C.G.A. § 47-17-60 to be paid into the peace officers' annuity and benefit fund and by O.C.G.A. § 47-11-51 to be paid into the Judges of the Probate CourtsRetirement Fund of Georgia, or by any other provision of law.
(d)
The additional penalties as herein prescribed shall be assessedand collected by the clerk or court officer charged with the dutyof collecting moneys arising from fines and forfeited bonds. Suchadditional penalties shall be paid over to the board of commissioners by the tenth day of the month following the month inwhich these sums are collected.
(e)
All such sums collected and paid over to the board ofcommissioners shall be deposited into a special account which shallbe known as the "county jail fund."
(f)
All moneys collected pursuant to this section and placed in thecounty jail fund shall be expended solely and exclusively forconstructing, operating and staffing the county correctionalfacilities, or for such other purposes as specified in O.C.G.A. § 15-21-95.
(g)
The additional penalties provided for by this section shall notbe imposed or collected in any court operated by any municipalitylocated in the county unless the municipality and the county enterinto an intergovernmental contract provid-ing for use of the county jail, correctional institution or detention facility by municipalprisoners.
(Res. of 6-19-90)
Editor's note— Inclusion of the provisions of a resolution adopted June 19, 1990, as § 1-7.1 was at the discretion of the editor, the resolution being nonamendatory of the Code.
State Law reference— Jail Construction and Staffing Act, O.C.G.A., § 15-21-90 et seq.
Sec. 1-8. - Provisions not affected by Code.
Nothing in this Code or the ordinance adopting this Code shall be construed to repeal or otherwise affect the validity of any of the following:
(1)
Any offense or act committed or done or any penalty or forfeiture incurred or any contract or right established or accruing before the effective date of this Code;
(2)
Any ordinance promising or guaranteeing the payment of money for the county or authorizing the issuance of any bonds of the county or any evidence of the county's indebtedness;
(3)
Any contract or obligation assumed by the county;
(4)
Any right or franchise granted by the county;
(5)
Any ordinance relating to specific public improvements or assessments therefor;
(6)
Any ordinance, consistent with this Code, providing for the levy or collection of taxes or for an annual budget or appropriations;
(7)
Any ordinance pertaining to zoning;
(8)
Any ordinance relating to the investment of county funds;
(9)
Any ordinance, consistent with this Code, prescribingregulations, compensation, positions, classification, retirementand other matters pertaining to county officers or employees;
(10)
Any ordinance dedicating or accepting any plat or subdivision in the county;
(11)
Any ordinance naming, renaming, opening, closing, prescribing grades, etc., of streets, roads, bridges and other public ways;
(12)
Any ordinance, consistent with this Code, establishing fees, rates, deposits, service charges or other charges;
(13)
Any ordinance creating, establishing, prescribing or abolishing urban renewal projects;
(14)
Any ordinance prescribing or providing traffic regulations atspecific places, such as speed limits, through streets, stopintersections, yield intersections, one-way travel, no left turns,no right turns, traffic control by electrical devices, truckroutes, loading zones, no-parking zones and limited parking zones.
All such ordinances are hereby recognized as continuing in full force and effect to the same extent as if set out at length in this Code.
Sec. 1-9. - Altering Code unlawfully.
It shall be unlawful for any person to change or amend by additionsor deletions any part of this Code, or to insert or delete pages orportions thereof, or to alter or tamper with such Code in anymanner (except by ordinance or other official act of the board orthe General Assembly) which will cause the law of the county to bemisrepresented.
State Law reference— False writings and documents, O.C.G.A. § 16-10-20.
Sec. 1-10. - Amendments; new provisions.
(a)
All ordinances passed subsequent to this Code which amend,repeal or in any way affect this Code may be numbered in accordancewith the numbering system of this Code and printed for inclusionherein. In the case of repealed chapters, sections and subsectionsor any part thereof, by subsequent ordinances, such repealedportions may be excluded from the Code by omission from reprintedpages affected thereby. Any and all additions and amendments tothis Code, when passed in such form as to indicate the intention ofthe board to make the same a part of this Code, shall be deemed tobe incorporated herein. A reference to this Code shall beunderstood and intended to include such additions and amendments.
(b)
Amendments to any of the provisions of this Code may be made byamending such provisions by specific reference to the sectionnumber of this Code in the following language: "That section _______of the Code of Ordinances, Harris County, Georgia, is herebyamended to read as follows: …." The new provisions maythen be set out in full as desired.
(c)
In the event a new section not heretofore existing in the Codeis to be added, the following language may be used: "That the Codeof Ordinances, Harris County, Georgia, is hereby amended by addinga section (or division or article or chapter) to be numbered_______, which reads as follows: …." The new section (ordivision or article or chapter) may then be set out in full as desired.
(d)
All sections, articles, chapters or other provisions desired tobe repealed should be repealed specifically by section, article orchapter number, as the case may be.
Sec. 1-11. - Supplementation of Code.
(a)
By contract or by county personnel, supplements to this Codeshall be prepared and printed whenever authorized or directed bythe board. A supplement to the Code shall include all substantiveparts of permanent and general ordinances passed by the boardduring the period covered by the supplement and all changes madethereby in the Code. The pages of a supplement shall be so numberedthat they will fit properly into the Code and will, wherenecessary, replace pages which have become obsolete or partiallyobsolete. The new pages shall be so prepared that, when they havebeen inserted, the Code will be current through the date of theadoption of the latest ordinance included in the supplement.
(b)
In the preparation of a supplement to this Code, all portionsof the Code which have been repealed shall be excluded from theCode by the omission thereof from reprinted pages.
(c)
When preparing a supplement to this Code, the codifier (meaningthe person authorized to prepare the supplement) may make formal,nonsubstantive changes in ordinances or parts thereof included inthe supplement, insofar as it is necessary to do so to embody themin a unified Code. For example, the codifier may:
(1)
Organize ordinances and resolutions into appropriate subdivisions;
(2)
Provide appropriate catchlines, headings and titles forsections and other subdivisions of the Code printed in thesupplement, and make changes in such catchlines, headings andtitles;
(3)
Assign appropriate numbers to sections and other subdivisionsto be inserted in the Code and, where necessary to accommodate newmaterial, change existing section or other subdivision numbers;
(4)
Change the words "this ordinance" or words of the same meaningto "this chapter," "this article," "this division," etc., as thecase may be or to "sections _______ to _______" (inserting sectionnumbers to indicate the sections of the Code which embody thesubstantive sections of the ordinances incorporated in the Code); and
(5)
Make other nonsubstantive changes necessary to preserve theoriginal meaning of the ordinance or resolution sections insertedin the Code; but in no case shall the codifier make any change inthe meaning or effect of material included in the supplement oralready embodied in the Code.
Sec. 1-12. - Effective date of ordinances and resolutions.
Ordinances and resolutions which do not provide for their takingeffect at a different time take effect immediately after theirpassage, or as otherwise provided by law.
State Law reference— Effective date of legislative acts, O.C.G.A. § 1-3-4.
Sec. 1-13. - Effect of repeal of ordinances and resolutions.
(a)
The repeal of an ordinance or resolution shall not revive anyordinance or resolution in force before or at the time theordinance or resolution repealed took effect.
(b)
The repeal of an ordinance or resolution shall not affect anypunishment or penalty incurred before the repeal took effect, norany suit, prosecution or proceeding pending at the time of therepeal, for an offense committed or cause of action arising underthe ordinance or resolution repealed, nor any right acquired orliability incurred under any ordinance or resolution repealed.
State Law reference— Operation of laws, O.C.G.A. § 1-3-5.
