ARTICLE VI. - PREVENTION OF DAMAGE TO RIGHTS-OF-WAY

Sec. 4-141. - Declaration of policy.
The board of commissioners (hereinafter referred to as the "board") is charged with the protection and maintenance of county roads and rights-of-way and it expends significant sums of public funds of the taxpayers of the county in an effort to do so. The board does hereby find and declare that the use of said rights-of-way as lanes of travel and/or as recreational areas for motorized vehicles damages and accelerates and exacerbates the erosion of the rights-of-way. Thus, the board hereby declares that the welfare of the citizens of the county requires it to protect county roads and rights-of-way from damage as set forth herein.
(Ord. No. 3-02, § I, 6-4-2002)
Sec. 4-142. - Definitions.
For the purpose of this article, the following words, terms and phrases are hereby defined as follows and shall be interpreted as such throughout this article. Terms not herein defined shall have the meaning customarily assigned to them:
County right(s)-of-way means the shoulder, front slope, ditch, drain, back slope, facility or any appurtenance of any county road as defined herein; provided, however, that, for purposes of this article only, "county right(s)-of-way" shall not include the area within 20 feet on either side of the mailbox of any residence or commercial establishment.
County road means any county owned or maintained highway, road, street, avenue, drive, detour or other way open to the public and intended or used for the passage of motor vehicles.
Motorized vehicle means any device in, upon, or by which any person or property is more may be transported or drawn on- or off-road, and that derives power from any source other than muscle or wind, excepting devices used exclusively upon stationary rails or tracks.
(Ord. No. 3-02, § II, 6-4-2002)
Sec. 4-143. - Prohibition.
(a)
It shall be unlawful for any person, through the non-emergency operation and use of a motorized vehicle upon a county right-of-way, or through any other means, to:
(1)
Damage a county right-of-way by rutting, gouging, undercutting, digging up, displacing earth from, excavating, denuding, and/or defoliating the right-of-way; or
(2)
Cause dirt, mud or other debris to accumulate upon a county road or county right-of-way to such an extent that it becomes a nuisance or hazard to persons traveling upon said roads or rights-of-way, or that it creates an unsightly condition upon the county road or county right-of-way; or
(3)
Cause any other type of public nuisance on county roads or county rights-of-way within unincorporated Harris County; or
(4)
Allow dirt, mud or other debris resulting from that person's use of the county right-of-way to accumulate in ditches and drain-age areas of the right-of-way to such an extent that the usual flow of water or runoff is stopped, disturbed, altered, impeded, changed or interrupted.
(b)
Notwithstanding any other provisions of this article, it shall not be unlawful for any person to use a county right-of-way in any otherwise lawful manner to include access to a person's property, bona fide operation of agricultural vehicles or public utility maintenance or construction that does not cause damage to the right-of-way as specified above or create a public nuisance as provided herein. Any damage caused to a county right-of-way by access to a person's property, operation of agricultural vehicles or public utility maintenance and construction shall be repaired and the right-of-way restored by the person or entity causing the damage.
(Ord. No. 3-02, § III, 6-4-2002)
Sec. 4-144. - Penalty for violation.
The maximum punishment for violation of any provision of this article shall not exceed a fine of $1,000.00 or imprisonment for 60 days, or both, provided, however, that the trial court may suspend the sentence upon such terms and conditions as it may prescribe for the payment of the fine, for performance of community service in lieu of a fine or incarceration, for the payment of restitution to the county for the cost of repair of the damaged right-of-way, or other condition relating to the underlying offense. Service of the sentence, when so suspended, shall not begin unless and until ordered by the court having jurisdiction thereof, after a hearing as in cases of revocation of probated sentences, because of the failure or refusal of the defendant to comply with the terms and conditions upon which service of a sentence was suspended. Service of all or any part of any sentence suspended upon such conditions may be ordered to commence by the trial court any time before the expiration of one year from the date of the sentence after a hearing and a finding by the court that the defendant has failed or refused to comply with the terms and conditions upon which service of the sentence was suspended.
(Ord. No. 3-02, § IV, 6-4-2002)
Sec. 4-145. - Limitation.
Nothing in this article shall be construed to abridge, limit, or otherwise impair the right of any person, or the county, to damages or other relief on account of injuries to person or property arising out of a violation of this article and to maintain any action or other appropriate proceeding therefor.
(Ord. No. 3-02, § V, 6-4-2002)
Secs. 4-146—4-150. - Reserved.
