Chapter 10B - ENVIRONMENT[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Cross reference— Administration, Ch. 2; floodplain ordinance, Ch. 11A; health and sanitation, Ch. 13; sewers, § 13-173 et seq.; water, § 13-351 et seq.; soil erosion and sedimentation control, Ch. 17C; stormwater management, Ch. 17D; zoning, Ch. 22.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Secs. 10B-1—10B-30. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - WETLANDS PROTECTION[2]

Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
Editor's note— Ord. No. 00-18, adopted Feb. 15, 2000, did not specifically amend this Code; hence, inclusion of its provisions as Art. II, §§ 10B-31—10B-34, of this chapter was at the discretion of the editor.

Sec. 10B-31. - Purpose.
The purpose of this article is to assist in the identification and protection of freshwater wetlands in Columbus/Muscogee County.
(Ord. No. 00-18, § A, 2-15-00)
Sec. 10B-32. - Definition of freshwater wetlands.
"Wetlands" means those areas that are inundated or saturated by surface or groundwater at a frequency and duration sufficient to support, and that under normal circumstances do support, a prevalence of vegetation typically adapted for life in saturated soils. Wetlands generally include swamps, marshes, bogs and similar areas. The ecological parameters for designating wetlands include hydric soils, hydrophytic vegetation, and hydrological conditions that involve a temporary or permanent source of water to cause soil saturation. Freshwater wetlands do not include any areas defined as "coastal marshlands" by the State Coastal Marshlands Protection Act.
(Ord. No. 00-18, § B, 2-15-00)
Sec. 10B-33. - Minimum protection criteria for wetlands.
(a)
The natural resources study map depicting wetlands shall be updated in the Columbus Comprehensive Plan to reflect all wetlands over five acres according to the National Wetlands Inventory Map.
(b)
Prior to the issuance of any building permits by the inspections and codes enforcement division, areas depicted as wetlands according to the aforementioned map will require coordination with the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers for a jurisdictional wetlands determination and possibly a section 404 permit. The Consolidated Government of Columbus Engineering Department shall compare the sites of the proposed projects to the wetlands map and if necessary refer developers to the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, before issuing a report back to the inspections and codes enforcement division on approval of such projects.
(Ord. No. 00-18, § C, 2-15-00)
Sec. 10B-34. - Wetlands protected areas overlay district map.
The official map shall be known as the "wetlands protected areas overlay district map" and is attached as part of this article (Map C) for information.
(Ord. No. 00-18, § C, 2-15-00)
Editor's note— The wetlands protected areas overlay district map referenced in § 10B-34 above has not been included within this Code, but may be found on file in the office of the city clerk.
Secs. 10B-35—10B-50. - Reserved.
ARTICLE III. - GROUNDWATER RECHARGE PROTECTION[3]

Footnotes:
--- (3) ---
Editor's note— Ord. No. 00-19, adopted Feb. 15, 2000, did not specifically amend this Code; hence, inclusion of its provisions as Art. III, §§ 10B-51—10B-54, of this chapter was at the discretion of the editor.

Sec. 10B-51. - Purpose.
The purpose of this article is to insure the protection of the groundwater supply in Columbus and Muscogee County. This can be achieved by:
(1)
Protecting groundwater quality by restricting land uses that generate, use, or store dangerous pollutants in recharge areas.
(2)
Protecting groundwater quality by limiting density of future development in recharge areas; and
(3)
Protecting groundwater quality by ensuring that any development that occurs within the recharge areas shall have no adverse affect on groundwater quality.
(Ord. No. 00-19, § A, 2-15-00)
Sec. 10B-52. - Definitions.
The following definitions are terminology used by the Georgia Department of Natural Resources in developing the location maps of significant groundwater recharge areas and pollution susceptibility.
Aquifer means any stratum or zone of rock beneath the surface of the earth capable of containing or producing water from a well.
DRASTIC means the standardized system for evaluating groundwater pollution potential using the hydro geologic settings described in U.S. Environmental Protection Agency document EPA-600/ 2-87-035. The term "DRASTIC" is an acronym derived from the seven hydro geologic parameters deemed most influential to pollution susceptibility. They are Depth to water, net Recharge, Aquifer media, Soil media, Topography, Impact of the vadose zone, and hydraulic Conductivity of the aquifer. To arrive at a "DRASTIC" Rating each factor is incorporated into a relative rating scheme that uses a combination of weights and ratings to produce a numerical value. The higher the score an area receives on the index the more vulnerable or susceptible the area is to groundwater pollution.
Pollution susceptibility means the relative vulnerability of an aquifer to being polluted from spills, discharges, leaks, impoundments, applications of chemicals, injections, and other human activities in the recharge area.
Pollution susceptibility maps means maps of relative vulnerability to pollution prepared by the Department of Natural Resources, using the "DRASTIC" methodology. Pollution susceptibility maps categorize the land areas of the state into areas having high, medium, and low groundwater pollution potential.
Recharge area means any portion of the earth's surface, where water infiltrates into the ground to replenish an aquifer.
Significant recharge area means those areas mapped by the Department of Natural Resources in Hydrologic Atlas 18 (1989 edition). Mapping of recharge areas is based on outcrop area, lithology, soil types and thickness, slope, density of lithologic contacts, geologic structure, the presence of karst, and potentiometric surfaces.
(Ord. No. 00-19, § B, 2-15-00)
Sec. 10B-53. - Minimum protection criteria for groundwater recharge areas.
(a)
New aboveground chemical or petroleum storage tanks, having a minimum volume of 660 gallons, shall have secondary containment for 110 percent of the volume of such tanks or 110 percent of the volume of the largest tank in a cluster of tanks. Such tanks used for agricultural purposes are exempt, provided they comply with all federal requirements.
(b)
New agricultural waste impoundment sites shall be lined if they are within a medium pollution susceptibility area and exceed 15 acre-feet in size and if they are within a low pollution susceptibility area and exceed 50 acre-feet in size. As a minimum, the liner shall be constructed of compacted clay having a thickness of one-foot and a vertical hydraulic conductivity of less than 5 * 10 7 cm/sec or other criteria established by the U.S. Soil Conservation Service.
(c)
New homes served by septic tanks/drain field systems shall be on lots having the following minimum size limitations as identified on Table MT-1 of the Department of Human Resources "Manual For On-Site Sewage Management Systems." (DHR Table MT-1)
(1)
125 percent of the subdivision minimum lot size of DHR Table MT-1 if they are within a medium pollution susceptibility area. (DRASTIC Rating of 141 to 181)
(2)
110 percent of the subdivision minimum lot size of DHR Table MT-1 if they are within a low pollution susceptibility area. (DRASTIC Rating of less than 141)
(d)
New mobile home parks served by septic tank/drain field systems shall have lots or spaces having the following size limitations as identified on Table MT-2 of the Department of Human Resources "Manual For On-Site Sewage Management Systems." (DHR Table MT-2)
(1)
125 percent of the subdivision minimum lot or space size of DHR Table MT-2 if they are within a medium pollution susceptibility area. (DRASTIC Rating of 141 to 181)
(2)
110 percent of the subdivision minimum lot or space size of DHR Table MT-2 if they are within a low pollution susceptibility area. (DRASTIC Rating of less than 141)
(e)
The Columbus Consolidated Government may exempt existing lots of record from the minimum lot size requirements of subsection (c) for homes and subsection (d) for mobile homes.
(f)
If the Columbus Zoning Ordinance requires a larger lot size than that required by subsection (c) for homes or subsection (d) for mobile homes, the larger lot size shall be used.
(g)
No construction may proceed on a building or mobile home to be served by a septic tank unless the Columbus Health Department first approves the proposed septic tank installation as meeting the standards of the DHR manual and minimum lot size requirements.
(h)
New facilities which handle hazardous materials of the types listed in Section 312 of the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act of 1976 (excluding underground storage tanks) and in amounts of 10,000 pounds or more on any one day shall perform their operations on impervious surfaces and in conformance with any applicable federal spill prevention requirements and any local fire prevention code requirements.
(i)
The Columbus Consolidated Government having jurisdictional authority over all significant recharge areas within its boundaries shall adopt, implement, and enforce said ordinance meeting the minimum groundwater protection standards developed by the Georgia Department of Natural Resources and adopted as required environmental criteria by the Georgia Department of Community Affairs.
(Ord. No. 00-19, § C, 2-15-00)
Sec. 10B-54. - Groundwater recharge protected areas overlay district map.
The official map shall be known as the "groundwater recharge protected areas overlay district map" and is attached as part of this article (Map A).
(Ord. No. 00-19, 2-15-00)
Editor's note— The groundwater recharge protected areas overlay district map referenced in § 10B-54 above has not been included within this Code, but may be found on file in the office of the city clerk.
Secs. 10B-55—10B-70. - Reserved.
ARTICLE IV. - WATER SUPPLY WATERSHED PROTECTION[4]

Footnotes:
--- (4) ---
Editor's note— Ord. No. 00-20, adopted Feb. 15, 2000, did not specifically amend this Code; hence, inclusion of its provisions as Art. IV, §§ 10B-71—10B-74, of this chapter was at the discretion of the editor.

Sec. 10B-71. - Purpose.
The purpose of this article is to insure the protection of the drinking water supply in Columbus and Muscogee County.
(Ord. No. 00-20, § A, 2-15-00)
Sec. 10B-72. - Definitions.
The following definitions are terminology used by the Georgia Department of Natural Resources in developing the minimum protection criteria for water supply watersheds.
Buffer means a natural or enhanced vegetated area with no or limited minor land disturbances, such as trails and picnic areas. Specific buffer uses may be defined by local governments consistent with these criteria.
Corridor means all land within the buffer areas and other setback areas specified in these criteria.
Impervious surface means a man-made structure or surface which prevents the infiltration of storm water into the ground below the structure or surface. Examples are buildings, roads, driveways, parking lots, decks, swimming pools, or patios.
Perennial stream means a stream which flows throughout the whole year as indicated on a USGS Quad map.
Reservoir boundary means the edge of a water supply reservoir defined by its normal pool level.
Utility means public or private water or sewer piping systems, water or sewer pumping stations, electric power lines, fuel pipelines, telephone lines, roads, driveways, bridges, river/lake access facilities, storm water systems, and railroads or other utilities identified by local governments.
Water supply reservoir means a governmentally owned impoundment of water for the primary purpose of providing water to one or more governmentally owned public drinking water systems. This excludes the multipurpose reservoirs owned by the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers.
Water supply watershed means the area of land upstream of a governmentally owned public drinking water intake.
Water supply watershed protection plan means a land use plan prepared and adopted by local governments for the protection of the quality of drinking water obtained from the watershed.
(Ord. No. 00-20, § A, 2-15-00)
Sec. 10B-73. - Minimum protection criteria for water supply watersheds.
New hazardous waste facilities (as defined by the Georgia Department of Natural Resources pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 12-8-60 et seq.) within the jurisdictional boundary of Columbus/Muscogee County which are located within a seven-mile radius of the Lake Oliver water supply reservoir/water supply intake point shall be located and perform their operations on impermeable/impervious surfaces having a spill and leak collection system. This article specifically refers to facilities which handle hazardous materials of the types and amounts (10,000 pounds or more on any one day) listed in Section 312 of the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act of 1976, excluding underground storage tanks.
(Ord. No. 00-20, § C, 2-15-00)
Sec. 10B-74. - Water supply watershed protected areas overlay district map.
The official map shall be known as the "water supply watershed protected areas overlay district map" and is attached as part of this article (Map B).
(Ord. No. 00-20, 2-15-00)
Editor's note— The water supply watershed protected areas overlay district map referenced in § 10B-74 above has not been included within this Code, but may be found on file in the office of the city clerk.
Secs. 10B-75—10B-90. - Reserved.
ARTICLE V. - MANDATORY RESTRICTION OF OUTDOOR WATER USE

Sec. 10B-91. - Mandatory restriction of outdoor water use for landscaping.
Pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 12-5-7, outdoor watering for the purposes of planting, growing, managing, or maintaining ground cover, trees, shrubs, or other plants may only occur between the hours of 4:00 p.m. and 10:00 a.m.; provided that this limitation shall not create any limitation upon the following outdoor water uses:
(a)
Commercial agricultural operations as defined in O.C.G.A § 1-3-3;
(b)
Capture and reuse of cooling system condensate or stormwater in compliance with applicable local ordinances and state guidelines;
(c)
Reuse of gray water in compliance with O.C.G.A § 31-3-5.2 and applicable local board of health regulations;
(d)
Use of reclaimed waste water by a designated user from a system permitted by the Environmental Protection Division of the Georgia Department of Natural Resources to provide reclaimed waste water;
(e)
Irrigation of personal food gardens;
(f)
Irrigation of new and replanted plant, seed, or turf in landscapes, golf courses, or sports turf fields during installation and for a period of 30 days immediately following the date of installation;
(g)
Drip irrigation or irrigation using soaker hoses;
(h)
Hand watering with a hose with automatic cutoff or handheld container;
(i)
Use of water withdrawn from private water wells or surface water by an owner or operator of property if such well or surface water is on said property;
(j)
Irrigation of horticultural crops held for sale, resale, or installation;
(k)
Irrigation of athletic fields, golf courses, or public turf grass recreational areas;
(l)
Installation, maintenance, or calibration of irrigation systems;
(m)
Hydroseeding.
(Ord. No. 10-64, § 1, 12-14-10)
Sec. 10B-92. - Enforcement.
All persons shall comply with water use restrictions as imposed by the Georgia Water Stewardship Law and any variances thereto. Any water use by any person contrary to the provisions of the restrictions imposed by the Georgia Water Stewardship Law and any variance thereto is a violation of this article.
The Columbus Board of Water Commissioners shall be the enforcement authority for this article. Violators of this article shall be subject to the following schedule of administrative penalties, which said board shall have the right to change, modify or alter as it deems appropriate and necessary to enforce this Ordinance, to the extent that violations occur within a 12-month period:
(1)
First violation. Written notice with a description left at the property where the violation occurred.
(2)
Second violation. $25.00 administrative penalty added to the water bill of the customer's property where the violation occurred.
(3)
Third violation. $50.00 administrative penalty added to the water bill of the customer's property where the violation occurred.
(4)
Fourth and subsequent violations. $100.00 administrative penalty added to the water bill of the customer's property where the violation occurred and service termination, plus applicable reconnection of service charges.
(Ord. No. 10-64, § 2, 12-14-10)
Sec. 10B-93. - Conflict.
All ordinances or parts of ordinances in conflict with this article are hereby repealed.
(Ord. No. 10-64, § 2, 12-14-10)
