ARTICLE XVI. - DEPARTMENT OF FINANCE[18]

Footnotes:
--- (18) ---
Editor's note— Ordinance No. 95-118, adopted Nov. 28, 1995, did not specifically amend this Code; hence inclusion of §§ 1 and 2 of said ordinance as §§ 2-215 and 2-216 herein was at the editor's discretion.

Sec. 2-215. - Supervision; department divisions and responsibilities.
The department of finance shall be placed under the supervision of the finance director, who shall be accountable to the city manager for all financial management operations. The department shall include the accounting division, revenue division, financial planning division and purchasing division, each division having responsibilities as follows:
(1)
Accounting division. The accounting division shall be responsible for maintaining a general accounting system for the consolidated government, including budgeting control records, cost accounting records and procedures, preauditing and postauditing of all claims on all funds, and management of records of fixed assets; establishing procedures for making all disbursements including payments to vendors as well as paying compensation owed to employees and retirees of the government; and preparing all periodic financial reports. The division shall perform such other functions as required by the finance director.
(2)
Revenue division. The revenue division shall be responsible for collecting and receiving all revenues, income and moneys due the consolidated government except as otherwise provided by state law or by Section 8-102 of the Charter; investment and custody of all funds of the consolidated government; and maintaining all banking relationships of the government. The division shall perform such other functions as required by the finance director.
(3)
Financial planning division. The financial planning division shall be responsible for budget preparation and control, budget execution, management studies, and management reporting; analysis of financial condition; preparation of all materials required in conjunction with the issuance of debt and administering outstanding debt obligations of the consolidated government; and strategic financial planning. The division shall perform such other functions as required by the finance director.
(4)
Purchasing division. The purchasing division shall be responsible for administering a system of procurement for the consolidated government, the procedure of which shall be prescribed by administrative rule as may be best suited to obtain the greatest economic value and savings to the consolidated government in the procurement of all necessary and appropriate supplies, equipment and services. The division shall perform such other functions as required by the finance director.
(Ord. No. 95-118, § 1, 11-28-95)
Sec. 2-216. - Implementation of organization structure.
By the adoption of this article, the city council of the city hereby expressly authorizes the city manager, finance director, and such other officials as may be appropriate to proceed with the implementation of this organization structure and with the reclassification of current authorized positions as attached to [Ordinance No. 95-118 to] complete the implementation.
(Ord. No. 95-118, § 2, 11-28-95)
Sec. 2-217. - Checking or interest-bearing accounts with city funds; prior approval required.
(a)
Employees, appointed officials, and members of boards and commissions of the consolidated government are hereby prohibited from opening checking accounts or interest-bearing accounts with city funds at any financial institution without prior written approval of the city manager and finance director. A copy of such written approval shall be immediately forwarded to the internal auditor by the finance director. This section shall not apply to employees acting at the direction of elected officials or constitutional officers empowered by state law to open such accounts.
(b)
Any such accounts shall utilize a federal identification number and signature authority approved by the city manager and finance director.
(Ord. No. 11-35, § 1, 7-12-11)
Secs. 2-218—2-224. - Reserved.
