ARTICLE IV. - TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES

Sec. 20-4.1. - Authority to install traffic-control devices.
The city traffic engineer shall place and maintain traffic-control signs, signals, and devices when and as required under the traffic ordinances of this city to make effective the provisions of said ordinances, and may place and maintain such additional traffic-control devices as he may deem necessary to regulate traffic under the traffic ordinances of this city or under state law or to guide or warn traffic.
(Ord. No. 71-198, § 5, 7-20-71)
Sec. 20-4.2. - Manual and specifications for traffic-control devices.
All traffic-control signs, signals and devices shall conform to the manual and specifications approved by the State Highway Department of the State of Georgia or resolution or ordinance adopted by the legislative body of this city. All signs and signals required hereunder for a particular purpose shall so far as practicable be uniform as to type and location throughout the city. All traffic-control devices so erected and not inconsistent with the provisions of state law or this chapter shall be official traffic-control devices.
(Ord. No. 71-198, § 5, 7-20-71)
Secs. 20-4.3—20-4.9. - Reserved.
Editor's note— Ord. No. 78-65, § 1, adopted May 23, 1978, repealed §§ 20-4.3—20-4.9, relative to official traffic-control devices, derived from Ord. No. 71-198, § 5, enacted July 20, 1971.
Sec. 20-4.10. - Authority to establish play streets.
The city traffic engineer shall have authority to declare any street or part thereof a play street and to place appropriate signs or devices in the roadway indicating and helping to protect the same.
(Ord. No. 71-198, § 5, 7-20-71)
Sec. 20-4.11. - City traffic engineer to designate cross walks and establish safety zones.
The city traffic engineer is hereby authorized:
(1)
To designate and maintain, by appropriate devices, marks, or lines upon the surface of the roadway, cross walks at intersections where in his opinion there is particular danger to pedestrians crossing the roadway, and at such other places as he may deem necessary.
(2)
To establish safety zones of such kind and character and at such places as he may deem necessary for the protection of pedestrians.
(Ord. No. 71-198, § 5, 7-20-71)
Sec. 20-4.12. - Traffic lanes.
(a)
The city traffic engineer is hereby authorized to mark traffic lanes upon the roadway of any street or highway where a regular alignment of traffic is necessary.
(b)
Where such traffic lanes have been marked, it shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to fail or refuse to keep such vehicle within the boundaries of any such lane except when lawfully passing another vehicle or preparatory to making a lawful turning movement.
(c)
Whenever any street has been divided into two or more clearly marked lanes for traffic the following rules in addition to all other rules consistent herewith, shall apply.
(1)
A vehicle shall be driven or parked as nearly as practical entirely within a single lane and shall not be moved from such lane until the driver shall first ascertain that such movement can be made with safety. The driver of any vehicle in a parking lane turning into a movement lane shall yield the right-of-way to the movement lane.
(2)
Upon a street which is divided into three lanes a vehicle shall not be driven in the center lane except when overtaking and passing another vehicle where the street is clearly visible and such center lane is clear of traffic within a safe distance, or in preparation for a left turn or where such center lane is at the time allocated exclusively to traffic moving in the direction the vehicle is proceeding and is signposted to give notice of such allocation.
(3)
Official signs may be erected directing slow-moving traffic to use a designated lane, or designating those lanes to be used by traffic moving in a particular direction regardless of the center of the street, and drivers of vehicles shall obey the directions of every such sign.
(Ord. No. 71-198, § 5, 7-20-71; Ord. No. 73-165, § 2, 12-4-73)
