ARTICLE XII. - TRAINING AND WELFARE ACTIVITIES

Sec. 16B-12-1. - Employee development.
It shall be the responsibility of the personnel officer to cooperate with appointing authorities, employees and others to foster and promote programs of training for the consolidated city service and in-service training of employees for the purposes of improving the quality of personal services rendered to the consolidated city and of aiding employees to equip themselves for advancement in the service. Opportunities for training in the field of human relations, for the purpose of improving the morale and efficiency of departments of the government.
(Ord. No. 71-213, Ch. 12, ยง 1, 8-17-71)
Sec. 16B-12-2. - Administration of employee development program.
The personnel officer shall:
(a)
Recommend to appointing authorities, as appropriate, standards for training programs and programs for approval as meeting such standards;
(b)
See that training is carried out as approved and have prepared certificates or other forms of recognition for persons who satisfactorily complete approved courses and programs;
(c)
Assist appointing authorities in developing and conducting training to meet the specific needs of their departments and in developing and utilizing other techniques for increasing employee efficiency;
(d)
Develop and conduct supervisory and management training and other types of training and employee development programs common to all departments;
(e)
Assist appointing authorities in establishing standards of performance and procedures for evaluating employee efficiency;
(f)
Make available information concerning job requirements and training opportunities in order to assist employees in increasing their efficiency in their present positions, and in preparing themselves for promotions to higher positions in the consolidated city;
(g)
Keep a record of all approved training programs and courses and a record of employees who successfully complete such courses and programs.
(Ord. No. 71-213, Ch. 12, ยง 2, 8-17-71)
Sec. 16B-12-3. - Welfare program.
The personnel officer may cooperate with appointing authorities, employees and others to promote measures directed toward more sanitary, safe and healthful working conditions; toward affording better facilities for recreation; toward greater security and economic advantage, including the development of group insurance and credit union facilities; and toward any other means of bettering the conditions and improving the morale of the consolidated city employees.
(Ord. No. 71-213, Ch. 12, ยง 3, 8-17-71)
