ARTICLE XX. - RETIREE HEALTH BENEFIT COMMITTEE

Sec. 2-271. - Mission and goal of the retiree health benefit committee.
The mission of the retiree health benefit committee is to advise and assist the mayor and Columbus Council with respect to issues concerning the retiree health plan and other benefits provided to retirees of the Columbus, Georgia Consolidated Government.
(Ord. No. 11-10, § 1, 2-22-11)
Sec. 2-272. - Retiree health benefit committee.
The retiree health benefit committee shall be composed of six members. Of these six, one member shall be appointed by the mayor and four members shall be appointed by the Columbus Council. The sixth member of the committee shall be the President of the Columbus, Georgia Retired City Employee Association, Inc. and this member may serve on the committee as long he or she holds said office; and if the president is not a Columbus resident, the president shall appoint an officer from the Columbus, Georgia Retired City Employee Association, Inc. who resides in Columbus. The committee shall contain at least three active members of the Columbus, Georgia Retiree Health Plan. The director of human resources or his designee shall be an ex-officio member of the committee. The mayor's appointee shall serve as chair and shall serve a term of two years from the date of initial appointment and thereafter; two of the council appointees shall serve for terms of three years from date of initial appointment and thereafter; the two remaining council appointments made in 2017 shall serve an initial term of two years and these two positions shall serve three-year terms thereafter. All appointees shall be eligible to serve two consecutive full terms.
(Ord. No. 11-10, § 1, 2-22-11; Ord. No. 12-20, § 1, 4-24-12; Ord. No. 16-50, § 1, 12-6-16; Ord. No. 17-18, § 1, 4-25-17)
Sec. 2-273. - Duties of the retiree health benefit committee.
(1)
The committee shall meet at least quarterly with the director of human resources and any benefit consultant used by Columbus, Georgia to examine issues of health insurance, prescription medical benefits, and any other retiree health benefit.
(2)
The committee shall advise and assist the mayor and Columbus Council with respect to any proposed amendment to the Columbus, Georgia Retiree Health Plan or any proposed retiree health benefit.
(3)
The committee shall perform any other duties as requested by the Columbus Council and shall be assisted by the department of human resources in performing these duties.
(4)
Notwithstanding anything in this Code or any oath required by this Code, members of the retiree health benefit committee shall not be required to reside in Columbus, Georgia.
(5)
Notwithstanding any other ordinance or resolution of the Columbus Council, a member of the retiree health benefit committee shall be able to serve simultaneously on another board, commission or authority of Columbus, Georgia.
(Ord. No. 11-10, § 1, 2-22-11; Ord. No. 13-10, §§ 1, 2, 3-12-13)
Secs. 2-274—2-290. - Reserved.
