ARTICLE III. - NUISANCES[5]

Footnotes:
--- (5) ---
State Law reference— For state law provisions relevant to abatement of nuisance by cities, see Ga. Code, §§ 72-401, 72-402, 72-105.
Note— See City of Columbus vs. Jaques, 30 Ga. 506, for holding that the erection in the streets of a market by the commissioners of commons without authority constituted a nuisance that would be ordered removed.

Sec. 13-98. - Definition.
The existence of any of the things mentioned in this article and the existence of any matter or thing in the corporate limits of this city, which shall or does tend to the immediate annoyance of the citizens in general, or which may be manifestly injurious to the public health or safety, or tend to corrupt the manners and morals of the people, or any considerable portion thereof, shall be and the same is hereby declared to be a nuisance and may be abated as such.
(Code 1914, § 731)
Sec. 13-99. - Hides, curing.
No person shall cure hides, either by means of salt or otherwise, at any place within the corporate limits of the city, where the same may be offensive to any of the citizens.
(Code 1914, § 728)
Secs. 13-100—13-105. - Reserved.
Editor's note— Former §§ 13-100—13-105 have been deleted herefrom as being superseded by Ord. No. 90-28, adopted April 20, 1990, the substantive provisions of which are included herein as § 14-201 et seq. The deleted provisions also pertained to noise and derived from §§ 1—6 of an ordinance of Oct. 21, 1935, as amended by § 1 of Ord. No. 80-79, adopted July 15, 1980.
Sec. 13-106. - Privies, declared a nuisance.
The construction, use or maintenance of any privy, privy vault, water closet or cesspool contrary to the provisions of this article is hereby declared to be a nuisance and dangerous to the public health, and may be abated in the methods provided by the law of Georgia or the charter and ordinances of the city.
(Ord. of 12-5-33, § 16)
Sec. 13-107. - Waste, human; illegal disposal.
It shall be unlawful for any person within the city or its police district to throw out, deposit or bury any human excreta, solid or liquid, or to dispose of such substances in any manner other than in a properly sewered water closet or approved sanitary privy.
(Ord. of 12-5-33, § 3)
Sec. 13-108. - Violations; right of entry by health officials, notice to conform.
The health officer, or his deputies and assistants, shall have the right to enter upon the premises drained by any house drain, or connected with any public sewer, or served by any sanitary privies, at all reasonable hours, to ascertain whether the provisions of this article or any other ordinance have been complied with; and in case it should be ascertained that the provisions of this article or other ordinances are not being complied with, he shall notify the owner of such premises, the owner's agents or tenants, to cause the drain, sewer pipe, privy or attachments to be so altered, repaired, or reconstructed as to make them conform to the requirements of this article.
(Ord. of 12-5-33, § 6)
Sec. 13-109. - Water standing—Drainage required.
(a)
It shall be unlawful for the owner or occupant of any lot, yard, or premise in the city, or for any agent or representative of any such owner or occupant, to permit rain, drainage or stagnant water to stand or remain upon such lot, yard, or premises or in any cellar in a manner that may constitute a health hazard as determined by the commissioner of health. In a natural drainage situation from one lot to another, it shall be unlawful for the owner of the lower lot to restrict the flow of water willfully or by neglect or otherwise to cause water to stagnate on the upper lot or lots.
(b)
It shall be unlawful for the owner of any swimming pool to permit rain, drainage or stagnant water to stand or remain in such swimming pool in a manner that causes a health hazard or noxious odors which unreasonably prohibit enjoyment of adjacent property. Citations for violation of this subsection may be issued by any health department enforcement official, any sworn law enforcement officer, or any special enforcement officer of Columbus, Georgia.
(c)
Persons violating this section shall be subject to the penalties provided in section 1-8 of this Code.
(Ord. No. 72-176, § 1, 9-12-72; Ord. No. 22-016, § 1, 3-22-22)
Sec. 13-110. - Same—Same—Performance of work.
After the expiration of the time stated in the aforesaid notice provided in the preceding section, it shall be the duty of the superintendent of public works, with the assistance of the city engineer to proceed to have the lot, yard, or premises properly drained in such manner as they deem advisable.
(Code 1914, § 415)
Editor's note— Provisions relative to notice are now set forth in §§ 13-110.1 and 13-111.
Sec. 13-110.1. - Same—Same—Notice to drain.
When any stagnant water is being maintained on any lot or premise in violation of the preceding section, it shall be the duty of the health officer, or any responsible servant of the city to notify the party or parties of such violation. The written notice shall set forth how, when and in what manner such corrective measures are to be performed to comply with the preceding section, and eliminate the stagnant water or otherwise provide adequate control of any public health hazards or nuisances caused by stagnated water.
(Ord. No. 72-176, § 2, 9-12-72)
Note— See the editor's note following § 13-109.
Sec. 13-110.2. - Same—Same—Restricting natural flow of storm drainage prohibited.
No person, firm or corporation shall restrict in any manner the natural flow of storm drainage in any ditch, culvert, pipe, or other conveyor of storm water.
(Ord. No. 72-176, § 3, 9-12-72)
Note— See the editor's note following § 13-109.
Sec. 13-111. - Same—Same—Notice thereof to nonresidents, assessment of costs, execution and sale.
Where the owner or occupant of any land violating the provisions hereof relating to drainage or stagnant water and the owner or occupant cannot be served with notice or summons, so as to subject him to punishment by the recorder, the health officer shall notify such owner, at the address shown in the tax commissioner's records, with a copy to the occupant. Both notices shall be sent by certified mail and direct how and in what manner such corrective measures are to be performed to correct the drainage and stagnant water nuisance. If within ten days from the date of mailing of the notice, the owner or occupant fails to comply with the notice and this article, the director of public works shall have the drainage work performed, charging the amount of cost thereof to such owner, and such amount shall constitute a lien against the lot, as of the date of such work, and if such amount be not paid within 30 days after the doing of the work, the Finance Director of the Columbus Consolidated Government shall issue execution against the particular real estate for which the service was rendered, and against the owner thereof, whereupon such real estate should be levied on, advertised and sold under such execution, as in cases of levy and sale under executions for street improvement assessments due the consolidated government, with same procedure including defendant's right to defense by affidavit of illegality and the right of the consolidated government to purchase at the sale.
(Ord. No. 72-176, § 4, 9-12-72; Ord. No. 17-52, § 1, 8-29-17)
Note— See the editor's note following § 13-109.
Sec. 13-112. - Prevention and control of mosquitos and rodents.
(A)
Definitions.
Any collection of water as used in this section shall include, but shall not be limited to, those contained in ditches, pools, ponds, streams, excavations, holes, depressions, open cess pools and/or septic tanks, privy vaults, fountains, cisterns, tanks, shallow wells, barrels, troughs, urns, cans, boxes, bottles, tubes, appliances, automobiles and parts, buckets, roof gutters, tanks of flush closets, reservoirs, vessels, receptacles of any kind, or other container or devices which may hold water.
"Larvae" shall mean the immature stages of mosquitoes living in water between the egg stage and the pupa stage.
"Pupae" shall mean the immature stages of mosquitoes living in water and is the last stage before the adult form.
"Larvicide" shall mean the practice of killing mosquito larvae with stomach poisons, contact poisons or petroleum oils.
"Rodent infestation" shall mean the observation of live rats, droppings, runways, tracks, burrows, nests and gnawings, singly or in combination.
"Rodenticides" shall mean the practice of killing rodents with poisons, most of which are mixed with baits.
"Rodent" shall mean for the purpose of this section those members of the rodent family referred to as rats and mice.
(B)
Prohibited acts.
(1)
It shall be unlawful to have, keep, maintain, cause or permit, within the limits of Columbus, Georgia any collection of standing or flowing water in which mosquitoes breed or are likely to breed, unless such collection of water is treated so as effectually to prevent such breeding.
(2)
It shall be unlawful to have, keep, maintain, cause or permit, within the limits of Columbus, Georgia any rodent infestation.
(C)
Prevention and control.
(1)
The methods used, or treatment directed toward the prevention of breeding mosquitoes in collections of water and for the prevention and treatment of rodents shall be of a type approved by the Columbus Department of Public Health. Approved methods of mosquito and rodent prevention and control may consist of one or more of the following procedures:
(a)
Mosquito control.
(1)
Remove from premises, vacant property, and areas all cans, boxes, broken or empty bottles, vehicle tires and all similar articles likely to hold water;
(2)
Eliminate collections of water by filling or draining to the satisfaction of the health officer or his representatives;
(3)
Larvicide collections of water by spraying with oil or otherwise treating the collected water with an effective chemical, and in a manner approved by the health department;
(4)
Free collections of water of all vegetative growth, floating debris, and other obstructions prior and in addition to other control measures as may be required to prevent mosquito breeding;
(5)
Stock collections of water with mosquito-destroying fish;
(6)
Empty collections of water every seven days; Screen collections of water with corrosion resistant netting of at least 16 meshes to the inch each way; or with other material which will effectually prevent the ingress, egress of mosquitos;
(7)
Such other methods as may be prescribed by the health department for special situations not covered above.
(b)
Rodent control.
(1)
Sanitate premises by maintaining good garbage storage in accordance with the Code of Ordinances of Columbus, Georgia, Article VII, Solid Waste Storage, Collection and Disposal;
(2)
Eliminate the accumulation of rubbish, leaves and grass clippings which provide rodent harborage; store firewood, lumber or other materials 12 to 18 inches off the floor or ground;
(3)
Store all foodstuffs both for human consumption and for animal consumption in rodent-proof containers 12 to 18 inches off the floor;
(4)
Rodent-proof all openings into buildings to prevent entry of rodents;
(5)
Treat rodent infestations with an effective rodenticide following manufacturer's directions, and in a manner approved by the health department;
(6)
Use traps if poisons fail or are too risky;
(7)
Such other methods as may be prescribed by the health department for special situations not covered above.
(D)
Evidence and violation.
(1)
The presence of mosquito larvae or pupae in collections of water shall be evidence that mosquitoes are breeding there, and failure to prevent such breeding within five days after notice by the health officer, his authorized agent, or representative, shall be deemed a violation of this section.
(2)
The presence of live rats or mice, droppings, runways, tracks, burrows, nests and gnawings, singly or in combination shall be evidence that a rodent infestation does exist, and failure to prevent such rodent infestation within five days after notice by the health officer, his authorized agent, or representative, shall be deemed a violation of this section.
(E)
Corrective action nonresidents. Should the property owner responsible for conditions giving rise to the breeding of mosquitoes or permits a rodent-infestation to exist, be a nonresident of Columbus, Georgia with no agent or representative in Columbus, Georgia, and said owner cannot be served with notice or summons, so as to subject him to recorder's court the health officer, his authorized agent, or representative shall notify such owner by mail, directing that the above stated conditions exists on his premises and that such conditions be corrected so as to comply herewith. If within ten days from the date of mailing the notice the owner fails to comply with the notice and this article, the health officer, his authorized agent, or representative shall correct and/or treat the mosquito breeding or rodent infestation, charging the total amount of the cost thereof to the owner, and such amount shall constitute a lien against the lot, as of the date of said work and if such amount is not paid within 30 days after completion of the work, the director of the department of finance shall issue execution against the particular real estate for which the service was rendered, and against the owner thereof, whereupon such real estate shall be levied on, advertised and sold under such execution, as in cases of levy and sale under executions for street improvement assessments due Columbus, Georgia with same procedure, including defendant's right to defense by affidavit of illegality and the right of Columbus, Georgia to purchase at the sale. No property shall be sold under the provisions of this section unless said sale is approved by resolution of the Council of Columbus, Georgia.
(F)
Inspection of premises. For the purpose of enforcing the provisions of this section, the health officer, his authorized agent or representative, may at all reasonable times enter in and upon any premises within his jurisdiction, to ascertain whether the provisions of this section or any other ordinance have been complied with; and in case it should be ascertained that the provisions of this section or other ordinances are not being complied with, he shall notify the owner of such premises, the owner's agent or tenants to correct the violations and to make them conform with the requirements of this section or other ordinances.
(G)
Enforcement. It shall be the duty of the Columbus Department of Public Health to see that provisions of this section are enforced and such department shall endeavor to secure all proper evidence and issue summons to defendants and witnesses in order that the recorder may be furnished with all essential and available facts upon the trial of offenses under this section.
(H)
Penalties. Any person violating the provisions of this section shall be punished as set forth in section 1-8 of this Code.
(I)
Partial invalidity clause. If any section, subsection, paragraph, sentence, clause or phrase of this section or the application of same to any particular set of persons or circumstances, should, for any reason, be held invalid, such invalidity all in no way affect the remaining portions of the section, and to such end the various provisions of this section are declared to be severable.
(Ord. No. 72-177, §§ 1, 2, 9-12-72)
Editor's note— Ord. No. 72-177, §§ 1 and 2, amended this Code by repealing former § 13-112 relative to the accumulation of water in open vessels in such a manner as to contribute to mosquito breeding, and enacted in lieu thereof a new § 13-112 as herein set out. Former § 13-112 was derived from Code 1914, § 734.
Sec. 13-113. - Weeds—Defined; prohibition.
(a)
Weeds shall be defined as common grasses and other non woody plants that tend to overgrow or choke out more desirable plants excluding all ornamental grasses and flowers.
(b)
It shall be unlawful for the occupant of any occupied lot of land in the city, or the owner of any unoccupied lot in the city, or for any agent or representative of any such occupant or owner, to permit or maintain on such lot any growth of weeds or grass to a height of over 18 inches. The provisions hereof shall not be applicable to that part of any lot of land located more than 100 feet from any building.
(Ord. of 10-5-36, § 1; Ord. No. 86-12, § 1, 2-4-86; Ord. No. 11-45, § 1, 8-30-11)
Sec. 13-114. - Same—Notice of violation; penalty for failure to remove.
When any weeds or grass are being maintained on any lot in violation of the preceding section, it shall be the duty of the public services director, or one of his assistants, to notify in writing the occupant of such lot, if it be occupied, or the owner thereof, if it be unoccupied, or their agents or representatives, allowing ten days to correct the violation. No further written notice or warning period to correct the violation shall be required during a period of 36 months after the initial written notice. If the violator or his representative or agent fails to cut and remove the grass or weeds so as to comply with the requirements of the preceding section, such party shall be punished as provided in section 1-8 of this Code. Any person violating any provision of this article shall be fined a minimum of $500.00 for the first offense and shall be fined a minimum of $1,000.00 for a second and each subsequent offense at the same property location.
(Ord. of 10-5-36, § 2; Ord. No. 86-12, § 2, 2-4-86; Ord. No. 91-74, § 1, 8-13-91; Ord. No. 06-80, § 1, 9-12-06; Ord. No. 21-059, § 1, 11-9-21)
Sec. 13-115. - Same—Notice to property occupants and owners; assessment of costs; execution and sale.
Where the owner or occupant of land violates the provisions hereof relating to removal of weeds and the owner or occupant, and such owner or occupant or his agent or representative cannot be served with notice or summons so as to subject him to punishment by the recorder, the director of inspections and code enforcement or one of his assistants shall notify such owner by certified mail, directing the weeds or grass on his lot be cut and removed, so as to comply with section 13-113 of this Code. The certified mail notice shall allow ten days from the date of receipt or a second attempt to deliver such notice to correct the violation. After this notice and during a period of 36 months, no further written notice or warning period shall be required. If the owner fails to comply with the provisions herein, the director of inspections and code enforcement shall have the weeds and grass cut and removed, assessing a fee plus a service charge (as recommended annually by the directors of public works and finance and approved by the city manager) for the work and charging the amount to the owner, and such amount shall constitute a lien against the lot, as of the date of such work, and if such amount be not paid within 30 days after the doing of the work, the finance director of the consolidated government shall issue execution against the particular real estate for which the service was rendered, and against the owner thereof, whereupon such real estate shall be levied on, advertised and sold under such execution, as in cases of levy and sale under executions for street improvement assessments due the city, with same procedure, including defendant's right to defense by affidavit of illegality and the right of the consolidated government to purchase at the sale.
(Ord. of 10-5-36, § 3; Ord. No. 91-74, § 2, 8-13-91; Ord. No. 03-64, § 1, 8-5-03; Ord. No. 06-80, § 2, 9-12-06; Ord. No. 17-52, § 2, 8-29-17)
Sec. 13-115.1. - Growing of kudzu vine regulated.
It shall be unlawful for any person growing kudzu vine within the city limits of the City of Columbus to allow such kudzu vine to spread upon the property of an adjoining property owner.
(Ord. No. 70-198, § 1, 8-3-70)
Editor's note— Ord. No. 70-198 did not specifically amend this Code hence codification as § 13-115.1 was at the discretion of the editors.
Sec. 13-116. - Wells, cisterns, dangerous holes; open; abatement, notice, costs assessed as taxes.
It shall be unlawful on any lot or parcel of land, for the owner to allow to exist any abandoned or open well, cistern, dangerous hole or excavation, and any person owning a lot or parcel of land in the city on which such a nuisance exists, who shall refuse to abate the same on notice from the health department to do so after five days' notice, shall be guilty of a violation of this code.
In case the owner of any lot or parcel of land in the city on which there exists an open well, cistern, dangerous hole or excavation, be a nonresident of the city, after public notice through the daily press or otherwise, specifying the nuisance to be abated, if such nuisance is not abated within one week after the notice, then to abate such nuisance and the cost or expenses thereof, such owner shall be assessed by the city as a tax against the property on which such nuisance exists and the tax so assessed shall bear interest at the rate of seven percent per annum until paid, and shall be carried on the regular tax rolls of the city and be collected in the manner provided for in the collection of general taxes.
(Code 1914, § 412)
Note— City of Columbus vs. Pearson, 83 Ga. 288, 9 SE 1102, held that city was not liable in damages to person falling into open sewer at night where such opening was lighted.
Sec. 13-117. - Complaint, hearing, order to abate.
(a)
Any person complaining of any nuisance shall complain to the recorder in writing, setting forth particularly the location and nature of the same, and how he may be affected thereby, whereupon it shall be the duty of the recorder to cause the parties creating or permitting such nuisance to be summoned to appear before the recorder's court as in other cases. After hearing the testimony in the case, the recorder may, in his discretion, order the party creating or permitting such nuisance to abate the nuisance in such manner and within such time as the recorder may prescribe.
(b)
When a nuisance as defined in article III of this chapter cannot be abated in a timely manner by other means, enforcement officials shall complain to the recorder in writing setting forth particularly the location and nature of the same, how it creates an unsafe condition, a public health hazard or a general nuisance to the persons residing in the vicinity, and detailing the actions taken that have failed to abate the nuisance. After hearing the testimony in the case, the recorder may, in his or her discretion, order the nuisance to be abated by the appropriate officials. The director of inspections and code enforcement shall have the nuisance abated, assessing a fee plus a service charge (as recommended annually by the directors of public works and finance and approved by the city manager) for the work and charging the amount to the owner or occupant of the property, and such amount shall constitute a lien against the real estate for which the service was rendered, and against the owner thereof, as of the date of such work, and if such amount is not paid within 30 days after the completion of the work, the finance director of the consolidated government shall issue execution against the particular real estate for which the service was rendered, and against the owner thereof, whereupon such real estate shall be levied on, advertised and sold under such execution, as in cases of levy and sale under executions for street improvement assessments due the city, with same procedure, including defendant's right to defense by affidavit of illegality and the right of the consolidated government to purchase at the sale.
(Code 1914, § 732; Ord. No. 17-52, § 3, 8-29-17)
Sec. 13-118. - Penalty.
Any person violating any provision of this article shall, upon conviction in the recorder's court, be punished as provided in section 1-8 of this Code. Forfeiture of a cash bond in lieu of appearance in recorder's court by the person cited for a violation of this article shall not be a bar to a subsequent prosecution for the same violation. Any person violating any provision of this article shall be fined a minimum of $500.00 for the first offense and shall be fined a minimum of $1,000.00 for a second and each subsequent offense at the same property location.
(Ord. of 12-5-33, § 17; Ord. No. 17-52, § 4, 8-29-17; Ord. No. 21-059, § 1, 11-9-21)
Sec. 13-119. - Same—Use and enforcement.
The city may employ and enforce any one or more of the remedies and penalties herein provided.
(Ord. of 12-5-33, § 18)
