Chapter 7 - AVIATION[1]

Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Editor's note— Ord. No. 17-48, §§ 1—4, enacted July 25, 2017, repealed Ch. 7, §§ 7-1—7-14, and enacted in lieu thereof a new Ch. 7, §§ 7-1—7-4, pertaining to the same subject matter. Former Ch. 7, §§ 7-1—7-14, was derived from Ord. No. 75-16, § 1, 3-4-75; Ord. No. 83-33, § 2, 5-24-83; Ord. No. 84-69, § 1, 7-17-84.

Sec. 7-1. - Definitions.
Unless from the context a different meaning is apparent as used in these regulations, the terms hereinafter used shall be defined as follows:
Airport shall mean the Columbus Airport.
Airport director shall mean the officer or representative of the commission having immediate charge of the airport.
Airport Operations Area (AOA) shall mean any area used for the parking, landing, takeoff or surface maneuvering of aircraft. The AOA is considered a restricted area and is off-limits to the general public.
Commission shall mean the Columbus Airport Commission.
FAA shall mean the Federal Aviation Administration.
Person shall mean an individual, partnership, firm, association or corporation.
Security Identification Display Area (SIDA) shall mean the area on the airport where employees and all other unescorted persons are required to display identification approved by the airport at all times. Prerequisites for this area are listed in 14 CFR Part 1542.
(Ord. No. 17-48, § 1, 7-25-2017)
Sec. 7-2. - Commercial enterprises.
(a)
The commission has the right to regulate all commercial enterprises using the airport, whether such operation is aeronautical or nonaeronautical in nature. No commercial operation of any kind or type shall be conducted on the airport unless specifically authorized by the commission.
(b)
A violation of this article shall be punishable in accordance with section 1-8 of this Code.
(Ord. No. 17-48, § 2, 7-25-2017)
Sec. 7-3. - Privilege of using the airport.
(a)
The use of the airport or any of its facilities in any manner shall create an obligation on the part of the user to obey all rules and regulations adopted by the commission.
(b)
The commission has the power to regulate the conduct of persons on the airport and shall, from time to time, adopt such rules and regulations as it may deem necessary for the operation of the airport and the protection of the traveling public. Such rules and regulations may be enforced by the airport director or his designee.
(c)
The privilege of using the airport and its facilities shall be conditioned on the assumption of full responsibility and risk by the user thereof, and he shall release and hold harmless and indemnify the commission, its officers and employees from any liability of loss resulting from such use, as well as claims from third persons using the airport.
(d)
The privilege of using the airport shall be upon the further condition that any person, persons, corporations, copartnership, or others desiring to use the same, shall furnish a policy of indemnity against personal injury and property damage in such sum as the commission shall require.
(Ord. No. 17-48, § 3, 7-25-2017)
Sec. 7-4. - Prohibited conduct.
(a)
(1)
No person shall disregard or violate any posted signs, fences, or barricades prohibiting entry upon restricted areas or governing the activity of the public while on airport property.
(2)
No person shall commit any disorderly, obscene, or indecent act, or commit any nuisance on airport property.
(3)
No unauthorized person shall enter any transformer vault or storage room not leased or used in common with the general public, except in cases of emergency.
(4)
No unauthorized person shall enter the airport's AOA or SIDA unless escorted by a person granted escort privileges by the commission.
(5)
No person shall deposit garbage, papers, refuse, or other forms of trash or waste except in receptacles provided for that purpose.
(6)
No person may walk in a picket line as a picket or take part in any labor or other demonstration or any part of the airport, except in or at the place specifically designated by the commission for such picketing or other permitted demonstration.
(7)
No person shall operate or release any model aircraft, balloon, kite, rocket, drone or other similar contrivance at or upon airport property without the prior written approval of the commission.
(8)
No person shall enter any public buildings on airport property with an unrestrained dog or other animal except for certified assistance animals without the prior written approval of the commission. Dogs or other animals, other than certified assistance animals, shall be restrained in a pet carrier or held by the owner, restrained by a leash or confined in such manner as to be under control at all times.
(9)
No person, except as allowed by law shall possess any firearm, knife, club, weapon, explosives or inflammable materials on airport property. Firearms properly packed and prepared for shipment on an aircraft are specifically exempted.
(10)
No vehicle shall be operated on the runway or taxiway of the airport without the prior written approval of the commission and then only with approval of personnel in the control tower.
(11)
No person shall exceed posted speed limits at the airport. Unless otherwise posted, the speed limit at the airport is 25 miles per hour except on the parking aprons, for which the maximum speed limit is 15 miles per hour.
(12)
Motor vehicle operators shall give the right-of-way to all aircraft moving under power or emergency response vehicles.
(13)
No commercial vehicle may operate on the airport without a commission issued permit.
(b)
In addition to and not in lieu of any restrictions on use of this airport promulgated by the commission, violations of this section shall be punishable as set forth in section 1-8 of this Code.
(Ord. No. 17-48, § 4, 7-25-2017)
