ARTICLE VIII. - CONVENTION AND VISITORS BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS[10]

Footnotes:
--- (10) ---
Editor's note— Ord. No. 80-51, adopted Apr. 29, 1980, did not specifically amend this Code; hence, codification herein of §§ 1—9 of said ordinance as Art. VIII, §§ 2-91—2-99, is at the discretion of the editor, and catchlines have been supplied where necessary to facilitate reference and indexing.

Sec. 2-91. - Board created; authority generally; composition.
There is hereby created a board of commissioners to be known as the "Columbus Convention and Visitors Board of Commissioners" who may be authorized by the Council of Columbus, Georgia to have use of buildings, grounds and equipment that are used or may be used for the promotion of tourism, trade, and conventions in Columbus. The mayor shall appoint, with the consent of the council, persons to fill all vacancies that may occur on said board at any regular meeting of the council after such vacancy occurs. The convention and visitors board of commissioners shall consist of nine persons, all of whom shall be residents of Columbus, Georgia and qualified by law to vote at elections for the mayor and members of the Columbus Council. In addition, the executive director of the commission shall serve on the board during his incumbency and shall be entitled to speak and be heard at meetings, but the executive director shall not be entitled to vote. In addition, the executive assistant to the mayor and the city manager shall serve on the board as ex officio members and shall be entitled to speak and be heard at meetings, but shall not be entitled to vote.
(Ord. No. 80-51, § 1, 4-29-80; Ord. No. 96-98, §§ 1, 2, 10-8-96; Ord. No. 04-40, § 2, 6-8-04)
Sec. 2-92. - Terms of office.
Except for the members of the first board to serve, the term of office of each member shall be for three years, and members shall continue in office until a successor is named and appointed. The selection for the first members of the board may be held at any regular meeting of council after the effective date of the act authorizing the creation of such board or at any regular meeting thereafter.
At such meeting the mayor shall appoint, with the consent of council, three members to serve until the first day of January next following and until each member's successor is named and appointed, three to serve until the first day of January thence next following and until each member's successor is named and appointed, three members to serve until the first day of January thence next following and until each member's successor is named and appointed, so that the term of office of only three members will expire each year. As the respective terms of office of each member of the board expire, the mayor shall appoint, with the consent of council, at a regular meeting held in July of each year prior to the expiration of the term of each member, a successor to each member of the board whose term expires in January following thereafter, who shall be selected for a term of three years, so that the term of three members of said board shall end on January 1 of each year and three members shall be selected to succeed to such new term.
Three commissioners shall represent the hotel/motel industry, three commissioners shall represent the restaurant/retail trade and three commissioners shall serve at large. Such representation of the new nine-member commission may be accomplished by the Columbus Council as current terms expire and in any order desired by the council.
(Ord. No. 80-51, § 2, 4-29-80; Ord. No. 91-05, 2-5-91; Ord. No. 95-49, 6-13-95; Ord. No. 04-40, § 3, 6-8-04)
Editor's note— Section 1 of Act No. 1204, Ga. Laws 1980, authorized the creation and abolition, by the council by ordinance, of the Columbus Convention and Visitors Board of Commissioners. Said act was approved by the governor on Mar. 25, 1980.
Sec. 2-93. - Oath.
The members shall take the following oath before entering into the discharge of their duties:
"I do solemnly swear that I am duly qualified to serve as a member of the Columbus Convention and Visitors Board of Commissioners; that I will, to the best of my ability, faithfully discharge all of the duties and obligations devolving upon me as a member of said Board without fear, favor and affection, and as will subserve the best interests of Columbus, Georgia, so help me God."
(Ord. No. 80-51, § 3, 4-29-80)
Sec. 2-94. - Quorum; authority to prescribe rules and regulations; records and reports.
A majority of the Columbus Convention and Visitors Board of Commissioners shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business. The board shall have the power and authority to keep rules and regulations for the conduct of its affairs, and shall keep a record of all acts and doings of said board in books to be purchased and kept for that purpose, which books shall be subject to examination at any time by persons authorized to do so by the mayor and Council of Columbus. The board shall make reports to the mayor and council on the operation and condition of the convention and visitors commission in accordance with any resolution that may be passed by the Council of Columbus, Georgia.
(Ord. No. 80-51, § 4, 4-29-80)
Sec. 2-95. - Selection of officers; authority re employees, salary and compensation.
The board shall have the power to annually select a chairman, vice-chairman, and secretary/treasurer for the board, and employ an executive director as may be necessary in the operation of the commission's activities, who in turn shall be delegated the authority and responsibility necessary to properly administer the business of the commission and its agencies created herein or at a later date, within policies set by the board and subject to its review. The executive director shall have full charge of the offices and also all of the employees, and he shall have authority to hire and terminate employees, subject to policies and procedures established by the board. The board shall have the authority to establish salaries and compensation which must be approved by the Council of Columbus, Georgia.
(Ord. No. 80-51, § 5, 4-29-80; Ord. No. 87-167, 12-1-87)
Sec. 2-96. - Purchases; contracts.
The board may purchase from time to time, such material, machinery, apparatus and appliances as may be needed for the purposes hereafter set forth. All contracts made by the board in excess of $5,000.00 shall be in writing and one copy of each contract shall be deposited with the clerk of council for the benefit of the mayor and Council of Columbus. All purchases and contracts shall conform to the limits of the board's budget. The board shall have the authority to require from any person, firm or corporation with whom they contract satisfactory secretary for the faithful performance of the contract according to its terms. No member shall be interested directly or indirectly in any contract relating to such operation without full disclosure to the board.
(Ord. No. 80-51, § 6, 4-29-80)
Sec. 2-97. - Annual budget.
The exclusive source of income for the annual budget of the board shall be revenue received from the hotel-motel tax, and all of the revenue derived from said tax shall be earmarked for the exclusive use of the board; but the board shall nevertheless submit its annual budget to the mayor and council for approval, and the board shall return to the treasury of Columbus, Georgia, any excess revenue derived from the tax or from income generated by the board's activities.
(Ord. No. 80-51, § 7, 4-29-80; Ord. No. 82-89, § 1, 12-14-82)
Sec. 2-98. - Compensation, refund of expenses; inspection of property and books by council.
The members of said board shall not receive any compensation for their services, but within the limits of the board's budget, shall be paid and refunded all reasonable expense which they may incur in the performance of their duties. The mayor and Council of Columbus, Georgia shall be authorized, by and through a committee of their own number, or by any person they may select, to inspect at their pleasure, the state and condition of the board of commissioners and the property thereto belonging, and also all books and accounts pertaining to the affairs of the commission and the board shall give and furnish them any reasonable facility and assistance in making such inspections.
(Ord. No. 80-51, § 8, 4-29-80)
Sec. 2-99. - Board deemed subordinate government branch; removal of members.
The board of commissioners shall be considered a subordinate branch of Columbus, Georgia, a consolidated city-county government, and shall conform in their actings and doings to all ordinances and resolutions that may be passed by the mayor and council of said government. The mayor and Council of Columbus, Georgia, may at any time remove any member which they may have elected to the board, if it shall satisfactorily appear, after reasonable notice to the parties, and hearing of the causes of complaint and answers thereto, if any should be offered, that the member whose removal is sought has been guilty of maladministration or neglect of the duties of this office, that the member's removal will be right and proper, and seven members of the Council of Columbus shall concur in such removal.
(Ord. No. 80-51, § 9, 4-29-80)
Sec. 2-100. - Replacement.
Wherever the words "executive director" appear in this article, they shall be replaced by the words "president and CEO." Wherever the words "chairman" or "vice-chairman" appear in this article, they shall be replaced by the words "chair" or "vice-chair."
(Ord. No. 04-40, § 1, 6-8-04)
