ARTICLE X. - LIGHTS

Sec. 20-10.1. - Lights; required.
It shall be unlawful for any person to operate any vehicle on any street at night, that is from sunset to sunrise, unless such person shall display lights, attached to such vehicle, as follows:
(1)
If an automobile, truck, tractor or similar conveyance, two headlights, showing white lights visible at least 200 feet in the direction in which it is proceeding; and one light on the left rear end of such vehicle, showing red to the rear; and a white light shining upon the license plate attached to the rear of the vehicle.
(2)
If a motorcycle or motorized bicycle or motor scooter, a headlight visible at least 200 feet in the direction in which it is proceeding; and one light on the left rear end of such vehicle, showing red to the rear; and a white light shining upon the license plate attached to the rear of the vehicle.
(3)
If a wagon, dray or similar nonmotorized vehicle, a light or lights visible from all directions, such light or lights to be attached underneath, on top, or on the side thereof.
(4)
If a nonmotorized bicycle, one white light visible at least 200 feet in the direction which such bicycle is proceeding.
(5)
This section, referring to lights, shall not apply to equestrians and led horses.
(6)
When a vehicle is parked or ranked on a street at night, that is between sunset and sunrise, a light on the left rear end need not be burning, but in such case there must be affixed at such place an attachment which reflects red to the rear, visible for a distance of 200 feet when such attachment has light cast upon it from the headlights of an approaching vehicle.
(Ord. No. 71-198, ยง 11, 7-20-71)
Sec. 20-10.2. - Dimming.
While approaching another vehicle coming from the opposite direction, the driver of any vehicle shall dim or shadow the rays of the headlights on his vehicle, so as to prevent the rays from dazzling or blinding the driver first dimming his lights.
(Ord. No. 71-198, ยง 11, 7-20-71)
Sec. 20-10.3. - Restrictions upon emergency lights.
It shall be unlawful for any person driving a vehicle upon the streets of the city to display emergency lights except as set forth herein:
(a)
Only units of the police department shall use blue lights.
(b)
Only units of the fire department and ambulances shall use red lights.
(c)
Only units of other public utilities shall use amber lights.
(Ord. No. 71-198, ยง 11, 7-20-71)
