ARTICLE I. - CREATION, FORM, BOUNDARIES AND SERVICES OF CONSOLIDATED GOVERNMENT

Sec. 1-100. - Consolidation of city and county; creation of consolidated government; name.
The governmental and corporate powers, duties and functions now vested in the City of Columbus, a municipal corporation created by an Act of the General Assembly approved December 19, 1928 (Ga. L. 1828, p. 153), as amended, and particularly but not in limitation as amended by an Act of the General Assembly approved August 5, 1921 (Ga. L. 1921, p. 800), as amended, are hereby consolidated with the governmental and corporate powers, duties and functions of the County of Muscogee, such consolidation of the governments of the City of Columbus and the County of Muscogee being pursuant to constitutional power granted by Article XI, Section I, Paragraph VII of the Constitution of Georgia of 1945, as amended, particularly by an amendment ratified at the general election held on November 5, 1968 (Ga. L. 1968, p. 1508), and in accordance with an Act of the General Assembly approved April 25, 1969 (Ga. L. 1969, p. 3571). Said consolidation shall result in the establishment of a single county-wide government with powers and jurisdiction throughout the territorial limits of Muscogee County, which single government shall supersede and replace the governments of the City of Columbus and the County of Muscogee and, to the extent provided in this Charter, shall also supersede and replace any public authorities and special service districts located and operating within Muscogee County. All areas of Muscogee County outside of Bibb City and the Fort Benning Reservation are hereby annexed as a part of the City of Columbus and shall become hereby a part of the City of Columbus which is hereby consolidated with Muscogee County, and the single government hereby created shall be considered for all purposes as being a consolidation of the governments of Columbus as defined hereby with the County of Muscogee, and the single government which supersedes and replaces the governments of the City of Columbus and County of Muscogee shall be considered as a consolidation of the City of Columbus with boundaries to the Muscogee County line with the exception of Bibb City and the Fort Benning Reservation. It is the express intention of the General Assembly in enacting this provision to declare as a city and as a part of the City of Columbus all the area of Muscogee County with the exception of Bibb City and the Fort Benning Reservation. Said county-wide government shall be a new political entity, a body politic and corporate, and a political subdivision of the State, to be known as "Columbus, Georgia, "(herein at times called "the consolidated government") having all of the governmental and corporate powers, duties and functions heretofore held by and vested in the City of Columbus and Muscogee County, and also the powers, duties and functions provided in this Charter. The consolidated government shall be a public corporation; shall have perpetual succession; shall, without the necessity or formality of a deed, bill of sale or other instrument of transfer, own, possess and hold all the properties (of whatsoever kind or nature), assets, contracts, franchises, things, rights, privileges, immunities, real and personal property theretofore owned, possessed, enjoyed or held by the City of Columbus and the County of Muscogee; and by the name of Columbus, Georgia shall be able to contract and be contracted with, sue and be sued as provided by this Charter, plead and be impleaded, in all courts of this State, and do all other acts relating to its corporate capacity; and shall be able in law and equity to purchase, have and hold, receive, enjoy, accept, possess and retain for the use and benefit of said Columbus, Georgia, in perpetuity or for any term of years, any estate or estates (real or personal), lands, tenements, hereditaments of whatsoever kind or nature within or without the territorial limits of the consolidated government, as may be devised, bequeathed, sold or by any manner conveyed or dedicated to or otherwise acquired by the consolidated government, and to use, manage, and improve, sell and convey, rent or lease same; and to have and use a common seal. From and after the effective date of the Charter, the political subdivision known as Muscogee County, Georgia, and the municipal corporation known as the City of Columbus, Georgia shall be merged into the said new political entity herein created.
Sec. 1-101. - Form of government.
The Consolidated Government provided by this Charter shall be known as the Mayor-Council-City Manager form of government. The Mayor shall be aided by City Officers, who, in the performance of their duties, shall be responsible and accountable to the Mayor except as otherwise provided in this Charter, by Georgia Law or by Rules of the State Bar of Georgia. Those persons who are deemed to be City Officers are set forth in sec. 4-300 of this Charter, as amended.
(Ref. of 11-6-12)
Sec. 1-102. - Boundaries of the consolidated government.
The territory embraced in the consolidated government shall be the total area of Muscogee County, as the same may be now or hereafter fixed and established by law.
Sec. 1-103. - Taxing districts.
(1)
The consolidated government shall, within the geographic limits thereof comprise two (2) or more taxing districts, (herein called "services districts"), wherein taxes shall be assessed, levied, and collected by the consolidated government in accordance with the kind, character, type, degree, and level of services provided by said government within said services districts, and the rate and manner of taxation may vary in any one (1) district from that in another or other districts. The powers, authority, duties, liabilities, and functions of the consolidated government may vary in any district from that in another or other districts, as provided by ordinance.
(2)
The Council of the consolidated government shall, pursuant to the applicable provisions of Article IX, Section 9-102 hereof divide the territory of the consolidated government into two or more taxing districts (herein called "services districts"); provided, however, at least one of such districts shall be known as the general services district and shall consist of the total area of Muscogee County as fixed and established on the effective date of this Charter or as thereafter modified according to law; and provided, further, the Council shall establish at least one or more urban services districts which shall embrace such territory or territories for which provision is made by the Council for additional or higher levels of services than are provided uniformly throughout the territory of the consolidated government on the effective date of this Charter. In the establishment of the first urban services district or districts, the Council shall hold one or more public hearings thereon at which all interested persons affected thereby shall have an opportunity to be heard. Notice of the time, place, and date of such hearings shall be posted on the consolidated government web-site at least seven (7) calendar days prior to the hearing and published digitally or in print in at least one newspaper of general circulation in Columbus, Georgia, at least twice during the week immediately preceding the date of the hearing.
(3)
The consolidated government is hereby empowered to exercise and provide within the General Services District and within any urban services district established by this Charter or by ordinance of the Council those powers, functions and services which have theretofore been exercised and provided by Muscogee County or the City of Columbus, or both; all powers, functions and services authorized by this Charter, and any amendments thereto; and all powers, functions and services which counties and municipal corporations, or both, are now or hereafter authorized to exercise under the Constitution and laws of the State of Georgia.
(4)
The consolidated government shall perform within the General Services District those governmental duties, functions and services which are generally available and accessible to all residents throughout the total area of said government.
(5)
The consolidated government shall perform within its urban services districts those additional, more comprehensive and intensive and higher levels of governmental duties, functions and services which benefit primarily the residents of such urban services districts.
(6)
Except as otherwise provided by this Charter, urban services districts of the consolidated government shall be created, expanded, merged, consolidated, or reduced only by ordinance duly adopted by the Council under such general rules, procedures, regulations, requirements, and specifications as established by the Council; provided however, no new urban service district shall be created or existing urban services districts expanded, abolished, merged, consolidated, or reduced without providing an opportunity for interested persons to be heard by publishing a notice of a public hearing on the proposed expansion, consolidation, reduction, or creation of an urban services district shall be posted on the consolidated government web-site fourteen (14) calendar days prior to the date of the hearing and published digitally or in print in at least one newspaper of general circulation in Columbus, Georgia, for a period of once each week for at least two successive weeks prior to the date of the hearing.
(HB 415, ยง 1, 4-24-13; Ref. of 11-8-22)
Sec. 1-104. - Limitations.
Nothing contained in this Charter shall be construed so as to affect the status of any incorporated municipality located within Muscogee County other than the City of Columbus, and the status or relationship that such incorporated municipalities bear to Muscogee County and the City of Columbus prior to the adoption of this Charter shall continue to the same extent with the consolidated government.
