ARTICLE VII - FINANCE AND TAXATION
DIVISION 1 - GENERALLY

Section 7.1 - Fiscal year.
The council shall set the fiscal year by ordinance. Said fiscal year shall constitute the budget year and the year for financial accounting and reporting of each office, department or institution, agency and activity of the city government, unless otherwise provided by state or federal law.
(Ga. L. 1977, p. 3541, Sec. 7.1)
Section 7.2 - Official bonds.
The officers and employees of the city, both elective and appointive, shall execute such official bonds in such amounts and upon such terms and conditions as the council may from time to time require.
(Ga. L. 1977, p. 3541, Sec. 7.2)
Section 7.3 - Annual budget; appropriations.
(a)
The officer responsible therefor shall prior to the last regular meeting of council in each fiscal year, at a time designated by the council, submit a budget estimate of the revenue and expenditures of the city for the ensuing year. This estimate shall be compiled from detailed estimates obtained from the several departments of the city on uniform blanks to be furnished by the city clerk. The classification of the estimates shall be as nearly uniform as possible for the main functional divisions of each department, which shall give, in parallel columns the following information:
(1)
A detailed estimate of the expenses of conducting each department, division or office, for the ensuing year;
(2)
Such other information as may be appropriate; and
(3)
Recommendation as to the amounts to be appropriated with reasons therefor in such detail as may be advisable.
(b)
Prior to the first regular meeting of each fiscal year, or as soon thereafter as may be done, the appropriation ordinance for such year shall be passed.
(c)
At the end of each fiscal year all unencumbered balances of appropriations in the treasury shall revert to the general fund and be subject to further appropriations.
(d)
Any ordinance may be passed as may be necessary to carry out these purposes, and the council, by ordinance, may amend the budget.
(Ga. L. 1977, p. 3541, Sec. 7.3)
Section 7.4 - Independent audit.
There shall be an annual, independent audit of all city accounts, funds and financial transactions by a certified public accountant selected by the city council. The audit shall be conducted according to generally accepted accounting principles.
(Ga. L. 1977, p. 3541, Sec. 7.4)
Section 7.5 - City depositories.
The city council, in its discretion, may, from time to time, name and appoint as city depositories of city funds any bank or trust company which has its deposits insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation.
(Ga. L. 1977, p. 3541, Sec. 7.5)
Section 7.6 - Contracting procedures.
All contracts shall be made or authorized by the council, and no contracts shall bind the city unless reduced to writing and approved by the council. All contracts, and all ordinances or resolutions making contracts or authorizing the same, shall be drawn by the city attorney or shall be submitted to him before authorization by the council. All formal contracts to which the city is a party shall be executed in behalf of the city by the mayor and attested by the city clerk.
(Ga. L. 1977, p. 3541, Sec. 7.6)
Section 7.7 - Additional debt authorized.
The city is hereby empowered and authorized to create the "additional debt" as provided for and in accordance with the terms and provisions of the Constitution of the State as set forth in Article IX, Section VII, Paragraph III with the right and authority to enact, adopt, and pass all ordinances and resolutions as may be proper and necessary to effect and carry out same.
(Ga. L. 1977, p. 3541, Sec. 7.7)
State Law reference— Ga. Code Ann., Sec. 2-6403.
Section 7.8 - Ad valorem tax levy generally.
The council shall be authorized to levy an ad valorem tax on all real and personal property within the corporate limits of the city for the purpose of raising revenues to defray the costs of operating the city government, providing governmental services, and for any other public purpose as determined by the council, and is also authorized to provide for sufficient levy to pay principal and interest on general obligations, and for support of the public schools. The city is hereby exempted from the provisions of Georgia Code sections 92-4101 through 92-4104 inclusive, providing a tax rate ceiling.
(Ga. L. 1977, p. 3541, Sec. 7.8)
Cross reference— School tax, Part II, Secs. 2.101, 2.209.1.
Section 7.9 - Millage rate, due dates, payment methods.
The council, by ordinance, shall establish a millage rate for the city property tax; a due date; and in what length of time these taxes must be paid. The council, by ordinance, may provide for the payment of these taxes by installments or in one lump sum, as well as to authorize the voluntary payment of taxes prior to the time when due.
(Ga. L. 1977, p. 3541, Sec. 7.9)
Cross reference— School tax, Part II, Secs. 2.101, 2.209.1.
State Law reference— Installment payments, Ga. Code Ann., Sec. 92-6307.
Section 7.10 - Other taxes.
The city and the board of education shall be empowered to levy any other tax allowed now or hereafter by state law or the Constitution of the State of Georgia.
(Ga. L. 1977, p. 3541, Sec. 7.10; Act No. 40, Sec. 2, 2/17/93)
Cross reference— School tax, Part II, Secs. 2.101, 2.209.1.
Section 7.10A - Additional tax for cemetery maintenance.
In addition to all other ad valorem taxes on real and personal property within the corporate limits of the city, the city shall levy and collect an additional tax of not more than one mill on all real and personal property within the corporate limits of the city. The proceeds of such tax shall be used solely for the purpose of repairing and maintaining any city owned cemetery.
(Ga. L. 1988, p. 4017, Sec. 7.10A)
Section 7.10B - Condemnation of private cemetery property.
Whenever the governing authority of the city desires to take or damage private property in any cemetery and finds or believes that the title of the apparent or presumptive owner of such property is defective, doubtful, incomplete, or in controversy or that there are or may be unknown persons or nonresidents who have or may have some claim or demand thereon or some actual or contingent interest or estate therein or that there are minors or persons under disability who are or may be interested therein or that there are taxes due or that should be paid thereon or concludes for any reason that it is desirable to have a judicial ascertainment of any question connected with the matter, such governing authority may, through any authorized representative, petition the Superior Court of Cobb County for a judgment in rem against the property or interest, condemning the same to the use of the petitioner upon payment of just and adequate compensation therefor to the person or persons entitled to such payment.
(Ga. L. 1988, p. 4017, Sec. 7.10B)
Section 7.10C - Contents of petition for condemnation.
(a)
The petition referred to in section 7.10B shall set forth:
(1)
the facts showing the right to condemn;
(2)
the property or interest to be taken or damaged;
(3)
the names and residences of the persons whose property or interests are to be taken or otherwise affected, so far as known;
(4)
a description of any unknown persons or classes of unknown persons whose rights in the property or interest are to be affected;
(5)
such other facts as are necessary for a full understanding of the cause; and
(6)
a prayer for such judgment of condemnation as may be proper and desired.
(b)
If any of the persons referred to in this section are minors or under disability, the fact shall be stated.
(Ga. L. 1988, p. 4017, Sec. 7.10C)
Section 7.10D - Order for hearing.
(a)
Upon presentation of the petition, the presiding judge may issue an order requiring the condemnor, the owner of the property or any of the interest therein, and the representative of any owner to appear at a time and place named in the order and make known their objections, rights, or claims as to the value of the property or of their interest therein, and any other matters material to their respective rights.
(b)
The day named in the order shall be as early as may be convenient, due regard being given to the necessities of notice.
(c)
The order shall give appropriate directions for notice and the service thereof.
(d)
It shall not be necessary to attach any other process to the petition except the order referred to in subsection (a) of this section, and the cause shall proceed as in rem.
(Ga. L. 1988, p. 4017, Sec. 7.10D)
Section 7.10E - Service.
All persons entitled to notice under the facts stated in the petition who are sui juris and within this state and whose residence is known shall be served by the sheriff with a copy of the petition and order as in other causes at law, unless such service is waived in writing. All other service shall be made in the method pointed out by Part 2 of Article 1 of Chapter 2 of Title 22 of the O.C.G.A., and all persons so served shall be deemed parties to the cause.
(Ga. L. 1988, p. 4017, Sec. 7.10E)
Section 7.10F - Additional notice.
In any cases where it seems to the presiding judge to be in the interest of justice and of more effective notice to cause additional notice or service to be given, it shall be within his discretion so to order. In such cases, the additional notice and service shall be made as ordered before the cause proceeds to final hearing. In cases where any taxes are alleged or supposed to be due or unpaid, the order shall direct that a separate notice to that effect be given the city tax collector or tax commissioner.
(Ga. L. 1988, p. 4017, Sec. 7.10F)
Section 7.10G - Appointment of assessors.
On the day named in the order made pursuant to section 7.10D, or at any other time to which the hearing may be continued, the court, having first passed on and adjudged all questions touching service and notice, shall, after hearing from all persons responding and desiring to be heard, make such order as to the appointment of assessors as shall conform most nearly to Article 1 of Chapter 2 of Title 22 of the O.C.G.A. and give all interested persons equal rights in the selection thereof. If, by reason of conflicting interests or otherwise, such equality of right cannot be preserved, the judge shall himself make such order on the subject as shall secure a fair and impartial assessment or may in his discretion order the issues tried in the first instance by a jury. In any event, it shall be within the power of the court to hear the cause as speedily as may be consistent with justice and due process of law.
(Ga. L. 1988, p. 4017, Sec. 7.10G)
Section 7.10H - Right to appeal to jury.
In case assessors are appointed, the same right of appeal shall lie from their award to a jury in the superior court, as is provided in Part 5 of Article 1 of Chapter 2 of Title 22 of the O.C.G.A. and upon like terms and conditions in all respects as are therein provided.
(Ga. L. 1988, p. 4017, Sec. 10H)
Section 7.10I - Award or verdict.
The award or verdict, as the case may be, shall have respect either to the entire and unencumbered fee or to any separate claim against or interest in the property, as the court may order. The award or verdict may be molded under the direction of the court so as to do complete justice and avoid confusion of interests. It shall be within the power of the court, upon payment of the award or verdict into the registry of the court, to adjudge a condemnation of the title to the property or interest therein and give such direction as to the disposition of the fund as shall be proper, according to the rights of the several respondents, and to cause such pleadings to be filed and such issues to be made as shall be appropriate for an ascertainment and determination of such rights.
(Ga. L. 1988, p. 4017, Sec. 7.10I)
Section 7.10J - No exclusion by default.
Nothing in sections 7.10B through 7.10I, this section, section 7.10K, or section 7.10L which refers to any ruling or order, or time for responding thereto, shall be held or construed to exclude any person by way of default from making known his rights or claims in the property or interest or in the fund arising therefrom. Any person making any such claim may file appropriate pleadings or intervention at any time before verdict or award, and such person shall be fully heard thereon. If any person after judgment of condemnation desires to come in and be heard on any such claim, he shall be allowed to do so. After condemnation is had and the fund paid into the registry of the court, the condemnor shall not be concerned with or affected by any subsequent proceedings unless upon appeal from the verdict or award as provided in section 7.10H.
(Ga. L. 1988, p. 4017, Sec. 7.10J)
Section 7.10K - Taxes on condemned property.
It shall be the duty of the city tax collector or tax commissioner notified as required in section 7.10F to make known to the court in writing the taxes due on the property or interest; and the court shall give such direction as will satisfy the tax liability and discharge the lien thereon.
(Ga. L. 1988, p. 4017, Sec. 7.10K)
Section 7.10L - Recordation.
When the condemnation is fully completed, the award, whether made by assessors or by the verdict of a jury, together with the decree of the court based thereon and a full and complete description of the property or interest condemned or duly certified copies of such award, decree, and description, shall be filed and recorded in the records of deeds in the office of the clerk of the Superior Court of Cobb County. The clerk shall be entitled to the same fees for such filing and recording as are allowed by law for the filing and recording of deeds, said fees to be paid by the party in whose favor said condemnation is had.
(Ga. L. 1988, p. 4017, Sec. 7.10L)
Section 7.11 - Assessment of property for taxes.
All property subject to taxation for state or county purposes, assessed as of January 1 in each year, shall be subject to the property tax levied by the city.
(Ga. L. 1977, p. 3541, Sec. 7.11)
Section 7.12 - Collection of taxes by county.
The council may elect to provide for collection of city taxes by the county, and shall have authority to reimburse the county for the expenses of such service, as may be required.
(Ga. L. 1977, p. 3541, Sec. 7.12)
Section 7.13 - Collection of delinquent taxes.
The council may provide by ordinance for the collection of delinquent taxes by fi. fa. issued by the city clerk and executed by any person designated by ordinance under the same procedure provided by the laws governing execution of such process from the superior court, or by the use of any other available legal processes and remedies. A lien shall exist against all property upon which city property taxes are levied, as of the assessment date of each year. In cases of hardship, the council shall have discretionary authority to waive any and all penalties imposed by this charter on delinquent taxes.
(Ga. L. 1977, p. 3541, Sec. 7.13)
Section 7.14 - Failure to make returns or furnish information.
Council shall provide penalties for any taxpayer refusing to return property for taxation.
(Ga. L. 1977, p. 3541, Sec. 7.14)
Section 7.15 - Authority to exempt property from taxation.
The council shall have the right, power and authority to exempt any real or personal property from taxation, under such terms, restrictions and conditions as may be to the best interest of the city, and not inconsistent with the laws of the state, and shall have the right to fix the terms and conditions on which the same may be exempted and to enact such ordinances as may be necessary to accomplish such purpose.
(Ga. L. 1977, p. 3541, Sec. 7.15)
State Law reference— Exemptions not listed in constitution are prohibited generally, Ga. Code Ann., Sec. 2-4604.
Section 7.16 - Homestead exemption from education tax.
(a)
The homestead of each resident of the independent school district of the city who is 62 years of age or over and who does not have an income from all sources, including the income from all sources of all members of the family residing within said homestead, exceeding $6,000 per annum, shall be exempt from all ad valorem taxation for educational purposes levied for and in behalf of such school system.
(b)
No such exemption shall be granted unless an affidavit of the owner of the homestead is filed with the governing authority of the city, or with a person designated by the governing authority of the city, giving the age of the owner, the amount of income which he received for the immediately preceding calendar year, the income which the members of his family residing within the homestead received for such period, and such other additional information relative to receiving the benefits of the exemption granted by this section as will enable the governing authority of the city, or the person designated by the governing authority of the city, to make a determination as to whether such owner is entitled to said exemption. The governing authority of the city, or the person designated by the governing authority, shall provide affidavit forms for this purpose.
(c)
The exemption granted to the homestead within this section shall extend to and shall apply to those properties, the legal title to which is vested in one (1) or more title holders, if actually occupied by one (1) or more such owners as a residence, and one (1) or more such title holders possesses the qualifications provided for in this section. In such instances, such exemptions shall be granted to such properties, if claimed in the manner herein provided by one (1) or more of the owners actually residing on such property. Such exemptions shall also extend to those homesteads, the title to which is vested in an administrator. executor or trustee, if one (1) or more of the heirs or cestui que uses residing on such property shall possess the qualifications provided for herein and shall claim the exemptions granted by this section in the manner herein provided.
(d)
The exemption provided for by this section shall apply to all taxable years beginning after December 31, 1972.
(Ga. L. 1977, p. 3541, Sec. 7.16)
Cross reference— Authorized by Ga. L. 1973, p. 2287 codified at Sec. 5-202 in this code.
Editor's note— Only outstanding bonded indebtedness for educational purposes is covered by Subsec. (a). See Sec. 5.202 for the current state law provisions concerning homestead exemption.
Section 7.17 - Executions; how issued, advertised, levied; method of sales.
Execution for any taxes, fines, licenses, fees, assessments, forfeitures, or demands due to the city, or its corporate authorities, against any person or against any specific property subject thereto, shall be issued by the city clerk. The council shall provide by ordinance for advertising of, method of conducting, and all other regulations governing, the sales by the chief of police under city executions.
(Ga. L. 1977, p. 3541, Sec. 7.17)
DIVISION 2 - PUBLIC IMPROVEMENTS

Section 7.18 - Authority to enforce.
The council shall have authority to pass such ordinances, and do such other acts as may be necessary to give full force and effective operation to the provisions of this division.
(Ga. L. 1977, p. 3541, Sec. 7.18)
Section 7.19 - Opening new streets.
The city, through its proper officers, shall have the right, power and authority to open new streets whenever the council may deem it essential and necessary for the public use and convenience to do so.
(Ga. L. 1977, p. 3541, Sec. 7.19)
Section 7.20 - Changing and relocating streets.
The city, through its proper officers, shall have the right, power, and authority to alter, change and relocate existing streets whenever the council shall deem such action to be necessary and essential to the best interests of the city and for the convenience of the citizens thereof.
(Ga. L. 1977, P. 3541, Sec. 7.20)
Section 7.21 - Abandonment of nonessential streets authorized.
Said city, through its proper officers, shall have the right, power, and authority to close and abandon such streets as the council may deem nonessential and unnecessary for public use and public convenience, provided that notice of such intention to close and abandon any street shall be given as hereinafter provided.
(Ga. L. 1977, p. 3541, Sec. 7.21)
Section 7.22 - Notice required in event of abandonment, relocation, etc., of streets.
No ordinance or resolution shall be passed relative to the closing and abandonment of any public street, or to alter, change, or relocate any existing street, until the council shall have published a notice once a week for two (2) weeks in the newspaper in said city and county in which the sheriff's advertisements are published, wherein it is stated the name of the street proposed to be closed and abandoned, and the name of the street proposed to be altered, changed and relocated, specifying the proposed changes and alterations, and fixing a time and place where all persons interested therein may appear and be heard relative thereto.
(Ga. L. 1977, p. 3541, Sec. 7.22)
Section 7.23 - Closing of drains.
The city through its proper officers, shall have the right, power and authority to close and abandon such storm drain structures as the council may deem nonessential and unnecessary for public use, public necessity, and public convenience, provided that notice of such intention to close and abandon any storm drain structure shall be given as provided in the case of abandonment of a street.
(Ga. L. 1977, p. 3541, Sec. 7.23)
Section 7.24 - Relocation, etc., of drains.
The city, through its proper officers, shall have the right, power, and authority to alter, change and relocate existing storm drains whenever the council shall deem such action to be necessary and essential to the best interests of the city for the convenience or health, or safety, or welfare of the citizens thereof.
(Ga. L. 1977, p. 3541, Sec. 7.24)
Section 7.25 - Authority to expend money for improvements.
The council in its discretion is authorized to use and expend any monies derived from improvement bond issues, or from general funds, to improve and pave the streets and sidewalks, curbs and gutters, and storm water drains, within the city as may be required for the general welfare of the citizens of the city.
(Ga. L. 1977, p. 3541, Sec. 7.25)
Section 7.26 - Acquisition of property.
The city, by and through its proper officers, shall have the right, power, and authority to acquire by purchase, gift, devise, dedication, and by condemnation proceedings, the title to such property as the council may deem proper, essential and necessary for the purposes of this division.
(Ga. L. 1977, p. 3541, Sec. 7.26)
Section 7.27 - Sale of nonessential property.
The city, through its proper officers, shall have the right, power and authority to sell and convey by sufficient deed all or any portion of any public street, alley or other public way or storm drain, which may be hereafter closed and abandoned, in all cases where the legal title thereto is in said city, but not otherwise.
(Ga. L. 1977, p. 3541, Sec. 7.27)
Section 7.28 - Improvement assessments authorized.
The council is hereby authorized and empowered to construct and improve any sidewalk, street, avenue, public alley, other public place, or any portion thereof, upon petition therefor as hereinafter provided, by paving, repaving, curbing, guttering and draining the same, with such form of improvements as may seem proper, and to construct and improve any storm water drain through any public or private property, and assess the cost thereof upon abutting owners thereof, and any person owning, operating or controlling a railroad tract thereon.
(Ga. L. 1977, p. 3541, Sec. 7.28)
Section 7.29 - Street improvements under bond plan.
The council is authorized and empowered to make such street and sidewalk improvements, as may be necessary, under the city bond revenue act, as provided in chapter 69, sections 401 to 434 inclusive, of the 1933 Code of Georgia; and all rights and powers therein conferred may be exercised by said governing authority, subject to the restrictions, terms, definitions and requirements as are therein set out. Said chapter 69, section 401 through 434, together with all amendments thereto are made a part of this charter.
(Ga. L. 1977, p. 3541, Sec. 7.29)
Section 7.30 - Method of making street assessment.
The cost of paving, repaving or improving any street, avenue, public alley, or other public place or portion thereof, including any storm drain, shall be assessed against the abutting property owners of each side of the street, avenue, public alley, or other public place or portion thereof so paved, repaved or improved, except that where a person has railroad tracks on said street, avenue, public alley, other public place or portion thereof so improved, the person owning, operating or controlling the same shall be assessed for the cost of paving, repaving or improving said street, avenue, public alley, other public place or portion thereof for the full distance that such tracks extend along said street or public place of such pavement, repavement or improvement, and for the full width of 16 feet where they have two (2) tracks thereon and 11 feet where they have one (1) track thereon, and after deducting the amount of this assessment against said track owner then the abutting property owners shall pay the total assessment against the abutting property on each side of the street or public place or portion thereof so paved, repaved or improved.
(Ga. L. 1977, p. 3541, Sec. 7.30)
Section 7.31 - Rate of street assessment.
The assessment against each abutting owner shall be pro rata and determined by the amount of the frontage of such owner upon the sidewalk, street, avenue, alley, or other public place, paved, repaved, improved or reimproved.
(Ga. L. 1977, p. 3541, Sec. 7.31)
Section 7.32 - Payment for manholes, drains and the like.
The city through its proper officers is empowered to install and construct in or upon any public or private property, the necessary manholes, catch basins, etc., grating and lay necessary drain pipe, or culverts, whenever, in its discretion, the public necessity may require it, the cost of which, with such engineering, surveying and grading as the city may deem proper to do, in or upon any public or private properties, which it is hereby empowered to do shall be included in the assessment provided for in this division with the cost for the improvement of all street crossings assessed against the abutting owners; provided, however, the council, in its discretion, may pay a part or all the expenses for the items or matters referred to in this section, should it appear to the council, in its sole discretion, the facts warrant or require said payment by the city with regard to any project.
(Ga. L. 1977, p. 3541, Sec. 7.32)
Section 7.33 - Improvements to be authorized by ordinances.
No sidewalk, street, alley or other place shall be paved, repaved or improved, until the passage of an ordinance authorizing the same, and no such ordinance shall be passed unless the council shall have first been petitioned in writing to pave, repave or otherwise improve the same by a majority of the persons or the owners of a majority of the front footage of abutting property, subject to assessment for the cost of paving, repaving, or otherwise improving the sidewalk, street, avenue, alley, public place or portion thereof proposed to be paved or repaved.
(Ga. L. 1977, p. 3541, Sec. 7.33)
Section 7.34 - Method of determining number of petitioners.
In determining the number of petitioners for any of the improvements under this division, each company or corporation shall be counted as one (1) person and a majority in interests of owners' undivided interests shall be counted as one (1) person; provided, in any case where the improvement is petitioned for by the owners of a majority of the frontage of abutting property, such owners shall be counted as a majority of the persons subject to assessment for the improvement petitioned for.
(Ga. L. 1977, p. 3541, Sec. 7.34)
Section 7.35 - Requirements for ordinances authorizing and assessing cost of improvements.
The ordinance authorizing the paving, repaving, improving or reimproving of any sidewalk, street, avenue, alley or other public place under the provisions of this division shall describe the general character of improvement to be made, the material to be used and such other matters as shall be necessary to enable the preparation of the proper plans and specifications for the improvement proposed to be made; and pending the consideration of such ordinance an advertisement shall be inserted at least one (1) time in the newspaper in which the advertisement of sheriff sales in the county are published before the final passage of such ordinance, such advertisement giving notice of the introduction of such ordinance, the sidewalk, street, avenue, public alley, public place or portion thereof to be paved, repaved or improved, the estimated cost per front foot; and it shall set forth that the property owners or others interested are notified to appear at a meeting of the council to be held at a time stated in said advertisement and make any objection that they may desire to urge against the passage of such ordinance; a copy of said advertisement shall be mailed to each person whose post office address is known 15 days before said meeting for hearing objections. At the time named in said advertisement, if any property owner or other person desires to make objection to the passage of such ordinance, full opportunity shall be given at said meeting and after hearing objections, if any are made to the passage of such ordinance, said council shall have the right and power, in its discretion, to order such pavement, repavement or other improvement to be made, or it may decline to pass said ordinance. After the passage of such ordinance any person subject to assessment for the cost of such improvement who does not, within 15 days thereafter, begin legal proceedings to prevent said assessment being made shall be conclusively presumed to have accepted the terms of said ordinance, and shall have agreed that the assessment provided for may be made. Thereupon it shall be the duty of said council to forthwith cause said improvement to be made in accordance with the plans and specifications as prepared. When completed an ordinance shall be passed, assessing the cost of said improvement as provided in this division. The assessing ordinance shall thereupon assert a lien upon each portion of the property abutting upon such paving, repaving or improvement for the amount of the assessment, against the owner thereof, to date back to the approval of the original ordinance and declare the same at the time said ordinance is passed.
(Ga. L. 1977, p. 3541, Sec. 7.35)
Section 7.36 - Assessment notice, payments.
After the adoption of the ordinance assessing the cost a written statement shall be furnished by the clerk of the city to each abutting owner subject to the assessment, herein provided for, showing his pro rata part of such assessment and it shall be the duty of such person, so notified, to pay said clerk within 30 days after the receipt of such statement, the entire amount of the assessment against such person; provided that any person so notified shall have the right to pay the assessment so levied in five (5) installments to be paid as follows: 20 percent within 30 days after the receipt of said notice and the remaining 80 percent in four (4) annual installments of 20 percent each, such deferred payments to be evidenced by promissory notes bearing interest from date until paid at the rate of seven percent (7%) per annum, payable annually, and to said council or order. The benefit of the payment by installment may be taken advantage of by any such property owner by giving notes for the deferred payments as herein provided at the time of making the cash payment. In the event any property owner shall desire to pay the balance due under such assessment after exercising the option to pay installments as hereinbefore provided at any time before the maturity of such installments, such party so wishing and offering to pay shall pay the principal and interest due up to date of payment.
The notice for assessment herein provided for shall be served personally upon each of said property owners (each agent of such company or corporation) residing within the limits of said city, and where such owner or agent is a nonresident of said city it will be sufficient service that said notice or statement be mailed to said property owner or agent at the last post office address of said owner or agent known to said clerk. In the event such owner or agent is not known it will be sufficient to serve said notice upon any person in possession of the property by reason of which such assessment is made.
(Ga. L. 1977, p. 3541, Sec. 7.36)
Section 7.37 - Execution; levy; sale.
If any person shall fail or refuse to pay to the clerk his assessment, at the expiration of the 30 days after the service of the statement, or in lieu thereof fully comply with the provisions relating to the payment of such assessments, said clerk will be authorized to issue execution bearing test in the name of the mayor of said city, and specifying the improvement for which it is issued, against the owner and also the property of such owner abutting upon the sidewalk, street, avenue, alley, other public place or portion thereof, so improved, which execution will be a lien against such property from the date of the ordinance authorizing said improvement and bearing interest at the rate of seven percent (7%) per annum from the date on which it is issued. Said execution when issued, shall be delivered to the chief of police, who shall execute the same by levying and selling the property described therein for the amount due, together with all costs that may accrue thereon. The law applicable to sales under other executions issued by said city shall apply as to the levy, notice, advertisement and sale made under said execution, and said chief shall have authority to execute deeds when the property is sold, and deliver the immediate possession thereof to the purchaser.
(Ga. L. 1977, p. 3541, Sec. 7.37)
Section 7.38 - Notice of lien.
The passage of the ordinance for paving, repaving or otherwise improving a street, or part of a street, alley, or other public place in said city, together with the ordinance assessing the cost of the same, and asserting liens against property abutting thereon, shall, when properly entered on the minutes of the council, be notice of such lien from the date of the approval of such ordinance for such paving as full and complete as if the same were in the shape of an execution and entered on the docket of the clerk of the superior court under the general registration law.
(Ga. L. 1977, p. 3541, Sec. 7.38)
Section 7.39 - Transfer of executions.
The chief of police shall be authorized to transfer and assign an execution issued under the provisions of this division and thereby vest the purchaser or transferee with the same rights as in cases of sales or transfers under other executions issued by said city.
(Ga. L. 1977, p. 3541, Sec. 7.39)
Section 7.40 - Illegality of executions.
Any defendant in such execution or owner of property against which the same is issued shall have the right to file an affidavit of illegality, upon the ground that the same has issued or is proceeding illegally, as provided by statute in cases of other executions, stating what amount, if any, is admitted to be due (which amount, so admitted, to be paid before said affidavit shall be received, and said affidavit shall be received for the balance); provided, any such defendant, who has not within 15 days after the passage of the ordinance authorizing such improvement, begun legal proceedings to prevent the assessment for the cost thereof, shall be presumed to have accepted the terms of said ordinance and agreed that the assessment be made; otherwise the law relating to illegalities shall apply as in other cases. When the chief of police shall receive said affidavit of illegality as herein provided for, he shall return the same to the clerk of the superior court where it shall be tried at the first term of the court under the law of this state that is applicable to the trial of illegalities, and subject to the penalties provided by statute where affidavits of illegality are filed for delay. Either party to such affidavit of illegality shall have the right of appeal as in cases of illegality originating from executions issued by the superior courts of this state.
(Ga. L. 1977, p. 3541, Sec. 7.40)
Section 7.41 - Street improvement certificates, authority to issue.
The council is authorized and empowered to execute paving certificates which shall be known as Street Improvement Certificates of the City of Marietta, Georgia, certifying to all the facts necessary to the validity and guarantee of payment of promissory notes given for street improvements and executions issued on account thereof.
(Ga. L. 1977, p. 3541, Sec. 7.41)
Section 7.42 - Certificates; ordinance providing for.
Said council is hereby authorized to provide by ordinance for the issuing of certificates showing the authority of said city for making any street improvement and the compliance with statutory authority by abutting property owners, and every other person interested in said improvements, in making the same, to wit:
(1)
Filing of the required petition for such improvements by the required majority;
(2)
Introduction of the ordinance authorizing the improvement;
(3)
Advertisement required by statute pending the consideration of the ordinance;
(4)
Adoption of the ordinance;
(5)
Agreement (conclusively presumed) of all persons interested in the passage of ordinances, authorizing the improvement and the assessment therefor;
(6)
Contract for said improvement;
(7)
Completion of said improvement;
(8)
Adoption of the assessing ordinance;
(9)
Statement by city clerk showing pro rata assessments;
(10)
Promissory notes given for deferred payments;
(11)
Executions issued against abutters and properties;
(12)
Registration of executions;
(13)
Authority of chief of police to transfer executions issued against abutters and properties for said assessments;
(14)
Illegality as in other cases, provided that any such defendant, who has not within 15 days after the passage of the ordinance authorizing such improvement, begun legal proceedings to prevent the assessment for the cost thereof shall be presumed to have accepted the terms of said ordinance and agreed that the assessment be made;
(15)
All and every other authority and fact necessary or required to show the validity of any promissory note made or execution issued, on account of any street improvement, and every authority and fact showing the power and authority of said city to contract for said improvement.
(Ga. L. 1977, p. 3541, Sec. 7.42)
Section 7.43 - Paving certificates, authority; terms, sale or pledge of certificates; funds, separation and use.
Said city is hereby authorized and empowered to issue paving certificates during the progress of street improvement work at such time and in such sums as the council may deem proper, the aggregate of which shall not exceed 80 percent of the cost of improvements that have been made at the time of the issuance of the same, which certificates shall draw interest at the rate of not exceeding seven percent (7%) per annum and be payable at such time or times as the council may fix during the year of the issuance of the same.
Authority is also hereby conferred upon the city to issue paving certificates.
After the completion of any street improvement contract, bearing interest at not exceeding seven percent (7%) per annum and payable at such time, or times, as the council may fix during the year of the issuance of the same, and in such sums as the council may deem proper the aggregate amount of which shall not exceed 80 percent of the amount payable to said city upon such assessments, less the aggregate amount of certificates outstanding, previously issued for said improvements under the provisions of this division.
The city is authorized to sell any of such certificates or borrow money thereon by pledging any of them as collateral security, for the payment of the cost of said improvements, and in either event of sale or collateral pledge of such certificates, or any of them, to pledge the faith and credit of said city for the payment thereof and to guarantee the payment of the same for and in the name of said city.
All money received from the sale or pledge of said certificates, or any of them, shall be kept in a fund separate from all others, and shall be applied to the payment of the cost of making the improvements on account of which said certificates were issued, and for no other purpose.
(Ga. L. 1977, p. 3541, Sec. 7.43)
