ARTICLE 4-4-14 - UNIFORMS, APPEARANCE AND ISSUED EQUIPMENT POLICY

4-4-14-010 - General appearance.
A.
The most noticeable expression of conscientiousness that a public employee can make is the care which is taken to present a clean, neat and presentable appearance to the general public. Employees will consider this in all aspects of their appearance and conduct.
B.
Hair styles, facial hair, jewelry and similar appearance factors will be displayed in a manner which does not interfere with the worker's safety or productivity or the safety and productivity of his coworkers.
(Code 1978, ยง 4-1081; Ord. No. 5575, 6/12/96)
4-4-14-020 - Uniforms.
A.
As the nature of the city's work varies greatly, it is recognized that what is appropriate for employees in one department may not be appropriate for another. Work clothes and/or uniforms provided for some departments generally set the standard for their functions. Determination of any employee's specific dress and appearance is a supervisory responsibility and will be treated as such; but any such dress or appearance standards prescribed by any department must be relevant to the work to be accomplished.
B.
All uniforms issued, including all required equipment such as clothing, hats, gloves, safety shoes/boots, etc. shall be worn on duty unless excused in writing by a licensed physician and approved in writing by the department head. Such excuse may be verified by an individual or entity appointed by the city/BLW. Such excuse shall be presented to the employee's supervisor. Nevertheless, employees will still be required to perform the essential functions of their position with or without a reasonable accommodation. If the wearing of safety equipment and/or the uniform are essential functions of the position, and the employee cannot, by physician's statement, wear the equipment and/or uniform, then the employee will be separated from employment. See Section 4-4-8-040. No part of the uniform or equipment issued by the city/BLW shall be utilized in any manner while off duty unless permission is granted by the appropriate department head. It is the employee's responsibility to maintain and protect issued uniforms and equipment.
C.
All uniforms and any issued equipment, tools, keys, etc., will be returned to the city/BLW upon separation from employment.
(Code 1978, ยง 4-1082; Ord. No. 5575, 6/12/96)
