CHAPTER 5-17 - TRAFFIC CALMING POLICY[2]

Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
Editor's note— Ord. No. 8228 , § 1, adopted July 14, 2021, repealed the former Ch. 5-17, §§ 5-17-010—5-17-120, and enacted a new Ch. 5-17 as set out herein. The former Ch. 5-17 pertained to the speed table ordinance, and derived from Ord. No. 7683, § 1, adopted Sept. 11, 2013.

5-17-010 - Policy overview.
Due to the increased congestion on the city's arterial and collector road network, combined with driver's desires to find shorter travel routes, drivers frequently seek alternate travel routes. Frequently, the routes include the city's local and residential neighborhood streets. Many of these streets have experienced increases in volume and speeding that has diminished the quality of life and the safety of residents, pedestrians, bicyclist, and other motorists.
Traffic calming, as defined by the Institute of Transportation Engineers (ITE), is the use of physical and psychological devices "to reduce the negative effects of motor vehicle use, alter driver behavior, and improve conditions for non-motorized street users." The use of traffic calming techniques may return the quality of life and safety in a neighborhood by alerting drivers to share the road, drive with more care, drive more slowly, and, in some cases, divert to more appropriate routes.
While each neighborhood and each situation may be somewhat unique, a systematic approach is taken by the traffic calming policy. Thus, the same definitions and criteria, as outlined in this policy, are applied in all cases. As a part of that approach, the transportation system of the City of Marietta needs to be considered as a whole. Solving a problem in one neighborhood or street should not cause another problem to appear somewhere else.
(Ord. No. 8228 , 7/14/2021, § 1)
5-17-020 - Minimum requirements.
For the installation of traffic calming measures to be considered, the following criteria must be met:
1.
Only public streets classified as residential with a speed limit of 25 miles per hour are eligible for the traffic calming policy. The streets shall have a posted speed limit of 25 miles per hour for a minimum of two years before being considered for this policy.
2.
Streets, as identified on the official City of Marietta Thoroughfare Map, classified as arterial, and/or collector, are not eligible for the traffic calming policy.
3.
Eligible streets must have suitable locations for devices. Speed table locations shall have a maximum slope of eight percent or less.
4.
The 85th percentile speed as measured by a traffic (speed) study must be ten miles per hour greater than the posted speed limit of the street. Consideration will be made if the 85th percentile speed is five miles per hour greater than the posted speed limit and there are recorded speeds greater than 15 miles per hour over the posted speed limit.
5.
The traffic study must show the traffic volume is between 300 and 3,000 vehicles per day.
6.
Consideration should be given to the traffic calming techniques that will not divert traffic onto other local and/or residential streets in the study area.
7.
Emergency vehicles access must be preserved. Consideration will also be given to school bus and sanitation vehicle access.
8.
Existing pedestrian and bicycle access must be preserved.
9.
The neighborhood traffic calming plan shall be designed using sound planning practices and engineering judgement.
(Ord. No. 8228 , 7/14/2021, § 1)
5-17-030 - Definitions.
For the purposes of this policy, certain terms and words are defined. Where words have not been defined but are defined in a subsequent section of this policy, those words shall have the meaning as defined therein. The following words, terms, and phrases when used in this policy, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning.
AASHTO means the American Association of State Highway and Transportation Officials.
Affected area means a geographic portion of a neighborhood consisting of all real property owners and residents whose quality of life as a resident in the neighborhood, and not necessarily as a traveler through the neighborhood, is being directly impacted by the cut-through or speeding traffic problem being addressed. The affected area will include all lots from which residents must traverse the traffic calming measure. The affected area will also include all lots from which residents may have an alternate route without traffic calming measures but whose lots have driveways that access the residential street which traffic calming measures are sought.
Department means the City of Marietta Public Works Department.
Eligible petitioner means the person whose name is recorded as the real property owner in the tax records maintained by the Cobb County Tax Commissioner and Board of Tax Assessors for the address listed on the petition that falls within the affected area.
Homeowners association (HOA) means a corporation, after January 2013, that is actively registered with the Secretary of State, has recorded covenants and restrictions with the Cobb County Clerk of Superior Court, and requires dues for all lots within a subdivision. Prior to January 2013, a corporation that has submitted to the Property Owner Association Act (O.C.G.A § 44-3-220 et seq.).
Initiator means a real property owner or resident who has initiated a request for traffic calming measures and/or has assumed a primary role in circulating the subsequent traffic calming petition and undertakes to serve as the city's sole contact with respect to the progress of any subsequent traffic study and traffic calming petition.
I.T.E. means the Institute of Transportation Engineers.
Measures:
Active any traffic calming measure that modifies the geometry of the road or street and/or incurs substantial expense. Examples could include speed tables, chicanes, bulb outs, lane narrowing, etc.
Passive any traffic calming measure that does NOT modify the geometry of the road or street and/or incurs expense. Examples could include lane restriping for existing striping, signage, driver speed feedback signs, etc.
MUTCD the Manual on Uniform Traffic Control Devices.
Real property owners means homeowners or other real property owners as indicated in the tax records maintained by the Cobb County Tax Commissioner and Board of Tax Assessors.
Reference number means the number assigned to a completed initial interest request which meets the city's criteria for a study that will be used to determine the order in which traffic studies will be conducted.
Residential street means a section of city street that is bordered along the entirety of both sides by properties used for residential purposes except for properties adjacent to significant cross streets or having no constructed vehicular access to the affected area.
Sight distance means the length of roadway that is visible to a driver.
Topography means detailed features of the surface of land.
Traffic calming measures means those methods and processes, prescribed by any nationally recognized organizations, such as AASHTO, I.T.E, MUTCD, etc., that the city may use to reduce aggressive driving behavior that impairs the quality of life of its citizens in any neighborhood in which the posted speed limit is no greater than 25 miles per hour. Such measures include, but are not limited to bicycle lanes, center traffic islands/medians, chicanes, driver speed feedback signs, medians, speed tables, splitter islands, and striping and turning restrictions.
Traffic problem means any negative effects experienced by real property owners, residents, or the community as a result of traffic volumes, vehicle speeds, and driver behavior. Additional criteria could be considered by the public works director on a case-by-case basis.
Traffic study the process by which data pertinent to the flow, rate of speed and density of traffic, collected over a defined period of time, is measured and analyzed to determine its impact on the safety of citizens within a neighborhood or affected area.
(Ord. No. 8228 , 7/14/2021, § 1)
5-17-040 - Traffic calming process.
1.
Initial request will start the traffic calming process. This is not a request for a specific traffic calming device or measure. Selection of traffic calming devices/measures are recommended by the public works director based on the traffic data and engineering analysis performed by the city's professional staff.
2.
Public works will notify the respective councilperson of the initial request for the traffic calming process in their respective ward.
3.
Public works department will schedule and contact an initial meeting with the initiator/requestor to discuss the following:
a)
Application process.
b)
Traffic study process.
c)
Petition requirements.
d)
Estimated project expenses.
e)
Potential passive traffic calming solutions.
4.
Public works will determine the "affected area" for the proposed traffic calming measures.
5.
All applicable traffic studies must be approved by the mayor and council prior to conducting the applicable traffic study.
6.
Public works department will conduct the appropriate studies to determine the existence and extent of the problem.
a)
If the results of the study indicate there is not a traffic problem, the affected area will be informed in writing.
b)
Once the affected area is notified in writing that there are not any traffic problems in the affected area, no petitions will be considered by the city for the next five years from the date of the notification.
c)
If a major rezoning and land development occurs in the same affected area, the public works director may waive the five-year moratorium of a repeated petition.
d)
If the results of the study indicate there is a traffic problem, the public works staff will develop a traffic calming report that will include suggested active and passive measures and will proceed to step #7 below.
7.
Public works staff will schedule a neighborhood meeting to discuss study findings, suggested active and passive measures, definition and map of the affected area, and the petition process.
8.
Public works will prepare a preliminary design of the proposed active and passive measures.
9.
Public works will notify the real property owners and any other potential impacted residents in the affected area by U.S. Mail, posting signs at each end of the affected area, and other electronic notifications on the city website or social media sites, of the scheduled neighborhood meeting. This notification will include the date and time of the scheduled meeting, suggested active and passive measures, definition and map of the affected area, and the traffic calming process.
10.
Public works will conduct the neighborhood meeting and obtain feedback on the proposed active and passive measures.
11.
To show awareness and consensus for the proposed traffic calming plan, a petition must be submitted to public works with signatures of 70 percent of the real property owners approving the proposed plan.
12.
Public works shall verify the signatures on the petition and once verified, will develop a final project design and cost, based on the suggested active and passive measures.
13.
Final design and cost for any active measures will be presented to the city council for a mandatory public hearing, consideration/identification of funding sources, and approval/disapproval. The final engineering analysis for all active measures must include a report from the applicable emergency responders and Marietta city school system on the applicability of the proposed active measures and the affect it may have on their respective services.
14.
Funding available for the construction of traffic calming measures will be limited to the amount budgeted for traffic calming for that current fiscal year and allocated to the affected area in the order that a petition is approved by the city council. Any affected areas that are approved for the construction of traffic calming measures after the current year's budget has been expended will be funded out of future year's budgets with a funding source identified and approved by the city council in the order that a petition was approved by the city council.
15.
Passive measures and/or any needed modifications or temporary measures may be implemented and studied for effectiveness before active measures are installed.
16.
Upon city council approval and the allocation of funds in the budget, the traffic calming project will be implemented at the direction of the public works director.
17.
Within six months of the project installation, the public works staff will conduct follow-up studies to measure project effectiveness.
18.
In the case of street resurfacing, most existing active traffic calming devices may need to be removed for resurfacing to take place. However, existing active traffic calming devices will be considered as grandfathered and will be replaced following completion of the resurfacing project. No additional neighborhood funding or petitions will be required.
(Ord. No. 8228 , 7/14/2021, § 1)
5-17-050 - Removal of traffic calming devices.
If an affected area decides that they no longer want the previously installed traffic calming devices, the same procedure must be followed to obtain 70 percent support by petition as listed above for installation. The city council must approve all requests to remove traffic calming devices.
Active traffic calming devices should remain in place at least 12 months before being considered for removal.
If devices are removed, the road must also be brought back to acceptable standards. The City of Marietta reserves the right to remove any traffic calming device for any reason.
Once the petition process is complete and approved by the city council, the city has 60 days to remove the traffic calming device. Once the traffic calming device has been removed, the affected area will not be eligible for petitioning for additional traffic calming devices in the affected area for the next five years.
(Ord. No. 8228 , 7/14/2021, § 1)
