ARTICLE XIV - HB, HIGHWAY BUSINESS DISTRICT

Section 1401. - Purpose and intent.
The Highway Business District is intended to provide adequate space for various types of general business uses that serve residents on a community level rather than neighborhood level, including the retailing of major goods and services of large scale, automotive and other types of more intensive commercial activities and establishments that rely on highway-oriented, passerby traffic. Institutionalized residential facilities are considered compatible uses in this district.
Section 1402. - Permitted uses.
1.
Any use permitted in the NS, Neighborhood Shopping Business District as enumerated in Section 1302 of these regulations, but not subject to any specified square footage limitations.
2.
Accessory uses and structures normally incidental to permitted principal uses.
3.
Automobile sales lots, new and/or used.
4.
Commercial recreation facilities, enclosed only.
5.
Contractor's establishments, building, electrical and plumbing.
6.
Convalescent homes, nursing homes, group homes, rehabilitation centers, sanitariums and similar institutionalized residential facilities involving professional care and treatment.
7.
Hospitals.
8.
Mini-warehouses and mini-storage facilities, where no individual storage stall or compartment exceeds 500 square feet of total floor area.
9.
Parking garages and parking lots.
10.
Residence for caretaker or night watchman.
11.
Restaurants, including drive-in and drive-through facilities.
12.
Retail trade establishments, enclosed, and open air businesses.
13.
Services, automotive, including service stations.
14.
Services, lodging.
15.
Services, miscellaneous.
16.
Transportation, communications and utility facilities.
17.
Warehousing and storage uses which occupy no more than 20,000 sq. feet of floor area.
18.
Wholesale and wholesale distribution establishments which occupy no more than 20,000 square feet of floor area.
Section 1403. - Conditional uses.
1.
Commercial recreation facilities, unenclosed.
Section 1404. - Area, height, density and placement requirements.
As specified in Article XXII.
Section 1405. - Uses permitted by special use permit (SUP).
The following uses may be permitted as a Special Use provided the applicant for such use is granted a Special Use Permit by the Mayor and Council after a public hearing:
(a)
Such other uses as the Town Council determines are consistent and compatible with the uses stated in Section 1402 of this ordinance and that are consistent and compatible with and promote the goals and purposes set forth in Section 1401 of this ordinance.
