ARTICLE XVII - O-P, OFFICE PROFESSIONAL DISTRICT

Section 1701. - Purpose and intent.
The Office-Professional District is intended to establish and preserve a compatible land use arrangement and provide suitable areas for the development of offices and professional enterprises, medical and dental facilities, and institutions. This district is also intended to apply to areas with a transitional character where such permitted uses provide a buffer or transition between more intensive non-residential and residential districts. This district is most appropriately located on non-local (collector and arterial) streets.
Section 1702. - Permitted uses.
1.
Any use permitted within the R-II, Moderate Density Residential District, as enumerated in Section 902 and 903 (not subject to conditional use approval) of these regulations and subject to the same restrictions except as indicated in Article XXII.
2.
College and universities.
3.
Convalescent homes, nursing homes, group homes, continuing care retirement communities, rehabilitation centers, sanitariums and similar institutionalized residential facilities involving professional care and treatment, provided such use is located on property fronting an arterial or collector street, that no such dwelling is located closer than one hundred (100) feet to a R-IV District boundary, and provided a copy of the approved state license or permit is filed with the Zoning Administrator prior to the issuance of a Certificate of Occupancy.
4.
Finance, insurance and real estate establishments.
5.
Lodges, clubs, fraternal institutions and other places of public assembly for membership groups, operated on a non-profit basis.
6.
Offices, medical, professional, insurance, real estate and general, but not involving retail sales of any kind.
7.
Personal care homes, family, group and congregate provided that no such buildings shall be located closer than one hundred (100) feet to a R-IV District boundary, provided a copy of the approved state license or permit is filed with the Zoning Administrator prior to the issuance of a Certificate of Occupancy.
8.
Single-family residence, operated as a principal use or in conjunction with one or more permitted uses.
9.
Schools, non-profit or operated for profit.
10.
Services, health.
Section 1703. - Conditional uses.
1.
Commercial recreation facilities, enclosed when developed in conjunction with one (1) or more permitted uses.
2.
Services, business.
3.
Services, miscellaneous.
4.
Services, personal.
Section 1704. - Area, height, density and placement requirements.
As specified in Article XXII.
Section 1705. - Uses permitted by special use permit (SUP).
The following uses may be permitted as a Special Use provided the applicant for such use is granted a Special Use Permit by the Mayor and Council after a public hearing:
(a)
Such other uses as the Town Council determines are consistent and compatible with the uses stated in Section 1702 of this ordinance and that are consistent and compatible with and promote the goals and purposes set forth in Section 1701 of this ordinance.
