ARTICLE XIX - M-II, HEAVY INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT

Section 1901. - Purpose and intent.
The Heavy Industrial District is established with the purpose of reserving certain areas with relatively level topography, adequate water and sewerage facilities, and access to arterial streets for industrial operations, which are objectionable by reason of the emission of noise, vibration, smoke, dust, gas, fumes, odors or radiation which could be considered a nuisance as defined under Georgia law, and that do create fire or explosion hazards or other objectionable conditions. Uses within this district may require substantial quantities of water for manufacturing operations and may require rail, air and water transportation. Conditional uses permitted in this district area primarily those known to create a severe safety hazard or to be major producers of air pollution, this being subject to state and/or federal environmental controls. This district is generally not suitable adjacent to residential districts.
Section 1902. - Permitted uses.
1.
Any use permitted in the M-I, Light Industrial District, as enumerated in Section 1802.
2.
Asphalt plants.
3.
Canning establishments.
4.
Ceramic production facilities
5.
Cold storage, frozen food lockers and ice manufacture.
6.
Concrete, cement, clay, mortar and plaster production.
7.
Extraction or removal of sand, gravel, top soil, clay, dirt, precious metals, gems, or other natural resources.
8.
Feed, grain, or fertilizer manufacture or storage.
9.
Food processing plants, including fish and poultry facilities.
10.
Manufacturing, processing and assembling of the following products: chemicals, floor coverings, glass, machinery, metals, rubber, textiles, tobacco, and wood, unless more specifically listed under conditional uses.
11.
Residences for a caretaker or night watchman.
Section 1903. - Conditional uses.
1.
Acid plants.
2.
Asphaltic concrete hot mix and cutback asphalt plants.
3.
Automotive and light duty truck manufacturing.
4.
Bulk gasoline terminals and bilk gasoline plants.
5.
Cement manufacturing plants.
6.
Coating of cans, coils, fabrics, vinyl, metal furniture, appliance surfaces, wire, paper, and flat wood paneling,
7.
Conical burners.
8.
Cotton gins.
9.
Cupola furnaces for metallurgical melting.
10.
External floating roof tanks.
11.
Fertilizer manufacturing plants.
12.
Fiberglass insulation manufacturing plants.
13.
Incinerators, including biomedical waste.
14.
Junkyards and used auto parts yards, subject to screening requirements of all four (4) side of the lot on which said use is located.
15.
Kaolin processing facilities.
16.
Landfills and materials recovery facilities.
17.
Parking garages and parking lots.
18.
Petroleum liquid storage.
19.
Pulp mills.
20.
Racetracks for animals or motor driven vehicles, provided the site contains a minimum of fifteen (15) acres.
21.
Recycling plants, including any processing activities.
22.
Solvent metal cleaning.
23.
Volatile organic liquid handling and storage.
24.
Wrecked motor vehicle compounds and wrecker services subject to screening requirements on all four sides of the lot on which said use is located.
Section 1904. - Area, height, density and placement requirements.
As specified in Article XXII.
Section 1905. - Prohibited uses.
Due to the small and limited geographical boundaries of the Town of Alto and the health hazards posed by the handling and disposal of biomedical waste, waste, solid waste, and hazardous waste, the following uses in the M-II, Heavy Industrial District, or any other district, are prohibited:
1.
Biomedical waste disposal facilities which includes, but is not limited to incineration or other biomedical waste thermal treatment technology facilities.
2.
All disposal facilities except municipal solid waste disposal facilities, which would include but is not limited to, private industry waste disposal facilities, solid waste handling facilities, solid waste thermal treatment technology, which are not municipal facilities.
3.
Hazardous waste facilities.
Section 1906. - Uses permitted by special use permit (SUP).
The following uses may be permitted as a Special Use provided the applicant for such use is granted a Special Use Permit by the Mayor and Council after a public hearing:
(a)
Such other uses as the Town Council determines are consistent and compatible with the uses stated in Section 1902 of this ordinance and that are consistent and compatible with and promote the goals and purposes set forth in Section 1901 of this ordinance.
