ARTICLE XI - MHP, MANUFACTURED OR MOBILE HOME PARK DISTRICT

Section 1101. - Purpose and intent.
The Manufactured or Mobile Home Park District is intended to provide areas for mobile home pads, which are leased rather than subdivided for individual ownership, that are served by public water, sanitary sewer and recreational amenities.
Section 1102. - Permitted uses.
1.
Mobile homes and manufactured homes within manufactured or mobile home parks, but not including manufactured or mobile homes on individual lots under separate ownership. Replacement of non-conforming manufactured or mobile homes in a conforming or non-conforming manufactured or mobile home park is permitted. Commercial uses or home occupations within individual mobile or manufactured homes are not permitted.
2.
Administration building and customary laundry and service buildings.
3.
Community centers and recreation facilities intended to serve residents of the district.
4.
Customary accessory uses and structures clearly incidental to one or more permitted uses and structures.
5.
Public and semi-public buildings and uses.
Section 1103. - Manufactured or mobile home park development regulations.
Development for manufactured or mobile home parks in the MHP District shall conform to the following regulations:
1.
Site Plan Approval Required:
All manufactured or mobile home park developments shall require site plan review and approval by the Governing Body and the review and recommendation of the Planning Commission, if established.
2.
Location and Frontage:
A Manufactured or Mobile Home Park District development shall be located on property with a minimum frontage of 200 feet on a public street.
3.
Street Requirements:
Interior roads serving the development shall be constructed to Town standards as specified in the Town of Alto Subdivision Regulations and, in addition, shall have a minimum pavement width of twenty (20) feet and shall have curbs and gutters. If dedicated to the public, the roads within the development shall have a minimum right-of-way width of forty (40) feet and shall have curbs and gutters.
4.
Lot Area and Width:
A Manufactured or Mobile Home District development shall have a minimum area of two (2) contiguous acres and a lot width of at least 200 feet.
5.
Density:
The maximum density of a Manufactured or Mobile Home District development is four (4) units per acre.
6.
Recreation and Other Community Facilities:
Not less than ten (10%) percent of the total area of the development shall be denoted to recreation and other community use facilities for those manufactured or mobile home parks designed for a park containing ten (10) or more manufactured or mobile homes.
7.
Perimeter Setback Required:
No manufactured or mobile home or other building or structure shall be located closer than thirty (30) feet to any manufactured or mobile home park perimeter property boundary.
8.
Perimeter Screening Required:
A landscaping screen consisting of dense evergreen trees and/or shrubs and having a minimum width of thirty-five (35) feet adjacent to all public right-of-ways and fifteen (15) feet along all other property lines shall be required. A minimum six (6) foot high, opaque fence or wall may be erected along property lines not abutting a public right-of-way in lieu of such landscaped screen. All perimeter screening must be maintained.
9.
Utilities
All manufactured or mobile home parks shall be served by approved public water and public sanitary sewer systems.
10.
Refuse Collection:
Each manufactured or mobile home park shall provide refuse collection pads at locations convenient to each manufactured or mobile home space, but in no case more than fifty (50) feet from the street serving each manufactured or mobile home.
11.
Space Numbering:
Each manufactured or mobile home space shall be provided with a sign, not less than one (1) square foot in area, which indicates the appropriate space number or address.
Section 1104. - Manufactured home and mobile home space requirements.
Each manufactured or mobile home shall be located on a separate pad in accordance with the following regulations.
1.
Space Size and Width:
Each manufactured or mobile home space within the development shall contain a minimum space size of 10,000 square feet and a minimum space width of one hundred (100) feet.
2.
Setbacks:
Each manufactured or mobile home shall be set back a minimum of ten (10) feet from the front space line or street right-of-way, twenty (20) feet from the side space line, and five (5) feet from the rear space line.
3.
Foundations and Tie-Downs:
Each manufactured or mobile home shall be supported by piers and foundations and shall be anchored to the ground in accordance with building code requirements to secure the manufactured or mobile home against uplift, sliding, rotation and overturning.
4.
Recreational Vehicles:
Recreational vehicles in manufactured or mobile home parks shall be limited to motor homes and travel trailers which have toilet, bath, and kitchen facilities and such use shall be limited to 120 days with no extensions.
5.
Building Code of Alto Requirements:
All manufactured or mobile homes must meet the standards and regulations of the Building Code Ordinance of Alto. The Building Code Ordinance of Alto shall be controlling over any provision of this ordinance as to the type and manner of construction of any building.
6.
Design Standards and Requirements:
All manufactured or mobile homes must meet the design standards and requirements for manufactured or mobile homes in Section 720.
Section 1105. - Official zoning map.
1.
Manufactured or mobile home parks, which are existing and as approved by the Governing Body, as of the date of adoption of this ordinance, may be indicated on the Official Zoning Map, as being in a R-III Zoning District.
2.
All manufactured or mobile home parks, after being properly approved as provided herein, after the date of adoption of this ordinance, shall be indicated on the Official Zoning Map, as being a MHP District.
Section 1106. - Uses permitted by special use permit (SUP).
The following uses may be permitted as a Special Use provided the applicant for such use is granted a Special Use Permit by the Mayor and Council after a public hearing:
(a)
Such other uses as the Town Council determines are consistent and compatible with the uses stated in Section 1102 of this ordinance and that are consistent and compatible with and promote the goals and purposes set forth in Section 1101 of this ordinance.
