Chapter 5 - FINGERPRINTING PROCEDURES

Sec. 5-1. - Authority.
This subsection is enacted pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 35-3-35(a)(1.2), the Georgia Umbrella Statute entitled, "Dissemination of Information to Public Agencies, Political Subdivisions, Authorities, and Instrumentalities." The fingerprinting procedures as provided by this chapter shall apply to any applicant or licensee in a specified occupation for which the Alto Town Council has adopted an ordinance requiring such applicants or licensees in said occupations or professions regulated by the Alto Town Council to be fingerprinted as a condition of submitting an application or obtaining or renewing a license.
( Ord. No. 2019-0312 , § 1, 3-12-2019)
Sec. 5-2. - Fingerprinting required.
An individual or an entity's designated principal seeking to receive an adult entertainment license, a massage establishment license, a massage therapist license, a license for the package sale of beer or wine, or both, and such other occupations or professions for which the Alto Town Council has adopted an ordinance requiring such applicants or licensees to be fingerprinted as a condition of submitting an application or obtaining or renewing a license, in accordance with said ordinances shall be fingerprinted as a condition of submitting an application for said license as provided herein. By filing such application, the applicant or licensee consents to the town obtaining their criminal history record, including but not limited to their national criminal history record, from the GCIC or the FBI, or both.
( Ord. No. 2019-0312 , § 1, 3-12-2019)
Sec. 5-3. - Access authorized; usage regulations.
The town is hereby authorized to access the national criminal history record information pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 35-3-35(a)(1.2) and pursuant to the following provisions:
(a)
Information obtained and handled for any purposes pursuant to this subsection shall comply with all Georgia laws and the Federal Privacy Act.
(b)
No information given as part of the request for a criminal history and no record obtained pursuant to this section may be entered on any data base.
(c)
No information given or obtained pursuant to this section shall be subject to the provisions of the Georgia Open Records Act.
( Ord. No. 2019-0312 , § 1, 3-12-2019)
Sec. 5-4. - Administration; fees; procedures.
(a)
Applicant or licensee shall provide his/her fingerprints, which may be taken by the Town of Alto Police Department or may be taken by the Banks County Sheriff's Office or the Habersham County Sheriff's Office if the town police department is unable to do so.
(b)
The applicant shall bear the cost of:
(1)
Fingerprinting if carried out the Banks County Sheriff or the Habersham County Sheriff;
(2)
The charge by the GBI and the FBI for the criminal history record information at their latest rate, paid to the town by certified or cashier's check or money order; and
(3)
An administrative fee allowed by statute to be charged by the town, which shall be the maximum allowed by statute, which is currently $20.00, which fee shall include fingerprinting when carried out by the Alto Police Department.
(c)
Upon receipt of the fingerprints and the appropriate fees, the town will transmit said fingerprints and appropriate fees (unless a satisfactory billing arrangement has been entered into between the town police department and the GCIC and/or FBI) to the GCIC. As provided by law, the GCIC will compare the subject's fingerprints against its criminal file and submit the fingerprints to the FBI for a comparison with nationwide records, unless submission to the FBI is automatic pursuant to the use of live scan. The results of the FBI check will be returned based on its current procedure, presently being directed to the town police department if submissions are made manually to the GCIC, or electronically from both the GBI and FBI where submissions are made electronically to the GCIC.
(d)
In compliance with Federal Law 95-544, which provides for the rendering of a "fitness determination," the town will decide whether the record applicant has been convicted of, or is under pending indictment for enumerated disqualifiers, as set forth within the Code for the Town of Alto, Georgia.
(e)
A person who has consented to the town for a criminal history based on fingerprinting record may request and receive a copy of the criminal history record report from the town at no additional charge. Should the person seek to amend or correct the record, he or she shall be responsible for contacting the GCIC as to Georgia records and/or the FBI concerning records from other jurisdictions maintained in its file.
( Ord. No. 2019-0312 , § 1, 3-12-2019)
