Chapter 1 - GENERAL PROVISIONS

Sec. 1-1. - Designation and citation of Code.
The ordinances embraced in these sections shall constitute The Code of Alto, Georgia.
Sec. 1-2. - Definitions and rules of construction.
In the construction of this Code, and all ordinances, the following rules of construction shall be observed, unless such construction would be inconsistent with the manifest intent of the town council or the context clearly requires otherwise.
Bond. When a bond is required, an undertaking in writing shall be sufficient.
Code. The term "Code" means The Code of Alto, Georgia, as designated in section 1-1.
Computation of time. Except as otherwise provided by time period computations specifically applying to other laws, when a period of time measured in days, weeks, months, years or other measurements of time except hours is prescribed for the exercise of any privilege or the discharge of any duty, the first day shall not be counted but the last day shall be counted; and, if the last day falls on Saturday or Sunday, the party having such privilege or duty shall have through the following Monday to exercise the privilege or to discharge the duty. When the last day prescribed for such action falls on a public and legal holiday as set forth in O.C.G.A. § 1-4-1, the party having the privilege or duty shall have through the next business day to exercise the privilege or to discharge the duty. When the period of time prescribed is less than seven days, intermediate Saturdays, Sundays and legal holidays shall be excluded in the computation.
Day. The term "day" means a calendar day of 24 hours.
Delegation of authority. Whenever a provision appears requiring the head of a department of the town to do some act or make certain inspections, it is to be construed to authorize the head of the department to designate, delegate and authorize subordinates to perform the required act or make the required inspection unless the terms of the provision or section designate otherwise.
Gender. Words importing the masculine gender includes the feminine and the neuter.
Keeper and proprietor. The terms "keeper" and "proprietor" mean and include persons, firms, associations, corporations, receivers, trustees, personal representatives, clubs and partnerships, whether acting by themselves or through a servant, agent or employee.
Month. The term "month" means a calendar month.
Names of officers and departments. The name or title of any officer or department shall be read as though the words "of the town of Alto" were added to such name or title.
Nontechnical and technical words. Words and phrases are construed according to the common and approved usage of the language, but technical words and phrases and such others as may have acquired a peculiar and appropriate meaning in law shall be construed and understood according to such meaning.
Number. The singular includes the plural, and the plural includes the singular number.
O.C.G.A. The abbreviation "O.C.G.A." means the Official Code of Georgia Annotated, as amended.
Or, and. The term "or" may be read "and," and the term "and" may be read "or," if the sense requires it.
Owner. The term "owner," when applied to a building or land shall include any part owner, joint owner, tenant in common, tenant in partnership, or joint tenant, of the whole or a part of such building or land.
Penal ordinances. The rules of construction and definitions of words as contained in the penal code of the state, insofar as they can be made applicable, are hereby adopted as governing the penal ordinances of the town.
Person. The term "person" extends and is applied to firms, companies, partnerships, associations, organizations and bodies politic and corporate, or any combination thereof or any group of individuals acting as a unit, as well as to individuals.
Personal property. The term "personal property" includes every species of property except real property.
Preceding, following. The terms "preceding" and "following" mean next before and next after, respectively.
Premises. Whenever the term "premises" is used, it shall mean place or places.
Property. The term "property" includes lands, tenements and hereditaments.
Public place. The term "public place" means any park, cemetery, schoolyard or adjacent open space adjacent thereto, or any area available and/or accessible to the public, regardless of whether privately or publicly owned.
Real property. The term "real property" includes lands, tenements and hereditaments.
Residence. The term "residence" is construed to mean the place adopted by a person as his place of habitation, and to which, whenever he is absent, he has the intention of returning. When a person eats at one place and sleeps at another, the place where such person sleeps shall be deemed his residence.
Schedule of fees and charges. The term "schedule of fees and charges" means the official consolidated list maintained in the town clerk's office, which lists rates for utility or other public enterprises, fees of any nature, deposit amounts and various charges as determined from time to time by the town council.
Shall, may. The term "shall" is mandatory; the term "may" is permissive.
Sidewalk. The term "sidewalk" means any portion of a street between the curbline and the adjacent property line, intended for the use of pedestrians, but shall not include any unimproved areas between the curbline and improved walkways.
Signature and subscription. The terms "signature" and "subscription," include a mark when the person cannot write.
State andthe state. The terms "state" and "the state" mean the State of Georgia.
Street. The term "street" means and includes any public way, road, highway, street, avenue, boulevard, parkway, alley, lane, viaduct or bridge and their approaches within the town.
Tenant andoccupant. The terms "tenant" and "occupant," when applied to a building or land, include any person who occupies the whole or a part of such building or land, whether alone or with others.
Tense. The term "tense" used in the past or present tense includes the future as well as the past and present.
Town. The term "town" shall mean the Town of Alto, Georgia.
Town council, council. The terms "town council" and the "council" mean the town council of the town of Alto, Georgia.
Week. The term "week" is construed to mean a calendar week of seven days.
Written and in writing. The terms "written" and "in writing" includes printing and any other mode of representing words or letters.
Year. The term "year" means a calendar year.
State Law reference— Computation of time, O.C.G.A. § 1-3-1; construction of definitions, O.C.G.A. § 1-3-2; meaning of certain words, O.C.G.A. § 1-3-3.
Sec. 1-3. - Catchlines of sections, history notes and references.
The catchlines of sections of this Code printed in boldface type, italics, or otherwise, are intended as mere catchwords to indicate the contents of the section, and shall not be deemed or taken to be titles of such sections, nor as any part of the section, nor, unless expressly so provided, shall they be so deemed when any of such sections, including the catchlines, are amended or reenacted. The history notes appearing in parentheses after each section and the references and editor's notes scattered throughout the Code are for the benefit of the user of the Code and shall have no legal effect.
State Law reference— Notes and catchlines of code sections not part of law, O.C.G.A. § 1-1-7.
Sec. 1-4. - Effective date of ordinances.
Ordinances that do not provide for their taking effect at a different time shall take effect immediately after their passage.
Sec. 1-5. - Effect of repeal or expiration of ordinance.
(a)
The repeal of an ordinance, or its expiration by virtue of any provision contained in this ordinance, shall not affect any right accrued or any offense committed, any penalty or punishment incurred or any proceeding commenced before the repeal took effect or the ordinance expired.
(b)
When an ordinance that repealed another shall itself be repealed, the previous ordinance shall not be revived without express words to that effect.
Sec. 1-6. - Amendments of Code; effect of new ordinances; amendatory language.
(a)
Amendments to the Code shall be made by amending such provisions by specific reference to the section number of this Code in the following language: "That Section _______ of The Code of Alto, Georgia is hereby amended to read as follows:…." The new provisions shall then be set out in full as desired.
(b)
In the event a new section not heretofore existing in the Code is to be added, the following language shall be used: "That The Code of Alto, Georgia is hereby amended by adding a section to be number _______ which said section reads as follows:…." The new section shall then be set out in full as desired.
Sec. 1-7. - Supplementation of Code.
(a)
By contract or by town personnel, supplements to this Code shall be prepared at least on an annual basis. A supplement to the Code shall include all substantive, permanent and general parts of ordinances passed by the town council during the period covered by the supplement and all changes made by the supplement in the Code. The pages of a supplement shall be so numbered that they will fit properly into the Code and will, where necessary, replace pages which have become obsolete or partially obsolete. The new pages shall be so prepared that, when they have been inserted, the Code will be current through the date of the adoption of the latest ordinance included in the supplement.
(b)
In preparing a supplement to this Code, all portions of the Code that have been repealed shall be excluded from the Code by the omission thereof from reprinted pages.
(c)
When preparing a supplement to this Code, the codifier (meaning the person authorized to prepare the supplement) may make formal, nonsubstantive changes in ordinances and parts of ordinances included in the supplement, insofar as it is necessary to do so to embody them into a unified code. For example, the codifier may:
(1)
Organize the ordinance material into appropriate subdivisions;
(2)
Provide appropriate catchlines, headings and titles for sections and other subdivisions of the Code printed in the supplement, and make changes in such catchlines, headings and titles;
(3)
Assign appropriate numbers to sections and other subdivisions to be inserted in the Code and, where necessary to accommodate new material, change existing section or other subdivision numbers;
(4)
Change the words "this ordinance" or words of the same meaning to "this chapter," "this article," "this division," etc., as the case may be, or to "sections _______ to _______" (inserting section numbers to indicate the sections of the Code which embody the substantive sections of the ordinance incorporated into the Code);
(5)
Make other nonsubstantive changes necessary to preserve the original meanings of ordinance sections inserted into the Code; but in no case shall the codifier make any change in the meaning or effect of ordinance material included in the supplement or already embodied in the Code.
Sec. 1-8. - Altering Code.
It shall be unlawful for any person in the town to change or amend by additions or deletions, any part or portion of this Code, or to insert or delete pages, or portions of pages, or to alter or tamper with such Code in any manner whatsoever which will cause the law of the town to be misrepresented thereby, unless so authorized by ordinance or other official act of the town council.
Sec. 1-9. - General penalty; continuing violations.
(a)
Whenever in this Code or in any ordinance of the town any act is prohibited or is made or declared to be unlawful or an offense, or whenever in this Code or any ordinance the doing of any act is required and the failure to do such act is declared to be unlawful, and no specific penalty is provided therefor, and unless otherwise provided by state law, the violation of any such provision of this Code or any such ordinance shall be punished by a fine not to exceed $1,000.00 and imprisonment in the county jail and work and labor on the streets or public works of the town, whether within or without the corporate limits, not exceeding 365 days, or both a fine and sentence of imprisonment and labor; and all sentences may be in the alternative and fines may be imposed with the alternative of sentence to imprisonment and labor if the fines are not paid. Each day any violation of this Code or of any ordinance shall continue shall constitute a separate offense.
(b)
The judge shall have the power and authority to:
(1)
Impose upon persons convicted in the court the fines provided for in this Code, the ordinances of the town, or as otherwise provided by law, with the alternative of other punishment allowed by law, if such fines are not paid;
(2)
Sentence such person to community service work; or
(3)
Impose a sentence consisting of any combination of the penalties provided for in this section.
(c)
The judge shall have full power and authority to declare the forfeiture of bonds given by offenders for their appearance before the court upon the offender's failure to appear as provided for in such bond. The procedure for the forfeiture of such bonds shall be as is provided for the forfeiture of bonds and recognizance set forth in O.C.G.A. § 17-6-70 et seq.
State Law reference— Additional penalty to be imposed in criminal and traffic cases to provide training to law enforcement officers and prosecuting officials, O.C.G.A. § 15-21-73; additional penalty assessments for jail construction and staffing, O.C.G.A. § 15-21-93; imposition of additional penalty for certain drug offenses, O.C.G.A. § 15-21-100; imposition of additional penalty for offense of driving under the influence of alcohol or drugs, O.C.G.A. § 15-21-112; display of drivers license for violations of laws pertaining to traffic and motor vehicles, O.C.G.A. § 17-6-11; punishment for misdemeanors generally, O.C.G.A. § 17-10-3; alternative punishments for violations involving a traffic offense, O.C.G.A. § 17-10-3(d); payments from revenues collected from fines and fees, O.C.G.A. § 47-17-60.
Sec. 1-10. - Severability.
It is hereby declared to be the intention of the town council that the sections, paragraphs, sentences, clauses, and phrases of this Code are severable, and if any phrase, clause, sentence, paragraph, or section of this Code shall be declared invalid by the judgment or decree of any court of competent jurisdiction such invalidity shall not affect any of the remaining phrases, clauses, sentences, paragraphs, and sections of this Code since the same would have been enacted by the town council without the incorporation in this Code of any such invalid phrase, clause, sentence, paragraph or section.
Sec. 1-11. - Provisions considered continuations of existing ordinances.
The provisions appearing in this Code, so far as they are the same as ordinances adopted prior to this Code and included in such Code, shall be considered as continuations of this Code and not as new enactments.
Sec. 1-12. - Ordinances not affected by Code.
(a)
Nothing in this Code or the ordinance adopting this Code shall be construed to repeal or otherwise affect the validity of any of the following:
(1)
Any offense or act committed or done or any penalty or forfeiture incurred or any contract or right established or accruing before the effective date of this Code;
(2)
Any ordinance promising or guaranteeing the payment of money for the town or authorizing the issuance of any bonds of the town or any evidence of the town's indebtedness;
(3)
Any contract or obligation assumed by the town;
(4)
Any ordinance fixing the salary of any town officer or employee or concerning employee benefits or job description;
(5)
Any ordinance dedicating, naming, establishing, locating, relocating, opening, widening, paving, etc., any street or other public way in the town;
(6)
Any appropriation ordinance;
(7)
Any ordinance, which by its own terms is effective for a stated or limited term;
(8)
Any ordinance providing for local improvements and assessing taxes therefor;
(9)
Any ordinance dedicating or accepting any subdivision plat or adopting any subdivision regulations;
(10)
Any ordinance describing or altering the boundaries of the town;
(11)
Any administrative ordinance of the town not in conflict or inconsistent with the provisions of this Code;
(12)
Any ordinance levying or imposing taxes not included in this Code;
(13)
Any ordinance establishing or prescribing street grades in the town;
(14)
Any ordinance regulating police rules and regulations.
(b)
No such ordinance shall be construed to revive any ordinance or part of an ordinance that has been repealed by a subsequent ordinance which is repealed by this chapter. All such ordinances are hereby recognized as continuing in full force and effect to the same extent as if set out at length in this Code.
