ARTICLE 13. - NC - NEIGHBORHOOD COMMERCIAL[5]

Footnotes:
--- (5) ---
Cross reference— Businesses, ch. 18.

Sec. 1301. - Purpose.
NC zoning districts are intended to establish and preserve small business areas of a limited nature that serve primarily the residential neighborhood in which they are located. Development standards for NC districts are designed to promote compatibility with the surrounding residential neighborhood. In order to promote such business development so far as is possible and appropriate in each area, uses are prohibited which would create hazards, offensive or loud noises, vibrations, smoke, glare, heavy truck traffic, or late hours of operation. The intent of this district is also to encourage the concentration of local business areas in locations proposed in the comprehensive plan to the mutual advantage of both consumers and merchants and thereby promote the best use of land at certain strategic locations.
Sec. 1302. - Permitted uses.
A.
The following principal uses are permitted in NC districts:
1.
Any retail business or service customarily serving residential neighborhoods which does not have continuous, unenclosed outside storage, and which is not otherwise listed herein.
2.
Gasoline service station that meets the following development standards:
a.
All structures, including underground storage tanks, must be placed at least 30 feet from any property line.
b.
Curb cuts must be located at least 15 feet from the intersection of street lines.
3.
Local, state, or federal government building.
4.
No property line on which any proposed church is to be established shall be located within 300 feet of the main entrance of an establishment which has been licensed for the sale or consumption of alcoholic beverages.
B.
The following principal uses are permitted as conditional uses in NC districts:
1.
Personal care homes.
2.
Day care facility.
3.
Dry cleaning outlets.
4.
Plant gardens and outdoor nurseries.
5.
Automated bank tellers.
6.
Cemeteries.
7.
Single-family dwellings.
8.
Multifamily dwellings.
9.
Manufactured homes.
10.
Retail businesses which allow only off-premises consumption sales of alcoholic beverages (subject to compliance with applicable Screven County codes).
11.
Utility substation meeting the following development standards:
a.
Structures must be placed at least 30 feet from all property lines.
b.
Structures must be enclosed by a woven-wire fence at least eight feet high with bottom of fence either flush with the ground or with a masonry footing.
c.
No vehicles or equipment may be stored on the lot.
d.
A 25-foot minimum buffer must be maintained along the side and rear property lines.
e.
Lot size may be reduced to not less than 0.5 acres for utility substations provided other development standards are met and, if a private well is to be placed on the lot, the lot size is sufficient to support a well consistent with the other provisions of this ordinance, other ordinances, and the laws and regulations of the State of Georgia.
12.
Communications towers as permitted and governed by the provisions of article 17 of this ordinance.
13.
Residential industrial buildings.
C.
The following accessory uses are permitted in NC districts:
1.
Those determined by the zoning administrator to be customarily incidental and subordinate to the principal use.
D.
The following accessory uses are permitted as conditional uses in NC districts:
1.
None.
E.
All accessory uses must meet the following standards:
1.
They must be located in the rear yard.
2.
They must comply with the setback requirements of this district.
3.
They may not be located in any front or side yard.
4.
Accessory buildings not attached to the principal building must be located at least 12 feet from the principal building on the lot.
F.
Prohibited uses: Mobile offices, automotive sales, service and/or storage, warehouses (including miniwarehouses), veterinary clinics and kennels, fast food and drive-in restaurants.
(Ord. No. 2003-06, § 4, 4-8-2003; Ord. of 4-13-2021(2), § 37)
Sec. 1303. - Development standards for NC districts.
The following standards are required within NC districts:
EXPAND
A. Minimum heated floor
area for buildings: 1,000 square feet.
B. Minimum lot area:
1. Private water and sewer: 30,000 square feet and as specified by the Screven County Health Department.
2. Public water and sewer: 12,000 square feet.
3. Public water only: 20,000 square feet.
C. Minimum lot width: 100 feet.
D. Minimum front yard setback: 60 feet.
E. Minimum side yard setback: 15 feet (interior)
35 feet (street).
F. Minimum rear yard setback: 35 feet.
  G.
Maximum building height: Maximum building height shall not exceed 35 feet. This height limit does not apply to projections not intended for human habitation— except for satellite, television, and radio antennas, to which this limit does apply. For buildings and structures with such projections, the minimum required yard must be increased one foot for every two feet (or part of two feet) of height greater than 35 feet.
H.
(Reserved).
I.
Sight distance: Within 30 feet of an intersection's pavement edge, plants cannot be of a type which will obstruct the view of vehicular traffic. There may be some flexibility in regard to the maximum trunk diameter when protected by a guardrail or some other suitable type barrier beyond 30 feet from [the] intersection's pavement edge. Almost any type of planted vegetation is permissible.
J.
Applicability to land and buildings: No building, structure or land may be used or occupied—and no building or structure or part of a building or structure may be erected, constructed, reconstructed, moved, or structurally altered—unless in conformity with all of the regulations specified for the district in which it is located.
K.
Every use must be on a lot: No building or structure may be erected or use established unless upon a lot as defined by this ordinance.
L.
Multiple principal buildings on commercial lots: More than one principal building and its accessory buildings may be erected on a lot in a NC zoning district, except for single-family dwellings.
M.
Open space not to be encroached upon: No open space may be encroached upon or reduced in any manner except in conformity with the yard, setback, off-street parking spaces, and other such required development standards contained in the ordinance. Shrubbery, driveways, retaining walls, fences, curbs, and buffers (see definition in article 2) are not considered to be encroachments of yards. Open space areas as required by this ordinance must be permanently maintained as open space in accordance with the requirements of this ordinance.
N.
Reduction of yards or lot area: Except as otherwise provided in this ordinance, a lot existing at the time of passage of this ordinance may not be reduced, divided, or changed so as to produce a tract of land which does not comply with the minimum dimension or area requirements of this ordinance for the district in which it is located unless that reduction or division is necessary to provide land which is needed and accepted for public use.
O.
Lots with multiple frontage: In the case of a corner lot or double frontage lot, front yard setback requirements apply to all lot lines abutting a street.
P.
Landlocked lots: In the case of a landlocked lot (lot without direct access to a public street or road) lawfully existing as of the effective date of this ordinance, the property owner is entitled to one building permit, as long as all of the following requirements are met:
1.
No other principal building exists or is being constructed on the property.
2.
No other valid building permit has been issued prior to the effective date of this ordinance and is currently valid.
3.
The property was and continues to be under single ownership since the effective date of this ordinance.
4.
The property owner has acquired a 30-foot easement to a city-, county-, or state-maintained street or road, and the easement has been duly recorded and made a part of the property deed.
5.
In the event the property is divided, no additional building permits will be issued.
Q.
Street frontage: No principal building may be erected on any lot which has less than 30 feet of immediate frontage on at least one public street.
R.
Yards and other spaces: No part of a yard, other open space, off-street parking, or loading space required for another building may be included as a part of the yard, off-street parking, or loading space required for another building, except as specifically provided for in this ordinance.
S.
Substandard lots: Any lot existing at the time of the adoption of this ordinance, which has an area or a width which is less than required by this ordinance, is subject to the following exceptions and modifications:
1.
Adjoining lots in same ownership: When two or more adjoining and vacant lots within a nonapproved development with continuous frontage are in a single ownership at the time of application and such lots have a frontage or lot area less than is required by the district in which they are located, such lots must be replatted or reparceled so as to create one or more lots which conform to the minimum frontage and area requirements of the district.
2.
Single lot: When a lot has an area or frontage which does not conform with the requirements of the district in which it is located, but was a lot at the effective date of this ordinance, such a lot may be used for any use allowed in the zoning district in which it is located as long as all other requirements of this ordinance are met.
T.
Encroachment on public rights-of-way: No building, structure, service area, required off-street parking, or loading/unloading facility is permitted to encroach on public rights-of-way.
U.
Physical design standards: Minimum design standards for driveways, loading areas, and other such physical site improvements are contained in applicable development regulations of Screven County. Consult the zoning administrator for specific requirements.
V.
Off-street parking and service requirements: Minimum standards for off-street parking and service requirements are contained in the Screven County Standard for Off-street Parking and Service Facilities (appendix B [to this appendix]).
W.
Other applicable development regulations: Information concerning any other applicable development regulations may be obtained from the zoning administrator.
X.
Signs: Minimum design and location standards are contained in the Screven County Sign Ordinance. Consult that document [article 18 of this appendix] for specific requirements.
Y.
(Reserved).
(Ord. of 11-9-2004(2), § 26)
