ARTICLE 14. - [LI-]LIGHT INDUSTRIAL[6]

Footnotes:
--- (6) ---
Cross reference— Businesses, ch. 18.

Sec. 1401. - Purpose.
LI zoning districts are intended to establish and preserve physically and aesthetically desirable areas in which clean, low- intensity manufacturing activities may locate and be protected from the intrusion of incompatible land uses. By having such areas available, both new and existing industries may operate and undertake expansion of facilities with the least possible adverse effect on other types of activities which might be incompatible with manufacturing. The elimination of nonmanufacturing activities from LI districts benefits manufacturing activities by removing some possible obstacles to their smooth operation and expansion.
This district is intended for firms that assemble or fabricate manufactured products that are ready for retail sale. Processing of certain types of agricultural products is allowed in this district. Firms that utilize substantial quantities of water in manufacturing are not permitted in this district. All establishments in this district are subject to review to determine development of regional impact (DRI) status.
Sec. 1402. - Permitted uses.
A.
The following principal uses are permitted in LI districts:
1.
Manufacturing activity which does not cause injurious or obnoxious noise, vibrations, smoke, gas, fumes, odor, dust, fire hazard, or other objectionable conditions.
2.
Wholesale and warehousing operation.
3.
Building material yard which is entirely enclosed by a fence that is at least six feet high and screens the yard from view.
4.
Public garage.
5.
Repair garage.
6.
Off-street parking lot or parking garage.
7.
Armory.
8.
Cabinet shop.
9.
Cosmetic and pharmaceutical manufacturing.
10.
Distribution of products or merchandise.
11.
Dry cleaning or laundering establishment.
12.
Education or training facility.
13.
Electrical appliance and equipment sales and repair.
14.
Electronic manufacturing and assembly.
15.
Plumbing shop, other contractor, including open storage of materials when located in rear yard.
16.
Printing, publishing, reproducing establishment.
17.
Sign painting and fabricating shop.
18.
Local, state, or federal government building.
19.
Agriculture.
20.
(Reserved).
21.
Outdoor advertising sign.
22.
Veterinary hospitals, kennels.
23.
Pecan shelling plants and other related agricultural commodities.
24.
Establishments involved in canning fruits and vegetables, milling flour or meal from grain, preparing perishable baked goods, confections, and similar food products.
25.
Ministorage warehouse.
26.
Service establishments that cater to industry, such as advertising agencies, janitorial services, personnel agencies; data processing service; research, development and testing laboratories; private security agencies; rental and leasing services for all types of equipment.
27.
Establishments that manufacture: leather goods, glass products, concrete products, office machines, household appliances, jewelry, toys, sporting goods, surgical, medical optical instruments, heating and air conditioning equipment and machinery, dry cell batteries.
28.
Trade schools, technical schools, and training facilities.
29.
Restaurants, including fast food establishments.
30.
Sales of parts for automobiles, trucks, and other vehicles.
31.
Temporary commercial uses, such as but not limited to circuses and carnivals and auto auctions, provided that the following regulations are met.
a.
The sheriff's department approves of the temporary use with regard to access to the site and appropriate traffic control management while the activities are conducted.
b.
The county health department approves the temporary use with regard to potable water availability and the adequacy and number of sanitary facilities (e.g., portable toilets).
c.
The zoning administrator, after receiving approval from the sheriff and health departments, shall issue a temporary permit for said use, which shall not exceed 14 days and which may include conditions of permit issuance as may be necessary to protect the public interest and implement the requirements of the sheriff's and health departments; provided, however, that no permit shall be issued if the applicant, or the applicant's agents, or others so closely related to the current applicant as to constitute a common endeavor, has been issued a prior permit which use resulted in complaints indicating that the use was detrimental or potentially detrimental to the health, safety or general welfare of the citizens of the county and where, after reasonable inquiry into the complaints, the zoning administrator is satisfied that the issuance of a new permit and the requested use may reasonably be expected to expose the county to a similar threat.
d.
The sheriff's department and the county health department shall approve or deny their approval within ten days of an application for a temporary use. If denied, reasons for the denial shall be stated in writing. Within 15 days of the receipt of a completed application, the zoning administrator shall approve or deny the temporary use in writing to the applicant. If the use is denied, the zoning administrator shall state the reasons for denial in writing and provide said decision to the applicant. If the temporary permit is denied, an applicant may appeal said decision to the Screven County Superior Court by petition for writ of certiorari within 30 days of the decision.
B.
The following principal uses are permitted as conditional uses in LI districts:
1.
Airport, heliport.
2.
Newspaper or printing plant.
3.
Fabricating shop, such as woodworking, upholstery, or sheetmetal shop.
4.
Machine shop.
5.
Establishments requiring state, and/or federal permits.
6.
Utility substation meeting the following development standards:
a.
Structures must be placed at least 30 feet from all property lines.
b.
Structures must be enclosed by a woven-wire fence at least eight feet high with bottom of fence either flush with the ground or with a masonry footing.
c.
No vehicles or equipment may be stored on the lot.
d.
A 25-foot minimum buffer must be maintained along the side and rear property lines.
e.
Lot size may be reduced to not less than 0.5 acres for utility substations, provided [that] other development standards are met and, if a private well is to be placed on the lot, the lot size is sufficient to support a well consistent with the other provisions of this ordinance, other ordinances, and the laws and regulations of the State of Georgia.
7.
Communications towers as permitted and governed by the provisions of article 17 of this ordinance.
C.
The following accessory uses are permitted in LI districts:
1.
Those determined by the zoning administrator, subject to review by the planning and zoning commission, to be customarily incidental and subordinate to the principal use.
2.
Living quarters for a security guard or caretaker.
D.
The following accessory uses are permitted as conditional uses in LI districts:
1.
None.
E.
All accessory uses must meet the following standards:
1.
They must be located in a side or rear yard.
2.
They may not be located in a front yard.
3.
They must comply with the setback requirements of this district.
4.
Accessory buildings and structures not attached to the principal building must be located at least 12 feet from the principal building on the lot.
F.
Industrial performance standards:
1.
Control of noise: [The control of noise] shall be muffled so as not to become objectionable due to intermittence, beat frequency, or shrillness. Noise as measured at the street or property line may not exceed 60 decibels, and must comply with applicable requirements of the county's ordinances.
2.
Control of gases, smoke, dust, dirt and fly ash: Such emission shall in no manner be unclean, destructive, unhealthful, hazardous or deleterious to the general welfare. Such emission shall be in strict conformance with all applicable health laws as pertaining to air pollution and smoke abatement.
3.
Control of glare and heat: Glare and heat from arc welding, acetylene torch cutting or similar processes shall be performed behind solid walls or frosted glass adjacent to the structure concerned.
4.
Safety hazards: The storage and handling of flammable liquids, liquefied petroleum gases, and explosives shall comply with all governmental rules and regulations.
5.
Sewage wastes: Industrial sewage wastes shall comply with all applicable requirements of the governing body and the State of Georgia.
6.
Protective screening: A 25-foot minimum buffer is required where [a] lot in this district abuts any residential district, a minimum of ten percent of the total area of any development shall be devoted to green space.
(Ord. of 11-9-2004(2), § 27; Ord. of 4-13-2021(2), § 37)
Sec. 1403. - Development standards for LI districts.
The following standards are required within LI districts:
EXPAND
A. Minimum heated floor area for buildings: None.
B. Minimum lot area:
1. Unsewered areas: As specified by the Screven County Health Department, but in no case less than two acres.
2. Sewered areas: None.
C. Minimum lot width: 100 feet.
D. Minimum front yard setback: 70 feet.
E. Minimum side yard setback: 15 feet.
F. Minimum rear yard setback: 25 feet.
G. Maximum building height: Maximum building height shall not exceed 35 feet. This height limit does not apply to projections not intended for human habitation. For buildings and structures with such projections, the minimum required yards must be increased one foot for every two feet (or part of two feet) of height greater than 35 feet.
  H.
(Reserved).
I.
Sight distance: Within 30 feet of an intersection's pavement edge, plants cannot be of a type which will obstruct the view of vehicular traffic. There may be some flexibility in regard to the maximum trunk diameter when protected by a guardrail or some other suitable type barrier beyond 30 feet from intersection's pavement edge. Almost any type of planted vegetation is permissible.
J.
Applicability to land and buildings: No building, structure or land may be used or occupied—and no building or structure or part of a building or structure may be erected, constructed, reconstructed, moved, or structurally altered—unless in conformity with all of the regulations specified for the district in which it is located.
K.
Every use must be on a lot: No building or structure may be erected or use established, unless upon a lot as defined by this ordinance.
L.
Multiple principal buildings on commercial lots: More than one principal building and its accessory buildings may be erected on a lot in a LI zoning district.
M.
Open space not to be encroached upon: No open space may be encroached upon or reduced in any manner except in conformity with the yard, setback, off-street parking spaces, and other such required development standards contained in the ordinance. Shrubbery, driveways, retaining walls, fences, curbs, and buffers (see definition in article 2) are not considered to be encroachments of yards. Open space areas as required by this ordinance must be permanently maintained as open space in accordance with the requirements of this ordinance.
N.
Reduction of yards or lot area: Except as otherwise provided in this ordinance, a lot existing at the time of passage of this ordinance may not be reduced, divided, or changed so as to produce a tract of land which does not comply with the minimum dimension or area requirements of this ordinance for the district in which it is located unless that reduction or division is necessary to provide land which is needed and accepted for public use.
O.
Lots with multiple frontage: In the case of a corner lot or double frontage lot, front yard setback requirements apply to all lot lines abutting a street.
P.
Landlocked lots: In the case of a landlocked lot (lot without direct access to a public street or road) lawfully existing as of the effective date of this ordinance, the property owner is entitled to one building permit, as long as all of the following requirements are met:
1.
No other principal building exists or is being constructed on the property.
2.
No other valid building permit has been issued prior to the effective date of this ordinance and is currently valid.
3.
The property was and continues to be under single ownership since the effective date of this ordinance.
4.
The property owner has acquired a 30-foot easement to a city-, county-, or state-maintained street, and the easement has been duly recorded and made a part of the property deed.
5.
In the event the property is divided, no additional permits will be issued.
Q.
Street frontage: No principal building may be erected on any lot which has less than 30 feet of immediate frontage on at least one public street.
R.
Yards and other spaces: No part of a yard, other open space, off-street parking, or loading space required for another building may be included as a part of the yard, off-street parking, or loading space required for another building, except as specifically provided for in this ordinance.
S.
Substandard lots: Any lot existing at the time of the adoption of this ordinance, which has an area or a width which is less than required by this ordinance, is subject to the following exceptions and modifications:
1.
Adjoining lots in same ownership: When two or more adjoining and vacant lots within a nonapproved development with continuous frontage are in a single ownership at the time of application and such lots have a frontage or lot area less than is required by the district in which they are located, such lots must be replatted or reparceled so as to create one or more lots which conform to the minimum frontage and area requirements of the district.
2.
Single lot: When a lot has an area or frontage which does not conform with the requirements of the district in which it is located, but was a lot at the effective date of this ordinance, such a lot may be used for any use allowed in the zoning district in which it is located as long as all other requirements of this ordinance are met.
T.
Encroachment on public rights-of-way: No building, structure, service area, required off-street parking, or loading/unloading facility is permitted to encroach on public rights-of-way.
U.
Physical design standards: Minimum design standards for driveways, loading areas, and other such physical site improvements are contained in applicable development regulations of Screven County. Consult the zoning administrator for specific requirements.
V.
Off-street parking and service requirements: Minimum standards for off-street parking and service requirements are contained in the Screven County Standard for Off-Street Parking and Service Facilities (appendix B [to this appendix]).
W.
Other applicable development regulations: Information concerning any other applicable development regulations may be obtained from the zoning administrator.
X.
Signs: Minimum design and location standards are contained in the Screven County Sign Ordinance. Consult that document [article 18 of this appendix] for specific requirements.
Y.
Yards abutting railroads: Side yards and rear yards are not required adjacent to railroad rights-of-way.
(Ord. of 11-9-2004(2), § 28)
