Chapter 62 - SOLID WASTE[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Cross reference— Buildings and building regulations, ch. 14; environment, ch. 26; health and sanitation, ch. 38; manufactured homes, ch. 42.
State Law reference— Georgia Comprehensive Solid Waste Management Act, O.C.G.A. § 12-8-20 et seq.; local, multijurisdictional and regional solid waste plans, O.C.G.A. § 12-8-31.1; scrap tire disposal restrictions, O.C.G.A. § 12-8-40.1; yard trimmings disposal restrictions, O.C.G.A. § 12-8-40.2; Georgia Hazardous Waste Management Act, O.C.G.A. § 12-8-60 et seq.; Litter Control Law, O.C.G.A. § 16-7-40 et seq.; transporting garbage or waste across state or county boundaries without permission, O.C.G.A. § 36-1-16; littering highways, O.C.G.A. § 40-6-249; transportation of biomedical waste, O.C.G.A. § 40-6-253.1; solid waste management education program, establishment of Georgia Clean and Beautiful Advisory Committee and Interagency Council on Solid Waste Management, O.C.G.A. § 50-8-7.3; authorization to provide garbage and solid waste collection and disposal, Ga. Const. art. IX, § II, ¶ III(a)(2).

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 62-1. - Shortterm work program.
Pursuant to the Georgia Comprehensive Solid Waste Management Act of 1990, O.C.G.A. § 12-8-20 et seq., the Joint Solid Waste Management Plan Five Year Short Term Work Program 1999-2003 is adopted.
(Res. No. 2000-02, 12-1-1999)
Secs. 62-2—62-30. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - COLLECTION AND DISPOSAL

Sec. 62-31. - Purpose and intent of article.
(a)
The board of commissioners of Screven County, Georgia ("BOC") finds that the best interests of the citizens of the county will be served by the availability of adequate collection and disposal of solid waste in the unincorporated area of Screven County and those cities or municipalities which choose to be served by the county's solid waste management department, all in accordance with both federal and state regulation of the same, and to have the cost of the department be borne by the citizens who use the service.
Further, the BOC has determined that the most effective and appropriate means of providing adequate solid waste collection and disposal for the citizens living in the unincorporated area of Screven County ("county") and those living within incorporated areas which wish to be served by the county's solid waste management department, as more particularly defined below, ("department"), is to establish a solid waste collection and disposal special service district ("district") for that purpose pursuant to the provisions of the Georgia Constitution, Article IX, Section II, Paragraph III ("Supplemental Powers Clause") and Article IX, Section II, Paragraph IV ("Special Districts Clause").
(b)
Further, pursuant to those provisions set out in subsection (a) above, the BOC finds it to be in the best interests of the citizens of the county to fund the operation of the county's solid waste management department by the implementation of a "special services tax," or such other fees and assessments as allowed by law sufficient to cover the cost of maintaining, operating and equipping the department, including, but not limited to the cost of the acquisition of equipment, land and construction of buildings to be used solely for the purpose of implementing the operation of the department or, in the alternative, to negotiate an agreement with an independent contractor to privatize the collection and distribution of solid waste. The BOC has determined that a special fund is to be created within the county's accounting system and all funds collected for the purpose of supporting the department, from the citizens of the unincorporated area of the county and from those cities or municipalities which enter into intergovernmental agreements to be served by the department, be allocated to that fund and all such funds be utilized only for the services provided by the Department within the District. No portion of the funds collected as part of the general ad valorem tax imposed upon all citizens of the county shall be used to support the department.
(Ord. No. 99-06, § 2, 5-25-1999; Ord. of 5-10-2016, § 2; Ord.of 8-13-2019, § 2)
Sec. 62-32. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Business means a physical structure owned, leased, rented or otherwise occupied by any person for the purpose of manufacturing, creating, packaging, enhancing, providing or delivering goods or services, whether or not for profit, including, but not limited to, commercial, professional, industrial, trade, or service establishments.
Containers means bulk solid waste collectors, sometimes referred to as "dumpsters."
Department means the Screven County Solid Waste Management Department which department shall have responsibility for the collection and disposal of solid waste within the unincorporated area of the county and from those cities and municipalities which enter into intergovernmental agreements to be served by the county, and, in addition, providing such services as may be in keeping with the purpose of the department according to the terms of an appropriate intergovernmental agreement.
Manufactured home, mobile home or similar terms See, section 42-2 of this Code. Such relocatable structures may be referred to herein as a "relocatable structure."
Parcel means a lot or tract of land situated in the county located in the unincorporated area of the county or within a city or municipality which chooses to be included in the solid waste collection and disposal special service district.
Person means individuals, corporations, partnerships, proprietorship, firm, enterprise, franchise, association, organization, trust, limited liability companies, limited liability partnerships, or other legal entity.
Residence means a physical structure designed for use by a person as a temporary or permanent residence including, but not limited to, site-built homes, manufactured homes, mobile homes, and any other structure designed or used for habitation.
Solid waste means all garbage, rubbish, refuse or trash.
Solid waste collection and disposal special service district means the unincorporated area of the county and the area within those cities or municipalities located in the county which choose to be part of the solid waste collection and disposal special service district (which may also be termed, herein, "district") by an appropriate intergovernmental agreement in which the city or municipality also agrees to abide by the terms of chapter 62, article II of this Code.
Solid waste collection and disposal special service district assessment means the millage rate or fee established annually by the BOC to fund solely the operation of the department and which may be referred to in this chapter of the Code as "assessment" or "millage."
(Ord. No. 99-06, § 3, 5-25-1999; Ord. of 5-10-2016, § 3; Ord. of 8-13-2019, § 3)
Cross reference— Definitions generally, § 1-2.
Sec. 62-33. - Creation of a solid waste collection and disposal district.
There is hereby created within Screven County a solid waste collection and disposal special service district as defined hereinabove.
All solid waste generated within the unincorporated area of the county shall be delivered to and placed within the containers located throughout the county for the purpose of holding solid waste (such containers being sometimes referred to as 'dumpsters') unless a special exception to this provision is specifically granted by the BOC. Solid waste accumulated within the unincorporated area of the county shall be collected and disposed of by employees of the county, or independent contractors retained by the county. Cities or municipalities located within the county may elect to be included within this Special Services District by intergovernmental agreement or, in the alternative, contract with the county for services to be provided by the department according to the terms negotiated with the county and memorialized in an appropriate written intergovernmental agreement.
(Ord. of 5-10-2016, § 4; Ord. of 8-13-2019, § 4)
Sec. 62-34. - Collection supervised by director of solid waste management.
(a)
All refuse accumulated in the county shall be collected, conveyed, and disposed of by the county under the supervision of the director of solid waste management. The director of solid waste management shall have the authority to establish regulations concerning the frequency of collection, type and location of waste containers and such other matters pertaining to the collection, conveyance and disposal as he shall find necessary, and to change and modify the regulations, provided that such regulations are not contrary to the provisions of this article.
(b)
Any person aggrieved by a regulation of, or fee charged by, the director of solid waste management shall have the right of appeal to the board of commissioners, who shall have the authority to confirm, modify or revoke any such regulation or fee.
(Ord. No. 99-06, § 5, 5-25-1999)
Sec. 62-35. - Special disposal problems.
(a)
Contagious disease refuse. The removal of solid waste possibly carrying disease organisms as the result of contact with highly infectious or contagious diseases should be performed under the supervision and direction of the county health department. Such refuse shall not be placed in containers for regular collections.
(b)
Refuse of unusual size and bulk. The producer of solid waste of unusual size and bulk, such as appliances, furniture and the like, shall be responsible for disposal of such items by providing transportation to the county landfill or such other location for disposal as this article or other applicable law shall provide.
(c)
Dead animals. The owner of a dead animal shall be responsible for disposal of the carcass by burial or transportation to the county landfill, as provided by this article or other applicable law. In no event shall the carcass of a dead animal be placed in a county container, removed from private property to public areas or rights-of-way, or bagged for collection by the county. Owners of dead animals removed by county agents shall be assessed reasonable fees for such removal which fees shall be collected in the same manner as the solid waste management assessment provided for in this article.
(d)
Refuse produced in connection with commercial operations. Any person who, in connection with the performance of a commercial operation which provides a substantial portion of his income, produces refuse shall be solely responsible for transporting such refuse to the county landfill for disposition. No refuse produced in connection with such operations including, but not limited to, building, landscaping, tree maintenance, paving, roofing, and demolition shall be placed on federal, state or county rights-of-way or other public property, or accumulated in substantial quantities on private property, or placed in any manner for collection and disposition by the county.
(Ord. No. 99-06, § 6, 5-25-1999)
Sec. 62-36. - Solid waste collection and disposal special service district assessment or millage.
modified
(a)
Pursuant to the Supplemental Powers and Special Districts clauses of the Georgia Constitution, there is hereby established and levied an annual solid waste collection and disposal special service district assessment as defined above. The assessment shall be levied against all parcels within the solid waste collection and disposal special service district upon which a habitable business, residence or relocatable structure is located. If more than one business, residence or relocatable structure is located on one taxable parcel, the assessment shall be levied against each such business, residence or relocatable structure.
(b)
Notwithstanding anything contained herein to the contrary, when a manufactured home, mobile home or similar relocatable structure (as defined herein) is situated on a taxable parcel, which is not owned by the owner of the parcel, the millage, assessment or fee shall be assessed against the owner of the relocatable structure and no permit required pursuant to county or state law shall be issued for such relocatable structure for which such permit is sought until the millage due thereon has been paid in full.
(c)
If a business, residence or relocatable structure is not located on a taxable parcel on January 1 of any calendar year, beginning on January 1, 2018, or if construction of a building or dwelling is not completed and the business or dwelling occupied on January 1 of any calendar year, commencing on January 1, 2018, then the owner of the Parcel on which the business, dwelling or relocatable structure is located or, in the case of relocatable structures owned by someone other than the owner of the parcel upon which it is situated, shall pay a percentage of the millage determined by dividing the number of months or parts of a month during which the business, dwelling or structure is located on the parcel by 12.
(d)
To the extent allowed by state law, the millage, assessment or fee established in this chapter shall be included on the tax statements for ad valorem taxes created by the tax commissioner of Screven County and delinquent payments shall be charged such fees and interest and collected in the same manner as other delinquent ad valorem taxes.
(e)
All revenues derived from payment of the millage, assessment or fee, established in this chapter shall be assigned to a special fund created within the county's accounting system and all such funds collected from the citizens of the unincorporated area of the county and from those cities or municipalities which choose to be included within this special services district and enter into intergovernmental agreements to be served by the county shall be utilized only for the services provided by the department within the district, including, but not limited to the cost of the acquisition of equipment, land and construction of buildings to be used solely for the purpose of implementing the operation of similar such uses or, in the alternative, the cost associated with an agreement with an independent contractor to privatize both the collection and disposition services. If, at the end of any fiscal year, there remain any funds unexpended in the account so established, the same shall not lapse or revert to the general fund of the county but shall be maintained exclusively for the purposes specified in this chapter.
(f)
No part of the revenues derived from the millage, assessment or fee established in this chapter shall be used for any purpose other than those specified in this chapter and no part of the ad valorem revenues derived by the county from property located within cities and municipalities not electing to be part of the district shall be used for such purposes. It is the intent of the county board of commissioners that no owner of property located within the limits of municipalities not electing to be included within the district be required to support any solid waste collection and disposal service performed outside the limits of such cities or municipalities.
(g)
Cities or municipalities which do not choose to be included within this district shall pay such sums for services performed for that city or municipality as may be established for such services from time to time by the BOC or as may be assessed by an independent contractor should the county privatize the collection or distribution of solid waste, or both. Such services, if provided by the county, shall be billed to the participating city or municipality as set out in an appropriate intergovernmental agreement. accounts not paid by the tenth day following the date payment is due shall be considered delinquent and shall bear monthly interest at the rate of 1.5% of the statement amount.
(h)
If, at the end of any fiscal year, there remain any funds unexpended in the account so established, the same shall not lapse or revert to the general fund of the county but shall be maintained exclusively for the purposes specified in this chapter.
(Ord. of 5-10-2016, § 5; Ord. of 8-13-2019, § 5; Ord. of 6-2-2021(2) , § 2)
Sec. 62-37. - Violations of article provisions.
In addition to other requirements of this article, the following shall constitute violations of this article:
(1)
Storing of refuse. No person shall place any solid waste in or on any federal, state or county right-of-way or other public place, or upon any private property, except as provided in this article for the purpose of collection by the county.
(2)
Unauthorized accumulation. Any unauthorized accumulation of solid waste on any premises is hereby declared to be a nuisance and is prohibited. Failure to remove any existing accumulation of refuse within 30 days after the effective date of the ordinance from which this article is derived shall be deemed a violation of this article.
(3)
Scattering of refuse. No person shall cast, place, sweep or deposit solid waste anywhere within the county in such a manner that it may be carried or deposited by the elements upon any federal, state or county right-of-way or other public place, or into any occupied premises within the county.
(4)
Solid waste produced outside county limits. It is a violation of this article for any person to deliver into and deposit within the county's solid waste collection and disposal special service district any solid waste generated or produced in any place other than the county's solid waste collection and disposal special service district or a city having entered into an intergovernmental agreement with the county to be bound by the provisions of this article, except as may be specifically allowed elsewhere in this Code or by contract with the county, unless that person (a) is a resident of the county's Solid Waste Collection and disposal special service district, (b) is a resident of a city having entered into an intergovernmental agreement with the county to be bound by the provisions of this article, (c) owns property in the county's solid waste collection and disposal special service district or a city having entered into an intergovernmental agreement with the county to be bound by the provisions of this article and (d) pays the county's solid waste management fee as established in section 66-36 of this article.
(Ord. No. 99-06, § 8, 5-25-1999; Ord. of 1-9-2018, § 2; Ord. of 1-14-2020(2))
Sec. 62-38. - Penalties for violation of article.
Violations of sections 62-35 and 62-37 of this article shall constitute a misdemeanor offense punishable upon a citation or warrant filed with the Magistrate Court of Screven County as provided by state law governing the prosecution of violations of county ordinances.
(Ord. No. 99-06, § 9, 5-25-1999; Ord. of 5-10-2016, § 6; Ord. of 8-13-2019, § 6)
Secs. 62-39—62-70. - Reserved.
ARTICLE III. - LITTERING

Sec. 62-71. - Scavenging and littering prohibited generally.
It is hereby deemed to be beneficial to the health and public welfare of the citizens of the county to prohibit the practice of scavenging in the garbage receptacles commonly known as dumpsters. It is also beneficial to prohibit any littering (as defined in state law) or the placing of any items outside the dumpsters.
(Ord. No. 92-03, art. 1, 12-10-1991)
Sec. 62-72. - Removing, sorting or handling contents of receptacles or dumpsters.
It shall henceforth be unlawful for any person to remove, sort through or physically handle any contents of any garbage receptacle or dumpster provided by the county for the disposal of garbage, trash or other debris.
(Ord. No. 92-03, art. 2, 12-10-1991)
Sec. 62-73. - Climbing into or entering dumpsters.
It shall be unlawful for any person to climb into, or otherwise enter any garbage receptacle or dumpster for the purpose of inspecting the contents thereof.
(Ord. No. 92-03, art. 3, 12-10-1991)
Sec. 62-74. - Placement of large or bulky items outside dumpster or other receptacle.
It shall also be unlawful for any person to place any item outside any dumpster or other garbage receptacle. This includes all items but particularly those which are bulky items such as refrigerators, mattresses, couches, chairs, etc. Such large items must only be disposed of at the landfill. Further, no dead animal or animal carcass shall be placed in or near any dumpster. Finally, no tires shall be disposed of at any dumpster site. They must be disposed of at the landfill.
(Ord. No. 92-03, art. 4, 12-10-1991)
Sec. 62-75. - Placement of items other than household garbage in dumpsters.
It shall further be unlawful for any person to place items other than household garbage into any dumpster or similar receptacle. It shall be unlawful for any person to place any yard trimmings in any dumpster or similar receptacle.
(Ord. No. 92-03, art. 5, 12-10-1991; Ord. No. 97-01, 12-17-1996)
Sec. 62-76. - Use of containers meant for recyclables.
Except as may be otherwise specifically permitted, it shall further be unlawful for any person to place any household garbage or other similar waste in any container otherwise designated for certain recyclable materials, i.e., containers designated for cans may only be used for metal cans, plastics only for plastics, cardboard only for cardboard, etc. Placement of other materials into these containers may be considered a violation of this article.
(Ord. No. 92-03, art. 6, 12-10-1991)
Sec. 62-77. - Setting fire, scattering or dispersing contents of county containers.
It shall also be unlawful for any person to set fire to the contents of, indiscriminately scatter or disburse the contents of, or otherwise vandalize any containers provided by the county for the disposal of trash, garbage, or recyclable items.
(Ord. No. 92-03, art. 7, 12-10-1991)
Sec. 62-78. - Penalty for violation of article.
Violations of the provisions of this article shall constitute a misdemeanor offense punishable upon a citation or warrant filed with the magistrate court of the county as provided by state law governing the prosecution of violations of county ordinances. In addition to such other means of enforcement or penalties as may be provided by law, any person who violates this article or fails to comply with any of its requirements or attempts to evade the provisions of this article shall, upon conviction, be punished as provided in section 1-11.
(Ord. No. 92-03, art. 8, 12-10-1991; Ord. of 1-14-2020(2))
Sec. 62-79. - County sanitation workers exempt from article provisions.
County sanitation workers and county employees shall be exempt from the provisions of this article when engaged in the performance of their duties.
(Ord. No. 92-03, art. 9, 12-10-1991)
Secs. 62-80—62-100. - Reserved.
ARTICLE IV. - WATER SUPPLY WELL PROTECTION

Sec. 62-101. - Enactment and short title.
The board of commissioners of Screven County, Georgia, hereby enact and adopt the following ordinance which shall be known and cited as the "Water Supply Well Protection Ordinance."
(Ord. of 8-26-2003, § 1)
Sec. 62-102. - Prohibition.
In order to ensure the protection of the public with regard to its access to and use of potable water from water supply wells in the area of the Screven County Rocky Ford Road Municipal Solid Waste Landfill (DNR Permit No. 124-003D(SL)), (herein the "landfill") the construction of water supply wells for the provision of potable water within 500 feet of the boundary of the landfill is prohibited. The landfill boundary is delineated on a plat of the same prepared by Warren E. Poythress, Georgia registered land surveyor, No. 1953, dated November 18, 1994, and recorded in the office of the clerk of superior court of Screven County, Georgia, in Plat Book 32, Page 167.
(Ord. of 8-26-2003, § 2)
ARTICLE V. - SOLID WASTE MANAGEMENT FACILITIES

Sec. 62-103. - Title and purpose.
(a)
Title. This article will be known as "Screven County Solid Waste Management Facility Ordinance."
(b)
Statement of purpose. The intent of this article is to provide location standards for solid waste management facilities in Screven County. This article will act in tandem with Screven County's Solid Waste Management Plan, Appendix A Zoning and Chapter 66 Subdivision to protect the health, safety, and welfare of the citizens and natural resources of Screven County.
(Ord. of 3-16-2021, § 2)
Sec. 62-104. - Definitions.
100-year floodplain means the lowland and relatively flat areas adjoining inland and coastal waters, which are inundated by the 100-year flood. A 100-year flood is a flood with a one percent or greater chance of recurring in any given year or a flood of a magnitude equaled or exceeded once in 100 years on the average over a significantly long period of time.
Application means a request for a letter of assurance to locate a solid waste facility in Screven County including minimum supporting documents.
Buffer means a natural or enhanced vegetated area with no or limited land disturbances.
Complete solid waste application means an application with all information required in this ordinance and any other information deemed necessary by the board of commissioners, zoning administrator or the planning and zoning commission.
Division means the Environmental Protection Division of the Georgia Department of Natural Resources.
Fault means a fracture or a zone of fractures in any material along which strata on one side have been displaced with respect to that on the other side. Displacement is the relative movement of any two sides of a fault measured in any direction.
Groundwater means water below the land surface in a zone of saturation.
Holocene means the most recent epoch of the quaternary period, extending from the end of the Pleistocene epoch to the present.
Landfill means any disposal facility where any amount of waste (of any variety) is disposed of except permit by rule for inert material.
Lateral expansion means a horizontal expansion of the waste boundaries of an existing landfill unit.
Leachate means a liquid that has passed through or emerged from solid waste and contains soluble, suspended, or miscible materials removed from such wastes.
Letter of assurance means the letter from the proper local governing body acknowledging that the planned landfill complies with the local solid waste management plan, zoning and land use regulations and this ordinance as required by EPD to be submitted along with a solid waste management facility site design and operational plan.
Lithified earth material means all rock, including all naturally occurring and naturally formed aggregates or masses of minerals or small particles of older rock that formed by crystallization of magma or by induration of loose sediments. This term does not include manmade materials, such as fill, concrete, and asphalt, or unconsolidated earth materials, soil, or regolith lying at or near the earth surface.
Liner means a continuous layer of natural or manmade materials, beneath or on the sides of a disposal site or disposal site cell which restricts the downward or lateral escape of solid waste, solid waste constituents, or leachate.
Litter means discarded materials of every kind as referenced in O.C.G.A. § 16-7-42(1).
Municipal solid waste landfill (MSWL) means a disposal where any amount of municipal solid waste, whether or not, mixed with or including commercial waste, industrial waste, nonhazardous sludges, or small quantity generator hazardous wastes, is disposed of by means of placing an approved cover thereon.
Need means the requirement to have a location for the disposal of solid waste generated within Screven County and its municipalities for a period of not less than ten years as described in the Screven County Solid Waste Plan.
Operator means the person(s) responsible for the overall operation of a facility or part of a facility.
Owner means the person(s) who owns a facility or part of a facility.
Person means the State of Georgia or any other state or any agency or institution thereof, and any municipality, county, political subdivision, public or private corporation, solid waste authority, special district empowered to engage in solid waste management activities, individual, partnership, association or other entity in Georgia or any other state. This term also includes any officer or governing or managing body of any municipality, political subdivision, solid waste authority, special district empowered to engage in solid waste activities, or a public or private corporation in Georgia or any other state. This term also includes employees, departments, and agencies of the federal government.
Seismic impact zone means an area with a ten percent or greater probability that the maximum horizontal acceleration in lithified earth material, expressed as a percentage of the earth's gravitational pull will exceed 0.10g in 250 years. Maximum horizontal acceleration in lithified earth material means the maximum expected horizontal acceleration depicted on a seismic hazard map, with a 90 percent or greater probability that the acceleration will not be exceeded in 250 years, or the maximum expected horizontal acceleration based on a site-specific seismic risk assessment.
Significant groundwater recharge area means any area of the earth's surface where water infiltrates into the ground to replenish an aquifer that has been mapped by the Georgia Department of Natural Resources in Hydrologic Atlas 18 (1989 edition) within Screven County. Hydrologic Atlas 18, prepared by the Georgia Department of Natural Resources and published by the Georgia Geologic Survey, identifies the most significant groundwater recharge areas of Georgia as spotted areas labeled as "areas of thick soils" is adopted by and incorporated as part of this article as if fully included.
Solid waste means any garbage or refuse; sludge from a wastewater treatment plant, water supply treatment plant, or air pollution control facility; and other discarded material including solid, liquid, semisolid, or contained gaseous material resulting from industrial, commercial, mining, and agricultural operations and community activities, but does not include recovered materials; biomedical waste, coal ash, hazardous waste, solid or dissolved materials in domestic sewage; solid or dissolved materials in irrigation return flows or industrial discharges that are point sources subject to permit under 33 U.S.C. Section 1342; or source, special nuclear, or by-product material as defined by the federal Atomic Energy Act of 1954, as amended (68 Stat. 923).
Solid waste management means the systematic administration of activities which provide for the collection, source separation, storage, transportation, transfer, processing, treatment, and disposal of solid waste.
Solid waste management facility includes any facility for the collection, source separation, storage, transportation, transfer, processing, treatment or disposal of solid wastes.
Unstable areas means areas susceptible to natural or human-induced events or forces capable of impairing the integrity of some or all of the landfill structural components responsible for preventing releases from a landfill, such as, but not limited to, poor foundation conditions, areas susceptible to mass movements, and karst terrains.
Waste disposal boundary means the limit of all waste disposal areas, appurtenances, and ancillary activities (including but not limited to internal access roads and drainage control devices).
Waters of the state means any and all rivers, streams, creeks, branches, lakes, reservoirs, ponds, drainage systems, springs, wells, and other bodies of surface or subsurface water, natural or artificial, lying within or forming a part of the boundaries of the state which are not entirely confined and retained completely upon the property of a single individual, partnership, or corporation.
Wetlands means those areas that are inundated or saturated by surface or groundwater at a frequency and duration sufficient to support, and that under normal circumstances do support a prevalence of vegetation typically adapted for life in saturated soil conditions and those areas defined as wetlands by the U.S. Corps. of Engineers. Wetlands generally include swamps, marshes, bogs and similar areas.
(Ord. of 3-16-2021, § 2)
Sec. 62-105. - Environmental protection and location standards.
(a)
All landfills shall comply with the liner and leachate collection requirements. Liners and leachate collection systems: New landfill units and lateral expansions shall be constructed with liners and leachate collection systems. The liner and leachate collection system must ensure that the concentration values listed in Table 1 will not be exceeded in the uppermost aquifer at the relevant point of compliance. The liner and leachate collection system must be designed and installed under the supervision of a professional engineer registered to practice in Georgia who shall certify the installation.
TABLE 1
EXPAND
Chemical MCL (mg/1)
Arsenic 0.05
Barium 1.0
Benzene 0.005
Cadmium .01
Carbon tetrachloride 0.005
Chromium (hexavalent) 0.05
2,4-Dichlorophenoxy acetic acid 0.1
1,4-Dichlorobenzene 0.075
1,2-Dichloroethane 0.005
1,1-Dichloroethylene 0.007
Endrin 0.0002
Fluoride 4
Lindane 0.004
Lead 0.05
Mercury 0.002
Methoxychlor 0.1
Nitrate 10
Selenium 0.01
Silver 0.05
Toxaphene 0.005
1,1,1-Trichloromethane 0.2
Trichloroethylene 0.005
2,4,5-Trichlorophenoxy acetic acid 0.01
Vinyl chloride 0.002
  (1)
The liner and leachate collection system must, at a minimum, be designed with:
a.
A composite liner, as defined in paragraph c. of this section and a leachate collection system that is designed and constructed to maintain less than a 30-cm depth of leachate over the liner; and
b.
At least a 20-foot separation between the synthetic liner and the seasonal high groundwater elevation.
c.
For purposes of this section, "composite liner" means a system consisting of two components; the upper component must consist of a minimum 30-mil flexible membrane liner (FML), and the lower component must consist of at least a two-foot layer of compacted soil with a hydraulic conductivity of no more than 1×10 -7 cm/sec. FML components consisting of high density polyethylene (HDPE) shall be at least 60-mil thick. The FML component must be installed in direct and uniform contact with the compacted soil component.
(2)
The relevant point of compliance shall be no more than 150 meters from the waste management unit boundary and shall be located on land owned by the owner of the MSWLF unit. In determining the relevant point of compliance, at least the following factors will be considered:
a.
The hydrogeologic characteristics of the facility and surrounding land;
b.
The volume and physical and chemical characteristics of the leachate;
c.
The quantity, quality, and direction, of flow of groundwater;
d.
The proximity and withdrawal rate of the groundwater users;
e.
The availability of alternative drinking water supplies;
f.
The existing quality of the groundwater, including other sources of contamination and their cumulative impacts on the groundwater and whether groundwater is currently used or reasonably expected to be used for drinking water;
g.
Public health, safety, and welfare effects; and
h.
Practicable capability of the owner or operator.
(b)
No new landfill or lateral expansion of an existing landfill shall be located within four miles of the outer boundary of a significant groundwater recharge area.
(c)
No new landfill or lateral expansion of an existing landfill shall be located within 2,500 feet of waters of the state.
(d)
No new landfill or lateral expansion of an existing landfill shall be located within 2,500 feet of a public or private water supply well used for any purpose. No landfill shall be built over any existing well regardless of type, use, size, capped or closed.
(e)
No new landfill or lateral expansion of an existing landfill shall be located within two miles of any surface water intake point or water supply watershed.
(f)
No solid waste management facility shall be located in wetlands. No new landfill or lateral expansion of an existing landfill shall be located within 2,500 feet of a wetland.
(g)
No solid waste management facility shall be located in the 100-year floodplain.
(h)
No new landfill shall be permitted that does not have direct frontage onto an arterial highway for ingress and egress so as not to overburden county maintained collector roads.
(i)
No new landfill or lateral expansion of an existing landfill shall be located in seismic impact zones.
(j)
No new landfill or lateral expansion of an existing landfill shall be located in unstable areas.
(k)
No new landfill or lateral expansion of an existing landfill shall be located within 400 feet of a fault that has had displacement in Holocene time.
(l)
The waste disposal boundary of any landfill or lateral expansion of an existing landfill shall not be located within 500 feet of the property line or public road of any type, paved or unpaved.
(m)
The waste disposal boundary of any landfill or lateral expansion of an existing landfill shall not be located within 2500 feet of any occupied dwelling.
(n)
No disposal area shall interfere with the established natural flow of surface waters to the detriment or damage to adjoining public or private properties. The board of commissioners shall have the right to require an applicant to construct adequate detention, retention, sediment basins of stormwaters if it appears that substantial water or sediment may be carried into any nearby property or state waters.
(o)
Hazardous wastes, as the term is defined by O.C.G.A. § 12-8-62(10), as may be amended from time to time, are prohibited.
(p)
Prior to the commencement of any landfill operation within the county, the owner/operator of the proposed landfill shall obtain a water sample from all state waters and from all water supply wells located within two miles of the boundaries of all property owned by the owner/operator of the landfill, which shall be analyzed for all constituents listed in Appendix I and Appendix II to 40 C.F.R. Par 258, Subpart E, as amended, 56 Fed. Reg. 51032-51039 (October 9, 1991), by a properly certified laboratory to meet EPA standards. These samples shall contain the exact location from which they were obtained, the name and address of the property owner who owns the land from which the water sample was taken, the name and address of the principal user of the water supply well, if different from the owner of the property upon which the well is located. The results of the individual analyses shall be certified by the laboratory and submitted to each property owner from whose property a sample was taken, and to the board of commissioners.
(q)
All wells to be included in the groundwater monitoring program required by the Georgia Environmental Protection Division shall be monitored quarterly for all constituents in Appendix I and annually for all constituents contained in Appendix II of 40 C.F.R. Par 258, Subpart E, as amended, 56 Fed. Reg. 51032-51039 (October 9, 1991). Copies of all monitoring test well results shall be delivered to the board of commissioners promptly upon receipt by the owner/operator.
(r)
The height of any landfill or vertical expansion thereof shall be limited to match the surrounding topography within five miles but in no case to exceed 70 feet from original grade at the lowest point within the footprint of the solid waste disposal area. Reference points shall be established for the highest and lowest grade prior to any grading and shall be tied to a minimum of two permanent ties for future reference and remain undisturbed. These elevations and reference points shall be shown on all site plans.
(s)
Any plant material used for landscaping, buffer, cover or erosion control shall be limited to indigenous plants only.
(Ord. of 3-16-2021, § 2)
Sec. 62-106. - Traffic safety.
(a)
All such operations shall have frontage and be located on a state numbered highway as defined by the board of commissioners, for ingress and egress thereto, and on a road that does not create traffic through an area developed primarily for residential purposes. Where necessary, the board of commissioners may require the applicant to construct and/or improve a road to accommodate the truck travel necessitated by the operations, as condition of such operation, and for the purpose of routing traffic around residential areas. A stop sign shall be erected and maintained by the owner/operator at all egress roads from the landfill. Under no circumstances shall trucks use private drives or private access routes to or from the applicants' property that are within 300 feet of any residence.
(b)
Sufficient setback shall be provided from all property lines and public highways to assure adequate lateral support for the maintenance of adjacent public and private property. No disposal area shall be permitted closer than 500 feet from the interior boundary lines. Disposal areas shall at no time be permitted where adjoining lateral support for the maintenance of adjoining land is not maintained.
(Ord. of 3-16-2021, § 2)
Sec. 62-107. - Sight barriers and fencing.
(a)
Sight barriers shall be provided along all setback lines of the sites which lack natural screening conditions. Sight barriers shall consist of the following: a berm of at least ten feet in height and plantings of evergreen trees, not more than ten feet apart, or evergreen shrubbery not more than five feet apart, in staggered rows, on the berm, parallel to the boundaries of the property. Evergreens shall be at least two-year transplants at the time of planting, shall grow to not less than ten feet in height within two years or less, and shall be sufficiently spaced to provide effective sight barriers when ten feet in height. Trees or shrubs that die must be promptly replaced.
(b)
The landfill is to be completely fenced with eight-foot high, chain-link fence with three strands of barbed wire, angled 45 degrees toward the outside of the premises to the top. Such fence shall be located inside any berms or screening following the exterior boundaries. All entrances shall have an eight-foot high gate, which shall be closed and locked at all times that the landfill is not open.
(Ord. of 3-16-2021, § 2)
Sec. 62-108. - Nuisance abatement.
(a)
Air pollution, noise, and vibration, and their effects upon adjacent property owners shall be minimized by the use of adequate sound-proofed equipment and buildings designed to accomplish such minimization and approved by the board of commissioners, and by the proper use of berms, walls, and natural planting screens. Interior and adjoining roads used in the operations shall have their surfaces treated to minimize air pollution, noise and vibration.
(b)
Rodent traps shall be placed 100 yards apart around the perimeter of the landfill, inside the fence, and shall be inspected and cleaned not less than once per day.
(c)
Any security lighting deemed necessary by the owner/operator shall be the sodium vapor type and shall be aligned so that no part of the illuminated field falls on adjacent property.
(d)
Every landfill shall, at its own expense, connect to a public water supply or alternate water source as approved by the BOC and install at least one outlet per square acre in order to ensure adequate water supply and facilities for quick delivery of water to any part of the property for the purpose of extinguishing fires. Capacity shall be such that at least 250 gallons of water per minute can be applied to any fire, continuously, for at least ten hours. The source of the water supply and facilities to provide for the delivery of the water shall be indicated on the plans submitted for approval to the board of commissioners.
(e)
Every landfill shall, at its own expense, connect to or shall deliver to a public sewer system for the disposal of its leachate. If necessary, for the local publicly owned treatment works to handle the leachate, the owner/operator shall fund all necessary improvements to the publicly owned treatment works through which the leachate will be discharge.
(f)
All litter shall be collected from the landfill site by the end of each working day and either placed in the fill, compacted and covered that day, or stored in a covered container.
(Ord. of 3-16-2021, § 2)
Sec. 62-109. - Operating hours.
(a)
All operations, other than maintenance of equipment in fully-enclosed buildings, shall be conducted only between the hours of 6:00 a.m. and 6:00 p.m. Monday through Friday. A sign clearly indicating the hours of operation and prohibiting dumping at all other times shall be placed in a conspicuous location at the entrance. Disposal facilities shall have a certified landfill operator per EPD on duty at all times to direct the dumping, spreading, compaction, and covering of materials. All such personnel shall reside within the county in close enough proximity to respond in the event of a fire. Trucks shall not be allowed to stage, gather or congregate at any location in the county while waiting for the facility to open. The BOC shall be notified immediately of violations of any EPD rules, these and other regulations, spills or accidents resulting in spills of solid waste materials on site or being delivered by truck or rail located within Screven County. Such violations or spills may result in closure of the facility at the discretion of the BOC until such violations or spills have been corrected or cleaned up in compliance with EPD regulations. A letter of compliance shall be required from EPD or other regulatory agency before operations are resumed if facility is closed by EPD or the county BOC.
(Ord. of 3-16-2021, § 2)
Sec. 62-110. - Access by citizens of screven county.
Any landfill shall be open to use by county residents, property owners, and businesses, during established business hours, at a rate to be agreed upon by the board of commissioners. Special handling fees may be charged for bulky or difficult to process items. There shall be no new solid waste transfer locations created outside the bounds of the permitted facility with the existing county transfer facility exempt from this requirement. The use of dumpsters for collection of business and residential garbage is not considered a transfer location.
(Ord. of 3-16-2021, § 2)
Sec. 62-111. - Mitigation trust fund for landfill problems.
(a)
A trust fund shall be established at a bank within the county chosen by the board of commissioners. The operator shall pay a per ton fee, as set by state law or the county BOC, of waste disposed into this trust fund for the life of the landfill. Expenditures from the trust fun are to be approved by a committee consisting of one citizen appointment by the board of commissioners, the chairman of the board of commissioners, and one representative of the owner/operator. Funds may be used, without limitation, for off-site litter control, groundwater and surface water monitoring, provision of alternative water supplies, and payments to adjacent property owners and others, at the discretion of the committee, for damages caused as a result of the landfill or its related operations. The trust fund shall exist and earn interest for 20 years following the expiration of the post-closure period, and at that time the remaining funds shall be paid to the owner/operator or its successor or assigns.
(b)
In the event that there is a statistically significant increase over background values, as determined by the board of commissioners, for any constituent for which monitoring is required, further waste disposal shall cease until such time as the groundwater contamination has been remediated to background values. When any water supply well is located within one mile of a contaminant plume, as determined by the board of commissioners, an alternate water supply shall be provided by the owner/operator of the landfill, and at the expense of the owner/operator, for protection of the public health and welfare. Bottled water shall be provided as a temporary measure until a permanent, alternate water supply can be provided by installing a new well in a location approved by the board of commissioners and the affected property owner, by connecting the property owner to an existing municipal water supply if acceptable to the property owner, or by building for and donating to the county a public water supply system.
(Ord. of 3-16-2021, § 2)
Sec. 62-112. - Reclamation or redevelopment.
(a)
A reclamation plan for the closed landfill shall be submitted to and approved by the board of commissioners along with the application submitted to this article. The plan shall propose reclamation or redevelopment that will best serve the needs and interests of the citizens of Screven County. Reclamation or redevelopment shall be accomplished as soon as practicable following closure of any areas of the landfill. Substantial completion of reclamation or redevelopment shall be completed within one year after termination of the waste disposal facility. Inactivity for six consecutive months shall constitute, for this purpose, termination of disposal activities.
(b)
Approval of a reclamation or redevelopment plan by the board of commissioner will be based upon consideration of the following factors:
(1)
The most advantageous use of the land, resources, and property.
(2)
The character of the area in question and its particular suitability, if any, for the particular use.
(3)
Conservation of property values as well as natural resources and the general appropriate trend and character of development in the subject area.
(4)
The protection and preservation of the general health, safety, and welfare of the county.
(Ord. of 3-16-2021, § 2)
Sec. 62-113. - Application required.
(a)
Each person proposing to locate a solid waste management facility in Screven County shall submit an application for a letter of assurance demonstrating compliance with the provisions contained in this article and consistency with the Screven County Solid Waste Management Plan, Screven County Comprehensive Plan, Appendix A—Zoning and Chapter 66 Subdivision regulations and this article.
(b)
Upon enactment of the ordinance from which this article derives, no new landfills shall be operated in the county without a letter of assurance from the the county board of commissioners.
(Ord. of 3-16-2021, § 2)
Sec. 62-114. - Application procedures for a solid waste facility.
An applicant shall prepare and file an application for a letter of assurance with the zoning administrator as required in the Screven County Solid Waste Plan Sec-6.3 A. The application shall include all related documents submitted to, or to be submitted to the United States government and to the State of Georgia. A separate solid waste facility application shall be required and include all information required in this article. This completed solid waste facility application shall be filed only after receiving approvals for a zoning conditional use and a major development plan under subdivision regulations. Eight copies of the completed solid waste facility application shall be submitted to the board of commissioners and the planning commission.
(1)
A completed solid waste facility application shall contain the following information:
a.
A description of the company, information on its financial capability, and a detailed history of all its past activities in the field of solid waste management, including a synopsis of every other facility it has operated, and including a detailed account of all past and pending litigation, favorable and unfavorable. Include the record of any subsidiary or parent corporation having an interest greater than five percent of the outstanding shares of the applicant corporation. Also include a list of all past and present litigation, favorable and unfavorable, the subsidiary or parent corporation has been involved in.
b.
Evidence of liability insurance coverage with minimum limits of $1,000,000.00 for sudden events and $10,000,000.00 for non-sudden events. Such insurance shall cover injury or damage occurring upon the site of the operation and upon properties in the vicinity of the landfill as the result of conditions or activities occurring in connection with the operation of the landfill. An insurance carrier approved by the board of commissioners shall issue such policies, and such policies shall be filed with the board of commissioners. The deductible written into the insurance policy shall not exceed five percent of the per-incident limit of the liability of the policy. The coverage obtained by the owner/operator to fulfill the requirements of this section shall include the provision that the insurer shall notify the board of commissioners 30 days prior to the cancellation of the insurance for any reason. The insured must provide evidence that $10,000,000.00 liability insurance is to run for five years subsequent to closure to cover post-closure costs. Also provide a history of any claims against the company at any site, including the record of any subsidiary or parent corporation as defined above.
c.
Justification for and anticipated benefits from the project.
d.
A description of the scope of the proposed project, including an estimated schedule of how much and what kinds of waste the facility would accept, where the material would come from, what pretreatment will be required of wastes unacceptable to the facility without such pretreatment, and how long the facility is expected to operate.
e.
Yearly site operation expenses and an estimate of the costs for the lifetime of the project.
f.
The proposed method of financing the project, including development, operation and closure stages. Include a list of the financial institution name(s) which will be funding construction.
g.
Provide resumes of management personnel and the proposed number of employees and types of positions, including information on the training and experience required for each position, and safety precautions undertaken for the protection of personnel.
h.
The anticipated date to begin construction.
i.
The anticipated date to begin operation.
j.
A detailed estimate of the types and amount of local government services required by the operator in each year.
k.
A description of emergency procedures and safety and security precautions that will be in use at the facility. This information should include details on emergency assistance and emergency medical treatment that will be required from the area's medical facilities and the Screven County EMA and, in case of fire, the Screven County Fire Department.
l.
A description of the environmental protection measures to be taken by the applicant to prevent contamination in and around the facility site and the description of planned monitoring systems, with an estimated annual budget of each of these items.
m.
A description of the environmental protection measures to be used during transportation of materials to and from the facility, with an estimated annual budget for these arrangements and an estimate of the volume of material to be transported during each year of operation.
n.
A description of anticipated need for post-closure care.
(2)
A map or other written material attached to the application shall include but is not limited to the following information:
a.
Ownership.
1.
Name, address and telephone number of legal owner (and/or agent) of the subject property.
2.
Name address and telephone number of professional persons responsible for the plat of survey.
3.
Description of any existing rights-of-way or easements affecting the property.
4.
Reference to any existing restrictive covenants on the property.
b.
Description. Location of property tax map and parcel number. This description should include a reference to the deed book and page number or other evidence of title the current property owner may have.
c.
Features. Each map shall contain the following information:
1.
Drawn to scale of not more than 200 feet to the inch.
2.
Location sketch map showing relationship of the project to the surrounding area.
3.
Graphic scale, date, north arrow, and legend.
4.
Location of property with respect to surrounding property and roads, and the names and addresses of adjacent property owners according to county tax records.
5.
Existing uses of the surrounding property.
6.
The location of all boundary lines of the property.
7.
The total acreage of land in the project.
8.
The location of existing and/or platted streets, easements, buildings, railroads, cemeteries, bridges, sewers, water mains, culverts, wells and gas and electric transmission lines within one mile of the facility property lines.
9.
The location of water bodies, water courses, groundwater aquifers, springs, Carolina bays, wetlands and other pertinent features.
10.
The location, dimensions, and acreage of all property proposed to be set aside for various uses on the applicant's property.
11.
The location of all test wells and/or borings.
12.
The location of the 500- and 100-year flood plain, and records of flood, including inundation due to dam break.
13.
The location of historic properties and gravesites, including any plans of relocation of graves and properties having historical significance.
14.
The location of any archeological sites.
15.
The location of all wildlife habitats and wildlife management areas, including endangered protective species of state and federal governments.
16.
The location of any cultural facilities such as churches, campgrounds, schools, burial sites.
17.
The location of any food crop production areas.
18.
The location of any commercial plant nurseries.
19.
The location of all wells, including capped or closed wells, located on the property and showing the use, size and depth of each well.
20.
Plans for the control of methane gas collection and disposal and at what stage the system will be installed.
d.
Geological map. A map showing location of faults, dikes, sills and other pertinent geologic features, including bedrock type and strike and dip of any mappable bedding; the depth and degree of weathering (saprolite); identification and location of clay as to thickness, type and permeability; and location of the water table as to approximate depth, gradient and surface configuration.
e.
Topographic map. A topographic map with contours at vertical intervals of not more than five feet at the same scale as to the project site map shall be included. Date, method of preparation and preparer of said survey shall be stated.
f.
Transportation route map. A map showing proposed transportation routes to and from the facility site, including location of towns and emergency and safety facilities. Include an estimate of the volume of material to travel on each route.
(3)
The solid waste facility application shall address the following factors with regard to, but not limited to, on-site storage and/or disposal:
a.
Contaminant flow to water table, including leachate monitoring, detailed plans for removal, treatment, storage and disposal of leachate, collecting and withdrawal systems; clay and synthetic liners (extra thickness, multiple liners); spill prevention and containment measures. No leachate, treated or untreated, shall be disposed of in any waters, ponds, streams, rivers, tributaries or on any land within Screven County. All leachates shall be contained in double wall storage tanks for treatment and storage while waiting to be transferred to an offsite disposal facility. Information confirming the acceptance of the leachate by the offsite disposal facility shall be provided to the BOC with the complete solid waste facility application.
b.
Contaminant movement to groundwater, including groundwater monitoring systems at the site and in potentially affected areas; subsurface "slurry wall" barrier controls and other groundwater withdrawals in the area.
c.
Predictability of contaminant movement, based on preconstructed borings and groundwater modeling.
d.
Potential effect on surface waters, planned collection systems for surface water run-off, and planned exclusion systems for surface water run-on.
e.
Potential effect on aquifers, planned provisions for alternate water supply systems and facilities for immediate pumping and treatment of contaminated water.
f.
Potential effect on public water supply, planned run-off collection and treatment and provisions for alternate supply systems.
g.
Possibility of site flooding; and planned special facility design, special control dikes, and buffer zone setback in area of standard project flood area.
h.
Potential human exposure to untreated waste water, including planned safety procedures, clothing, instruction, and practice for employees; and planned oversized of redundant treatment capacity, effluent monitoring and automatic shutdown systems.
(4)
In addition to the above, a completed solid waste facility application shall show the ability to comply with each provision of section 62-105, location standards of this article.
(5)
The solid waste facility application shall include all related documents to be submitted to the United States government and to the State of Georgia.
(Ord. of 3-16-2021, § 2)
Sec. 62-115. - Application processing fees.
(a)
The Screven County Board of Commissioners shall require a solid waste facility application fee in the amount of $5,000.00 to reimburse the county for the costs of any needed professional assistance that may be required to evaluate the solid waste facility permit application and amendments, verify its contents and evaluate the impact of such a permit on the community, public health and environment. This assistance may include, but shall not be limited to, the assistance of lawyers, biologists, geologists, engineers, chemists, hydrologists, emergency response, transportation and public health experts, land appraisers and professional testing laboratories. If the cost for consultants exceeds the application fee all such additional cost shall be reimbursed to the county by the applicant. A minimum of 16 copies of All required information shall be submitted with the application. All information shall reference the proper ordinance and section it applies to and be in the same order as outlined in the ordinance.
(b)
Failure to provide these funds shall result in termination of the permit process or cancellation of the permit. The board of county commissioners may take legal action against the applicant for any costs incurred to the county up to the point of termination.
(Ord. of 3-16-2021, § 2)
Sec. 62-116. - Public notice and review of application.
(a)
The applicant shall notify the BOC and the zoning administrator requesting a letter of assurance for a solid waste facility as outlined in this article and participate in public meeting as required herein.
(1)
The BOC shall give notice of the meeting published in a newspaper of general circulation at least once per week for two weeks preceding the date of the meeting. The cost of publication shall be the applicant's responsibility.
(2)
The notice shall state the time, place, and purpose of the meeting.
(3)
The purpose of the public meeting shall be to discuss the waste management needs of the local government, to describe the siting process to be followed, to allow for public input, and to determine compliance with this article.
(4)
The meeting shall be conducted by the county board of commissioners.
(b)
The applicant shall submit to county board of commissioners and the planning and zoning commission eight copies of all information required by federal and state agencies for the facility for which it requests a county solid waste facility permit. The review procedure shall not begin nor shall the solid waste facility application be designated as complete until such time as all required data is submitted and the appropriate fees are paid. All information submitted shall reference the applicable ordinance and section and be in the same order as outlined in the ordinance.
(c)
A designee of the board of county commissioners or the Zoning Administrator shall compile copies of all reports, applications, minutes of meetings, reports by consultants and similar materials. These materials shall be placed in one location with free access to the public and be made available for copying any portion or all of any document at cost.
(d)
Within 60 days of the recommendation from the planning and zoning commission for a solid waste facility application, the county board of commissioners shall set a time for public hearing so that the applicant can present his plans and answer questions regarding the same.
(e)
The applicant shall be required to pay for notice to be published at least twice in the county's legal organ prior to the hearing. Notice shall be published beginning at least seven but not more than 45 days prior to the date of the hearing. The notice shall state the time, place, and purpose of the hearing. Copies of all ads or a certification from the publisher must be submitted to the board prior to each hearing.
(f)
Reserved.
(g)
Once a completed solid waste facility application is submitted to the county the applicant shall be required to send a letter via first class mail to all adjoining property owners, as shown on the tax records of the county on the date of the application, and to all property owners where any portion of their property is within 1,000 feet of the boundary of the facility. This notice shall be required to state that the applicant is seeking a letter of assurance for a solid waste management facility. Certification of this notice must be provided to the board, along with a list of all owners prior to the public meeting for public comment on the completed application.
(h)
Each completed solid waste facility application shall require an analysis conducted by the zoning administrator and a consultant or consultants, engineers and lawyers as selected by the county board of commissioners. The cost of consultants, engineers and lawyers shall be reimbursed to the county by the developer as outlined in section 62-115. The analysis shall be completed within 90 days from the day the application is determined to be complete. The zoning administrator shall notify the applicant when the solid waste facility application is determined complete. The completed analysis of the completed solid waste facility application shall be presented to the planning and zoning commission by the zoning administrator and consultants within 30 days of the completed analysis. The planning and zoning commission can request additional time and information if needed to make a proper determination of the request because of its complexity. The planning and zoning commission shall determine if the solid waste facility application is consistent with the solid waste ordinance and recommend approval, deny or approve with conditions of the solid waste facility application to the BOC. In certain instances where the complexity of the application requires more than the usual 90 days for analysis, the zoning administrator, the planning and zoning commission and/or consultant may request an additional 60 days from the county board of commissioners, and the proponent has the option of requesting the county board of commissioners to extend the analysis period to allow time for responding to staff and/or consultant requests for additional information on a completed application.
(i)
The zoning administrator and each consultant may make reports on the application to the county board of commissioners at their meetings.
(j)
After the applicant has received approvals for the zoning conditional use, the subdivision major development plan and the recommendation from the planning and zoning commission for the completed solid waste facility application required in this article, the BOC shall call a public hearing as outlined in the following.
(k)
The county board of commissioners shall call a public meeting for public comment on the completed solid waste facility application along with the analysis of zoning administrator, consultants and the recommendation of the planning and zoning commission. The purpose of this meeting shall be for public review of the completed solid waste facility application. The zoning administrator shall give notice by regular mail of the time and place of the public meeting to the owner and adjacent property owners as specified on the map. Said notice shall be mailed not less than 14 days prior to the date specified thereon. Notice of a public meeting shall be posted by the applicant on the proposed facility property on each and every street of access not less than 14 days prior to the date specified thereon. Said posted notice shall be at intervals of not greater than 1,500 feet. The applicant shall also place notice in the county newspaper not less than 14 days prior to the dates specified thereon.
(l)
At the public meeting for public comment the applicant shall again present its completed solid waste facility application, and any supplemental information requested by the board of commissioners. The board members shall have the opportunity to ask questions of the zoning administrator, consultants, any experts, the applicant, supporters and opponents. The hearing shall be transcribed or recorded so that it may be transcribed later if necessary. The applicant and supporters shall be granted equal time as opponents. The minimum time allowed per side is 15 minutes. The board may allow more time than the minimum if the application is complex, or the number of witnesses warrants a further extension. If the board determines that there are a great number of opponents with the same interest (for example, members of the same neighborhood), the board may require that a spokesman be designated. The opponents may also be represented by an attorney. The applicant, supporters and opponents shall have the right to provide testimony, including expert testimony, in support of their position. Each party shall have a reasonable opportunity to ask questions of the other side, in an orderly manner as controlled by the board.
(m)
After the hearing and receipt of the final analysis, complete solid waste facility application, public comment, the recommendation of the planning and zoning commission, the departmental review and recommendation of the zoning administrator and consultants, screven county board of commissioners shall determine whether to accept the application, deny it, or accept it with modifications or conditions.
(Ord. of 3-16-2021, § 2)
Sec. 62-117. - Evaluation criteria.
The county commission shall issue a letter of assurance for any solid waste management facility in Screven County, as required by state law and regulations, if such facility complies with the location standards and is consistent with the Screven County Solid Waste Management Plan, this article, Chapter 66 Subdivision Ordinance, Appendix A-Zoning and the county comprehensive plan. This approval and any resulting permits are nontransferable and before the sale of any such facility, the new owner must resubmit an application for a solid waste facility and pay all associated fees as if applying for an original permit and must be approved by the BOC. The original owner and any subsequent owner of a new permit shall provide a list of all owners and shareholders of the facility for record to the BOC.
(1)
The county board of commissioners, however, before deciding whether to accept the application or to accept it with modifications, shall make the following determinations:
a.
That there is a bona fide need for the facility and there is no reasonable alternative facility which will pose a lesser threat to the environment.
b.
That the construction and operation of the facility will not pose an unreasonable health or environmental risk to the surrounding locality.
c.
That the applicant (or facility operator) has the capability and financial resources to construct, operate and maintain the facility.
d.
That the applicant or operator has taken or consented in writing to take any and all reasonable measures to comply with the applicable federal, state and local regulations and ordinances.
e.
That the applicant's plan represents the best available technology for handling the waste and the applicant has demonstrated that it will employ the best management practices in handling the waste at the proposed facility.
f.
Whether the proposed use will have a negative impact to traffic on adjacent streets and in regard to adjacent residential, commercial and industrial uses.
g.
Whether the proposed use is compatible with the surrounding properties, uses, and governmentally regulated facilities.
h.
Whether the proposed use will have a negative impact on health, safety, aesthetics, property value, or other elements of the community.
i.
If there are environmentally sensitive areas on the subject property, whether the proposed plans adequately protect those areas.
j.
That the facility is compatible with Screven County's integrated county long-range solid waste management plan, taking into account alternative methods of management such as recycling.
(2)
After the scheduled public hearing, the Screven County Board of Commissioners shall make its decision to approve or deny the application or approve the application with conditions required of the development or operation of the solid waste facility.
(3)
Any proposal shall be specifically conditioned to the site plan, maps, elevation renderings, and other detailed plans to insure that the development is erected in accordance with the presented materials. The approval may also impose additional conditions, as determined appropriate by the board of commissioners. If the BOC approves the application, they shall issue a letter of assurance to the applicant including all required conditions.
(4)
If the application for a solid waste facility is denied, the applicant is prohibited from making the same or similar application for a period of six months.
(Ord. of 3-16-2021, § 2)
Sec. 62-118. - Appeal process.
In the event that an application is denied, the applicant shall have the right to appeal to the Superior Court of Screven County within 30 days. The applicant shall file a copy of the appeal with the clerk of the board of commissioners, and the clerk shall forward a copy of the entire record (including evidence submitted by all sides) to the superior court as soon as is practicable, along with the minutes of the hearings, copies of the tapes or transcriptions of the hearings, the written decision, a copy of the ordinance, and all other relevant ordinances, maps and documents.
(Ord. of 3-16-2021, § 2)
Sec. 62-119. - Enforcement.
Failure to comply with this article will result in denial, suspension of application, permit, and/or business license and a fine of not less than $250.00 and not more than $1,000.00 per day per violation.
(Ord. of 3-16-2021, § 2)
Sec. 62-120. - Existing sanitary landfill operations.
This article shall not apply to any permitted landfill operation existing on the effective date of this article, and any such landfill shall be allowed to continue in operation in accordance with the permit issued by the Georgia Environmental Protection Division. This article shall apply, however, to any new or expanded landfill for which a permit is issued by the Georgia Environmental Protection Division on or after the effective date of this article.
(Ord. of 3-16-2021, § 2)
Sec. 62-121. - Conflict with other regulations.
Whenever the provisions of any other statute or ordinance require more restrictive standards than are required by this ordinance, the provisions of such statute or ordinance shall govern.
(Ord. of 3-16-2021, § 2)
Sec. 62-122. - Separability/severability.
Should any section or provision of this article be declared by the courts to be unconstitutional or invalid, such declaration shall not affect the validity of this ordinance as a whole or any part thereof other than the part so declared to be unconstitutional or invalid. It is the intent that any provision declared unconstitutional shall be severed from this article, and the remainder of this article remain in effect.
(Ord. of 3-16-2021, § 2)
Sec. 62-123. - Repealer.
In the event all of this article is struck down as void, unconstitutional or invalid, including therefore this provision, the prior ordinance shall be considered to not have been repealed and shall therefore still be in effect.
(Ord. of 3-16-2021, § 2)
Sec. 62-124. - Effective date.
The ordinance from which this article derives shall take effect and be in force as of the date of its adoption, the public welfare of the county so demanding it.
(Ord. of 3-16-2021, § 2)
