Chapter 34 - ROADS AND BRIDGES

FOOTNOTE(S):
(14) State Law reference— Power to construct and maintain roads, including curbs, sidewalks, street lights and devices to control the flow of traffic, Ga. Const. art. IX, § II, ¶III(a)(4); County road systems, O.C.G.A. § 32-4-40 et seq.
Sec. 34-1. - Obstruction of roads by railroads.
(a)
Definitions. The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this subsection, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Train includes a railroad engine or propelling unit with or without cars attached, and shall include two or more railroad cars when attached together, whether or not there shall be an engine or propelling unit attached thereto.
Vehicular traffic means all motorized traffic upon the public roadways of the County, not including trains or railroad cars.
Cross reference— Definitions and rules of construction, § 1-2.
(b)
Blocking public roadways - combined time of moving and while stopped.
(1)
It shall be a violation of this section for the directing officer or the operator of any train to direct the operation of or to operate the same so that it shall stop in an intersection with a public roadway within the unincorporated areas of the County longer than 15 minutes including the time such train is in motion and the time such train is stopped.
(2)
If a public roadway intersection is blocked for 15 minutes, then the directing officer or operator of the train shall remove the same from the intersection for a 15-minute period before the intersection may be permissibly blocked again for a period of 15 minutes.
(c)
Blocking roadways - leaving crossing gates down. It shall be a violation of this section for any railroad company or corporation to allow crossing gates maintained or operated by such company or corporation at any intersection of its tracks with any public roadway in the unincorporated areas of the County to remain down so as to control traffic upon any such public roadway for an uninterrupted period of time longer than 15 minutes, regardless of whether or not a train or trains, or railroad car or cars are, or have been, within the area of such intersection within such period of time.
(d)
Blocking public roadways - leaving warning devices activated. It shall be a violation of this section for any railroad company or corporation to allow any warning device maintained or operated by such company or corporation and installed to control vehicular traffic at any intersection of its tracks with any public roadway of the County to remain active so as to control vehicular traffic upon any such public roadway for an uninterrupted period of time longer than 15 minutes, regardless of whether or not a train or trains, or railroad car or cars are, or have been, within the area of such intersection within such period of time.
(e)
Blocking public roadways - switching or other intra-county transit. It shall be a violation of this section for the directing officer or the operator of any train to direct the operation of or to operate the same while engaged in local switching or any other intra-county transit in such a manner as to prevent the use of any public roadway within the unincorporated areas of the County for the purposes of travel for a period of time longer than 15 minutes.
(f)
Blocking public roadways - clearing in case of fire, medical or law enforcement emergency. In case of fire, medical, law enforcement or other emergency service vehicle alarm, railroad crossings shall be immediately cleared.
(g)
Violation - placing responsibility on employer. The spirit and intent of this section is in keeping with O.C.G.A. § 46-8-197 and where there is a violation of this section by a member of the train crew, yard crew, or engine crew of a railroad, which is a common carrier, and such members shall offer reasonable proof that such violation was necessary to comply with the orders or instructions either written or oral of his employer or its officers or supervisory officials, the responsibility for such violation shall be upon such employer, officer, supervisory official, or railroad.
(h)
Violation - excused acts. No act which is caused by breakdown of equipment or other mishap, nor any act done to prevent personal injuries or property damage, shall be a violation of this section.
(i)
Violation - prescribed punishment. Dooly County Sheriff or his lawfully appointed deputies shall be authorized to issue citations against any person, persons, or other entity violating any of the provisions of this section and the citation shall confirm to the requirements of O.C.G.A. title 15, ch. 10, art. 4 (O.C.G.A. § 15-10-60 et. Seq.).
(Ord. of 6-14-1998, §§ 1—9)
Sec. 34-2. - Use of roads by timber or pulpwood harvesters.
(a)
Purpose. It is the purpose and intent of this section to ensure that operators engaging in transporting timber or pulpwood harvested in the County be responsible for any damage beyond normal wear and tear inflicted on the County Road System or rights-of-way as a result of their operations.
(b)
Definitions. The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this section, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this subsection, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Applicant means any operator who files an application to use County roads as an incident to timber or pulpwood harvesting.
County road means any and all roads which are a part of the Dooly County Road System, delineated in accordance with O.C.G.A., title 32, ch. 4 (O.C.G.A. § 32-4-1 et seq.), and intended or used for the passage of motor vehicles by the public.
Damage means any and all injury to the road surface or rights-of-way of a road which is part of the Dooly County Road System, including but not limited to the following:
(1)
Diversion of or the filling in of any drainage ditch, culvert or pipe parallel to or underneath a County road, so as to restrain or redirect the flow of water;
(2)
The operation of any vehicle, machinery, or equipment which will gouge, rip, break, depress or otherwise deface a public road;
(3)
The continued ingress or egress, to and from a County road at a particular location which results in a build-up of rock, gravel, mud, dirt, chemicals, or other materials, which present potential hazard to other persons using the County road;
(4)
The creation or erection of any dam, berm, ditch or wall which restrains the natural flow of waters and results in the redirecting of the waters onto the road surface or right-of-way of any County road.
Enforcement officers means the Dooly County Sheriff, the Dooly County Road Superintendent, or their deputies, marshals, constables or designees.
Operator means any person, entity, individual, partnership, corporation, association or other organization including the officers, agents and employees thereof carrying out the activities contemplated by this section.
Repair means the repair of a County road to its condition prior to the occurrence of damage caused by cutting or harvesting of timber or pulpwood.
Rights-of-way means the shoulder, front slope, ditch, drain, and back slope of a County road whether owned by title or otherwise.
(c)
Damage to public roads. It shall be unlawful for any operator engaged in transporting timber or pulpwood over County roads to damage County roads or County rights-of-way.
(d)
Notice required. On and after July 1, 1997, no operator shall engage in the process of transporting timber or pulpwood from a harvesting site in Dooly County without first giving notice as required by O.C.G.A. § 16-6-24 and meeting such other requirements specified in this section.
(e)
Operational requirements.
(1)
Roads. The use of County roads of the County by operator transporting timber or pulpwood must not endanger the traveling public; where damage does occur, the roads so damaged shall be restored to their previous condition, including but not limited to removal of debris and mud and replacement of gravel. Trucks or other equipment used in the harvesting operation shall not be allowed to park on the public right-of-way.
(2)
Signs. An operator transporting timber or pulpwood over County roads shall post at least one sign in each direction from the entrance onto the road used by the operator to alert motorists. The signs shall be placed in locations designated by the Dooly County Road Superintendent. If no locations are designated by the Road Superintendent, the signs should be placed in locations visible to oncoming traffic between 500 and 1000 feet on either side of the road entrance. Each sign should be orange with dimensions of 36"×36" and should read "Caution Trucks Entering Highway" or contain an equivalent message. An operator may furnish his own signs.
(3)
Termination. At the termination of harvesting activities at each permitted site, an operator shall immediately notify the Road Superintendent, who shall make an inspection of the site and the County Road System affected by the proposed activities. This inspection shall take place within three business days of receipt of the notice.
(4)
Results of inspection/appeal/release.
a.
If the inspection required by Subsection (3) of this section results in a finding that no damage occurred, the Superintendent shall immediately so notify the operator conducting the operations.
b.
In event damage has occurred, the operator having caused the damage shall immediately undertake the repairs necessary to return the County road or right-of-way to its original condition. If there is disagreement with the Road Superintendent's assessment that damage has occurred, the operator may appeal the decision of the Road Superintendent to the Dooly County Board of Commissioners.
(5)
Repairs by County. In the event no appeal is filed, or appeals have expired, and the operator responsible has not effectuated the repairs, the Road Superintendent shall be authorized to use County labor, equipment and materials to effect the necessary repairs to the County Road System in which event the County shall be authorized to file a claim against the operator in the Magistrate Court of Dooly County or the Superior Court in Dooly County in the amount necessary to reimburse the County for expenses incurred.
(f)
Enforcement. This section shall be enforced by the County through a duly appointed enforcement officer. Each day that an operator continues timber or pulpwood harvesting operations without a permit constitutes a separate violation.
(1)
Any operator violating this section shall be tried before the Magistrate Court of Dooly County. Upon conviction, a violation of this section shall be punished by a fine of not less than $50.00 nor more than $1,000.00, except that violation of the notice requirements of this section shall be punishable by a fine not exceeding $500.00.
(2)
The director of the Georgia Forestry Commission shall be notified as to any violations of this section.
(g)
Mediation. Any dispute arising out of the operation of this section may be referred to mediation for resolution at the written request of either party. The mediator shall be jointly selected from a list of mediators maintained by the State Department of Community Affairs or as otherwise agreed to by the County and the operator. The cost of such mediation shall be evenly divided between the parties and mediation shall be completed within 30 calendar days after the request for mediation is made.
(Ord. of 6-5-1997, §§ I—VI, VIII—XI; Ord. of 5-20-1999)
State law reference— Local regulation of timber harvesting operations, O.C.G.A. § 12-6-24.
