ARTICLE III. - NONCONFORMING USES

Sec. 1. - Continued Use.
All legal land uses existing and active as of the effective date of this ordinance shall be allowed to continue in the same land use, even if such land use does not conform with the provisions of this ordinance. All such land uses shall be considered to be nonconforming.
Sec. 2. - Extension and Alteration.
No permit shall be issued to physically extend or structurally alter a nonconforming land use except to make said use conform to, or comply with, the provisions and requirements of this ordinance.
Sec. 3. - Abandonment.
A nonconforming use which has been discontinued for a continuous 12-month period shall not be reestablished. However, a nonconforming, vacant, manufactured home slab foundation may be reestablished as a manufactured home site at any time provided said use is reestablished in compliance with all applicable standards of the County Health Department. Any other use at the site of a previously abandoned land use shall be in conformity with provisions of this ordinance.
Sec. 4. - Reestablishment/Restoration After Damage.
A nonconforming land use damaged by fire or by any other cause in an amount equal to 51 percent or more of the property tax value on public record in the office of Dooly County Tax Assessor on the date such damage occurred shall not be allowed to reestablish as the previous or any other nonconforming land use.
Sec. 5. - Restoration to a Safe Condition.
Nothing in this ordinance shall prevent the restoration of any building to a safe and sanitary condition when required to do so by the proper authorities of the County.
Sec. 6. - Change in Tenancy or Ownership.
Nonconforming land uses shall be allowed to continue under changes in tenancy, management and/or ownership.
Sec. 7. - Change in Use.
A nonconforming land use shall not be changed to another nonconforming land use.
Sec. 8. - Nonconforming Signs.
A nonconforming sign shall not be improved (other than for normal maintenance), altered or relocated except in conformance with provisions of this ordinance.
Sec. 9. - Nonconforming Salvage Yards: Expansion and Screening.
All nonconforming salvage yard shall be made to conform with the general provisions of this ordinance within a two-year period of ordinance adoption. Salvage yard expansion and screening requirements are as follows:
1.
A screen eight feet high is required along the full perimeter of the salvage yard. If constructed, the screen must be of wood, concrete or other materials approved by the Planning Commission. If planted, the vegetation selected must be of a species and variety which, with the required proper maintenance will reach a minimum height of eight feet within five years of planting. Both types of screen must be maintained so as to block the view of the salvage yard, and help deflect, muffle or absorb noise generated by activities in the salvage yard.
2.
Screening is intended to shield the view and reduce audible noise levels of salvage yards from surrounding properties and roadways, and to protect surrounding properties from fire. Modification of these requirements may be granted at the discretion of the Planning Commission when the requested modification does not contravene the intent of these regulations. Requests for modification must be filed with the Zoning Officer and require a public hearing.
3.
No salvage yard existing at the time this ordinance is adopted shall be expanded unless it meets requirements for screening.
