Chapter 6 - ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
FOOTNOTE(S):
(5) State Law reference— Alcoholic beverages, O.C.G.A. § 3-1-1 et seq.
ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 6-1. - Definitions.
The definitions in O.C.G.A. § 3-1-2 apply to this chapter.
Cross reference— Definitions and rules of construction, § 1-2.
Secs. 6-2—6-30. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - MALT BEVERAGES

FOOTNOTE(S):
(6) State Law reference— Malt beverages, O.C.G.A. § 3-5-1 et seq.; local licensing of sale of malt beverages, O.C.G.A. § 3-5-41 et seq.
Sec. 6-31. - Authorized.
The Board of Commissioners of the County will issue retail licenses for the sale of malt beverages within the County outside the corporate limits of the several municipalities located in the County and wholesale licenses for the distribution of malt beverages within the County outside the corporate limits of the several municipalities located in the County, subject to the provisions of this article.
(Ord. of 5-15-1979)
Sec. 6-32. - Retail licensee qualifications.
(a)
No retail alcoholic beverage license shall be issued unless:
(1)
The retail licensee must be a resident of the State, unless otherwise provided by O.C.G.A. § 3-3-2(a).
(2)
The licensee shall not have been convicted within five years of the date of his application of a felony, or any violation of the laws of this State, or any other State, relating to the sale of alcoholic beverages.
(3)
The licensee shall be responsible for the management and operation of the business for which the license is granted.
(4)
If the application covers a partnership, all members of the partnership must be qualified to obtain a license and must make sworn statements of these qualifications.
(5)
The applicant shall make a sworn statement of his qualifications according to the above on forms prescribed by Board of Commissioners of the County and shall place same on file with the Clerk of the Board of Commissioners before any license is issued.
(b)
Any misstatement or concealment of fact in the application shall be grounds for revocation of the license issued.
(Ord. of 5-15-1979, § I)
Sec. 6-33. - Regulations.
(a)
No holder of a license issued pursuant hereto authorizing the sale of malt beverages at retail nor any agent or employee of the licensee shall do any of the following upon the licensed premises:
(1)
Sell or possess for the purpose of sale in the County outside the corporate limits of the several municipalities therein, any malt beverages where such person does not have a license from the Board of Commissioners of the County to sell or possess for sale such beverages;
(2)
Receive at or accept delivery to the premises of the retail licensee malt beverages by any means other than by a conveyance owned and operated by a wholesale dealer with a permit from the Board of Commissioners of the County to make deliveries in the County;
(b)
Any violation of the provisions of this section or of State law regulating the sale applicable to the licensed business shall be grounds for immediate revocation of a license by the Board of Commissioners of the County.
(Ord. of 5-15-1979, § III)
Sec. 6-34. - License fees and excise tax.
(a)
An excise tax is hereby imposed on, and shall be paid by, wholesale dealers licensed hereunder on the sale or disposal of malt beverages in the County as authorized and directed under the provisions of O.C.G.A. § 3-5-80, the tax to be in the maximum sums as provided for in such section and the tax shall be reported and remitted to the County by each wholesale dealer licensed hereunder in accordance with the provisions of O.C.G.A. § 3-5-81.
(b)
The applicant for a retail license shall pay to Board of Commissioners of the County at the time his license is received the sum of $100.00 for a license authorizing the retail sale of beer only and $175.00 for a license authorizing the retail sale beer and wine as annual license fee for operation for one year beginning on the first day of January or one-half of this amount if the license is issued during the last six months of the license year. Such licenses shall not be transferable from one person to another and shall not be transferable from one location to another except with the expressed approval of the Board of Commissioners of the County.
(Ord. of 5-15-1979, § IV)
Sec. 6-35. - Hours of operation.
The hours of operation of retail licensees for the sale of malt beverages licensed hereunder shall be between the hours of 6:00 A.M. and midnight. The hours of operation of wholesale licensees for the distribution of malt beverages within this County shall be between the hours of 6:00 A.M. and midnight.
(Ord. of 5-15-1979, § V)
Sec. 6-36. - Authority to issue licenses.
All applicants for such licenses hereunder shall be presented to the Board of Commissioners of the County for approval by filing same with the Clerk of the Board, and if approved, the licenses shall be issued by the Board of Commissioners of the County upon the payment of the required fee.
(Ord. of 5-15-1979, § VI)
Sec. 6-37. - Transfer of licenses.
All such retail alcoholic beverage licenses shall be nontransferable, except with express approval of the Board of Commissioners of the County.
(Ord. of 5-15-1979, § VII)
