CHAPTER 12. - CODE ENFORCEMENT

Sec. 1-12001. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this section, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Code enforcement officer shall mean those employees or other agents of the city duly authorized and appointed by the city manager whose duty it is to assure code compliance, enforce the city code and/or to present code violations to the city municipal court or code enforcement board.
Person means any individual, firm, partnership, permit holder, owner, corporation, company, association, and includes any trustee, receiver, assignee, representative, agent, manager or similar representative thereof.
Repeat violation shall mean a violation of a provision of the code by a person who has previously been found, through an administrative, quasi-judicial and/or judicial process, by admission or other means, to have violated the code within five years prior to such new violation or a person who has failed to contest a citation for violating the code within five years prior to the new violation.
Violator means any person who has committed a violation of the city code or applicable state, federal and/or local laws, rules, acts and/or regulations.
Violator shall mean any person responsible for the code violation, which, in the appropriate circumstances, may either be the perpetrator of the violation, the responsible employee, agent, and/or manager of a business and/or the owner of the real property upon which the violation occurred.
(Ord. No. 2019-013, § 1, 6-11-2019)
Sec. 1-12002. - Authority.
City code enforcement officers shall have the authority to issue citations against any person whom the code enforcement officer has reasonable cause, following investigation, to believe has committed a violation of city code. Such citation(s) shall be brought, in the citing code enforcement officers' discretion, before the city municipal court and/or code enforcement board. In addition, code enforcement officers shall have all such other authority and responsibilities as they may be afforded by local, state and federal law, in addition to those duties imposed by function of their job description, and/or as designated by the city manager or his/her designee.
(Ord. No. 2019-013, § 1, 6-11-2019)
Sec. 1-12003. - Procedure for issuing citations.
(a)
Notice. Prior to issuing a citation, and based on the severity of the surrounding circumstances, a code enforcement officer may provide notice to the violator that the violator has committed a violation of the code and, if such notice is issued, shall establish a reasonable time period, in light of the nature of the violation, within which the violator must correct the violation.
(b)
Service of the citation to the violator shall be as follows:
(1)
Whenever possible and practicable, the code enforcement officer shall hand deliver the citation directly to the violator, who shall be required to provide identification to the code enforcement officer upon request.
(2)
Otherwise, including where the violator cannot be located after due diligence or is believed to be located and/or reside outside the city, service of the citation may be provided to the alleged violator by:
a.
Certified mail to the address listed in the tax collector's office for tax notices, or to any other address provided by the property owner in writing to the city for the purpose of receiving notices. For property owned by a corporation, notices may be provided by certified mail to the registered agent of the corporation; or
b.
For those violations involving the location of a motor vehicle, recreational vehicle, boat or trailer, posting the citation conspicuously on the motor vehicle, recreational vehicle, boat or trailer; or
c.
Leaving the citation at the violator's usual place of residence with any person residing therein who is above 15 years of age and informing such person of the contents of the notice; or
d.
In the case of commercial premises, by leaving the citation with the manager, receptionist or other person in charge of acknowledging visitors at such commercial location.
(3)
Evidence that an attempt has been made to hand deliver or serve the citation as provided in this chapter, shall be sufficient to show that the notice requirements of this division have been met, without regard to whether or not the violator actually received such notice.
(c)
Minimum contents. At a minimum, the citation issued by a code enforcement officer shall state and contain the following information:
(1)
The date and time of issuance;
(2)
The name and (if known) address of the person to whom the citation is issued against;
(3)
The date(s) the violation was allegedly committed;
(4)
The number or section of the code violated;
(5)
The last name of the code enforcement officer;
(6)
The date, time and location where the violator shall appear to answer to the charge.
(Ord. No. 2019-013, § 1, 6-11-2019)
Sec. 1-12004. - Code enforcement and abatement funding.
Two hundred thousand dollars shall be allocated annually by the chief financial officer to a blighted property abatement fund. Such funds shall be used by the department of community and regulatory affairs by following all City of South Fulton purchasing, payables and contracting procedures applied to general fund and other funds towards abating, fixing, repairing, protecting, boarding, seizing, managing and/or demolishing of blighted or abandoned properties and/or taking other necessary action for code enforcement purposes.
(Ord. No. 2019-013, § 1, 6-11-2019; Ord. No. 2019-032, § 1, 11-12-2019; Ord. No. 2020-003, § 1, 2-11-2020)
Sec. 1-12005. - Non-exclusivity.
The provisions of this chapter shall be an additional and supplemental means of enforcing provisions of the city code. Nothing in this chapter shall preclude the city, or its officers and employees, from employing, enacting and utilizing any other means, methods, procedures and penalties authorized by state or local law for the enforcement of its city code.
(Ord. No. 2019-013, § 1, 6-11-2019)
