CHAPTER 1. - ADOPTION OF STATE LAW

Sec. 3-1001. - State Minimum Standard Codes Adopted.
(a)
It is hereby declared to be the intention of the city to enforce the latest edition of the following Georgia State Minimum Standard Codes, as adopted and amended by the Georgia Department of Community Affairs:
(1)
International Building Code.
(2)
International Fuel Gas Code.
(3)
International Mechanical Code.
(4)
International Plumbing Code.
(5)
National Electrical Code.
(6)
International Fire Code.
(7)
International Energy Conservation Code.
(8)
International Residential Code.
(9)
International Swimming Pool and Spa Code.
(b)
The following codes, the latest editions as adopted and amended by the Georgia Department of Community Affairs, are hereby adopted by reference as though they were copied herein fully:
(1)
International Existing Building Code.
(2)
International Property Maintenance Code.
(c)
The city also adopts the State Minimum Standards Codes as defined by O.C.G.A. ยง 8-2-20(9).
(d)
The city may also adopt its own standards by ordinance to be codified in this Title.
(e)
Construction classification and building height. Any new building or structure designed or intended to be more than three stories in height in any respect and which individually or in aggregate with other principal buildings or structures on the same site exceeds 100,000 square feet of gross floor area (GFA), within the confined exterior walls of the structures whether occupiable or non-occupiable, shall, irrespective of any conflicting allowances or provisions of any other standard, code or ordinance having force and effect in the corporate limits of the City of South Fulton, Georgia, be of Type I or Type II construction defined in chapter 6 of the 2012 International Building Code as amended by the State of Georgia. This regulation shall not be used to relax or reduce any requirement in Table 503, Allowable Building Heights and Areas, or any other section of the current adopted International Building Code.
(Ord. No. 2017-013, ยง 1, 7-11-2017; Ord. No. 2017-014, ยง 1, 7-26-2017)
