ARTICLE I. - INCORPORATION AND POWERS

Sec. 1.10. - Incorporation.
The City of South Fulton in Fulton County is incorporated by the enactment of this Charter and is constituted and declared a body politic and corporate under the name of the "City of South Fulton." References in this Charter to "the city" or "this city" refer to the City of South Fulton. The city shall have perpetual existence.
Sec. 1.11. - Corporate boundaries.
The boundaries of the City of South Fulton shall include all unincorporated areas of Fulton County, including the Fulton County Industrial District, as such exist on July 1, 2016; provided, however, that, if the local constitutional amendment establishing the Fulton County Industrial District is not repealed or determined judicially to be of no force and effect prior to the first municipal election being conducted under this Charter, the Fulton County Industrial District shall not become a part of the City of South Fulton. The boundaries of the city are more particularly described in Appendix A, attached to and made a part of this Charter. The city clerk shall maintain a current map and written legal description of the corporate boundaries of the city, and such map and description shall incorporate any changes which may hereafter be made in such corporate boundaries.
Sec. 1.12. - Municipal powers.
(a)
This city shall have all powers possible for a city to have under the present or future Constitution and laws of this state as fully and completely as though they were specifically enumerated in this Charter. This city shall have all the powers of self-government not otherwise prohibited by this Charter or by general law.
(b)
The powers of this city shall be construed liberally in favor of the city. The specific mention or failure to mention particular powers shall not be construed as limiting in any way the powers of this city. Said powers shall include, but are not limited to, the following:
(1)
Air and water pollution and environmental issues. To regulate the emission of smoke or other exhaust which pollutes the air and to prevent the pollution of natural streams which flow within the corporate limits of the city and to regulate any other environmental matters that would affect the quality of life within the boundaries of the city;
(2)
Animal regulations. To regulate and license or to prohibit the keeping or running at large of animals and fowl and to provide for the impoundment of same if in violation of any ordinance or lawful order; to provide for the disposition by sale, gift, or humane destruction of animals and fowl when not redeemed as provided by ordinance; and to provide punishment for violation of ordinances enacted under this paragraph;
(3)
Appropriations and expenditures. To make appropriations for the support of the government of the city; to authorize the expenditure of money for any purposes authorized by this Charter and for any purpose for which a municipality is authorized by the laws of the State of Georgia; and to provide for the payment of expenses of this city;
(4)
Building regulations. To regulate and to license the erection and construction of buildings and all other structures not inconsistent with general law; to adopt building, housing, plumbing, electrical, gas, and heating and air conditioning codes; and to regulate all housing and building trades except as otherwise prohibited by general law;
(5)
Business regulation and taxation. To levy and to provide for the collection of license fees and taxes on privileges, occupations, trades, and professions; to license and regulate the same; to provide for the manner and method of payment of such licenses and taxes; and to revoke such licenses after due process for the failure to pay any city taxes or fees;
(6)
Condemnation. To condemn property, inside or outside the corporate limits of the city, for present or future use and for any corporate purpose deemed necessary by the governing authority, utilizing procedures enumerated in Title 22 of the O.C.G.A. or such other laws as are or may hereafter be enacted;
(7)
Contracts. To enter into contracts and agreements with other governments and entities and with private persons, firms, and corporations;
(8)
Emergencies. To establish procedures for determining and proclaiming that an emergency situation exists inside or outside the city and to make and carry out all reasonable provisions deemed necessary to deal with or meet such an emergency for the protection, safety, health, or well-being of the citizens of the city;
(9)
Environmental protection. To protect and preserve the natural resources, environment, and vital areas of the city, the region, and the state through the preservation and improvement of air quality, the restoration and maintenance of water resources, the control of erosion and sedimentation, the management of stormwater and establishment of a stormwater utility, the management of solid and hazardous waste, and other necessary actions for the protection of the environment;
(10)
Ethics. To adopt ethics ordinances and regulations governing the conduct of municipal elected officials, appointed officials, and employees, establishing procedures for handling ethics complaints, and setting forth penalties for violations of such rules and procedures;
(11)
Fire regulations. To fix and establish fire limits and from time to time to extend, enlarge, or restrict the same; to prescribe fire safety regulations, not inconsistent with general law relating to both fire prevention and detection and to firefighting; and to prescribe penalties and punishment for violations thereof;
(12)
Garbage fees. To levy, fix, assess, and collect a garbage, refuse, and trash collection and disposal and other sanitary service charge, tax, or fee for such services as may be necessary in the operation of the city from all individuals, firms, and corporations residing in or doing business within the city and benefiting from such services; to enforce the payment of such charges, taxes, or fees; and to provide for the manner and method of collecting such service charges;
(13)
General health, safety, and welfare. To define, regulate, and prohibit any act, practice, conduct, or use of property which is detrimental to the health, sanitation, cleanliness, welfare, and safety of the inhabitants of the city and to provide for the enforcement of such standards;
(14)
Gifts. To accept or refuse gifts, donations, bequests, or grants from any source for any purpose related to the powers and duties of the city and the general welfare of its citizens on such terms and conditions as the donor or grantor may impose;
(15)
Health and sanitation. To prescribe standards of health and sanitation within the city and to provide for the enforcement of such standards;
(16)
Homestead exemption. To establish and maintain procedures for offering homestead exemptions to residents of the city as authorized by Act of the General Assembly;
(17)
Jail sentences. To provide that persons given jail sentences in the municipal court may work out such sentences in any public works or on the streets, roads, drains, and other public property of the city; to provide for the commitment of such persons to any jail; to provide for the use of pretrial diversion and any alternative sentencing allowed by law; or to provide for the commitment of such persons to any county work camp or county jail by agreement with the appropriate county officials;
(18)
Motor vehicles. To regulate the operation of motor vehicles and exercise control over all traffic, including parking, upon or across the streets, roads, alleys, and walkways of the city;
(19)
Municipal agencies and delegation of power. To create, alter, or abolish departments, boards, offices, commissions, and agencies of the city and to confer upon such agencies the necessary and appropriate authority for carrying out all the powers conferred upon or delegated to the same;
(20)
Municipal debts. To appropriate and borrow money for the payment of debts of the city and to issue bonds for the purpose of raising revenue to carry out any project, program, or venture authorized by this Charter or the laws of the State of Georgia;
(21)
Municipal property ownership. To acquire, dispose of, lease, and hold in trust or otherwise any real, personal, or mixed property, in fee simple or lesser interest, inside or outside the property limits of the city;
(22)
Municipal property protection. To provide for the preservation and protection of property and equipment of the city and the administration and use of same by the public; and to prescribe penalties and punishment for violations thereof;
(23)
Municipal utilities. To acquire, lease, construct, operate, maintain, sell, and dispose of public utilities, including, but not limited to, a system of waterworks, sewers, and drains, sewage disposal, gas works, electric plants, transportation facilities, public airports, and any other public utility; and to fix the taxes, charges, rates, fares, fees, assessments, regulations, and penalties therefor; and to provide for the withdrawal of service for refusal or failure to pay the same; and to authorize the extension of water, sewerage, and electrical distribution systems, and all necessary appurtenances by which said utilities are distributed, inside and outside the corporate limits of the city; and to provide utility services to persons, firms, and corporations inside and outside the corporate limits of the city as provided by ordinance;
(24)
Nuisances. To define a nuisance and provide for its abatement whether on public or private property;
(25)
Penalties. To provide penalties for violation of any ordinances adopted pursuant to the authority of this Charter and the laws of the State of Georgia;
(26)
Planning and zoning. To provide comprehensive city planning for development by zoning and to provide subdivision regulation and the like as the city council deems necessary and reasonable to ensure a safe, healthy, and esthetically pleasing community;
(27)
Police and fire protection. To exercise the power of arrest through duly appointed police officers and to establish, operate, or contract for a police and a fire-fighting agency;
(28)
Public hazards; removal. To provide for the destruction and removal of any building or other structure which is or may become dangerous or detrimental to the public;
(29)
Public improvements. To provide for the acquisition, construction, building, operation, and maintenance of public ways, parks, playgrounds, recreational facilities, cemeteries, markets and market houses, public buildings, libraries, public housing, airports, hospitals, terminals, docks, parking facilities, or charitable, cultural, educational, recreational, conservation, sport, curative, corrective, detentional, penal, and medical institutions, agencies, and facilities; to provide any other public improvements inside or outside the corporate limits of the city; to regulate the use of public improvements; and, for such purposes, property may be acquired by condemnation under Title 22 of the O.C.G.A. or such other applicable laws as are or may hereafter be enacted;
(30)
Public peace. To provide for the prevention and punishment of loitering, disorderly conduct, drunkenness, riots, and public disturbances;
(31)
Public transportation. To organize and operate or contract for such public transportation systems as are deemed beneficial;
(32)
Public utilities and services. To grant franchises or make contracts for public utilities and public services and to prescribe the rates, fares, regulations, and the standards and conditions of service applicable to the service to be provided by the franchise grantee or contractor, insofar as not in conflict with valid regulations of the Public Service Commission;
(33)
Regulation of roadside areas. To prohibit or regulate and control the erection, removal, and maintenance of signs, billboards, trees, shrubs, fences, buildings, and any and all other structures or obstructions upon or adjacent to the rights of way of streets and roads or within view thereof, inside or abutting the corporate limits of the city and to prescribe penalties and punishment for violation of such ordinances;
(34)
Retirement. To provide and maintain a retirement plan for officers and employees of the city;
(35)
Roadways. To lay out, open, extend, widen, narrow, establish or change the grade of, abandon or close, construct, pave, curb, gutter, adorn with shade trees, or otherwise improve, maintain, repair, clean, prevent erosion of, and light the roads, alleys, and walkways within the corporate limits of the city; and to negotiate and execute leases over, through, under, or across any city property or the right of way of any street, road, alley, and walkway or portion thereof within the corporate limits of the city for bridges, passageways, or any other purpose or use between buildings on opposite sides of the street and for other bridges, overpasses, and underpasses for private use at such location and to charge a rental therefor in such manner as may be provided by ordinance; and to authorize and control the construction of bridges, overpasses, and underpasses within the corporate limits of the city; and to grant franchises and rights of way throughout the streets and roads and over the bridges and viaducts for the use of public utilities and for private use; and to require real estate owners to repair and maintain in a safe condition the sidewalks adjoining their lots or lands and to impose penalties for failure to do so;
(36)
Sewer fees. To levy a fee, charge, or sewer tax as necessary to assure the acquiring, constructing, equipping, operating, maintaining, and extending of a sewage disposal plant and sewerage system; to levy on those to whom sewers and sewerage systems are made available a sewer service fee, charge, or tax for the availability or use of the sewers; to provide for the manner and method of collecting such service charge; and to impose on and collect a sewer connection fee or fees from those connected to the system;
(37)
Solid waste disposal. To provide for the collection and disposal of garbage, rubbish, and refuse and to regulate the collection and disposal of garbage, rubbish, and refuse by others; and to provide for the separate collection of glass, tin, aluminum, cardboard, paper, and other recyclable materials and provide for the sale of such items;
(38)
Special areas of public regulation. To regulate or prohibit junk dealers, pawnshops, pain management clinics, the manufacture, sale, or transportation of intoxicating liquors, and the use of firearms; to regulate the transportation, storage, and use of combustible, explosive, and inflammable materials, the use of lighting and heating equipment, and any other business or situation which may be dangerous to persons or property; to regulate and control the conduct of peddlers and itinerant traders, theatrical performances, exhibitions, and shows of any kind, by taxing or otherwise; and to license, tax, regulate, or prohibit professional fortunetelling, palmistry, adult bookstores, adult entertainment, and massage parlors;
(39)
Special assessments. To levy and provide for the collection of special assessments to cover the costs of any public improvement;
(40)
Taxes (ad valorem). To levy and provide for the assessment, valuation, revaluation, and collection of taxes on all property subject to taxation; provided, however, that:
(A)
For all years, the millage rate imposed for ad valorem taxes on real property for operating budget purposes shall not exceed 13.469 unless a higher limit is recommended by resolution of the city council and approved by a majority of the qualified voters of the city voting in a referendum; provided, however, that for the purposes of compliance with Code Section 48-8-91 of the O.C.G.A., the millage rate may be adjusted upward for the sole purpose of complying with the millage rate rollback provisions set forth therein. For the purposes of this subparagraph, the term "qualified voters" means those voters of the city who are qualified to vote in city elections and cast a vote for or against such measure in such referendum. The question to be presented to the voters in the referendum on increasing the millage rate shall be "Do you approve increasing taxes on residential and nonresidential property for City of South Fulton property owners by raising from [current millage rate] to [proposed millage rate] the operating budget millage rate, which was capped in the original Charter for the city?" If such millage rate increase is approved by the qualified voters of the City of South Fulton voting in the referendum, the new rate shall become the maximum limit until changed again by resolution of the city council and approval by a majority of the qualified voters of the City of South Fulton voting in a referendum. Notwithstanding any provision of this paragraph to the contrary, during the first five years of existence, the city shall not be authorized to increase the millage rate higher than 14.469 except for the purposes of complying with Code Section 48-8-91 of the O.C.G.A.;
(B)
For all years, the fair market value of all property subject to taxation shall be determined according to the tax digest of Fulton County, as provided in Code Section 48-5-352 of the O.C.G.A.; and
(C)
For all years, the billing date or dates and due date or dates for municipal ad valorem taxes shall be the same as for Fulton County ad valorem taxes;
(41)
Taxes (other). To levy and collect such other taxes as may be allowed now or in the future by law;
(42)
Taxicabs. To regulate and license vehicles operated for hire in the city; to limit the number of such vehicles; to require the operators thereof to be licensed; to require public liability insurance on such vehicles in the amounts to be prescribed by ordinance; and to regulate the parking of such vehicles;
(43)
Urban redevelopment. To organize and operate an urban redevelopment program; and
(44)
Other powers. To exercise and enjoy all other powers, functions, rights, privileges, and immunities necessary or desirable to promote or protect the safety, health, peace, security, good order, comfort, convenience, or general welfare of the city and its inhabitants; to exercise all implied powers necessary to carry into execution all powers granted in this Charter as fully and completely as if such powers were fully stated in this Charter; and to exercise all powers now or in the future authorized to be exercised by other municipal governments under other laws of the State of Georgia; and no listing of particular powers in this Charter shall be held to be exclusive of others, nor restrictive of general words and phrases granting powers, but shall be held to be in addition to such powers unless expressly prohibited to municipalities under the Constitution or applicable laws of the State of Georgia.
Sec. 1.13. - Exercise of powers.
All powers, functions, rights, privileges, and immunities of the city, its officers, agencies, or employees shall be carried into execution as provided by this Charter. If this Charter makes no provision, such shall be carried into execution as provided by ordinance or as provided by pertinent laws of the State of Georgia.
