Chapter 32 - TAXATION[1]
ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 32-1. - Judicial in rem tax foreclosures authorized for collection of ad valorem taxes.
Pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 48-4-75 et seq., the county may undertake judicial in rem tax foreclosures for delinquent ad valorem taxes.
(Res. of 8-15-2011(1))
Sec. 32-2. - Minimum number of acres for conservation use exemption; exception.
(a)
The county establishes the minimum number of acres for qualified current use property for the county at 20 acres. No property owner may take advantage of the conservation use exemption if they own less that 20 acres, except as provided in this section.
(b)
Property owners applying for the conservation use exemption for parcels of less than 20 acres may qualify for the exemption if they provide copies of two previous years' federal income tax returns (Schedule F, Form 1040, profit or loss statement from farming activity) showing a continuous agricultural business use for a period greater than one year.
(Res. of 8-15-2011(2))
Secs. 32-3—32-22. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - LODGING AND ACCOMMODATIONS TAX[2]
DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Sec. 32-23. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning.
City means the City of Hazelhurst, Georgia.
County means all of the territory within the geographic boundaries of the county, state, including all municipalities located therein. The entirety of the county shall constitute the territorial limits of the special tax district as contemplated by O.C.G.A. § 48-13-50.1.
Due date means the 20th day after the end of the monthly period for which the tax is to be computed.
Guest room means a room occupied, or intended, arranged or designed for occupancy by one or more occupants for the purpose of living quarters or residential use.
Monthly period means a calendar month.
Motel means any structure or any portion of a structure, including any motel, lodginghouse, roominghouse, dormitory, Turkish bath, bachelor hotel, hotel, motor hotel, auto court, inn, bed and breakfast inn, public club, or private club, containing guest rooms and which is occupied, or is intended or designed for occupancy by guests, whether rent is paid in money, goods, labor, or otherwise. The term "motel" does not include any convalescent center, nursing home, hospital, jail, asylum, sanitarium, orphanage, prison, detention center, or other buildings in which human beings are housed and detained under legal restraint. For purposes of this article, the term "motel" also includes the term "hotel."
Occupancy means the use or possession, or the right to the use or possession of any room or apartment in a motel, or the right to the use or possession of the furnishing or to the services and accommodations accompanying the use and possession of the room.
Occupant or guest means any person who, for a consideration, uses, possesses, or has the right to use or possess any room in a motel under any lease, concession, permit, right of access, license to use, or other agreement, or otherwise.
Operator means any person operating a motel in the county, including, but not limited to, the owner or proprietor of such premises, the leasee, sublessee, lender in possession, licensee or any other person otherwise operating such motel.
Person means an individual, firm, partnership, joint venture, association, social club, fraternal organization, joint stock company, corporation, nonprofit corporation or cooperative nonprofit membership, estate, trust, business trust, receiver, trustee, syndicate, or any other group or combination acting as a unit, the plural as well as the singular number, excepting the United States of America, the state, and any political subdivision of either thereof upon which the county is without power to impose the tax herein provided.
Rent means the consideration received for occupancy valued in money, whether received in money or otherwise, including all receipts, cash, credits, and property or services of any kind or nature, and also the amount for which credit is allowed by the operator to the occupant, without any deduction therefrom whatsoever.
Return means any return filed or required to be filed as provided in this article.
Tax commissioner means the county tax commissioner.
Tax means the tax imposed by this article.
(Ord. of 9-29-1994, § 1)
Sec. 32-24. - Levied.
Pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 48-13-50 et seq., the county levies and imposed a tax of five percent of the rent for every occupancy of a guest room in a motel in the county, including all municipalities located therein; provided, however, that no tax shall be levied as provided in this section upon the fees or charges for any rooms, lodgings, or accommodations furnished for use as meeting rooms.
(Ord. of 9-29-1994, § 2)
Sec. 32-25. - Collection of tax by operator.
It shall be the duty of every operator of a motel located within the county to collect from the occupants the tax levied and imposed upon the occupancy of guest rooms by the provisions of this article.
(Ord. of 9-29-1994, § 3)
Sec. 32-26. - Exemptions.
Notwithstanding any other provision of this article, no tax shall be levied as provided in this article upon the fees or charges for any rooms, lodgings or accommodations furnished for use by state or local governmental officials or employees when traveling on official business.
(Ord. of 9-29-1994, § 4)
Sec. 32-27. - Notification to operators.
Within five days after learning of the opening or establishment of any new business subject to this article, the county administrator shall send a notice of the duty to collect established in this article, together with a copy article to such new business.
(Ord. of 9-29-1994, § 5)
Sec. 32-28. - Due date of taxes.
All taxes levied and imposed by this article shall be due and payable to the county monthly on or before the 20th day of every month next succeeding each respective monthly period in which such taxes are collected.
(Ord. of 9-29-1994, § 6)
Sec. 32-29. - Returns and time of filing; remittance of tax.
(a)
On or before the 20th day of the month following each monthly period, a return for the preceding monthly period shall be filed with the county tax commissioner in such form as the tax commissioner may prescribe by every operator liable for the payment of tax hereunder.
(b)
All returns shall show the gross rent, exempt rent, taxable rent, amount of tax collected or otherwise due for the monthly period for which filed, and such other information as may be required by the tax commissioner and shall be accompanied when filed by remittance of the net amount of tax due.
(Ord. of 9-29-1994, § 7)
Sec. 32-30. - Deficiency determinations.
(a)
Computation of tax; authority to make; basis of computation. If the tax commissioner is not satisfied with the return of the tax or the amount of the tax required to be paid to the county by any person or business subject to this article, he may compute and determine the amount required to be paid upon the basis of any information in his possession or which may come into his possession. One or more than one deficiency determinations may be made for the amount due for one or more than one monthly period.
(b)
Interest on deficiency. The amount of the unpaid tax found to be due shall bear interest at the rate of three-fourths of one percent per month from and after the 20th day of the month following the monthly period for which the amount shall have been returned until the date of payment of such tax and interest.
(c)
Offsetting of overpayments. In making a determination the tax commissioner may offset overpayments for a period, or periods, against unpaid tax found to be due for another period or periods, against penalties, and against the interest on such unpaid tax.
(d)
Notice of determination. The tax commissioner, or his designated representative, shall give to the operator written notice of his determination. The notice may be served personally or by mail. If by mail, such service shall be addressed to the operator at his address as it appears in the records of the tax commissioner.
(e)
Time within which notice of deficiency determination to be mailed. Except in the case of failure to make a return, every notice of a deficiency determination shall be mailed within three years after the 20th day of the calendar month following the monthly period for which the amount is proposed to be determined, or within three years after the return is filed, whichever period shall last expire.
(Ord. of 9-29-1994, § 8)
Sec. 32-31. - Determination if no return made.
(a)
Estimate of gross receipts. If any operator fails to make a return, the tax commissioner shall make an estimate of the amount of the gross receipts of the operator in this county which are subject to the tax. The estimate shall be made for the period in respect to which the person or business failed to make the return and shall be based upon any information which is or may come into the possession of the tax commissioner. Upon the basis of this estimate the tax commissioner shall compute and determine the amount required to be paid the county adding to the sum thus determined a penalty equal to 15 percent thereof. One or more determinations may be made of the amount due for one or for more than one monthly period.
(b)
Offsetting of overpayments. In making a determination the tax commissioner may offset overpayments for a period against unpaid tax found to be due for another period, against penalties, and against interest on unpaid tax found to be due. The interest on such unpaid tax shall be computed in the manner set forth in this section.
(c)
Interest on amount found due. The amount of the unpaid tax found to be due shall bear interest at the rate of three-fourths of one percent per month from and after the 20th day of the month following the monthly period for which the amount should have been returned until the date of payment of such tax, penalties, and interest.
(d)
Notice of determination. Promptly after making his determination, the tax commissioner shall give to the operator written notice of his determination, which notice may be served personally or by mail in the manner prescribed for service of notice of a deficiency determination.
(Ord. of 9-29-1994, § 9)
Sec. 32-32. - Collection of tax.
(a)
When it is determined by a return filed, or by the tax commissioner having made a determination pursuant to this article that tax is due and payable to the county under the provisions of this article, the tax commissioner may at any time within three years after determination that such tax is due and payable bring an action in the courts of this state, of any other state, or of the United States in the name of the county to collect the amount of tax payable to the county together with interest thereon and penalties, court costs, attorney's fees and other legal fees incident thereto. The bringing of such an action shall not be a prerequisite for the issuance of a fi. fa. under the provisions of this section.
(b)
If any operator liable for any amount of tax under this article sells or transfers his business, his successors or assigns shall withhold a sufficient amount of the purchase price of the business to cover such amount of tax, interest thereon, and penalties, and pay such sum over to the county unless the operator liable for such tax delivers to such purchaser or transferee as the case may be, at the time of such sale or transfer, a certificate from the tax commissioner showing that all tax returns required of such operator have been filed and all taxes shown as being payable on those returns pursuant to this article have been paid in full.
(c)
If the purchaser or transferee of a business fails to withhold the required amount of the purchase price, he shall be personally liable for the payment of the amount required to be withheld by him to the extent of the purchase price, valued in money. The time within which the obligations of successor may be enforced shall start to run at the time the operator sells or transfers his business, or at the time that the determination against the operator becomes final, whichever event occurs later.
(d)
The tax commissioner is hereby authorized to issue a fi. fa. for execution and levy to satisfy the amount of any tax, penalty or interest due but not paid under the provisions of this article.
(Ord. of 9-29-1994, § 10)
Sec. 32-33. - Administration.
(a)
The tax commissioner shall administer and enforce the provision of this article for the levy and collection of the tax imposed by this article, and shall remit all such taxes collected to the Hazlehurst-the county board of tourism (hereinafter sometimes referred to as the board of tourism) no later than the 20th day of the month following the month of collection. There shall be no charge to the board of tourism for this service.
(b)
All funds so collected and disbursed to the board of tourism shall be held by the board of tourism in trust for the citizens of the county and may only be spent and disbursed in accordance with this article and any contract entered into between the board of commissioners and the board of tourism.
(c)
The county administrator shall have the power and authority to make and publish reasonable rules and regulations not inconsistent with this article or other ordinances of the county, state law, or the state or federal constitutions, for the administration and enforcement of the provisions of this article and the collection of the taxes hereunder.
(d)
Every operator shall keep such records, receipts, invoices, and other pertinent papers in such form as the county administrator or tax commissioner may require.
(e)
The tax commissioner or county administrator, or any person authorized in writing by either of them, may examine the books, papers, records, financial reports, equipment and other facilities of any operator in order to verify the accuracy of any return made, or if no return is made by the operator, to ascertain and determine the amount of tax required to be paid.
(f)
In the administration of the provisions of this article, the county administrator or tax commissioner may require the filing of the reports by any person or class of persons having in such person's or persons' possession or custody information relating to rentals of guestrooms which are subject to the tax. The reports shall be filed with the official requesting such reports when required by the county administrator or tax commissioner and shall set forth the rental charged for each occupancy, the date or dates of occupancy, and such other information as the requesting official may require.
(g)
Any information or records requested by or furnished to the county administrator or tax commissioner pursuant to a request under this article, and not specifically used for tax liability calculations, or the review of the operator's calculations and not placed in the records of the county or tax commissioner, shall be considered confidential.
(Ord. of 9-29-1994, § 11)
Sec. 32-34. - Agents for receiving notices.
Each operator shall notify the county administrator, in writing, of the name of an agent to receive for the operator any notice required to be given to the operator under the provisions of this article, stating the full name, street address, mailing address and telephone number of such agent. The operator shall also notify the county administrator in writing each time a replacement agent is appointed.
(Ord. of 9-29-1994, § 12)
Sec. 32-35. - Use of taxes.
All monies collected from the levy of the tax imposed hereby shall be expressly and exclusively used to enhance and expand the economies of the city and the county through the promotion of tourism.
(Ord. of 9-29-1994, § 14)
Sec. 32-36. - Penalty.
(a)
Violation of this article shall be punishable as a misdemeanor and each person shall be guilty of a separate offense for each and every day or portion thereof during which any violation of any provision of this article is committed, continued, or permitted by such person, and shall be punished accordingly.
(b)
Any operator or other person who fails to register as required herein, or to furnish any return required to be made, or who fails or refuses to furnish a supplemental return or other data required by the county administrator or tax commissioner or who renders a false or fraudulent return shall be deemed guilty of an offense and upon conviction thereof shall be punished as provided in this section.
(c)
Any person required to make, render, sign, or verify any report who makes any false or fraudulent report, with intent to defeat or evade the determination of an amount due required by this article to be made shall be deemed guilty of an offense and upon conviction thereof shall be punished as provided in this section.
(Ord. of 9-29-1994, § 13)
Secs. 32-37—32-60. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - BOARD OF TOURISM

Sec. 32-61. - Joint city-county board of tourism.
(a)
The county has created and established a board of tourism which shall be known as the Hazlehurst-Jeff Davis County Board of Tourism. The board of tourism shall be the official body for the promotion of tourism in the city and the county.
(b)
All taxes collected by the tax commissioner pursuant to this article shall be remitted to the board of tourism to be used as provided herein. The board of tourism shall use the tax monies collected and remitted to it pursuant to this article solely for purposes of enhancing and expanding the economies of the city and the county through the promotion of tourism.
(c)
The county shall enter into a contract with the board of tourism regarding the authority of the board, the transfer of such tax funds to the board, the use of the funds, and the accountability of the board for such funds.
(Ord. of 9-29-1994, § 15)
Sec. 32-62. - Purpose; composition and appointment.
(a)
The purpose of the board of tourism is to plan, coordinate, and administer an effective tourism program for the county, pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 48-13-50 et seq.
(b)
The board of tourism shall consist of nine members. Members of the board shall be appointed from the following areas for the following initial terms:
EXPAND
City of Hazlehurst 6 years
County board of commissioners 6 years
Chamber of commerce 6 years
County development authority 4 years
Hotel/motel industry 4 years
General business community 4 years
Retail business 2 years
Leisure services 2 years
Food services 2 years
  (c)
Persons representing the governmental bodies may, but are not required to be, elected members of the bodies. The city mayor, the chairperson of the county board of commissioners and the president of the chamber of commerce shall be ex-officio members of the board.
(d)
Members of the board shall be appointed for staggered terms of six years, following the expiration of the initial appointed terms of the members of the board of tourism, or until their successors have been appointed and take office. Members of the board of tourism may succeed themselves and be reappointed without limitation.
(e)
The executive director of the chamber of commerce shall serve as the chief executive officer of the board, and shall perform all financial, secretarial and other ministerial functions of the board. The chairperson of the board of tourism shall be chosen from the membership of the board.
(f)
The board of tourism shall operate in compliance with by-laws adopted by the board.
(g)
The city will appoint one member to represent the city, and the board of commissioners of the county will appoint one member to represent the county board of commissioners. All remaining members shall be selected and appointed as follows:
(1)
The chamber of commerce shall submit to the county board of commissioners' nominations for a representative from each of the other seven areas of interest.
(2)
The chamber may permit each of the other organizations or areas of interest to make a recommendation to the chamber, but all nominations made to the board of commissioners for the other seven areas of interest must come directly from the chamber of commerce.
(Ord. of 9-29-1994, § 16)
Sec. 32-63. - Reports and audit of board of tourism.
The executive director of the board of tourism shall publish the minutes of all meetings; maintain a full accounting of all funds; publish, not less than quarterly, a report of activities and financial statement to the city council and the county board of commissioners. The members of the board of tourism shall also cause an annual audit of the funds of the board by a certified public accountant licensed to perform the services in the state and provide a copy of same to the city council and the county board of commissioners.
(Ord. of 9-29-1994, § 17)
Sec. 32-64. - Salaries and expenses of the board of tourism.
The appointed members of the board of tourism shall serve without pay. However, the members shall be reimbursed for their reasonable expenses incurred on behalf of the board. The board of tourism is authorized to pay all of its reasonable operating expenses from the tax funds collected and remitted to it hereunder, including reasonable rent, utilities and a portion of the salary of the executive director of the chamber of commerce commiserate with his services to the board.
(Ord. of 9-29-1994, § 18)
Sec. 32-65. - Termination or dissolution of board of tourism.
In the event the board of tourism should terminate, be abolished or otherwise cease to exist, all funds remaining in the hands of the board of tourism shall immediately revert and be returned to the board of commissioners, and the board of tourism shall in such event also prepare and submit a final report and audit.
(Ord. of 9-29-1994, § 19)
