Chapter 30 - LIBRARY[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Cross reference— Administration, ch. 2.
State Law reference— Local and regional public libraries, O.C.G.A. § 20-5-20 et seq.; county and regional public libraries, O.C.G.A. § 20-5-40 et seq.; authority to provide for libraries, Ga. Const. art. IX, § II, ¶ III(a)(10).

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 30-1. - Name; purpose and general operation.
(a)
The library organization shall be known as the Emanuel County Library, Swainsboro, Georgia.
(b)
The object of the library shall be the furnishing of a complete library service to the people, adult and juvenile, of the county, under the terms and regulations set forth by the state governing public libraries (1935 Ga. Laws, page 409).
(Code 1992, § 22-1)
Sec. 30-2. - Governing body.
The governing body of the library shall be a board of trustees composed of ten residents of the county, as provided for in this chapter. The board of trustees may appoint an executive committee composed of the principal officers of the board to act upon matters between regular meetings of the board.
(Code 1992, § 22-2)
Sec. 30-3. - Duties of librarian.
The head librarian shall have charge of the library and have the care of books and other library property. He shall direct the staff members in all work pertaining to the efficient operation of the library. He shall select books and prepare orders for books, library supplies and other necessary items for the maintenance of the library, ascertaining at any time from the treasurer of the library board of trustees the amount of funds in the library budget for such expenditures as are needed. He shall prepare and submit in writing to the board of trustees at regular meetings a report of the operations of the library, including such recommendations as in his opinion will promote its efficiency. He shall prepare in writing an annual report showing fully the operations of the library and present this to the board of trustees and send a copy to the library extension service of the state department of education.
(Code 1992, § 22-3)
Sec. 30-4. - Financial records.
All bills or a duplicate of bills paid for the library shall be receipted and filed in the library as permanent records. In case the endorsed check is accepted as a sufficient receipt, the bill bearing the check number, with the cancelled check attached, shall be filed at the library.
(Code 1992, § 22-4)
Sec. 30-5. - Library service.
All services rendered by the library shall be free to the residents of the county. Loan periods for various types of books shall be specified by the library board of trustees, and such regulations shall be enforced by the librarian. A fine in the amount designated by the board of trustees, per day, shall be charged to all persons keeping books or other materials past the date set for their return to the library.
(Code 1992, § 22-5)
Secs. 30-6—30-30. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - BOARD OF TRUSTEES

Sec. 30-31. - Membership; term of office.
The board of trustees of the county library shall consist of ten residents of the county representing a broad cross section of the population of the county, and shall include certain public officials as ex officio members as follows:
(1)
The county school superintendent then in office.
(2)
A member of the board of commissioners designated by the board of commissioners.
(3)
A member of the City Council of the City of Swainsboro designated by the City Council of the City of Swainsboro.
The other seven members of the board of trustees shall be appointed by the board of commissioners with the concurrence of the Mayor and Council of the City of Swainsboro for a term of three years, except that in the beginning the terms shall be staggered as follows: three members shall be appointed for three-year terms, two members shall be appointed for two-year terms, and two members shall be appointed for one-year terms. Vacancies among the members not ex officio shall be filled by the same method.
(Code 1992, § 22-31)
Sec. 30-32. - Officers.
The officers of the library board of trustees shall be a chairman, vice-chairman, secretary and treasurer, who shall be elected annually from the members.
(1)
The chairman shall preside at board meetings, appoint committees and perform such other duties as generally pertain to that office.
(2)
The vice-chairman shall perform the duties of the chairman in the absence of the chairman.
(3)
The secretary shall keep a record of attendance at board meetings, record the official actions of the board and have custody of its official books, which shall be housed at the library. He shall also notify the proper appointing powers of vacancies on the board.
(4)
The treasurer shall receive all money for the board and deposit it in a local commercial bank, to be determined by the board, to the library account. He shall pay all bills certified by the librarian and shall report at each board meeting on the state of library funds. He shall notify the supporting agencies in writing if their appropriations are not paid in full up-to-date. His records shall be kept at the library.
(Code 1992, § 22-32)
Sec. 30-33. - Meetings.
(a)
Time and place of meetings. There shall be not less than six meetings of the library board of trustees, including the annual meeting, during each 12-month period. Each regular meeting shall be held at the time and date designated by the board of trustees in the library office or at such place as designated by the chairman. Special meetings shall be called by the chairman. Fifty percent of the membership of the board shall constitute a quorum.
(b)
Order of business. The order of business of regular meetings shall be as follows:
(1)
Reading and approval of minutes.
(2)
Treasurer's report.
(3)
Report of the librarian.
(4)
Report of the committees.
(5)
Unfinished and new business.
(Code 1992, § 22-33)
Sec. 30-34. - Powers and duties.
The library board of trustees shall define the general policies of the library and shall pass necessary rules and regulations for the government and control of the library. It shall employ as head librarian and other professional staff members persons holding library certificates issued by the state board for the certification of librarians, of the type required by law. Other staff members shall be employed and dismissed by the board of trustees upon recommendation of the head librarian. The board of trustees may accept and receive donations either in money, land or property for the purpose of maintaining or improving the library.
(Code 1992, § 22-34)
Sec. 30-35. - Amendment of bylaws.
The bylaws of the library board of trustees may be amended at any regular meeting of the board of trustees with a quorum present, by a two-thirds vote of the members present, provided all members have been notified in writing about the proposed amendment two weeks preceding the meeting.
(Code 1992, § 22-35)
