ARTICLE VI. - SHERIFF[8]

Footnotes:
--- (8) ---
Editor's note— Printed herein is 1966 Ga. Laws, page 2576, which placed the Sheriff of Emanuel County on a salary basis. Amendments to the act are indicated by parenthetical history notes following amended provisions. The absence of a history note indicates that the provision remains unchanged from the original act. Obvious misspellings have been corrected without notation. For stylistic purposes, a uniform system of headings, catchlines and citations to state statutes has been used. Additions made for clarity are indicated by brackets.

Sec. 1. - Salary basis.
The present mode of compensating the Sheriff of Emanuel County, Georgia, known as the fee system, is hereby abolished and in lieu thereof, said officer shall be compensated by an annual salary as hereinafter provided for.
Sec. 2. - Salary.
The Sheriff of Emanuel County shall receive an annual salary which shall not be less than $8,000.00. The exact amount of said salary shall be fixed by the governing authority of Emanuel County not later than the first Tuesday in January of each year. Thereafter, such salary may not be diminished during that calendar year. Said salary shall be paid in equal monthly installments from the funds of Emanuel County.
Sec. 3. - Fees.
The annual salary provided for herein shall be in lieu of all fees, costs, fines, forfeitures, commissions, emoluments, and perquisites of whatever kind heretofore allowed and collected as compensation for said officer, regardless of in what capacity said services for such fees, costs, fines, forfeitures, commissions, emoluments or perquisites were rendered as long as said services were rendered by virtue of the fact that said officer is the Sheriff of Emanuel County, irrespective of the consideration that said services may not have been rendered in his official capacity as sheriff of said county, but may have been personal.
Sec. 4. - Same[—Collection by sheriff].
The sheriff shall diligently and faithfully collect and receive all fees, fines, forfeitures, costs, commissions, allowances, penalties, funds, monies, or any other emoluments formerly allowed him as compensation for his services in any capacity in his office and he shall receive and hold the same in trust for said county as public monies and shall pay the same to Emanuel County as directed by the governing authority thereof on or before the 10th day of each month next following the month in which they are collected or received. On or before the 10th day of each month, the sheriff shall prepare in duplicate a detailed itemized statement, under oath, showing the date[s], sources, and amounts of the funds collected by him during the previous calendar month. The original copy of said statement shall be furnished to the governing authority of Emanuel County, and the duplicate copy of said statement shall be retained on file as part of the records of the sheriff's office.
Sec. 5. - Same[—Collection by employees].
Any official, officer or county employee charged with the responsibility of collecting, receiving, or disbursing any fees, fines, forfeitures, costs, commissions, allowances, penalties, funds, monies, or other emoluments formerly allowed the Sheriff of Emanuel County and who pays said funds directly into the county treasury upon their receipt in lieu of paying the same to the sheriff, shall on or before the 10th day of each month prepare in triplicate a detailed itemized statement showing the dates, sources, and amounts of such funds collected and paid into the county treasury during the previous month. The original copy of this statement shall be furnished to the governing authority of Emanuel County. A copy of said statement shall be furnished to the sheriff, and a copy shall be retained on file as a part of the records of said official, officer, or county employee. Such official, officer, or county employee shall be diligent in making the monthly accounting as herein provided.
Sec. 6. - Same[—Use by county].
The procedure now or hereafter in force as to collection and distribution of all fees, fines, forfeitures, costs, commissions, allowances, penalties, funds, monies, or any other emoluments shall be followed, but as herein provided, all such funds to which the sheriff would, but for this Act, be entitled, shall be collected for the use of Emanuel County and said county shall be subrogated to the rights and claims of said sheriff in and to the same.
Sec. 7. - Fees due.
All fees, fines, forfeitures, costs, commissions, allowances, penalties, funds, monies, or any other emoluments which have accrued to the sheriff at the time this Act becomes effective and to which said officer is entitled and which remain uncollected at the time this Act becomes effective, shall, when collected, be paid to said officer and shall be retained by him as his own compensation.
Sec. 8. - Deputy sheriffs, etc.
The Sheriff of Emanuel County shall appoint such deputy or deputies, jailer or jailers, clerk or clerks, as may be necessary to efficiently perform the duties of his office and set their compensation which shall be paid from the funds of Emanuel County. However, Emanuel County shall not be liable for a sum for the salaries of such deputy or deputies, jailer or jailers, clerk or clerks, in excess of $12,200.00 per calendar year, unless sums in excess of said amount are approved in advance by the governing authority of said county. It shall be within the sole power and authority of the sheriff, during his term of office, to designate and name the persons who shall be employed or appointed as deputies, jailers and clerks, and prescribe their duties and assignments and to remove or to replace such deputies, jailers, or clerks at will and within his sole discretion.
Sec. 9. - Automobiles.
The governing authority of Emanuel County shall also furnish the sheriff with at least two automobiles equipped with the necessary equipment commonly on or in automobiles which are used by law enforcement officers. The automobiles so furnished shall be the property of Emanuel County and shall be used by the sheriff and his deputies only on official business. The governing authority of said county shall also furnish all of the necessary gasoline, oil, maintenance, and repair costs for said automobiles and replace said automobiles when necessary. The replaced automobiles may be disposed of in such manner as will be most advantageous to Emanuel County.
Sec. 10. - Office expense, etc.
The governing authority of said county shall provide the necessary books, records, stationery, postage, telephones, ammunition and other supplies and equipment for the sheriff's office in order to insure the proper and efficient operation of his office. The funds for the payment of the supplies, equipment and maintenance as herein provided shall come from the funds of Emanuel County.
Sec. 11. - Prisoners.
The Sheriff of Emanuel County is hereby charged with the responsibility of the feeding of the prisoners which are committed to his jurisdiction. It shall be the duty of the governing authority of Emanuel County to fix and pay to the sheriff a sufficient sum which will adequately satisfy the dietary needs of such prisoners in order that their strength and health should not suffer in consequence of any insufficiency of food. The amount so fixed and allowed shall be payable from the funds of Emanuel County.
Sec. 12. - Emergency funds.
The governing authority of Emanuel County is authorized to furnish the sheriff with such other supplies and equipment as may be necessary in an emergency or which are required in order to enable the sheriff to comply with the general laws of the State of Georgia. The funds for the payment of the supplies and equipment furnished as authorized by this section shall be payable from the funds of Emanuel County.
Sec. 13. - Travel expense.
The sheriff and his deputies in addition to any other compensation herein provided shall receive reimbursement for their actual expenses which are incurred when out of the territorial limits of Emanuel County attending official business or on business of the county as may be authorized by the governing authority. The funds for the payment or reimbursement of such expenses shall be payable from the funds of Emanuel County.
Sec. 14. - Bonds.
The premiums for all bonds and insurance policies required of the sheriff, his deputies and employees shall be paid from the funds of Emanuel County.
Sec. 15. - Intent.
It shall be proper and lawful for the governing authority of Emanuel County to pay out of the county funds the sums and amounts herein provided and authorized.
