ARTICLE II. - BOARD OF EDUCATION[3]

Footnotes:
--- (3) ---
Editor's note— Printed herein is 1982 Ga. Laws, page 4049, which provides for the election of the Emanuel County Board of Education. Amendments to the act are indicated by parenthetical history notes following amended provisions. The absence of a history note indicates that the provision remains unchanged from the original act. Obvious misspellings have been corrected without notation. For stylistic purposes, a uniform system of headings, catchlines and citations to state statutes has been used. Additions made for clarity are indicated by brackets.

Sec. 1. - [Composition.]
(a)
The Board of Education of Emanuel County shall be composed of seven members to be elected as provided in this Act. For the purpose of electing members to the board, Emanuel County shall be divided into seven election districts as follows:
Election District No. 1 shall be composed of all that territory within Emanuel County embraced within the 1429th Election Precinct and the 1560th Election Precinct.
Election District No. 2 shall be composed of all that territory within Emanuel County embraced within the 50th Election Precinct, the 58th Election Precinct, the 1502nd Election Precinct, and the 395th Election Precinct.
Election District No. 3 shall be composed of all that territory within Emanuel County embraced within the 1748th Election Precinct, the 1452nd Election Precinct, the 1208th Election Precinct, the 57th Election Precinct, and the Cross-Green Election Precinct.
Election District No. 4 shall be composed of all that territory within Emanuel County embraced within the 49th Election Precinct, the 1333rd Election Precinct, Swainsboro City Election Ward No. 1, and an area within the 53rd Election Precinct bounded on the North by the Swainsboro-Canoochee Road; East by the 1333rd Election Precinct and 1560th Election Precinct; South by the 58th Election Precinct; and West by County Road 269 and the City Limits for the City of Swainsboro, and the 1502nd Election Precinct.
Election District No. 5 shall be composed of all that territory within Emanuel County embraced within Swainsboro City Election Ward No. 5 and Swainsboro City Election Ward No. 6.
Election District No. 6 shall be composed of all that territory within Emanuel County embraced within Swainsboro City Election Ward No. 2 and an area within the 53rd Election Precinct bounded on the North by the 1208th Election Precinct and the 57th Election Precinct; East by the Swainsboro-Canoochee Road and the 1333rd Election Precinct, South by the City Limits of the City of Swainsboro and U.S. Highway 80 from Swainsboro to Adrian; and West by the 1748th Election Precinct and 1452nd Election Precinct.
Election District No. 7 shall be composed of all that territory within Emanuel County embraced within Swainsboro City Election Ward No. 3 and Swainsboro City Election Ward No. 4 and an area within the 53rd Election Precinct bounded on the North by U.S. Highway 80 from Swainsboro to Adrian; East by the City Limits of the City of Swainsboro and County Road 269; South by the 1502nd Election Precinct; and West by the 395th Election Precinct.
(b)
As used in this section, the term "election precinct" means an election precinct of Emanuel County as such precinct existed on January 1, 1984.
Sec. 2. - [Election of district board members.]
There shall be one member of the board elected from each election district. A person may not offer as a candidate for election to the board from any election district other than from the election district in which he or she is a legal resident. The board member representing each election district shall be elected by the voters residing in that respective election district. Board members shall be elected by a majority vote of the registered voters casting ballots in an election.
Sec. 3. - [Election requirements.]
No person shall be eligible to offer for election to the board or serve thereon unless that person is at least 21 years of age, has been a resident of the state at least one year, and has been a resident of the territory embraced within the election district from which that person offers as a candidate for at least six months immediately preceding the date of the election. In the event a member moves his or her residence from the election district he or she represents, his or her place on the board shall immediately become vacant.
Sec. 4. - [Terms of members.]
The term of offices of the members presently serving on the board shall expire at the end of December 31, 1982. At the general election in 1982, members of the board from Election District No. 1, Election District No. 3, and Election District No. 7 shall be elected to take office January 1, 1983, for a term of two years and until their successors are elected and qualified. At the general election of 1982, members of the board from Election District No. 2, Election District No. 4, Election District No. 5, and Election District No. 6 shall be elected to take office January 1, 1983, for a term of four years and until their successors are elected and qualified. Successors shall be elected to a four-year term in the general election in the year in which they terms of office expire and shall take office on the first day of January immediately following their election.
Sec. 5. - [Election of chairman; quorum; compensation.]
At the first meeting of the board in January, and at the January meeting biennially thereafter, the board shall elect one of their members as chairman to serve for a term of two years and such other officers as the board shall determine. Four members of the board shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business. All members of the board shall be compensated in the amount of $100.00 for each meeting actually attended, plus actual and necessary expenses incurred in carrying out their official duties, except that the compensation of the chairman shall be $125.00 for each meeting actually attended plus actual and necessary expenses incurred in carrying out the chairman's official duties.
(1988 Ga. Laws, page 3836, § 1)
Sec. 6. - [Vacancies.]
(a)
In the event any vacancy occurs on the Board of Education of Emanuel County, such vacancy shall be filled as follows:
(1)
If the vacancy occurs more than one year prior to the expiration of the term, such vacancy shall be filled at a special election to be held not less than 90 nor more than 120 days after said vacancy occurs; or
(2)
If the vacancy occurs less than one year prior to the expiration of the term, the remaining members of the board shall, by majority vote, select a qualified person to fill such vacancy for the remainder of the unexpired term and until a successor elected and qualified at the next general election takes office.
(b)
The Board of Education of Emanuel County created by this Act shall be the successor to all the rights, powers, duties, and obligations of the old Board of Education of Emanuel County and shall be subject to all constitutional and statutory provisions relating to county boards of education not in conflict with this Act.
(1992 Ga. Laws, page 5376, § 1)
Sec. 7. - [Appointment by Grand Jury.]
In the event the voters of Emanuel County fail to approve the election of board members as set forth in this Act, the Board of Education for Emanuel County shall be appointed by the Grand Jury of Emanuel County, according to the Constitution and the laws of the State of Georgia.
