ARTICLE II. - DEFINITIONS
For the purpose of this ordinance, certain terms and words are hereby defined. Words used in the present tense include the future; the singular number includes the plural, and the plural the singular; the word "building" includes "structures", the word "may" is permissive and the word "shall" is mandatory.
Accessory building: A subordinate building or structure on the same lot, or part of the main building, occupied by or devoted exclusively to an accessory use: Accessory buildings shall include storage buildings, tool houses, party houses, bath houses etc.
Accessory use: A use of land or of a building or portion thereof customarily incidental and subordinate to the principal use of the land or building and located on the same lot with the principal use.
Adult care facility: Personal care and supervision in a protective setting for adults outside their own home for which a fee is charged. The program may include the provisions of daily medical supervision, nursing and other health care support, psycho-social assistance, or appropriate socialization stimuli or a combination of these. Adult care is available for those persons who, because of physical and/or mental disability, are not capable of full time independent living.
Adult entertainment: Performances by topless and/or bottomless or nude dancers, strippers, or other similar entertainers, where such performances are characterized by the display or exposure of specific anatomical areas.
Adult entertainment businesses: Any business such as motion pictures, theaters, mini-motion theaters, erotic dancing, escort services, book stores, etc. characterized by an emphasis on sexual activities.
Adult entertainment establishment: Any commercial establishment which has as its primary purpose or business the offer for sale of any book, publication, or film which depicts nudity or sexual conduct or engages in services such as bathhouses, massage parlors, wrestling parlors or like activity, including a nightclub, restaurant, cabaret, lounge, or other establishment which features adult entertainment.
Agriculture or agricultural: The bona fide use of a parcel of land for forestry, the cultivation of land, raising of crops, or the raising of livestock, animals, poultry, honeybees, aqua culture or similar agrarian activity and the related building structures and appurtenances necessary to carry out the aforementioned activities.
Alternative tower structure: means clock towers, bell towers, church steeples, light/power poles, electric transmission towers, manmade trees (without accessory buildings/structures), and similar natural or manmade alternative-design mounting structures that camouflage or conceal the presence of antennas or towers.
Antique store: A retail business that buys and sells second hand items that are generally considered of value due to the age of the item.
Antique mall: A permanently established retail business that not only buys and sells second hand collectable items, but also rents tables, booths, or spaces within the store, which are subject to sales tax and business licenses, to other persons who want to buy and/or sell second hand collectable items.
Apartment house: A residential structure containing three (3) or more apartments (independent dwelling units).
Apartment unit: One or more rooms with private bath and kitchen facilities comprising an independent, self-contained dwelling unit in building containing three (3) or more dwelling units.
Bed and breakfasts: Overnight accommodations and a morning meal in dwelling unit provided to transients for compensation. Comment: Bed and breakfasts (B&B) accommodations differ from rooming and boarding houses in that they are truly transient accommodations, with guests rarely staying more than a few days. In addition, the owner almost always lives in the facility. The impact of a B&B should not be much greater than that of a private home with frequent house guests, with the exception of parking demand.
Board of appeals: The officially constituted body whose principal duties are to grant variances from the strict application of the zoning ordinance.
Boarding house: A dwelling where meals or lodging and meals, are provided for compensation to three or more persons by pre-arrangement for definite periods. A boarding house is to be distinguished from a hotel, motel or a nursing home.
Building: Any structure having a roof supported by columns or walls and intended for the shelter, housing, or enclosure of any individual, animal, process, equipment, goods, or materials of any kind.
Building, principal: A building in which is conducted the primary or predominant use of any lot.
Building height: The vertical distance measured from the curb level to the highest point of the roof surface, if a flat roof; to the deck line of mansard roofs; and to the mean height level between eaves and ridge of gable, hip, and gambrel roofs.
Caretaker or employee residence: An accessory residence located inside or addition to the principal structure or use of a parcel of land. Said residence must be occupied by a bona fide caretaker or the owner himself/herself as necessary to the property's orderly operation or safety. Industrialized buildings (modular homes/units) are allowed to serve as a caretaker's residence as long as the industrialized building (modular home/unit) meets the Southern Building Code Standards.
Carport: A roofed structure providing space for parking or storage of motor vehicles and enclosed on not more than three (3) sides.
Cemetery: A cemetery is an area of land set apart for the sole purpose of the burial of bodies of dead persons or animals and for the erection of customary markers, monuments, and mausoleums.
Clinic: A professional office where the services of more than one practitioner can be obtained and where patients are examined and/or treated on an out-patient basis and where no over-night accommodations are provided.
Club or lodge: Buildings and facilities owned or operated by a corporation, association or other established group of persons for religious, social, educational or recreational or other like activities on a regular basis for the benefit of its members and not the general public.
Cluster development: A development design technique that concentrates buildings on a part of the site to allow the remaining land to be used for recreation, common open space, and preservation of environmentally sensitive features (See also Section VIII).
Cluster subdivision: A form of development that permits a reduction in lot area and bulk requirements, provided there is no increase in the number of lots permitted under a conventional subdivision or increase in the overall density of development, and the remaining land area is devoted to open space, active recreation, preservation of environmentally sensitive areas, or agriculture.
Collation: The use of a wireless telecommunications facility by more than one wireless telecommunications provider.
Commercial entertainment establishment: A facility, other than a theater, where receipts from the sale of food are less than fifty (50) percent of the gross receipts of said establishment and which provides dances, pool, billiards, games, social events, and/or other entertainment.
Conditional use: A use which with in certain districts specified by this ordinance is not permitted as a matter of right but may be permitted within these districts by the City Council after the City County has (1) reviewed that proposed site plans for the use, its location within the community, its arrangement and design, its relationship to neighboring property and other conditions peculiar to the particular proposal which would determine its desirability or undesirability; (2) has found the proposal not be contrary to the intent of this ordinance; and (3) has recommended the use as specified after a public hearing. (See Section 21.15, Conditional Uses).
Conditional zoning: A zoning action by Mayor and Council where special restrictions, limitations and or conditions are placed on a zoning proposal in the interest of public health, safety or general welfare.
Condominium home: A form of ownership of less than the whole of a building or system of buildings under a statute which provides the mechanics and facilities for formal filing and recording of divided interest in real property, whether the division is vertical or horizontal.
Convalescent home: A convalescent home is a home for the care of children or the aged or infirm, or a place of rest for those suffering bodily disorders, wherein two or more persons are cared for. Said home shall conform and qualify for license under State laws.
Convenience store (no gasoline sales): A retail business with primary emphasis placed on providing the public with a convenient location to quickly purchase a wide array of consumable products and services. Generally, the business will: 1) have a building size less than 5,000 sq. feet; 2) provide off street parking and/or convenient pedestrian access; and 3) provide the public with extended hours of operations, many being open 24 hours, seven (7) days per week.
Day care facilities: There are three (3) types of day care:
(a)
Family Day Care Homes means a private residence operated by any person who receives therein for pay for supervision and care fewer than twenty-four (24) hours per day, without transfer of legal custody, three (3) but not more than six (6) children under eighteen (18) years of age who are not related to such persons and whose parents or guardians are not residents in the same private residence.
(b)
Group Day Care Homes means any place operated by any person(s), partnership, association or corporation wherein are received for pay for group care not less than seven (7) nor more than eighteen (18) children under eighteen (18) years of age for less than twenty-four (24) hours without transfer of legal custody and which is required to be licensed or commissioned by the Department of Human Resources.
(c)
Day Care Centers means any place operated by a person, society, agency, corporation, institution or group wherein are received for pay for group care, for fewer than twenty-four (24) hours per day without transfer of legal custody, nineteen (19) or more children under eighteen (18) years of age, and which is required to be licensed or commissioned by the Department of Human Resources.
Density: The number of dwelling units developed on an acre of land. As used in this Ordinance, all densities are stated in dwelling units per gross acre. NOTE: Gross density includes all the area within the boundaries of the particular area, excluding nothing.
Drive-in establishments: An establishment which by design, physical facilities, service, or by packaging procedures encourages or permits customers to receive services, obtain goods, or be entertained while remaining in their motor vehicle.
Drive-in restaurant: A drive-in restaurant or other drive-in establishment serving food and/or drink so developed that its retail or service character is dependent on providing a driveway approach or parking spaces for motor vehicles so as to serve patrons while in the motor vehicle.
Dwelling, duplex: A building either designed, constructed, altered or used for two adjoining dwelling units that are connected by a common wall and/or of two stories by a common floor.
Dwelling, multiple: A building or portion thereof used or designed as a residence for three or more families living independently of each other. This definition includes three-family houses, four-family houses, and apartment houses, but does not include hotels or motels.
Dwelling, single family: A building or portion thereof used or designed for use as a residence for a single family.
Family: One or more persons living together and related by blood, marriage, or legal adoption, and occupying a dwelling unit as a single non-profit housekeeping unit as distinguished from a group occupying a hotel, club, boarding house, fraternity or sorority house. A family shall be deemed to include domestic servants, gratuity guests, and not more than three foster or boarded children whose room and board is paid by a recognized child care agency or organization.
Flea market: A market at which new and used items are temporarily displayed and sold on rented tables. A flea market may be open or enclosed.
Garage, repair: Any building, premises, and land in which or upon which a business, service, or industry involving the maintenance, servicing, repair, or painting of vehicles is conducted or rendered.
Gas station/mini-mart: Any building or other premises, or portion thereof, used for a combination automobile service station and retail sales of food and other items excluding any automotive service or repair areas; including but not limited to the sales of consumable products, rental of video tapes, use of self service hot and cold beverage facilities and microwave ovens by customers for purchased food items.
Group home: A facility or dwelling unit housing persons unrelated by blood or marriage and operating as a group family household. Comment: A group care facility may include half-way houses; recovery homes; and homes for orphans, foster children, the elderly, battered children and women. It also could include a specialized treatment facility providing less than primary health care.
Guest house: A building or portion thereof used or designed for uses as a residence, specifically as an accessory use to be the principal building.
Half-way home: A group home facility which is licensed or supervised by any Federal, State or County health/welfare agency relating to drug abuse problems, offender rehabilitation or similar purposes.
Height: when referring to a tower or other structure, means the distance measured from ground level to the highest point on the tower structure or appurtenance.
Historic district: A district or zone designated by a local authority, State, or Federal Government within which the buildings, structures, and places are of vital importance because of their unique architectural style and history.
Home occupation: Any use conducted entirely within the dwelling and carried on by the immediate family members thereof, which use is incidental and secondary to the use of the dwelling and does not change the character thereof. (See Section 3.19, Home Occupations.)
Impervious surface: Any material which reduces and prevents absorption of storm water into previously undeveloped land.
Industrialized building (modular home/unit): A structure or component which is wholly or in substantial part made, fabricated, formed or assembled in or at manufacturing facilities and delivered to a building site for fabrication and installation in such assemblies that all parts or processes can not be inspected except by disassembly, by the City Building Official but in lieu of such inspection bears an insignia, label, or decal issued by the Georgia Department of Community Affairs to certify the unit as to construction and safety standards. Note: Industrialized buildings do not include manufactured housing.
Ingress: Access or entry.
Junk: Any scrap, waste, reclaimable material, or debris, whether or not stored, for sale or in the process of being dismantled, processed, salvaged, stored, baled, disposed or other use or disposition. Junk shall include vehicles, tires, vehicle parts, equipment, paper, rags, metal, glass, building materials, household appliances, brush, wood, and lumber.
Junk yard: Any area, lot, land, parcel, building or structure or part thereof used for the storage, collection, processing, purchase, sale or abandonment of wastepaper, rags, scrap metal or other scrap or discarded goods, materials, machinery or two (2) or more unregistered, inoperable motor vehicles or other type of junk. Note: Buffers are required for junk yards. (See Article III, Section 3.15 Protective Screenings).
Kennel: Any lot or premises on which three (3) or more dogs, cats, or other domestic as well as non-domestic animals, four (4) months or more old, are kept either permanently or temporarily, for purpose of sale, care, breeding or training for which an income is provided.
Lattice tower: A support structure constructed of vertical metal struts and cross braces forming a triangular or square structure which often tapers from the foundation to the top.
Loft dwellings: Loft dwellings are defined as residential dwelling units located on any floor other than the ground or street level floor within existing commercial buildings. (See Section 11.04)
Lot of record: A lot or parcel of land which has been lawfully recorded by subdivision plat or deed on the public records of the City of Dawson on or before the date of adoption of this ordinance.
Manufactured home: "Manufactured Home" is a detached single family dwelling unit, designed for long-term occupancy, which has been prefabricated and then transported to its site or to a sales lot and requires only minor work before occupancy such as connection to utilities or to a foundation. Such units are usually fully equipped and furnished. The manufactured home shall bear an insignia issued by the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) certifying that the unit is constructed in conformance with the Federal Manufactured Home Construction and Safety Standard which came into effect on June 15, 1976.
Manufactured home parks: "Manufactured Home Park" shall mean a licensed business operation which leases spaces for permanent or for temporary occupancy for periods exceeding thirty (30) days for manufactured homes and, under some conditions, travel trailers.
Manufactured home subdivision: A Manufactured Home Subdivision is defined as at least a five (5) acre site which has been primarily designed for the subdivision of individual lots for manufactured home development.
Mini-warehouse: A building(s) that contains varying sizes or individual, compartmentalized and control-access stalls or lockers for storing the excess personal property of an individual or family. No business activities other than the rental of storage units shall be conducted on the premises.
Mobile home: "Mobile Home" is a dwelling manufactured prior to June 15, 1976, and is transportable in one or more sections. No mobile home may be located within the city limits of Dawson.
Modular home: See definition for industrialized buildings.
Monopole: A support structure constructed of a single, self-supporting hollow metal tube securely anchored to a foundation.
Non-conforming structure or building: Any structure, including an accessory structure legally existing prior to the effective date of this Ordinance which does not conform to the requirements of this Ordinance. A structure or building, the size, dimensions, or location of which was lawful prior to the adoption, revision, or amendment to the Zoning Ordinance but that fail by reason of such adoption, revision, or amendment to conform to the present requirements of the zoning district (See Article XVII and Variance Section 21.17).
Non-conforming use: A use or activity that was lawful prior to the adoption, revision or amendment of the Zoning Ordinance but that fails by reason of such adoption, revision, or amendment to conform to the present requirements of the zoning district (see Variance Section 21.17).
Nursing homes: A facility that admits patients on medical referral only and for whom arrangements have been made for continuous medical supervision. It maintains the services and facilities for skilled nursing care, rehabilitative nursing care, and has a satisfactory agreement with a physician and dentist who will be responsible for the general medical and dental supervision of the home. It otherwise complies with the rules and regulations contained in Chapter 290-5-8: Nursing Homes (Rules of the Georgia Department of Human Resources) as same hereafter may be amended.
Open air business uses: Open air business uses shall include the following:
a.
Retail sale of trees, shrubbery, plants, flowers, seed, topsoil, humus, fertilizer, trellises, lawn furniture, playground equipment and other home garden supplies and equipment.
b.
Retail sale of fruit and vegetables.
c.
Miniature golf, golf driving range, children's amusement park or similar recreation uses.
d.
Bicycle, trailer, motor vehicles, boats or home equipment sales, service or rental services.
e.
Outdoor display and sale of garages, swimming pools and similar use.
f.
Outdoor display and sale of items not suitable for indoor sales.
Open space: Land devoted to conservation or recreational purposes and/or land designated by a municipality to remain undeveloped (may be specified on a zoning map.
Permitted use: Those uses specifically listed in a district which are permitted by right, not to include the non-conforming use or conditional use and subject to the restrictions applicable to that zoning district.
Personal care home: A building or group of buildings, a facility, or place in which is provided two (2) or more beds and other facilities and services—including rooms, meals, and personal care for non-family ambulatory adults for which a fee is charged. It otherwise complies with the rules and regulations contained in Chapter 290-5-35: Personal Care Homes (Rules of the Georgia Department of Human Resources) as same hereafter may be amended. For the purpose of this Ordinance, Personal Care Homes are classified as follows:
A.
Family Personal Care Home: A home for adults in a family type residence, non-institutional in character, which offers care to two (2) through six (6) persons.
B.
Group Personal Care Home: A home for adult persons in a residence or other type of building(s), non-institutional in character, which offers care to seven (7) through fifteen (15) persons.
C.
Congregate Personal Care Home: A home for adults which offers care to sixteen (16) or more persons.
Personal service: Establishments primarily engaged in providing services involving the care of a person or his or her apparel, for example, laundry, photographic studios, beauty shops, shoe repair, health clubs, clothing rental, etc.
Planned unit development: A Planned Unit Development is a single parcel of land within which a number of buildings are located or intended to be located in accordance with an overall plan of design and not in relation to a prearranged pattern of land subdivision. Examples of a Planned Unit Development (P.U.D.) include a complex of apartment buildings or a commercial shopping center. A comprehensive development plan for such a project shall be submitted to the Mayor and Council for their review and approval.
Planning commission: The established City of Dawson Planning Commission.
Plat, sketch: A concept, informal map of a proposed subdivision or site plan of sufficient accuracy to be used for the purpose of discussion and classification.
Pre-existing towers and antennas: means structures as set forth in subsection 22.02(c).
Professional office: The office of a member of a recognized profession maintained for the conduct of that profession.
Quick-service food store (QSR): Any building which is used for the retail sale of food or food and other items. This may be the combination of the gas station/mini-mart as well as the addition of fast food restaurants.
Scenic views: means those geographic areas containing visually significant or unique natural features, as identified in the county comprehensive plan.
Service station: Any building, land area, or other premises, or portion thereof, used for the retail dispensing or sales of vehicular fuels; minor servicing and repair of automobiles, aircraft or boats, and including the customary space and facilities for the installation of such commodities on or in such vehicles; and including as an accessory use the sale and installation of lubricants, tires, batteries, and similar other operating commodities and accessories for motor vehicles. NOTE: Temporary storage of vehicles shall not exceed 48 hours.
Setback: The minimum horizontal distance between the street property line, rear or side property lines of the lot, and the front, rear or side lines of a building. The term required setback means a line beyond which a building is not permitted to extend under the provisions of this ordinance establishing the minimum depths and widths of yards.
Sign, billboard: A sign which directs attention to a business, commodity, service or entertainment conducted, sold or offered at a location other than the premises which the sign is located.
Sign, outdoor advertising: Any card, cloth, paper, metal, glass, plastic, wood, plaster, stone or sign of other material of any kind, placed for outdoor advertising purposes on the ground or on any tree, wall, bush, rock, post, fence, building, structure or thing whatsoever. The term "place" as used in the definition of "Outdoor Advertising Sign" and "Outdoor Advertising Structure" shall include erecting, construction, posting, painting, printing, tacking, nailing, gluing, sticking, carving or other fastening, affixing or making visible in any manner whatsoever. See also "sign, billboard".
Site plan: The development plan for one (1) or more lots on which is shown the existing and proposed conditions of the lot, including topography, vegetation, drainage, flood plains, wetlands, and waterways; landscaping and open spaces; walkways; means of ingress and egress; circulation; utility services; structures and buildings; signs and lighting; berms, buffers, and screening devices; surrounding development; and any other information that reasonably may be required in order that an informed decision can be made by approving authority.
Spot zoning: Rezoning of a lot or parcel of land to benefit an owner for a use incompatible with surrounding uses and that does not further the comprehensive land use plan.
Structure: Anything constructed or erected, the use which requires more or less permanent location on the ground, or which is attached to something having more or less permanent location on the ground.
Telecommunication: The technology which enables information to be exchanged through the transmission of voice, video, or data signals by means of electrical or electromagnetic systems.
Thrift store: A retail business that operates from the resale of used household items that are donated or purchased at a very low rate. These items may be new or used.
Townhouse: One (1) of a group of two (2) or more attached single family residences. Each townhouse unit is separated from the adjoining unit or units by an approved fire wall or walls. Fire walls shall be located on the lot line. The town house is located on its own approved, recorded "lot".
Travel trailer: A motorized camper, converted bus, tent-trailer or other similar vehicular or portable structure used or designed for temporary portable housing or occupancy while on vacation, recreation or other trips which provide sleeping accommodations.
Travel trailer parks: Travel trailer park where the principal use is for overnight tourists, or for vacationers whose stay will not exceed 180 days.
Undue hardship: A condition which shall be considered to exist only when one (1) or more of the following apply to a particular piece of property, and such condition has not been created by action of the property owner.
a.
The owner cannot comply with the provisions of this ordinance without violating some other ordinance or sections of this ordinance.
b.
The provisions of this ordinance create for the property owner a peculiar condition not common to other nearby property owners.
c.
A conforming use or requirement is incongruous with the remainder of the area in which the property is located.
d.
The topography of the land or shape of a particular lot precludes a conforming use.
Variance: A variance is a relaxation of the terms of the Zoning Ordinance where such variance will not be contrary to the public interest and where, owing to conditions peculiar to the particular property and not the result of any action of the applicant, a literal enforcement of this Ordinance's, requirements would result in unnecessary and undue hardship (See Section 21.17).
Wireless telecommunications antenna: The physical device through which electromagnetic, wireless telecommunications signals authorized by the Federal Communications Commission a re-transmitted or received. Antennas used by amateur radio operators are excluded from this definition.
Wireless telecommunications equipment shelter: The structure in which the electronic receiving and relay equipment for a wireless telecommunications facility is housed.
Wireless telecommunications facility: A facility consisting of the equipment and structures involved in receiving telecommunications or radio signals from a mobile radio communications source and transmitting those signals to a central switching computer which connects the mobile unit with the land-based telephone lines.
Wireless telecommunications tower: A structure intended to support equipment used to transmit and/or receive telecommunications signals including monopoles, guyed and lattice construction steel structures. This term includes radio and television transmission towers, microwave towers, common-carrier towers, cellular telecommunication towers, manmade trees (with accessory buildings/structures) and other similar structures.
Visual quality: means the appropriate design, arrangement and location of tower structures in relation to the built or natural environment to avoid abrupt or severe differences.
Zero lot line: The location of a building on a lot in such a manner that one (1) or more of the building's sides rest directly on a lot line.
Zoning administrator: The Administrative Officer designated by the City to administer the Zoning Ordinance.
Zoning board: The established City of Dawson Planning Commission.
(Ord. No. 05-06, § 1(1)—(3), 6-9-05; Ord. No. 2018-03, § 1(Exh. A, § A), 6-14-18)
