ARTICLE XXIV. - INTERPRETATION, APPLICATION, VIOLATIONS, VALIDITY, CONFLICT AND EFFECTIVE DATE

Sec. 24.01. - Interpretation, purpose and conflict.
In interpreting and applying the provisions of this Ordinance, they shall be held to be the minimum requirements for the promotion of the public safety, health, convenience, comforts, prosperity, and general welfare.
It is not intended by this Ordinance to interfere with, or abrogate, or annual any ordinance, rules, regulations, or permits previously adopted or issued and not in conflict with any of the provisions of this Ordinance, or which shall be adopted or issued pursuant to law relating to the use of buildings or premises, and likewise not in conflict with this; nor is it intended by this Ordinance to interfere with, or abrogate, or annul any easements, covenants or other agreements between parties; provided, however, that where this Ordinance imposes a greater restriction or requires larger open spaces, or larger lot areas than are imposed or required by such article or agreements, the provisions of this Ordinance shall control.
Sec. 24.02. - Violations and penalties.
Any person violating or neglecting or refusing to comply with any of the provisions of this Ordinance shall upon conviction thereof, be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be punished by imposition of the appropriate fine or by imprisonment in the discretion of the recorder's court. Each day that a violation is permitted to exist shall constitute a separate offense.
Sec. 24.03. - Validity.
This Ordinance and the various articles, sections, paragraphs, and clauses thereof, are hereby declared to be severable. If any article, section, paragraph or clause is adjudged unconstitutional or invalid, it is hereby provided that the remainder of the Ordinance shall not be affected thereby.
Sec. 24.04. - Conflicting provisions repealed.
All other ordinances and parts of ordinances in conflict with this Ordinance, to the extent of such conflict and not further, are hereby repealed.
Sec. 24.05. - Effective date.
The provisions of this Ordinance are hereby declared to be immediately necessary for the preservation of the public peace, health, safety, and welfare of the people of the City of Dawson and are hereby ordered to be given immediate effect from and after the date of its passage.
I hereby certify that the above Ordinance was passed at a regular session of the City Council of the City of Dawson, Georgia held on January 11, 2001 at Council Chambers, City Hall, Dawson, Georgia.
EXPAND
    Robert L. Albritten\Mayor
ATTEST
EXPAND
/s/ Sheri L. Howard
      Clerk
