Chapter 1 - GENERAL PROVISIONS

Sec. 1-1. - How Code designated and cited.
The provisions embraced in this and the following chapters and sections shall constitute and be designated "The Code of Ordinances, City of Dawson, Georgia" and may be so cited.
(Code 1974, § 1-101)
Charter reference— Codification authority, § 4-5.
Sec. 1-2. - Definitions and rules of construction.
In the construction of this Code and of all ordinances, the following rules shall be observed unless such construction would be inconsistent with the manifest intent of the council:
General rule: All words and phrases shall be construed and understood according to the common and approved usage of the language; but technical words and phrases and such others as may be acquired a peculiar and appropriate meaning in the law shall be construed and understood according to such peculiar and appropriate meaning.
Bonds: When a bond is required by law, an undertaking in writing, without seal, is sufficient; and in all bonds where the names of the obligors do not appear in the bond, but are subscribed thereto, they are bound thereby.
State Law reference— Similar provisions, O.C.G.A. § 1-3-1(d)(1).
City: The words "the city" or "this city" shall mean the City of Dawson, Georgia. Where appropriate, it shall also mean duly authorized officials, officers and employees of the city.
City council, council, governing authority, governing body: The terms "city council," "council," "governing authority," and "governing body," shall mean the city council of the City of Dawson, Georgia.
Computation of time: Except as otherwise provided by time period computations, when a period of time measured in days, weeks, months, years, or other measurements of time except hours is prescribed for the exercise of any privilege or the discharge of any duty, the first day shall not be counted but the last day shall be counted; and, if the last day falls on Saturday or Sunday, the party having such privilege or duty shall have through the following Monday to exercise the privilege or to discharge the duty. When the last day prescribed for such action falls on a public and legal holiday as set forth in the O.C.G.A. § 1-4-1, as amended, the party having the privilege or duty shall have through the next business day to exercise the privilege or to discharge the duty. When the period of time prescribed is less than seven (7) days, intermediate Saturdays, Sundays and legal holidays shall be excluded in the computation.
State Law reference— Similar provisions, O.C.G.A. § 1-3-1(d)(3).
County: The words "the county" or "this county" shall mean the County of Terrell, Georgia.
Delegation of authority: Whenever a position requires the head of a department or other officer of the city to do some act or perform some duty, it shall be construed to authorize subordinates to do the required act or perform the required duty unless the terms of the provision designate otherwise.
Gender: A word importing one (1) gender shall extend and be applied to the other genders, except where inappropriate.
Interpretation: In the interpretation and application of any provision of this Code, it shall be held to be the minimum requirement adopted for the promotion of the public health, safety, comfort, convenience and general welfare. Where any provision of the Code imposes greater restrictions upon the subject matter than the general provision imposed by the Code, the provision imposing the greater restriction or regulation shall be deemed to be controlling.
Joint authority: All words purporting to give a joint authority to three (3) or more city officers or other persons shall be construed as giving such authority to a majority of such officers or other persons unless it shall be otherwise expressly declared in the law giving the authority.
Keeper, proprietor: The terms "keeper" and "proprietor" shall mean and include persons as the term "person" is defined herein, whether acting individually or through an agent or employee.
Number: Every word importing the singular number shall extend and be applied to several persons or things as well as to one (1) person or thing; and every word importing the plural number shall extend and be applied to one (1) person or thing as well as to several persons or things.
Oath: The word "oath" shall be construed to include an affirmation in all cases in which, by law, an affirmation may be substituted for an oath, and in such cases the words "affirm" and "affirmed" shall be equivalent to the words "swear" or "sworn."
Overlapping provisions: Where any provision of this Code imposes greater restrictions upon the subject matter than any general provision imposed by this Code, the provision imposing the greater restriction or regulation shall be applicable.
Owner: The word "owner," applied to a building or land, shall include any part owner, joint owner, tenant in common, joint tenant or tenant by the entirety, of the whole or a part of such building or land.
Person: The word "person" shall include a corporation, firm, partnership, association, organization and any other group acting as a unit, as well as an individual.
Personal property: The term "personal property" shall include every specie of property except real property, as hereinafter defined.
Preceding, following: The words "preceding" and "following" shall mean next before and next after, respectively.
Property: The term "property" includes real, personal and mixed estates and interests.
Real property: The words "real property" shall include lands, tenements and hereditaments.
Reasonable time or notice: Reasonable time or notice shall be deemed to mean only such time as may be necessary for the prompt performance of the act required.
Sidewalk: The word "sidewalk" shall mean any portion of a street between the curbline and the adjacent property line, intended for the use of pedestrians, but shall not include any unimproved areas between the curbline and improved walkways.
Signature, subscription: The word "signature" or "subscription" shall include a mark intended as such when the person cannot write.
State: The words "state" or "this state" shall mean the State of Georgia.
Street: The word "street" shall mean and include any public way, road, highway, street, avenue, boulevard, parkway, alley, viaduct, bridge, and the approaches thereto, within the city.
Tenant or occupant: The word "tenant" or "occupant" applied to a building or land, shall include any person holding a written or oral lease of, or who occupies the whole or a part of, such building or land, either alone or with others.
Tense: The use of any verb in the past or present tense shall include the future as well as the past and present.
Title of officer or official: Whenever the title of an officer is given, it shall be construed as though the words "of the City of Dawson" were added.
Week: The word "week" shall mean seven (7) calendar days.
Writing or written: The words "writing" and "written" shall include printing and any other mode of representing words and letters.
Year: The word "year" shall mean a calendar year.
(Code 1974, §§ 1-102, 1-103)
Sec. 1-3. - Catchlines of sections.
The catchlines of the several sections and subsections of this Code are intended as mere catchwords to indicate the contents of the section and shall not be deemed or taken to be titles of such sections or subsections, nor as any part of the section or subsection, nor unless expressly so provided, shall they be so deemed when any of such sections or subsections, including the catchlines, are amended or reenacted.
Sec. 1-4. - Effect of repeal or expiration of Code section or ordinance.
(a)
The repeal of a Code section or ordinance, or its expiration by virtue of any provision contained therein, shall not effect any right accrued or any offense committed, any penalty or punishment incurred, or any proceeding commenced before the repeal took affect or the ordinance expired.
(b)
When any ordinance repealing a former Code section, ordinance, clause, or provision, shall be itself repealed, such repeal shall not be construed to revive such former Code section, ordinance, clause, or provision.
(Code 1974, § 1-106)
Sec. 1-5. - Amending Code.
(a)
All ordinances passed subsequent to this Code which amend, repeal or in any way affect this Code shall be numbered in accordance with the numbering system of this Code and printed for inclusion herein. In the case of repealed chapters, sections, and subsections or any part thereof by subsequent ordinances, such repealed portions may be excluded from the Code by omission from reprinted pages affected thereby.
(b)
Amendments to any of the provisions of this Code may be made by amending such provisions by specific reference to the section number of this Code in the following language: "That section _____ of the Code of Ordinances, City of Dawson, Georgia, is hereby amended to read as follows …." The new provisions may then be set out in full as desired.
(c)
In the event a new section not theretofore existing in the Code is to be added, the following language may be used. "The Code of Ordinances, City of Dawson, Georgia, is hereby amended by adding a section (or subsection or chapter) to be numbered _____, which section reads as follows …." The new provision shall then be set out in full as desired.
(d)
All sections, chapters or provisions sought to be repealed must be specifically repealed by section, chapter, or provision number, as the case may be.
(Code 1974, § 1-107)
Sec. 1-6. - Supplementation of Code.
(a)
By contract or by city personnel, supplements to this Code shall be prepared and printed whenever authorized or directed by the council. A supplement to the Code shall include all substantive, permanent and general parts of ordinances passed by the council or adopted by initiative and referendum during the period covered by the supplement and all changes made thereby in the Code. The pages of a supplement shall be so numbered that they will fit properly into the Code and will, where necessary, replace pages which have become obsolete or partially obsolete. The new pages shall be so prepared that, when they have been inserted, the Code will be current through the date of the adoption of the latest ordinance included in the supplement. Charter amendments may be included in like manner.
(b)
In the preparation of a supplement to this Code, all portions of the Code which have been repealed shall be excluded from the Code by the omission thereof from reprinted pages.
(c)
When preparing a supplement to this Code, the codifier (meaning the person, agency or organization authorized to prepare the supplement) may make formal, nonsubstantive changes in ordinances and parts of ordinances included in the supplement, insofar as it is necessary to do so to embody them into a unified Code. For example, the codifier may:
(1)
Organize the ordinance material into appropriate subdivisions;
(2)
Provide appropriate catchlines, headings and titles for sections and other subdivisions of the Code printed in the supplement, and make changes in such catchlines, headings and titles;
(3)
Assign appropriate numbers to sections and other subdivisions to be inserted in the Code and, where necessary to accommodate new material, change existing section or other subdivision numbers;
(4)
Change the words "this ordinance" or words of the same meaning to "this chapter," "this article," "this division," etc., as the case may be, or to "sections _____ through _____" (inserting section numbers to indicate the sections of the Code which embody the substantive sections of the ordinance incorporated into the Code); and
(5)
Make other nonsubstantive changes necessary to preserve the original meaning of ordinance sections inserted into the Code; but, in no case, shall the codifier make any change in the meaning or effect of ordinance material included in the supplement or already embodied in the Code.
Sec. 1-7. - Altering Code, ordinance or other public document.
(a)
It shall be unlawful for any person in the city to change or amend by additions or deletions, any part of this Code, or to insert or delete pages or portions thereof, or to alter or tamper with such Code in any manner whatsoever which will cause the law of the city to be misrepresented thereby.
(b)
It shall be unlawful for any person to deface, mutilate, or in any other manner alter any ordinance book or minute book, or any notice posted by the city for the benefit of the public, or any other document or record of the municipal government of the city.
Sec. 1-8. - General penalty; continuing violations; abatement of nuisances.
(a)
Whenever in this Code or in any ordinance or resolution of the city amending this Code, any act is prohibited or is made or declared to be unlawful or an offense or a misdemeanor, or whenever in such Code, ordinance or resolution the doing of any act is required or the failure to do any act is declared to be unlawful, where no specific penalty is provided therefor, the violation of any such provision of this Code or any ordinance or resolution shall be punishable by a fine not to exceed one thousand dollars ($1,000.00), or by imprisonment for a period not to exceed sixty (60) days, or at labor on the roads and streets or other public works of the city for not more than sixty (60) days, or by sentence to community service work, any one (1) or more thereof. Each day any violation of any provision of this Code or of any ordinance or resolution shall continue shall constitute a separate offense.
(b)
In addition to the penalties provided in this section, any condition caused or permitted to exist in violation of any of the provisions of this Code or any ordinance shall be deemed a public nuisance and may be abated by the city, as provided by law, and each day that such condition continues shall be regarded as a new and separate offense.
(c)
The infliction of a penalty under the provisions of this section shall not prevent the revocation of any permit or license or the taking of other punitive or remedial action where called for or permitted under the provisions of the city's charter or this Code or laws of the state.
(Code 1974, §§ 1-109, 14-114; Ord. of 2-13-86)
Charter reference— Maximum punishment, § 5-7.
State Law reference— Punishment limits, O.C.G.A. §§ 36-32-1(c), 36-32-5, 36-35-6(a)(2); confinement authority, O.C.G.A. § 36-30-8.
Sec. 1-9. - Provisions considered as continuation of existing ordinances.
The provisions appearing in this Code, so far as they are substantially the same as ordinances existing at the time of the effective date of this Code, shall be considered as continuations thereof and not as new enactments.
Sec. 1-10. - Certain ordinances not affected by Code.
Nothing in this Code or the ordinance adopting this Code shall be construed to repeal or otherwise affect the validity of any of the following:
(1)
Any rates, fees or charges consistent with this Code;
(2)
Any ordinance promising or guaranteeing the payment of money for the city, or authorizing the issuance of any bonds for the city or any evidence of the city's indebtedness, or any contract or obligation assumed by the city;
(3)
Any ordinance consistent with this Code prescribing traffic regulations for specific locations, such as prescribing through streets, parking limitations, parking prohibitions, one-way traffic or limitations on loads of vehicles or loading zones;
(4)
Any ordinance consistent with this Code fixing salaries of officials, officers or employees of the city;
(5)
Any budget ordinance or appropriation ordinance; any ordinance levying any tax;
(6)
Any right or franchise granted by any ordinance or resolution to any person;
(7)
Any ordinance dedicating, naming, establishing, locating, relocating, opening, closing, paving, widening or vacating any street or public way in the city;
(8)
Any ordinance establishing and prescribing the street grades of any street in the city;
(9)
Any ordinance providing for local improvements or assessing taxes therefor;
(10)
Any ordinance dedicating or accepting any plat or subdivision in the city;
(11)
Any ordinance establishing or changing the boundary of the city;
(12)
Any ordinance regulating zoning or subdividing of real property in the city;
(13)
Any ordinance enacted after March 14, 1991.
All such ordinances are hereby recognized as continuing in full force and effect to the same extent as if set out at length in this Code.
Sec. 1-11. - Severability.
It is hereby declared to be the intention of the governing body that the sections, paragraphs, sentences, clauses and phrases of this Code are severable, and if any phrase, clause, sentence, paragraph or section of this Code shall be declared unconstitutional or invalid by the valid judgment or decree of any court of competent jurisdiction, such unconstitutionality shall not affect the remaining clauses, sentences, paragraphs and sections of this Code.
