Chapter 17 - TRAFFIC[1]

Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Cross reference— Hauling uncovered garbage, § 12-71; obstruction of traffic by trees, § 16-13; signs not to interfere with traffic signs, app. A, § 8-2.

Sec. 17-1. - Uniform rules of the road adopted.
(a)
Adoption: Pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 40-6-372 the Uniform Rules of the Road, O.C.G.A. §§ 40-6-1 through 40-6-395, and definitions, O.C.G.A. § 40-1-1, are hereby adopted as and for the traffic regulations of this municipality, with like effect as if recited in full herein.
(b)
Penalties. Unless another penalty is expressly provided by law, any person convicted of a violation of any provision of this section shall be punished in accordance with section 1-8.
(Code 1974, § 11-101)
Sec. 17-2. - Motor vehicles on sidewalks.
It shall be unlawful for any person to ride, drive, or park a motor vehicle on a sidewalk.
(Code 1974, § 14-113)
Sec. 17-3. - Speed limits.
The maximum speed limits for vehicles upon and along the streets, lanes, alleys and roadways in the city shall be thirty-five (35) miles per hour except where otherwise posted.
(Code 1974, §§ 11-102, 11-103, 11-108)
Sec. 17-4. - Riding or parking bicycles upon any sidewalk within the city and for other purposes prohibited.
(a)
The sidewalks in the city to which this section applies are those sidewalks on each side of Lee Street from the intersection of Stonewall Street extending west to Highway 520, and those sidewalks on each side of Johnson Street from the intersection of Stonewall Street extending west to the intersection of Highway 520, and those sidewalks on each side of Main Street from 6th Avenue extending south to 3rd Avenue.
(b)
It shall be unlawful for any person to ride or drive a bicycle on the sidewalks described in subsection (a) above in the city or to park such bicycle so as to block the sidewalks as described in subsection (a) above.
(c)
Violations of this section shall be punished in accordance with section 5-7 of the Charter.
(Ord. of 10-10-02)
Sec. 17-5. - Commercial truck traffic in residential subdivisions.
(a)
Definition of commercial trucks. The following classes of vehicles are hereby declared to be commercial trucks:
(1)
Pole trailer Every vehicle without motive power designed to be drawn by another vehicle and attached to the towing vehicle by means of a reach or pole, or by being boomed or otherwise secured to the towing vehicle and ordinarily used for transporting long or irregular shaped loads, such as poles, pipes, or structural members capable, generally, of sustaining themselves as beams between the supporting connections.
(2)
Semi-trailer Every vehicle with or without motive power, other than a pole trailer, designed for carrying persons or property and for being drawn by a motor vehicle and so constructed that some part of its weight and that of its load rests upon or is carried by another vehicle.
(3)
Dump trucks, earth movers, crane trucks, and other heavy equipment - when such vehicle or equipment is not necessary for the construction, renovation, or maintenance of the road or structures within the subdivision.
(b)
Operation prohibited. The operation or parking of a commercial truck or other vehicle, as defined in subsection (a) of this ordinance, upon the residential streets of the city is hereby prohibited; provided, however, commercial trucks, while being used in making deliveries or taking on cargo for transportation from within a residential subdivision, shall not be prohibited.
(c)
Truck routes. Those portions of Georgia State Routes 32, 118, 55, 82, and 520 within the corporate limits of the city shall be designated as truck routes. The operation of commercial trucks shall be permitted on designated truck routes.
(d)
Hardship. Upon application, the city council may approve an exemption to this ordinance when the application of the ordinance results in an undue burden on the applicant.
(e)
Violation of Ordinance. Any person convicted of a violation of any provision of the ordinance from which this section derives shall be punished by a fine of not more than one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) or imprisonment for not more than one hundred eighty (180) days or by both such fine and imprisonment. Each incident shall be construed to be a separate violation.
(Ord. No. 05-03, §§ 1—5, 2-10-05)
Sec. 17-6. - Prohibitions on the parking of motor vehicles on certain streets at certain times.
(a)
Parking prohibited in the northeast section of town. Motor vehicles including motorcycles shall not be parked on city streets with curbs and gutters located North of Lee Street and East of Highway 520 between the hours of 9:00 a.m. and 4:00 p.m. on Mondays and Tuesdays. Parking shall be permitted in designated parking spaces and areas specifically designated as parking areas by signs or spaces painted on the right-of-way.
(b)
Parking prohibited in the southeast section of town. Motor vehicles including motorcycles shall not be parked on city streets with curbs and gutters located South of Lee Street and East of Highway 520 between the hours of 9:00 a.m. and 4:00 p.m. on Wednesdays and Thursdays. Parking shall be permitted in designated parking spaces and areas specifically designated as parking areas by signs or spaces painted on the right-of-way.
(c)
Parking prohibited on the West section of town. Motor vehicles including motorcycles shall not be parked on city streets with curbs and gutters located West of Highway 520 between the hours of 9:00 a.m. and 4:00 p.m. on Fridays. Parking shall be permitted in designated parking spaces and areas specifically designated as parking areas by signs or spaces painted on the right-of-way.
(d)
Parking of trucks. No commercial trucks or trailers shall be parked on the right-of-way at any time except for local delivery.
(Ord. No. 2018-01, § 1, 1-11-18; Ord. No. 2018-02, § 1, 5-10-18)
