Chapter 9 - FIRE PREVENTION AND PROTECTION[1]

Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Charter reference— General authority as to fire protection, § 4-8.
State Law reference— Authority to regulate explosives, § 4-41; prohibiting discharge of firecrackers, § 4-50.

Sec. 9-1. - Fire prevention code—Adopted.
The Standard Fire Prevention Code, 1988 edition, published by the Southern Building Code Congress International, Inc., of which at least one (1) copy is on file in the office of the city clerk, is hereby adopted by the city, and incorporated herein as fully as if set out at length herein, subject to all amendments, modifications, deletions and conflicting provisions contained in this Code of Ordinances.
(Code 1974, § 36-106(A))
Sec. 9-2. - Same—Punishment for violation.
Any person violating any provision of the fire prevention code shall be punished as provided in section 1-8 of the Code of Ordinances.
(Code 1974, § 36-106)
Sec. 9-3. - Fireworks.
It shall be unlawful for any person to shoot, fire or otherwise explode any firecrackers, cannon crackers, Roman candles, sky rockets or other fireworks or for any person to sell, offer for sale or give away any of such prohibited firecrackers, cannon crackers, Roman candles, and sky rockets or other fireworks.
(Code 1974, § 14-106)
State Law reference— Fireworks control, O.C.G.A. § 25-10-1 et seq.
Sec. 9-4. - Open burning—Definition.
"Open burning" means any outdoor fire from which the products of combustion are emitted directly into the open air without passing through a stack, chimney or duct.
(Code 1974, § 15-102)
Sec. 9-5. - Same—Permissible types.
(a)
Certain types of open burning are permissible under rules and regulations for air quality control, ch. 270-5-24, state department of human resources and in accordance with terms of this section.
(b)
Types permissible without prior approval and city permit are as follows:
(1)
Open fires for recreational purposes or cooking of food for immediate human consumption.
(2)
Fires set for purposes of training public fire- fighting personnel when specifically authorized by the appropriate governmental officials as part of an approved training exercise.
(3)
Operation of devices using open flame such as tar kettles, blow torches, welding torches, portable heaters and other similar flame-making apparatus.
(4)
Setting and maintenance, by contractors and tradespersons, of miscellaneous small fires necessary in such activities as street paving work, installation or repair of utilities, building construction, etc., provided that such fires are kept small in size and no smoke of a shade darker than a number two on the Ringelmann chart is producted. This authorization shall not be construed to permit the disposition of building rubble or other trash by means of open burning on the site.
(c)
Except as enumerated in subsection (b) of this section, other types of open burning authorized by state rules are permissible only with prior approval by the city council and issuance of a permit therefor.
(d)
Persons desiring to conduct such open burning authorized under state rules, shall submit their request in writing to the city council in sufficient detail so as to permit evaluation by the council. Such request shall contain location, type of material to be burned, and volume (cubic measure).
(Code 1974, §§ 15-103, 15-104)
State Law reference— Air pollution, O.C.G.A. § 12-9-1.
Sec. 9-6. - Burning of leaves and rubbish on streets.
It shall be unlawful for any person to burn any leaves, paper, rubbish or other substances upon any of the public streets, sidewalks or alleys of the city.
(Code 1974, § 22-101(10))
