Chapter 11 - MOBILE HOMES AND TRAVEL TRAILERS
ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 11-1. - Definitions.
As used in this chapter, the following terms shall have the respective meanings ascribed to them:
Accessory structure or use: A detached building, structure, or parcel of land necessary as an adjunct to the establishment of a mobile home site or a mobile home park and services rendered to its occupants.
Adjoining property line: The boundary line between a mobile home or travel trailer park or a site occupied by a mobile home or travel trailer and property in another ownership and shall, for the purpose of these regulations, include street, railroad, or utility rights-of-way.
Alteration: The relocation of mobile homes within a park or other sites; also any change in the exterior dimensions of accessory structures.
Building permit: A duly authorized form signed by the building inspector authorizing the location of a mobile home or the construction of an accessory structure, cabana, sign, or other improvement. Such permit shall be valid for a period of three (3) months and shall be accompanied by a plot plan showing the approved location of the mobile home or construction.
Cabana: A semi-permanent addition to a mobile home measuring not greater than nine hundred (900) square feet.
Extension: The enlargement of a mobile home park by the provision of further utility and road improvements or the addition of mobile homes or trailers to a park in the excess of the number of improved sites existing at the time of the adoption of the ordinance from which this chapter is derived.
Foundation: The base on which the mobile home is situated.
Mobile home: Any vehicle originally constructed and licensed as a vehicle, and so constructed as to permit its occupancy as a dwelling or sleeping place for one (1) or more persons, and requiring only minor work before occupancy, such as connection to utilities or to a foundation. Such units are usually fully equipped and furnished as opposed to a prefabricated house which may be constructed on or off its proposed site.
State Law reference— Definition of "manufactured home," O.C.G.A. § 8-2-131.
Mobile home park: A licensed business operation which leases spaces for permanent or for temporary occupancy for mobile homes.
Mobile home site: Land occupied or to be occupied by a mobile home, with permitted accessory structures, utility connections, and off-street parking facilities, as allowed by these regulations, and having a frontage of at least sixty (60) feet upon a public street and a lot area of not less than seven thousand (7,000) square feet. A mobile home site shall be of individual ownership, shall be occupied by owner, and shall meet the requirements of the subdivision regulations and the zoning ordinance adopted by the city council.
Cross reference— Definition, app. A, § 2-56; subdivisions, app. B.
Mobile home stand: The site designed for a placement of a mobile home and its cabana, accessory structures, utility connections, and off-street parking facilities, located within a mobile home park.
Nonconforming trailer or mobile home: A unit occupied as a permanent residence which is located outside of the confines of an approved mobile home park or mobile home site designed and approved for mobile home living or a unit and its accessory structures which does not conform to minimum construction or health standards required herein.
Nonconforming trailer or mobile home site: A site located on private property which does not conform to the general requirements set forth herein. Such term shall also refer to trailer or mobile home sites on lots located within a park which does not comply with the requirements herein.
Occupancy permit: A permit required of any mobile home not located within the confines of a mobile home park stating any conditions legally imposed by the building inspector or the planning commission.
Planning commission: The Dawson-Terrell County Planning Commission.
Travel trailer: A portable vehicular structure of not more than eight (8) feet in width designed as a temporary dwelling for travel, recreation or vacation uses.
(Code 1974, § 30-103)
Sec. 11-2. - Scope of chapter.
This chapter shall govern the location and occupancy of mobile homes and travel trailers and the design and improvement of parks for mobile homes or travel trailers within the city.
(Code 1974, § 30-102)
Sec. 11-3. - Enforcement official; inspections.
(a)
The provisions of this chapter shall be enforced by the building inspector.
(b)
Such official shall have the right to enter any premises at any time for the purpose of making inspections of buildings or premises necessary to carry out such official's duties in the enforcement of this chapter.
(c)
At least once each year the building inspector, at such official's convenience, shall inspect each mobile home or travel trailer park, and each mobile home or travel trailer within each park within such official's jurisdiction, to determine compliance with applicable codes.
(Code 1974, § 30-401)
Sec. 11-4. - Violation.
The erection, placement, relocation, addition or conversion of any mobile home, travel trailer, mobile home park, travel trailer park, or accessory structure attendant thereto and the use of any land or structure which is continued to be operated or maintained, contrary to any provisions of this chapter is hereby declared to be a violation of this Code and unlawful, punishable as provided in section 1-8. The city attorney shall immediately upon any such violation having been called to such attorney's attention by competent authority institute injunction abatement, or any other appropriate action to prevent, enjoin, abate, or remove such violation.
(Code 1974, § 30-501)
Sec. 11-5. - Building and occupancy permits.
(a)
It shall be unlawful to locate or occupy a mobile home until the building inspector has issued a building permit or occupancy permit for such mobile home, which permits shall not be issued unless such mobile home meets the construction standards set forth herein and is located in a manner so as to conform with the basic requirements set forth in this chapter and other lawfully adopted codes or ordinances.
(b)
Mobile homes and cabanas or other accessory structures shall require a building permit.
(Code 1974, §§ 30-201(A), 30-401)
State Law reference— Mobile home location permit, O.C.G.A. § 48-5-492.
Sec. 11-6. - Compliance with building and construction codes.
No mobile home shall be admitted to any mobile home park or allowed to be placed within the jurisdiction of this chapter for a period exceeding forty-eight (48) hours unless it can be demonstrated that it meets the requirement of such building, plumbing, electrical, or other codes, insofar as they are applicable, adopted by the governing body. (Mobile Homes Manufacturers Association and the Trailer Coach Association (MHMA-TCA) seals will be accepted as evidence of the trailer's construction meeting local building and construction codes.)
(Code 1974, § 30-201(A))
Sec. 11-7. - Notification of placement of mobile home in park.
It shall be the responsibility of the park operator to notify the building inspector with reference to a mobile home being placed within the confines of a mobile home park prior to the placement of the mobile home on its stand and the connection of utility services and occupancy.
(Code 1974, § 30-401)
Sec. 11-8. - Location of mobile homes outside of park—Permanency; owner occupied.
Any mobile home located within the city and not located within a mobile home park shall be established as a permanent residence and shall be occupied by the owner of the property on which the mobile home is located.
(Code 1974, § 30-201)
Cross reference— Mobile office, app. A, § 3-12.
Sec. 11-9. - Same—Occupancy permit; decal; affidavit.
(a)
In the event a mobile home located outside of a mobile home park is approved as a temporary residence by the city council, an occupancy permit stating the case number and the approved duration of the occupancy shall be issued after the building inspector has reviewed and ascertained complete compliance with any requirements and conditions legally imposed by the city council.
(b)
The owner shall place a decal on such mobile home in a conspicuous place. The decal will be valid for a period as specified by the city council.
(c)
Prior to the issuance of an occupancy permit the owner, owner's agent or the resident of the mobile home shall file an affidavit with the building inspector affirming the conditions approved by the city council.
(Code 1974, § 30-201(F))
Sec. 11-10. - Same—Foundation; skirting; compliance with single-family residence requirements.
(a)
Any mobile home not placed in mobile home parks shall have a permanent foundation and shall be equipped with skirting on front and sides.
(b)
Any mobile home not placed in a mobile home park shall meet all subdivision regulations, the zoning ordinance, and other requirements set forth by the governing body for single-family residences before an occupancy is permitted.
(Code 1974, § 30-201)
Sec. 11-11. - Conformance of mobile homes to site arrangements, location, utilities; registration; inspection prior to occupancy.
(a)
Any mobile home placed in a mobile home park shall conform to the site arrangements for its site with respect to location, utilities, and registration.
(b)
It shall be the responsibility of the park operator to notify the building inspector to inspect the installation of the mobile home prior to allowing its occupancy.
(c)
It shall be such operator's further responsibility to maintain a dated log book indicating the name of the mobile home owner, the name of its occupants, its license, if so equipped, and whether it has a MHMA or TCA seal for each mobile home within the park. Such records shall be available for inspection personnel or other proper city officials.
(Code 1974, § 30-201(C))
Sec. 11-12. - Nonconforming mobile homes.
(a)
All mobile homes lawfully located within the jurisdiction of this chapter, but not in conformity with its provision, are hereby declared to be nonconforming.
(b)
The building inspector shall maintain a list of the nonconforming mobile homes within the jurisdiction of this chapter. The owner of such nonconforming mobile home shall be charged with knowledge of the provisions of this chapter. The owner shall have a certificate of occupancy for the nonconforming use. If the owner of a nonconforming use fails to have a certificate of occupancy the use ceases to be nonconforming and is hereby declared to be in violation of this chapter. The building inspector and the attorney shall take proper action to enjoin such violation.
(c)
If a mobile home is removed from a nonconforming location, or if it is destroyed beyond fifty (50) percent of its assessed valuation, it shall not be replaced by another mobile home or travel trailer, and same shall be removed from its location within thirty (30) days.
(Code 1974, § 30-201(D))
Sec. 11-13. - Storage of mobile homes; decal.
All mobile homes which are stored on a private lot, exclusive of a sales or manufacturer's lot, shall be affixed with a decal provided by the building inspector. The owner or agent of such mobile home shall complete and file an affidavit with the building inspector indicating such owner's or agent's knowledge of the terms of this chapter and such owner's or agent's affirmation that such mobile home is not occupied by such person's self, members of such person's family, or other persons. Such decal and affidavit shall expire on January first of each calendar year. A new decal will be issued during the month of January for all mobile homes so situated.
(Code 1974, § 30-201(E))
Cross reference— Storage, app. A, § 3-11.
State Law reference— State decal, O.C.G.A. § 48-5-492.
Sec. 11-14. - Health.
Prior to the allowance of permanent occupancy of a mobile home site within the jurisdiction of this chapter, such mobile home shall be connected with an approved water source and an approved sewage disposal system in such a manner as to comply with the state department of human resources and the state department of natural resources regulations, and the state health code which codes are insofar as they are applicable, are hereby made a part of this chapter to the same extent as though herein set out in full.
(Code 1974, § 30-201(B))
State Law reference— Water supply act, O.C.G.A. § 12-5-470 et seq.; state health regulations, O.C.G.A. § 31-1-1 et seq.
Secs. 11-15—11-19. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - PARK DESIGN, LAYOUT AND FACILITIES

Sec. 11-20. - Submission and approval of plan and location—New mobile home parks.
(a)
Each mobile home park development shall be presented in plan form by the developer to the planning commission for approval and shall conform to the minimum design and improvement standards required herein.
(b)
No construction or public improvements shall commence on any land to be used as a mobile home park prior to the approval of its plan by the planning commission and the city council.
(c)
Mobile home parks shall be allowed as permitted uses in such locations and districts as approved by the planning commission.
(d)
A person desiring to develop a mobile home park within the jurisdiction of this chapter shall provide four (4) copies of a sketch plan of a proposed layout which shall conform to the minimum requirements stated herein to the planning commission for review prior to the issuance of an occupancy permit for a mobile home park.
(Code 1974, § 30-301)
Sec. 11-21. - Same—Expansion of existing mobile home parks.
A person desiring to expand an existing mobile home park to include more mobile homes or mobile home sites than are accommodated within such a park at such time shall submit plans and specifications for such improvements to the planning commission for approval prior to initiating construction and improvements.
(Code 1974, § 30-302)
Sec. 11-22. - Nonconforming mobile home parks.
There shall not be any nonconforming mobile home parks.
(Code 1974, § 30-303)
Sec. 11-23. - Minimum size of mobile home park; street access.
A mobile home park shall have as a minimum size four (4) acres and shall front on an existing city street. A mobile home park requiring the construction of an access road shall construct same in accordance with the laws and ordinances of the city governing same.
(Code 1974, § 30-304(A))
Sec. 11-24. - Travel trailer spaces in mobile home park.
In the event a mobile home park fronts on a state or federal highway and the park owner desires to leave space for travel trailers, the park owner shall prepare and reserve an area containing a minimum of six (6) spaces improved for temporary use in an area separate and screened from the view of spaces leased for permanent occupancy.
(Code 1974, § 30-304(C)(1))
Sec. 11-25. - Minimum number of mobile home spaces.
A mobile home park shall have at a minimum twenty (20) spaces prepared with all utilities in place prior to its approval for occupancy.
(Code 1974, § 30-304(B))
Sec. 11-26. - Length of mobile home residential occupancy.
No space within a mobile home park, except as may be otherwise permitted in this chapter, shall be rented for residential use of a mobile home except for periods of thirty (30) days or more.
(Code 1974, § 30-304(C))
Sec. 11-27. - Mobile home park design.
The design of a mobile home park shall conform to the following design requirements:
(1)
Setback, clearances: The mobile home park shall be designed so that mobile homes (and travel trailers if permitted) and their accessory structures shall be a minimum distance of fifteen (15) feet from adjoining property lines, twenty (20) feet from internal park streets, and at least thirty (30) feet from any publicly dedicated street. Mobile home stands shall be designed so as to provide a distance of at least twenty (20) feet between mobile homes.
(2)
Access: The mobile home park shall front upon at least one publicly dedicated street from a minimum width of sixty (60) feet. Each mobile home site and its parking area shall have direct access to the internal street system of the park.
(3)
Streets: In general, streets within a mobile home park shall be privately owned, constructed, and maintained. Such private streets shall be well drained, provided with a hard surface treatment with a minimum paved surface of twelve (12) feet for one-way and twenty-four (24) feet for two-way streets.
(4)
Parking: Each mobile home stand shall be provided with a minimum of one (1) off-street parking space. The front yard space for mobile homes may be used for the parking of motor vehicles; however, the side yard and rear yard space may not be used for parking area.
(5)
Density: A maximum of ten (10) mobile home stands per acre or twelve (12) travel trailer stands per acre is allowed.
(Code 1974, § 30-304(D))
Sec. 11-28. - Improvements required for mobile home parks.
Mobile home parks constructed or reconstructed shall be provided with the following minimum improvements:
(1)
Sewerage: The mobile home park shall be provided with a sewage collection system, designed to comply with the state department of human resources requirements, so that each mobile home stand and commercial structure can be serviced.
(2)
Water: A potable water supply meeting state department of human resources requirements shall be provided by the park operator. If a public water system is available at the park site, water service shall be connected to the system and fire hydrants shall be placed within five hundred (500) feet of each mobile home stand.
(3)
Easements: Publicly dedicated easements of proper size for their intended purpose shall be provided within the park if individual mobile home stands and accessory park uses are to be serviced by a public system.
(4)
Burial of lines; cut-off for utilities; electrical service: All water, sewer, or gas lines shall be buried a minimum of eight (8) inches below the finished ground surface of the park and shall be provided with adequate valve systems to allow the cut-off of utility service to a mobile home stand at the mobile home stand and at the entrance of the utility service from the stand to the trunk line of the utility system. All electrical service shall be furnished in accordance with the city subdivision regulations.
(Code 1974, § 30-304(F))
Sec. 11-29. - Improvements required for mobile home stands.
Each mobile home stand shall be provided with the following minimum requirements:
(1)
Interior street access: Each stand shall be provided with access frontage of at least twenty-five (25) feet.
(2)
Garbage can racks: The park operator shall provide each stand with a garbage can rack designed to prevent rodent harborage.
(3)
Electric power supply: Each stand shall be provided with a properly grounded, water-proofed electrical receptacle with a minimum rated capacity of one hundred (100) amperes. A properly sized over current device shall be installed as a part of each power outlet.
(4)
Stand identification: A property and street number designation or other appropriate number device properly identifying each mobile home stand shall be placed at the interior side lot line at a point ten (10) to fifteen (15) feet from the interior road system of the park. Such device shall be a minimum of six (6) inches in height.
(Code 1974, § 30-304(E))
