Chapter 8 - FINANCE; TAXATION[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Cross reference— As to business and profession license taxes, see § 13-21 et seq.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 8-1. - Local option sales and use tax.
A one (1) percent sales and use tax is levied and imposed in the city in accordance with the terms and provisions of O.C.G.A. § 48-8-6.
(Code 1974, § 4-106)
Sec. 8-2. - Funding of acquisition, maintenance, and replacement of supplies and equipment for municipal court; adding expense of same to all fines and forfeitures in said court.
(a)
Upon the adoption of this section, and at their first regular official meeting of each calendar year thereafter, the mayor and council shall establish a fee to be added as costs in every criminal case disposed of by the court, whether by trial or by plea, and in every bond forfeiture declared by the court, and it shall be the duty of the judge of the municipal court to add said costs in every case as above provided in addition to all other costs, fines, fees, and forfeitures.
(b)
The proceeds from the fees so collected shall be used only to defray the cost of the acquisition, maintenance, and replacement of supplies and equipment needed for the operation of the court, and for no other purpose. All such acquisitions, maintenance, and replacements, and all disbursements to pay for same, shall first be approved by the mayor and council.
(c)
Should the fees collected to defray the costs of the acquisition, maintenance, and replacement of supplies and equipment needed for the operation of the court become no longer necessary for the financing of supplies and equipment, the city manager shall be authorized to direct the court to cease the collection of such fees. The city manager shall report to the city council on the collection and expenditure of the funds collected under this section at the first meeting in January and in July of each year.
(Ord. No. 04-06, §§ 1—3, 5-13-04)
Secs. 8-3—8-19. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - AD VALOREM TAX[2]

Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
Charter reference— Taxation authority, §§ 4-4(d), 4-28.
State Law reference— Taxing authority, Const. 1983, Art. IX, § 4, ¶ 1.

Sec. 8-20. - Returns—Opening of books.
The books for the return of ad valorem taxes to the city shall be open commencing on the first day of January and shall close on the first day of April of each year.
(Code 1974, § 4-101)
Charter reference— Authority to require returns, § 4-31.
Sec. 8-21. - Same—Property to be included.
Property that is returnable for ad valorem taxes by the taxpayers shall be property owned and subject to taxation on the first day of January in the year in which the tax return is made.
(Code 1974, § 4-101)
Sec. 8-22. - Same—Carry-over of previous year return.
Any taxpayer who returned or paid taxes for the preceding year and who fails to return such person's property for taxation shall be deemed to have returned for taxation for the current tax year the same property as was returned or deemed to have been returned in the preceding tax year at the same valuation as such property was finally determined to be subject to taxation in the preceding year.
(Code 1974, § 4-101)
State Law reference— Failure to return, O.C.G.A. § 48-5-20.
Sec. 8-23. - Same—Acceptance of valuation.
Tax returns for ad valorem taxes as to the valuation and the description of the property within the limits of the city made to the tax commissioner of the county shall be accepted by the city clerk in lieu of a proper tax return for ad valorem taxes to the city in compliance with all of the sections in this article so that there will be no penalty as a result of a failure to personally sign an individual tax return for ad valorem taxes with the city clerk.
(Code 1974, § 4-101)
Sec. 8-24. - Due and payment date.
Ad valorem taxes of the city shall become due and payable on the twentieth of December of each year.
(Code 1974, § 4-101)
Charter reference— Authority to provide due date, § 4-28(b).
Sec. 8-25. - Executions—Docket; issuance.
There shall be kept an execution docket, and on and after the twentieth day of December of each year, in conformity with section 4-32 of the charter, there shall be issued an execution against every defaulting or delinquent taxpayer, and such executions shall be entered on such execution docket reflecting the names of such delinquent or defaulting taxpayers covered by the execution.
(Code 1974, § 4-101)
Sec. 8-26. - Same—Placement in hands of collector.
When the executions for ad valorem taxes have been issued, there shall be attached to the same the stub which shall contain the unsigned receipt of the taxpayer, and place the executions in the hands of the officer authorized by law under section 4-32 of the charter to collect the same, and an entry shall be made on the execution docket of the name of such officer and the date of the delivery of such tax execution.
(Code 1974, § 4-101)
Sec. 8-27. - Same—Collecting.
The officer shall proceed at once to collect such tax executions, and when an execution is paid, the officer shall detach from the execution the tax receipt and enter thereon the amount collected, including all costs, interest, and commissions, and also shall make a similar entry on the tax execution, the receipt to be delivered by the officer to the taxpayer, and the tax execution to be returned with the amount of money collected to the city clerk, who shall at once copy the entry of the officer on the execution docket and file the execution in such clerk's office.
(Code 1974, § 4-101)
Sec. 8-28. - Same—Interest and costs.
(a)
Taxes and special assessments shall bear annual interest at the rate of three (3) above the federal prime rate. In 2016, this rate shall be (0.542) percent assessed each month from the date the tax or assessment is due until the date the tax or assessment is paid. For purposes of this section, any period of less than one (1) month shall be considered to be one (1) full month. There shall also be a penalty imposed of five (5) percent for delinquent taxes should any taxpayer fail to pay a tax or assessment within one hundred twenty (120) days of the due date. Where the taxpayer continues to fail to pay a tax or assessment beyond the initial one hundred twenty (120) days, this penalty shall increase by five (5) percent every one hundred twenty (120) days, however the maximum penalty that may ever be imposed is twenty (20) percent of the principle amount due.
(b)
In addition to the interest and penalty provided for in subsection (a) of this section, the costs of collection and the costs of levy preparation and execution procedures, shall be charged against the delinquent tax payer and shall be included in the amounts due on tax executions. The costs of collection and levy preparation and execution procedures shall include, but without limitation, the cost of title searches, name and address verifications, legal fees, and all other collection, levy, and enforcement costs of every kind.
(c)
The city manager shall have the authority to employ of agencies to assist in the collection of delinquent taxes and in tax execution levy preparation and enforcement procedures, and the costs of such agencies shall be paid by the delinquent tax payer, and shall added to the amounts due on tax executions.
(Code 1974, § 4-101; Ord. No. 07-06, § 1, 12-13-07; Ord. No. 2016-17, § 1, 9-8-16)
State Law reference— See O.C.G.A. §§ 48-2-40, 48-4-44.
Sec. 8-29. - Same—Time, place and manner of sale.
Except as otherwise provided by this Code, and especially by section 8-28, as amended, all executions issued by the city clerk for taxes, license fees, special assessments, fines or forfeitures due the city shall be governed by the laws governing executions for state and county taxes, and shall be subject to all presumptions of law and fact which apply to executions for state and county taxes. The time place and manner of sale of property for ad valorem taxes by virtue of tax executions that are issued for unpaid ad valorem taxes due the city shall be in conformity with the terms and provisions of O.C.G.A. § 48-5-359, which law of the state is by express reference thereto made a part of this section.
(Code 1974, § 4-101; Ord. No. 07-06, § 2, 12-13-07)
Sec. 8-30. - Bad check penalties.
If any check or money order tendered in payment of any ad valorem taxes is not duly paid when presented, there shall be paid as a penalty by the person who tendered the same, upon notice and demand, an amount equal to one (1) percent of the amount of such check or money order, except that if the amount of such check or money order is less than five hundred dollars ($500.00), the penalty shall be five dollars ($5.00), or the amount of the check or money order, whichever is the lesser.
(Code 1974, § 4-101)
Secs. 8-31—8-79. - Reserved.
ARTICLE III. - PURCHASING CARDS

Sec. 8.80. - Purpose.
The city has adopted a policy regarding government credit card or/and purchasing card usage. Any employee or official who uses or possesses a government credit card should abide by the terms of this policy when using the government credit card for purchases.
(Ord. No. 2015-09, § 1, 11-12-15)
