Chapter 16 - STREETS AND SIDEWALKS[1]

Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Cross reference— Fires on streets, § 9-6.

Sec. 16-1. - Uniform numbering system—Adopted.
A uniform system of numbering properties and buildings as described by a map and material filed in the office of the city manager is hereby adopted. The map and system description as filed is hereby adopted and made a part of this chapter.
(Ord. of 2-9-84, § 1)
State Law reference— Obstructing streets, O.C.G.A. § 16-11-43.
Sec. 16-2. - Same—Assignment of numbers.
(a)
All properties, lots and parcels of land within the corporate limits of the city shall be identified by reference to the uniform numbering system adopted herein, and all existing number identification of buildings or lots or parcels shall conform.
(b)
Each principal building shall bear the number assigned to it by the administrator of the system as herein provided and where more than one (1) business or family dwelling unit occupies a single structure shall bear, in addition to the basic number assigned to the structure, the supplementary numerals or letters assigned to them.
(c)
Numerals and letters indicating the official property number designation shall be posted in a conspicuous place on the building for which the designated number has been assigned in such a manner as to provide an unobstructed sighting from the street on which the building is located.
(d)
No person, agency or business shall adopt, assign, display or cite any number other than that assigned as provided herein for the purpose of property identification or for the purpose of designating location of property.
(Ord. of 2-9-84, § 2)
Sec. 16-3. - Same—Administration.
(a)
The city manager shall be responsible for implementing and maintaining the numbering system as adopted herein, including the supplementary documents referred to herein.
(b)
The city manager or designee shall assign and maintain a record of all property numbers for the city.
(c)
The city manager or designee may make available to public agencies such as those responsible for emergency services, tax officials, and post office such part of the records of property number assignments as may be required to accomplish a public purpose.
(d)
The city manager shall issue without charge one (1) set of numerals for each property number assigned including any future legally accomplished subdivision, such as the establishment of apartments. The maintenance of the numbers is the responsibility of the property owner except that at the discretion of the city manager numerals may be replaced if they have been destroyed by an act of God.
(Ord. of 2-9-84, § 3)
Sec. 16-4. - Maintenance and repair—Supervision.
All maintenance and repair of public streets, alleys, curbs, sidewalks and other public ways shall be under the direct supervision of the city manager, who shall have the responsibility of enforcing all provisions of this Code and all ordinances of the city relating to such public ways.
(Code 1974, § 22-101(1))
Sec. 16-5. - Same—Barricades.
Any person laying or repairing any pavement on a street, sidewalk or other public place shall maintain suitable barricades to prevent injury to any person or damage to any vehicle by reason of the work, which barricades shall be protected by a light at night.
(Code 1974, § 22-102(1))
Sec. 16-6. - Obstructions.
It shall be unlawful for any person to cause, create or maintain any obstruction on any street, alley, sidewalk, drain, ditch or other public way, except as may be provided in this chapter or other ordinances of the city and laws of the state.
(Code 1974, §§ 14-111, 22-101(4))
State Law reference— Obstructing streets, O.C.G.A. § 16-11-43.
Sec. 16-7. - Deposits and discharges onto streets and sidewalks.
It shall be unlawful for any person to deposit on any street or sidewalk any material which may be harmful to the pavement thereof, or any waste material, or any glass or other article which may do injury to any person or animal or damage property.
(Code 1974, § 22-101(5)(A))
Cross reference— Littering streets, § 10-22.
State Law reference— Dumping litter on public property, O.C.G.A. § 16-7-43.
Sec. 16-8. - Encroachments.
It shall be unlawful for any person to erect or maintain any building or structure which encroaches upon any public street or property, or to erect any poles or wires or maintain any poles or wires over any public place, street, alley or other public way without having first secured the approval of the city manager.
(Code 1974, § 22-101(8))
State Law reference— Interference with government property, O.C.G.A. 16-7-24; damaging, etc., property of municipality, O.C.G.A. § 16-7-25.
Sec. 16-9. - Report of defects, obstructions, deposits and discharges.
It shall be the duty of every city officer and employee who becomes aware of any defect or obstruction, or of any unlawful deposit or discharge, in or on any public street, alley, curb, sidewalk or other public way of the city to report the same to the city manager as soon as possible.
(Code 1974, § 22-101(6))
Sec. 16-10. - Private use.
It shall be unlawful for any person to use any street, sidewalk or other public place as space for the display of goods or merchandise for sale; or to write or make any sign or advertisement on any such pavement.
(Code 1974, § 22-101(7))
Sec. 16-11. - Trees, shrubs, and flowers—Planting and removal.
It shall be unlawful for any person to plant, remove, injure or cut any tree, bush, shrub or flower in or from any public street, parkway or other public place without first obtaining the approval of the city manager.
(Code 1974, § 22-101(9)(A))
Sec. 16-12. - Same—Advertisements.
It shall be unlawful for any person to attach any sign, advertisement or notice to any tree, shrub or flower in any public place.
(Code 1974, § 22-101(9)(B))
Sec. 16-13. - Same—Obstruction of traffic; dangerous trees.
(a)
Any tree or shrub which overhangs any sidewalk, street or other public place in the city in such a way as to impede or interfere with traffic or travel, shall be trimmed by the owner of the premises on which such tree or shrub grows so that the obstruction shall cease.
(b)
Any tree or limb of a tree which has become likely to fall on or across any public way or place shall be removed by the owner of the premises on which such tree grows or stands.
(c)
The city manager may cause to be trimmed or removed any such trees or shrubs so that the obstruction or danger to traffic or passage shall be removed.
(Code 1974, § 22-101(9)(C))
Sec. 16-14. - Same—Clearance of poles and wires.
Any person who maintains poles and wires in the streets, alleys, or other public places of the city shall keep such wires and poles free and away from any nearby trees or shrubs in such places, and keep all such trees or shrubs properly trimmed so that no injury shall befall either the poles and wires or the shrubs and trees by their contact.
(Code 1974, § 22-101(9)(D))
