ARTICLE 25. - LEGAL STATUS PROVISIONS

Section 2501. - Adoption of this appendix.
This appendix is adopted to amend certain provisions of the county zoning ordinance previously adopted on November 4, 1994 (the "original ordinance"). The original ordinance shall remain valid and effective in all respects, except for those provisions that are amended by this appendix [Adopted November 4, 1997]. Those provisions of the original ordinance that are amended by this appendix, as well as any other provisions of the county Code of Ordinances that are in conflict with this appendix, are hereby repealed.
Section 2502. - Effect of repeal.
The repeal provided for in the preceding section of this appendix shall not affect any offense, act committed or any penalty or forfeiture incurred or vested right established or accruing before the effective date of this appendix; nor shall it affect any prosecution, suit or proceeding pending or any judgment rendered prior to the effective date of this ordinance.
Section 2503. - Severability of provisions.
It is hereby declared to be the intention of the county that the sections, paragraphs, sentences, clauses and phrases of this appendix hereby adopted are severable, and if any phrase, clause, sentence, paragraph or section of this appendix hereby adopted shall be declared unconstitutional or otherwise invalid by the valid judgment or decree of a court of competent jurisdiction, this unconstitutionality or invalidity shall not affect any of the remaining phrases, clauses, sentences, paragraphs and sections of this appendix hereby adopted.
Section 2504. - Effect of catchlines.
The catchlines of the several sections of this appendix printed in boldface type are intended as mere catchwords to indicate the contents of the sections and shall not be deemed or taken to be titles of the sections nor as any part of the sections, nor, unless expressly so provided, shall they be so deemed when any of the sections, including the catchlines, are amended or reenacted.
Section 2505. - Effective date.
Those provisions of this appendix that amend the original ordinance shall be effective November 4, 1997. The effective date for those provisions of the original ordinance that have not been amended by this appendix remains November 4, 1994.
