Chapter 11.5 - STREETS, SIDEWALKS AND OTHER PUBLIC PLACES[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Cross reference— Development authority, § 2-106; buildings, § 4-1 et seq.; road naming and property numbering, § 4-76 et sq.; flood damage prevention, § 7-1 et seq.; highway signs, § 11-26 et seq.; uniform rules of the road, § 13-1; subdivision regulations, App. B.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Secs. 11.5-1—11.5-25. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - PUBLIC ROAD RIGHT-OF-WAY

Sec. 11.5-26. - Title.
This article will be known as the "Bulloch County Public Road Right-of-Way Ordinance".
(Ord. of 12-7-93, § I; Amd. of 5-6-08)
Sec. 11.5-27. - Definitions.
The following terms, when used in this article shall, for the purpose of this article, have the meanings respectively ascribed to them:
County means Bulloch County or any division, department, agency, authority, instrumentality or branch thereof, having charge of the public roads of the county.
County Engineer means the County Engineer of Bulloch County, a position hired by the county manager.
County road means the donation by the owner, either expressly or implied, and acceptance by Bulloch County for public street purposes, in accordance with the statutory or common law provision.
Excavate or alter means the ditching, digging or penetrating in any way into the bed or surface of any county road herein defined.
Obstruct means the placing of a barrier upon any public county road as herein defined or engaging in any work or activity which will interfere with the normal flow or passage of traffic upon the county road.
Person means any individual, partnership, corporation, association or private organization of any character.
Private road means a privately owned road or way, which is only open for the benefit of one or more individuals and not dedicated to the use of the general public, or a road which lies on privately owned land.
Right-of-way means a general term denoting land, property or interest therein, usually but not required to be a strip, acquired for or devoted to a county road.
(Ord. of 12-7-93, § II; Amd. of 5-6-08)
Sec. 11.5-28. - Authority and enactment.
The Georgia Code of Public Transportation Act of 1973, O.C.G.A. § 32-1-1 grants authority to the governing body of each county to regulate the county system. The chairman and board of commissioners, pursuant to the authority conferred above, does ordain and enact this article into law.
(Ord. of 12-7-93, § III; Amd. of 5-6-08)
Sec. 11.5-29. - Jurisdiction and application.
The jurisdiction of this article shall apply to all publicly maintained roads, streets and highways in the unincorporated areas within the boundaries of the county, and includes sidewalks, curbs, and gutters, drainage inlets, manholes, water valves, and survey benchmarks, except private roads and those roads, streets and highways which are part of the state highway system.
(Ord. of 12-7-93, § IV; Amd. of 5-6-08)
Sec. 11.5-30. - Permit/unlawful conduct.
(a)
The following conduct is hereby declared to be unlawful and in violation of this article:
(1)
It shall be unlawful for any person, without a permit issued by the county, to purposely obstruct any public road, street, sidewalk or other public passage in such a way as to render it impassable to the public without unreasonable inconvenience or hazard when such person fails or refuses to remove the obstruction after receiving an official request from the board of commissioners or the order of a peace officer that he do so within a specified period of time.
(2)
It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to knowingly, intentionally and without authority, block or attempt to block, or cause to be blocked, prevent or attempt to prevent, or interfere or attempt to interfere with, any member or members of the public from gaining access to or egress from a public or private property via any owned or dedicated, open or unopened, public street, public roadway, public alley or public easement by placing or causing to be placed thereon, or by maintaining or causing to be maintained thereon, any impediment, obstruction or deterrent of any kind or shape, natural or manmade, designed and intended to discourage or prevent public use of the same.
(3)
It shall be unlawful for any person, without a permit issued by the county, to purposely excavate or alter the surface, shoulders or sides of any public road, street, sidewalk or other public passage.
(4)
It shall be unlawful for any person to erect or cause to be erected within the right of way of any public road, street, sidewalk or public passage any sign, notice, warning or symbol designed or intended to discourage the use of such public passage by the public.
(5)
In order to aid in the proper drainage of water and prevent erosion on the public roadways of this county, it shall be unlawful for any person to construct within a public right-of-way a private road or driveway for ingress and egress onto one's property without first obtaining a permit through the office of the county manager or his designee and paying such fees as may be required for the purchase and installation of concrete pipe as necessary to ensure the unobstructed flow and drainage of water within such public rights-of-way. The provisions of this subsection may be waived in such circumstances where the county engineer or transportation director deems that the installation of such pipe is not necessary to achieve the purpose of this subsection.
(6)
It shall be unlawful for any person to perform work on the county right-of-way without an active Georgia Utility Protection Locate Ticket Number, as applicable. This locate ticket number must be available upon request from a county employee.
(7)
It shall be unlawful for any person in possession of a current Bulloch County right-of-way permit to perform work outside of the permitted area as stated on the permit. Work outside the permitted area may result in a stop work order issued by the county official during inspection and/or a citation issued by a county code enforcement officer or Bulloch County Sheriff's Officer, which citation is returnable to magistrate court.
(b)
The county, through its agents and employees, whenever any such as is prohibited herein occurs, may enter upon any such public street, public roadway, public alley or public easement and take necessary action to effect compliance with the provisions of this article.
(Ord. of 12-7-93, § V; Ord. of 10-18-94; Amd. of 5-6-08)
Sec. 11.5-31. - Standards.
The person conducting and/or contracting for any excavation, construction or alteration work authorized by this article and a permit issued by the county shall perform according to the following standards:
(1)
Safety precautions, including signage and flagman, shall be implemented and shall be in accordance with the Manual on Uniform Traffic Control Devices for Streets and Highways, issued by the Georgia Department of Transportation (DOT).
(2)
All roadbed and surface repairs shall be made in accordance with current standards established by the Georgia Department of Transportation.
(3)
Any other policies, standards or special requirements that are deemed as necessary to secure, protect and preserve the public way according to county standards may be directed by the county engineer.
(Ord. of 12-7-93, § VI; Amd. of 5-6-08)
Sec. 11.5-32. - Application; site inspection; fee.
(a)
As a condition precedent to the granting of such permit, such applicant shall file an application in writing with the county engineer specifically describing the nature, extent, location and time of proposed obstruction, excavation or alteration and such other information as the county through its designated official may require. A nonrefundable fee for the application shall be set forth in the county schedule of fees and charges.
(b)
Inspections of the location of work in the area where the permit is requested may be made by the county engineer or transportation director prior to the issuance of a permit, during the progress of the work, and after the work is completed.
(c)
At the time of application, the county engineer may accept a surety bond, bank letter of credit, or other form of security acceptable to the county for each permit issued, which security guarantees the permittee's performance and maintenance of repairs to any excavations or alterations in the road right-of-way. The security shall be in an amount equal to the estimated cost of the repairs, and shall guarantee the performance of the repairs and the maintenance of same for a period of one year after the completion of the repairs.
(d)
At the time of application, the applicant shall execute a document agreeing to indemnify the county for any costs, damages or liability resulting from work performed by the applicant, owner or their agent during the period in which the security described above in subsection (c), is in effect.
(Ord. of 12-7-93, § VII; Amd. of 5-6-08)
Sec. 11.5-33. - Time for making application before work.
(a)
Except in case of emergency, an application for a permit to excavate, obstruct or alter a public street, shall be made no less than ten days prior to the date the work is to commence. The permit shall be granted or denied by considering the following factors:
(1)
The effect on the integrity of existing roadway facilities;
(2)
The effect on traffic patterns, traffic congestion and traffic safety;
(3)
The effect on ingress and egress to and from the surrounding properties; and
(4)
The impact and development of the surrounding area.
(b)
In the event a road is to have a lane of traffic blocked or is to be closed to traffic for excavation, a ten working day notice is required before work is to begin. The Bulloch County Transportation Department will determine if a press release is necessary, with the cost of such release, if any, to be borne by the applicant. The Bulloch Transportation Department shall receive from the permit holder a 24-hour notice before work is to start. When emergency work is necessary, the Bulloch County Transportation Department is to be notified immediately, including after normal working hours, weekends and holidays.
(Ord. of 12-7-93; Amd. of 5-6-08)
Sec. 11.5-34. - Violations; punishment.
Any person violating any provision of this article shall upon conviction thereof be subject to punishment as provided in section 1-11 of the Code of Ordinances of Bulloch County, Georgia.
(Ord. of 12-7-93; Amd. of 5-6-08)
Editor's note— Permit for street excavation, attached to Ord. of December 7, 1993, has not been set out herein, but is available for public inspection in the office of the city clerk.
Sec. 11.5-35. - Ordering removal of equipment, etc.
Any person violating any provision of this article may be ordered by the county to remove any equipment, facilities and appliances from and discontinue the use of the public roads.
(Amd. of 5-6-08)
Sec. 11.5-36. - Injunction; restraining order.
Without limitation as to other remedies, the county is hereby authorized to seek equitable relief in a court of proper jurisdiction to enforce the performance of any duty or act imposed by this article or for an order to restrain the breach of any duty or the commission of any act, imposed or prohibited or unauthorized by the provisions of this article.
(Amd. of 5-6-08)
Sec. 11.5-37. - Enforcement.
It shall be the duty of all members of the Bulloch County Sheriff's Department or the code enforcement division, at the direction of the county engineer or transportation director, to enforce any provision of this article which states that any act or omission is unlawful.
(Amd. of 5-6-08)
Secs. 11.5-38—11.5-50. - Reserved.
ARTICLE III. - COMMERCIAL TRUCK TRAFFIC

Sec. 11.5-51. - Title.
This article will be known as the "Bulloch County Commercial Truck Traffic Ordinance."
(Amend. of 4-16-02)
Sec. 11.5-52. - Definitions.
The following terms, when used in this article shall, for the purpose of this article, have the meanings respectively ascribed to them:
Commercial truck means any truck with more than six wheels.
County means the unincorporated area of Bulloch County, Georgia.
Designated road means any road listed in section 11.5-53(a) of this article.
Local delivery means, with respect to a designated road, a delivery made by a commercial truck to a business or residence located on and with access to a designated road. Provided, however, that a delivery shall not under any circumstances be deemed a "local delivery" if an undesignated road also provides a means of access to the business or residence to whom the delivery is being made.
Person means any individual, partnership, corporation, association or private organization of any character.
Undesignated road means any road not listed in section 11.5-53(a) of this article.
(Amend. of 4-16-02)
Sec. 11.5-53. - Commercial truck traffic prohibited.
(a)
Commercial trucks shall be prohibited from traveling upon or utilizing the following roads within the county:
(1)
Cypress Lake Road, portions of which are designated as County Road No. 145, County Road No. 147, County Road No. 153, and County Road No. 155 on the state department of transportation's County Road Map for Bulloch County.
(2)
High Point Road and Brannen Road, which are designated as County Road No. 145 on the state department of transportation's County Road Map for Bulloch County.
(3)
Country Club Road, which is designated as County Road No. 146 on the state department of transportation's County Road Map for Bulloch County.
(4)
That portion of former State Route 46 that runs between State Route 67 and State Route 119, which portion of former State Route 46 is designated as County Road No. 927 on the state department of transportation's County Road Map for Bulloch County.
(5)
That portion of Mud Road that runs between State Route 80 and State Route 119 Connector, which portion of Mud Road is designated as County Road No. 572.
(6)
That portion of Akins Pond Road that runs between Middleground Road and U.S. Highway 80/25, which portion of Akins Pond Road is designated as County Road No. 9 on the state department of transportation's County Road Map for Bulloch County.
(b)
The prohibition set forth in subsection (a) above shall not apply to commercial trucks when making a local delivery on any of the designated roads.
(Amd. of 4-16-02; Amd. of 7-18-06; Amd. of 8-28-12; Amd. of 1-8-19(1); Amd. of 6-15-21(1))
Sec. 11.5-54. - Penalties for violation.
Any person violating any of the provisions of this article shall be subject to a maximum fine of $1,000.00 per violation.
(Amd. of 4-16-02)
