DIVISION 10. - WORK HOURS, OVERTIME AND COMPENSATORY TIME

Sec. 2-308. - Work hours.
Because of differences in job requirements, the required work hours or work period may vary from job to job and department to department.
(Mo. of 12-4-2007, § 10.01)
Sec. 2-309. - Overtime.
(a)
Overtime is time worked in excess of the regular work schedule for the position in accordance with the Fair Labor Standards Act.
(b)
The county recognizes that occasionally, non-exempt employees may be required to work overtime in order to provide essential services or in the conduct of routine operations. It is the county's intent that employees who are required to work overtime are properly compensated for their efforts. Uncontrolled overtime can result in a substantial financial liability. The county must ensure that an adequate management system is in place. All overtime must be pre-approved by the county manager.
(c)
Exempt employees are appointed as official, executive, administrative or professional and are not eligible to receive overtime compensation.
(d)
Non-exempt employees are not appointed as noted above. Work performed by a non-exempt employee in excess of 40 hours per week shall be compensated by payment of overtime at the rate of 1½ times the regular base pay rate for the job performed, or will be given compensatory time, one hour for every hour worked. The availability of department/agency budgetary funds and the appointing authority or designee will determine how hours will be compensated. However, all regulations as outlined by the Fair Labor Standards Act will be followed in the administration of overtime.
(e)
In order to be eligible for overtime payment, the department head/supervisor must provide the county manager, in writing, the justification for overtime. In the case of an emergency, verbal justification will be sufficient. However, it must be done before and not after the event and reduced to writing.
(f)
Overtime work commences when an employee reports on duty, ready for work and ends upon completion of the task or duty.
(g)
In calculating payment of overtime (time and one-half) actual hours worked and holidays shall be used. Payment of time and one-half will be made for productive work time plus holiday hours in excess of 40 hours. Authorized absences, such as annual/vacation leave, sick leave, etc., are considered non-productive hours and shall be paid at straight time.
(h)
Overtime work shall be distributed equally, commensurate with the competence to perform the work required. Unauthorized working of overtime by non-exempt employees is considered a violation of policy, which may lead to discipline, up to and including discharge.
(i)
Employees should schedule compensatory time hours off with their department head/supervisor who shall retain discretion to schedule compensatory time off for employees.
(Mo. of 12-4-2007, §§ 10.02, 10.03; Res. of 12-16-2010)
Sec. 2-310. - Time sheets.
Employees are required to keep accurate time sheets on forms provided by the appointing authority in accordance with FLSA requirements.
(Mo. of 12-4-2007, § 10.04)
Sec. 2-311. - Inclement weather/designated emergency policy.
(a)
County operations are always open for business during normal working hours. However, due to weather and or emergencies, the county may be forced with a temporary closure or have limited operations. The county manager or, in the county manager's absence, the chairperson of the board of commissioners, has the authority to make a decision regarding staffing requirements during an emergency or weather event.
(b)
Employees will be notified by their immediate supervisor as to whether or not they're required to report to duty. The county will also use the local media to notify employees if they are required to work.
(c)
Essential employees are those who are deemed critical to the operation of the county government during inclement weather or any other designated emergency where their work is of such nature that if left unattended could result in danger or damage to the property or person of a county resident or the traveling public.
(1)
When the courthouse is closed during normal work hours:
a.
Nonessential employees are not required to report to work. Those non-exempt, essential employees who are required to report to work shall be paid at 1½ times their regular rate for all hours worked during which time the courthouse is closed.
b.
Nonessential employees already at work when the courthouse closes early shall be paid for the remainder of their work day at their regular rate of pay without having annual/vacation leave or leave without pay charged against them.
c.
Nonessential employees who choose to leave before an announcement is made that the courthouse is closed shall be charged annual/vacation leave or leave without pay for the remainder of the day.
d.
Essential employees who are non-exempt and are required to report to work shall be paid at 1½ times their regular rate for all hours worked during which time the courthouse is closed.
e.
Essential employees who do not report to work shall be charged annual/vacation leave or leave without pay for the time period not worked.
(2)
When the courthouse is not closed:
a.
Employees who fail to report to work without the normal prior arrangements with their supervisor in accordance with the provisions of the county's personnel policies and procedures shall be charged with annual/vacation leave or leave without pay.
b.
Employees who report to work late, without appropriate justification, shall be charged annual/vacation leave or leave without pay for the time period they were absent from work.
(Mo. of 4-21-2011(01))
Secs. 2-312—2-340. - Reserved.
