ARTICLE V. - OUTDOOR WATERING OF LANDSCAPE

Sec. 14-427. - Purpose.
(a)
Macon County (hereinafter the county) recognizes an imminent need to create a culture of water conservation and to plan for water supply enhancement during future/extreme drought conditions and other water emergencies.
(b)
Reasonable restrictions on outdoor watering of landscape are necessary to address this in furtherance of addressing this need.
(c)
The general assembly has required all counties to adopt an ordinance to be in effect no later than January 1, 2011, to allow outdoor watering of landscape to between the hours of 4:00 p.m. and 10:00 a.m. (with certain exceptions).
(d)
Pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 12-5-7, the board of commissioners have prepared an ordinance to address outdoor watering of landscape.
(Ord. of 11-18-2010, preamble)
Sec. 14-428. - Restriction on outdoor water of landscape.
modified
Outdoor watering for purposes of planting, growing, managing, or maintaining ground cover, trees, shrubs, or other plants in the unincorporated area may occur only between the hours of 4:00 p.m. and 10:00 a.m.; provided, however, that this limitation shall not create any limitation upon the following outdoor water uses:
(1)
Commercial raising, harvesting, or storing of crops; feeding, breeding, or managing livestock or poultry; the commercial production or storing of feed for use in the production of livestock, including, but not limited to, cattle, calves, swine, hogs, goats, sheep, and rabbits, or for use in the production of poultry, including, but not limited to, chickens, hens, ratites, and turkeys; producing plants, trees, fowl, or animals; or the commercial production of aquacultural, horticultural, dairy, livestock, poultry, eggs, and apiarian products or as otherwise defined in O.C.G.A. § 1-3-3;
(2)
Capture and reuse of cooling system condensate or storm water in compliance with applicable ordinances and state guidelines;
(3)
Reuse of gray water in compliance with O.C.G.A. § 31-3-5.2 and applicable local board of health regulations;
(4)
Use of reclaimed waste water by a designated user from a system permitted by the environmental protection division of the state department of natural resources to provide reclaimed waste water;
(5)
Watering personal food gardens;
(6)
Watering new and replanted plant, seed, or turf in landscapes, golf courses, or sports turf fields during installation and for a period of 30 days immediately following the date of installation;
(7)
Drip irrigation or irrigation using soaker hoses;
(8)
Hand watering with a hose with automatic cutoff or a handheld container;
(9)
Use of water withdrawn from private water wells or surface water by an owner or operator of property if such well or surface water is on said property;
(10)
Watering horticultural crops held for sale, resale, or installation;
(11)
Watering athletic fields, golf courses, or public turf grass recreational areas;
(12)
Installation, maintenance, or calibration of irrigation systems; or
(13)
Hydroseeding.
(Ord. of 11-18-2010, § 1)
Sec. 14-429. - Enforcement.
(a)
No person shall use or allow the use of water in violation of the restrictions on outdoor water use contained in this article.
(b)
The code enforcement officer shall be the enforcement authority for this article. The county manager may authorize other departments and employees as deemed necessary to support enforcement.
(c)
Criminal and alternative penalties. Any violation of this section may also be enforced by a citation or accusation returnable to the magistrate court or by any other legal means as set forth in this Code.
(Ord. of 11-18-2010, § 2)
Secs. 14-430—14-456. - Reserved.
