PART I - SPECIAL ACTS AND RELATED LAWS
ARTICLE I. - BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS[1]
modified

Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Editor's note— Printed in this article is 1872 Ga. Laws (Act No. 317), page 434. Amendments are indicated by parenthetical history notes following amended provisions. The absence of a history note indicates that the provision remains unchanged from the original act. Obvious misspellings have been corrected without notation. The title, enactment, severability, repealer, transitional, ratification, publication and effective date provisions have been omitted, and where a section has been amended or repealed by a later provision, only the current language has been printed. For stylistic purposes, the same style of expression of numbers in text as appears in the Code of Ordinances has been used. A consistent scheme of capitalization has also been used. Section catchlines have been editorially supplied. Additions made for clarity are indicated by brackets.

Sec. 1. - Districts.
(a)
There is established a board of commissioners for Macon County consisting of five members.
(b)
For the purpose of electing members of the board of commissioners, Macon County shall be divided into five commissioner districts. The five commission districts shall be and correspond to those five numbered districts established pursuant to the final order entered on August 26, 2002, in Macon County, Georgia, et al v. McCarthy, Case Number 5:02-cv-255-4(HL), United States District Court for the Middle District of Georgia, Macon Division, but as modified by the descriptions in and attached to and made a part of this Act and further identified as: Plan: maconccsb-2011 Plan Type: Local User: bak".
(c)
(1)
When used in such attachment, the term 'VTD' (voting tabulation district) shall mean and describe the same geographical boundaries as provided in the report of the Bureau of the Census for the United States decennial census of 2010 for the State of Georgia.
(2)
The separate numeric designations in a district description which are underneath a VTD heading shall mean and describe individual Blocks within a VTD as provided in the report of the Bureau of the Census for the United States decennial census of 2010 for the State of Georgia. Any part of Macon County which is not included in any such district described in that attachment shall be included within that district contiguous to such part which contains the least population according to the United States decennial census of 2010 for the State of Georgia.
(3)
Any part of Macon County which is described in that attachment as being in a particular district shall nevertheless not be included within such district if such part is not contiguous to such district. Such noncontiguous part shall instead be included within that district contiguous to such part which contains the least population according to the United States decennial census of 2010 for the State of Georgia.
(4)
Except as otherwise provided in the description of any education district, whenever the description of such district refers to a named city, it shall mean the geographical boundaries of that city as shown on the census map for the United States decennial census of 2010 for the State of Georgia.
(d)
[Reserved.]
(e)
The first members of the reconstituted board of commissioners of Macon County from Commission Districts 1, 3, and 5 shall be elected at the state-wide general election in 2002. Such members shall take office on January 1 following their election for terms of four years and until their successors are elected and qualified.
(f)
The first members of the reconstituted board of commissioners of Macon County from Commissioner Districts 2 and 4 shall be elected at the state-wide general election in 2004. Such members shall take office on January 1 following their election for terms of four years and until their successors are elected and qualified.
(g)
Successors to members elected under subsections (e) and (f) of this section shall be elected at the state-wide general election next preceding the expiration of such terms of office and shall take office on January 1 following their election for terms of four years and until their successors are elected and qualified.
(h)
Commissioner Districts 1, 2, 3, 4, and 5 as they existed on January 1, 2002, shall continue to be designated as Commissioner Districts 1, 2, 3, 4, and 5, respectively, but as newly described under this Act, and, on and after the effective date of this Act, such members of the board serving from those former commissioner districts shall be deemed to be serving from and representing their respective districts as newly described under this section.
(2002 Ga. Laws (Act. No. 482), p. 4061; 2011 Ga. Laws (Ex. Sess. HB47EX), § 1)
Editor's note— Section 2 of 2011 Ga. Laws (Ex. Sess. HB47EX) states that "[t]he Board of Commissioners of Macon County which existed on December 31, 2012, is continued in existence but on and after January 1, 2013, shall be constituted as provided in this Act. The Board of Commissioners of Macon County so continued and constituted, sometimes referred to in this Act as the "board," shall continue to have the powers, duties, rights, obligations, and liabilities of that board as existed immediately prior to January 1, 2013."
Sec. 2. - Election.
[This provision has been superseded by state laws.]
Sec. 3. - Jurisdiction.
[This provision has been superseded by state laws.]
Sec. 3[a]. - Election, how held.
[This provision has been superseded by state laws.]
Sec. 4. - Regular sessions.
Be it further enacted, that they [board of commissioners] shall hold a session on the first Tuesday [and third Thursday] in each month at the court-house, and may convene an extraordinary session whenever it may, in their judgment, be necessary, and shall have power, when in session, to punish for contempt, and may, at their discretion, order the sheriff or his deputy to attend their sessions.
Sec. 4[a]. - How commissioned; oath.
Be it further enacted, that the commissioners so elected shall be commissioned by the Governor of the State of Georgia, and their term of office shall begin on the first day of January next succeeding their election; and before entering upon the duties of said office, they shall take and subscribe the oath now required by law, before the Probate [judge] of said County of Macon, who shall file and keep said oath in his office.
(1912 Ga. Laws (Act No. 421), p. 419, § 1)
Sec. 5. - Terms.
[This provision has been superseded by 2011 Ga. Laws (Ex. Sess. HB47EX), which is codified as section 1 in this Special Act.]
Sec. 6. - Vacancies.
Be it further enacted that should a vacancy occur in the office of commissioner as herein provided for, the said board of commissioners shall appoint a qualified citizen of the commissioner's district affected by such vacancy, and such appointee shall hold said office until the next general election for county officers in said county; such appointee shall take the oath prescribed before the Probate [judge] of said county before entering upon the discharge of his duties.
(1925 Ga. Laws (Act No. 72), p. 694, § 1)
Sec. 7. - Administer oaths.
[Reserved.]
Sec. 7[a]. - Compensation.
The chairman of the board of commissioners of Macon County shall receive an annual salary of $7,200.00, payable in equal monthly installments from county funds. Each of the other commissioners of such board shall receive an annual salary of $6,000.00, payable in equal monthly installments from county funds.
(1983 Ga. Laws (Act No. 164), p. 4048, § 1)
Sec. 8. - Chairman.
At the first meeting in January [each calendar year], the board shall select a chairman from its members. He shall preside at all meetings of the board when he is present and shall be the executive officer of said board. He shall sign, as chairman thereof, all contracts and county warrants which shall also be countersigned by the clerk of said board. He shall, when deemed necessary, call special meetings of said board and shall, through the clerk, give such notice as may be required by law. The chairman shall have a right to vote on all matters before the board [and can also make a motion].
(1985 Ga. Laws (Act No. 121), p. 3849, § 2)
Sect. 9. - Vice-chairman.
At the first meeting in January each [calendar] year, the board shall select a vice-chairman from its members. The vice-chairman shall preside at board meetings in the absence of the chairman and shall discharge all other duties required by the chairman.
(1985 Ga. Laws (Act No. 121), p. 3849, § 2)
Sec. 10. - Clerk; bond; duties; salary.
Be it further enacted that at said first meeting of said board, they shall elect a clerk of said board who shall hold his office unless removed therefrom by said board, for neglect of duty, incompetency, or other cause. Before entering upon his duties as clerk, the person so elected shall give a bond with good and sufficient security, to be approved by said board of commissioners, conditioned for the faithful performance of his duties as such clerk. It shall be the duty of said clerk to attend all meetings of said board, to file and preserve all its records and papers, to countersign, officially, all warrants, orders and contracts, and to record all papers required to be recorded and to keep full and fair minutes of all proceedings of said board, including the assessment of taxes, and he shall also keep a separate and detailed account in a well-bound book of all orders drawn on the county treasury, showing for what drawn and on what fund drawn; and he shall perform all other duties which may, from time to time, be required of him by said board. Said clerk shall receive a salary, as his compensation and shall receive no other costs or fees whatever.
(1925 Ga. Laws (Act No. 72), p. 694, § 2)
Sec. 11. - Unanimous vote of three to pass any order.
Be it further enacted, that at any meeting of said board when only three of the commissioners are present, it shall require a unanimous vote or concurrence to pass any order, or transact any business, and in the absence of such concurrence, all business attempted to be transacted shall be null and void.
(1912 Ga. Laws (Act No. 421), p. 419, § 1)
ARTICLE II. - BOARD OF ELECTIONS AND REGISTRATION[2]
modified

Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
Editor's note— Printed in this article is 2003 Ga. Laws (Act No. 321), page 4532. Amendments are indicated by parenthetical history notes following amended provisions. The absence of a history note indicates that the provision remains unchanged from the original act. Obvious misspellings have been corrected without notation. The title, enactment, severability, repealer, transitional, ratification, publication and effective date provisions have been omitted, and where a section has been amended or repealed by a later provision, only the current language has been printed. For stylistic purposes, the same style of expression of numbers in text as appears in the Code of Ordinances has been used. A consistent scheme of capitalization has also been used. Section catchlines have been editorially supplied. Additions made for clarity are indicated by brackets.

Sec. 1. - [Definitions.]
As used in this Act, the term:
(1)
"Board" means the Macon County Board of Elections and Registration.
(2)
"Commissioners" means the Board of Commissioners of Macon County.
(3)
"County" means Macon County.
(4)
"Election," "elector," "political party," "primary," and "public office" shall have the same meanings as set forth in Chapter 20 of Title 21 of the O.C.G.A., the "Georgia Election Code," unless otherwise clearly apparent from the text of this Act.
Sec. 2. - [Board of elections and registration.]
Pursuant to subsection (b) of Code Section 21-2-40 of the O.C.G.A., there is created, effective July 1, 2003, the Macon County Board of Elections and Registration. The board shall have the powers and duties of the former Macon County election superintendent relating to the conduct of primaries and elections and shall have the powers and duties of the Macon County Board of Registrars relating to the registration of voters and absentee balloting procedures.
Sec. 3. - [Board composition and terms of office.]
(a)
The board shall be composed of three members, each of whom shall be an elector and a resident of Macon County. All members of the board shall be appointed by the Board of Commissioners of Macon County. The Macon County Board of Elections and Registration shall select a chairperson from among its members.
(b)
The initial terms of office of two members shall expire December 31, 2005, and upon the appointment and qualification of their respective successors. The initial term of office of the remaining member of the board shall expire December 31, 2007, and upon the appointment and qualification of his or her successor.
Sec. 4. - [Chief election official appointed; duties.]
The board shall appoint a person to serve as the chief election official of Macon County. Such position shall be part time or full time as determined by the board and such person shall be paid a salary to be set by the board and payable from county funds. The chief election official shall generally direct and control the administration of elections and voter registration in Macon County. The chief election official shall be supervised by the board and shall be subject to removal from office by the board, with or without cause. The chief election official shall not be a member of the board nor an elected official.
Sec. 5. - [Board members.]
Each member of the board shall:
(1)
Serve for a term of four years and until a successor is appointed and qualified, except that initial terms of office shall be as provided in subsection (b) of Section 3 of this Act;
(2)
Be eligible to be reappointed to succeed himself or herself and shall have the right to resign at any time by giving written notice of such resignation to the commissioners and to the clerk of the Superior Court of Macon County; and
(3)
Be subject to removal from the board at any time for cause, after notice and hearing, by the chief judge of the Superior Court of Macon County.
Sec. 6. - [Appointment affidavit.]
(a)
The appointment of each member shall be evidenced by the appointing authority filing an affidavit with the clerk of the Superior Court of Macon County no later than 30 days preceding the date on which such member is to take office. Such affidavit shall state the name and residence address of the person appointed and certify that such member has been duly appointed as provided in this Act. The clerk of the Superior Court of Macon County shall be notified of interim appointments and shall record and certify such appointments in the same manner as the regular appointment of members.
(b)
The clerk of the Superior Court of Macon County shall record each such certification on the minutes of that superior court and shall certify the name of each member to the Secretary of State and provide for the issuance of appropriate commissions to the members as provided by law for county registrars.
Sec. 7. - [Vacancy; appointment of successor.]
In the event a vacancy occurs in the office of any member before the expiration of a term by reason of removal, death, resignation, or otherwise, the appointing authority which is required under Section 3 of this Act to make the appointment to the office upon expiration of the term shall appoint a successor to serve for the remainder of the unexpired term in the manner set forth in Section 3 of this Act.
Sec. 8. - [Members to be certified; oath.]
(a)
The first members of the board under this Act shall be appointed as provided in this Act and take office on July 1, 2003. The board shall take no official action until all members have been certified to the clerk of the Superior Court of Macon County.
(b)
Before entering upon the duties of office, each member shall take substantially the same oath as required by law for county registrars and shall have the same privileges from arrest.
Sec. 9. - [Powers and duties of the board.]
(a)
The Macon County Board of Elections and Registration shall be empowered with all the powers and duties relating to the conduct of primaries and elections as election superintendents pursuant to the provisions of Chapter 2 of Title 21 of the O.C.G.A., the "Georgia Election Code."
(b)
The board is empowered with all the powers and duties relating to the registration of voters and absentee balloting procedures as boards of registrars pursuant to the provisions of Chapter 2 of Title 21 of the O.C.G.A., the "Georgia Election Code."
(c)
This Act is intended to implement the provisions of subsection (b) of Code Section 31 21-2-40 of the O.C.G.A. and shall be construed liberally so as to effectuate that purpose.
Sec. 10. - [No member should hold public office.]
No person who holds elective public office shall be eligible to serve as a member of the board during the term of such elective public office, and the position of membership of any member shall be deemed vacant upon such member's qualifying as a candidate for an elective public office.
Sec. 11. - [Conflicts with valid rules or regulations of the board.]
Any rule or regulation promulgated by a county executive committee of a political party under the provisions of subsection (c) of Code Section 21-2-111 of the O.C.G.A. with regard to the conduct of primaries shall be null and void if in conflict with a valid rule or regulation of the board.
Sec. 12. - [Primaries not otherwise required by law; authority to conduct elections and primaries.]
(a)
Nothing in this Act shall be construed to require or prohibit joint primaries or to require or prohibit the commissioners or any other public agency to bear any expense of conducting primaries not otherwise required by law.
(b)
The board shall have the authority to serve as municipal registrar and to conduct municipal elections and primaries for any municipal corporation located within Macon County if such municipal corporation has entered into a contract for that purpose with the Macon County Board of Commissioners.
Sec. 13. - [Preparing and distributing material.]
With the approval of the commissioners, the board shall be authorized to expend public funds for the purpose of preparing and distributing material solely to inform and instruct electors of the county adequately with regard to elections. No material distributed by the board shall contain or express, in any manner or form, any commentary or expression of opinion or request for support with respect to any political issue or matter of political concern.
Sec. 14. - [Organization, rules and management of the board.]
(a)
The board shall be authorized and empowered to organize itself, may elect from among its membership a vice-chairperson, shall determine its procedural rules and regulations, adopt bylaws, specify the functions and duties of its employees, and otherwise take such actions as are appropriate to the management of its affairs; provided, however, that no such action shall conflict with general law.
(b)
Action and decision by the board shall be by a majority vote of a quorum of the members of the board.
Sec. 15. - [Meetings.]
(a)
The board shall fix and establish by appropriate resolution entered on its minutes directives governing the execution of matters within its jurisdiction. The board shall hold meetings at the county courthouse or at the place of meeting of the commissioners. These meetings shall be held quarterly in years in which there are no county-wide elections and monthly in years in which there are county-wide elections. Any specially called meetings held pursuant to the bylaws adopted by the board shall be held only after the notification of the time and place of the holding of such meeting has been communicated in writing to the chief election official to provide public notice of the meeting as required by law. All meetings of whatever kind of the board shall be conducted pursuant to Chapter 14 of Title 50 of the O.C.G.A., relating to open meetings.
(b)
The board shall maintain a written record of policy decisions that shall be amended to include additions or deletions. Such written record shall be subject to Article 4 of Chapter 18 of Title 50 of the O.C.G.A., relating to inspection of public records.
Sec. 16. - [Chairperson; compensation of members.]
(a)
The chairperson of the board of elections and registration shall chair all meetings of the board and be the spokesperson for the board.
(b)
The members of the board shall receive compensation [as set by the board of commissioners] for their service as members of the board.
(c)
All amounts payable under this section shall be paid from the funds of the County.
Sec. 17. - [Clerical or other employees.]
Subject to appropriation of funds by the commissioners, the board shall be authorized to expend public funds to provide for such proper and suitable administrative offices and for such clerical assistance and other employees as the board shall deem appropriate. Compensation for such administrative personnel shall be paid by the board under the county personnel system wholly from county funds. This section shall not be construed so as to require the board to expend any funds simply because they are authorized to do so under this Act. Employees of the board shall be considered county employees for pay, benefits, sick leave, vacation, and for other purposes.
Sec. 18. - [Selection, appointment and training of poll workers.]
The board [or its designee] shall be responsible for the selection, appointment, and training of poll workers in elections.
Sec. 19. - [Chairperson to have custody of all materials and facilities.]
On July 1, 2003, the Election Superintendent of Macon County and the Board of Registrars of Macon County shall be relieved from all powers and duties to which the board of elections and registration succeeds by the provisions of this Act and shall deliver thereafter to the chairperson of the board, upon the chairperson's written request, the custody of all equipment, supplies, materials, books, papers, records, and facilities of every kind pertaining to such powers and duties.
SPECIAL ACTS AND RELATED LAWS COMPARATIVE TABLE - GEORGIA LAWS
This table shows the location of the sections of the Special Acts and Related Laws, as well as any amendments thereto.
EXPAND
Ga. Laws
Year Act No. Page Section Section
this Special Acts/
Related Laws
1872 317 434 Art. I (note)
1912 421 419 1 Art. I, § 4[a]
Art. I, § 11
1925 72 694 1 Art. I, § 6
2 Art. I, § 10
1983 164 4048 1 Art. I, § 7[a]
1985 121 3849 2 Art. I, § 8
Art. I, § 9
2002 482 4061 Art. I, § 1
2003 321 4532 Art. II (note)
2011 Ex. Sess. HB47EX 1 Art. I, § 1
