THE CODE OF MACON COUNTY, GEORGIA
modified
____________
Published in 2013 by Order of the Board of County Commissioners
____________
OFFICIALS
OF
MACON COUNTY, GEORGIA
AT THE TIME OF THIS CODIFICATION
____________
A. Richmond Felton, Chairman, District 3
Bob Melvin, Vice-Chairman, District 5
Mickey George, District 4
Gordon Sutton, District 1
Ben Haugabook, District 2
County Commissioners
____________
Regina M. McDuffie
County Manager
____________
Jon Coogle
County Attorney
____________
Roselyn Starling
County Clerk
PREFACE
This Code constitutes a codification of the general and permanent ordinances of Macon County, Georgia.
Source materials used in the preparation of the Code were the ordinances, resolutions, and motions, as adopted by the Board of County Commissioners through November 19, 2012. The source of each section is included in the history note appearing in parentheses at the end thereof. The absence of such a note indicates that the section is new and was adopted for the first time with the adoption of the Code. By use of the comparative tables appearing in the back of this Code, the reader can locate any ordinance, resolution, or motion included herein.
The chapters of the Code have been conveniently arranged in alphabetical order, and the various sections within each chapter have been catchlined to facilitate usage. Notes which tie related sections of the Code together and which refer to relevant state law have been included. A table listing the state law citations and setting forth their location within the Code is included at the back of this Code.
Chapter and Section Numbering System
The chapter and section numbering system used in this Code is the same system used in many state and local government codes. Each section number consists of two parts separated by a dash. The figure before the dash refers to the chapter number, and the figure after the dash refers to the position of the section within the chapter. Thus, the second section of chapter 1 is numbered 1-2, and the first section of chapter 6 is 6-1. Under this system, each section is identified with its chapter, and at the same time new sections can be inserted in their proper place by using the decimal system for amendments. For example, if new material consisting of one section that would logically come between sections 6-1 and 6-2 is desired to be added, such new section would be numbered 6-1.5. New articles and new divisions may be included in the same way or, in the case of articles, may be placed at the end of the chapter embracing the subject, and, in the case of divisions, may be placed at the end of the article embracing the subject. The next successive number shall be assigned to the new article or division. New chapters may be included by using one of the reserved chapter numbers. Care should be taken that the alphabetical arrangement of chapters is maintained when including new chapters.
Page Numbering System
The page numbering system used in this Code is a prefix system. The letters to the left of the colon are an abbreviation which represents a certain portion of the volume. The number to the right of the colon represents the number of the page in that portion. In the case of a chapter of the Code, the number to the left of the colon indicates the number of the chapter. In the case of an appendix to the Code, the letter immediately to the left of the colon indicates the letter of the appendix. The following are typical parts of codes of ordinances, which may or may not appear in this Code at this time, and their corresponding prefixes:
EXPAND
CHARTER CHT:1
RELATED LAWS RL:1
SPECIAL ACTS SA:1
CHARTER COMPARATIVE TABLE CHTCT:1
RELATED LAWS COMPARATIVE TABLE RLCT:1
SPECIAL ACTS COMPARATIVE TABLE SACT:1
CODE CD1:1
CODE APPENDIX CDA:1
CODE COMPARATIVE TABLES CCT:1
STATE LAW REFERENCE TABLE SLT:1
SPECIAL ACTS AND RELATED LAWS INDEX SARLi:1
CODE INDEX CDi:1
  Indexes
The indexes have been prepared with the greatest of care. Each particular item has been placed under several headings, some of which are couched in lay phraseology, others in legal terminology, and still others in language generally used by local government officials and employees. There are numerous cross references within the indexes themselves which stand as guideposts to direct the user to the particular item in which the user is interested.
Looseleaf Supplements
A special feature of this publication is the looseleaf system of binding and supplemental servicing of the publication. With this system, the publication will be kept up to date. Subsequent amendatory legislation will be properly edited, and the affected page or pages will be reprinted. These new pages will be distributed to holders of copies of the publication, with instructions for the manner of inserting the new pages and deleting the obsolete pages.
Keeping this publication up to date at all times will depend largely upon the holder of the publication. As revised pages are received, it will then become the responsibility of the holder to have the amendments inserted according to the attached instructions. It is strongly recommended by the publisher that all such amendments be inserted immediately upon receipt to avoid misplacing them and, in addition, that all deleted pages be saved and filed for historical reference purposes.
Acknowledgments
This publication was under the direct supervision of Jim Jenkins, Senior Code Attorney, and Paula Freeman, Editor, of the Municipal Code Corporation, Tallahassee, Florida. Credit is gratefully given to the other members of the publisher's staff for their sincere interest and able assistance throughout the project.
The publisher is most grateful to Mrs. Regina McDuffie, County Manager, and Mr. Jon L. Coogle, County Attorney, for their cooperation and assistance during the progress of the work on this publication. It is hoped that their efforts and those of the publisher have resulted in a Code of Ordinances which will make the active law of the county readily accessible to all citizens and which will be a valuable tool in the day-to-day administration of the county's affairs.
Copyright
All editorial enhancements of this Code are copyrighted by Municipal Code Corporation and Macon County, Georgia. Editorial enhancements include, but are not limited to: organization; table of contents; section catchlines; prechapter section analyses; editor's notes; cross references; state law references; numbering system; code comparative table; state law reference table; and index. Such material may not be used or reproduced for commercial purposes without the express written consent of Municipal Code Corporation and Macon County, Georgia.
© Copyrighted material.
Municipal Code Corporation and Macon County, Georgia. 2013.
RESOLUTION OF 2-4-2014
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners of Macon County, Georgia, pursuant to the Georgia Constitution and empowering provision of the Official Code of Georgia at a regular meeting of the Board of Commissioners, unanimously approved the adopting of the Macon County Code as compiled by Municode; and
BE IT RESOLVED, the Board of Commissioners do hereby unanimously vote to adopt the Macon County Code as the official code of Macon County, Georgia.
SO RESOLVED, this 4 th day of February, 2014.
MACON COUNTY BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
By:
EXPAND
      A. Richmond Felton,
      Chairman
    Attest:
EXPAND
      Regina McDuffie,
      County Manager
