Chapter 1-8 - SCHOOLS
ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 1-8-1. - Authority to merge school systems of City of Albany and Dougherty County.
Article VIII, section 5, paragraph 1 of the Constitution of Georgia is hereby amended by adding at the end thereof a new paragraph to read as follows:
"Merger of existing independent school system of City of Albany and existing school district in Dougherty County outside the corporate limits of said city into one (1) school district or system. The General Assembly of Georgia is hereby authorized to pass a Special Act or Acts to merge the existing independent school system of the City of Albany and the existing school district in the County of Dougherty outside the corporate limits of said city so that the entire area of Dougherty County shall constitute one (1) school district or system, the independent school system in the City of Albany and the existing school district in Dougherty County outside said corporate limits of said city being thereby abolished.
"The school district so created by the General Assembly is hereby authorized to incur bonded indebtedness for the purpose of constructing, erecting, enlarging, repairing and improving the necessary school buildings, and for acquiring the necessary property therefor.
"The General Assembly shall provide for a new political entity, the affairs of which are to be managed by a board of education, to bear such name and have such powers as may be provided in said Act. The General Assembly shall also provide the terms and method of appointing or electing the members of the board of education. The board members shall have such qualifications and shall be paid such compensation as may be fixed by law. The said board of education is hereby authorized and empowered to operate, conduct and control said system of public schools and its fiscal affairs, including the right and authority to create indebtedness as may be authorized by the General Assembly, not in conflict with this Constitution; to contract and be contracted with, to appoint and employ teachers and to fix their salaries, and to do all and every act or acts as may be necessary for the proper maintenance and operation of a comprehensive school system throughout the limits of Dougherty County.
"From and after the ratification of this amendment, the voters of Dougherty County shall no longer elect the county school superintendent. The General Assembly shall have authority to abolish, without a referendum, the term of the present county school superintendent of Dougherty County. The board of education shall elect or employ a superintendent of education and fix his salary. He shall have such qualifications as may be fixed by law.
"Notwithstanding any other provision of this Constitution, the fiscal authorities of Dougherty County shall levy a tax for the support and maintenance of said school system of not greater than twenty (20) mills upon the dollar (as recommended by the board of education) uniform throughout the county, of all taxable property in the county.
"Notwithstanding any other provision of this Constitution or any provisions of law, the commissions or fees of the tax collector of Dougherty County for collection of monies for school purposes shall not exceed the following rates: Two and one-half (2½) percent on the first $125,000.00 collected. One (1) percent on the second $125,000.00 collected. One-half (½) of one (1) percent on all amounts collected above $250,000.00. The above schedule of rates shall apply to all collections of moneys for school purposes including that collected for operation, maintenance, bond retirements, interest payments and for any other school purpose by whatever name called. Should the tax collector of Dougherty County be changed from a fee to a salary, this provision shall become inoperative.
"The General Assembly may authorize the City of Albany and the County of Dougherty to appropriate money from their general funds to the board of education herein created for educational purposes.
"The specifications of certain powers herein is not intended to be exclusive, it being the intention hereof that all powers hereby granted to the General Assembly and all powers to be granted by the General Assembly pursuant hereto are to be liberally construed so as to effectuate the general purposes of establishing and maintaining a comprehensive system of public education throughout the limits of Dougherty County.
"The powers hereby granted to the General Assembly and the powers to be granted by the General Assembly to effectuate the purposes herein set forth shall exist notwithstanding other provisions of this Constitution, or any general or special laws of the state.
"The General Assembly may from time to time enact Special Acts amending the Act or Acts enacted pursuant hereto."
(Ga. Laws 1950, p. 465, § 1; Code 1979, § 6-101)
Editor's note— This constitutional amendment has been continued in existence.
Sec. 1-8-2. - Merger of school systems of Albany and Dougherty County.
The existing independent school system of the City of Albany and the existing school district in the County of Dougherty outside the corporate limits of said city are hereby merged into one (1) school district, coextensive with the limits of Dougherty County, and said existing independent school system of Albany and the school district in said county outside the corporate limits of said city are hereby abolished. Said merged school district shall constitute a political subdivision of the State of Georgia, separate from the political entities of the City of Albany and the County of Dougherty, and shall be known as the Dougherty County School System.
(Ga. Laws 1951, p. 2233, §§ 1, 2; Code 1979, § 6-102)
Sec. 1-8-3. - General powers.
(a)
The said Dougherty County School System is hereby vested with the power to conduct a system of public education throughout the limits of said county, together with all powers set forth in said amendment to the Constitution and in other provisions of the Constitution and the general and special laws of Georgia relating to public school systems and districts, and all powers incidental thereto; it is expressly enacted, however, that such other provisions of the constitution and general and special laws of Georgia relating to public school systems and districts shall in no manner limit the powers expressly or impliedly granted in said constitutional amendment, nor in this Act, nor in amendments thereto. The "general laws" of Georgia which are made applicable to the county-wide school district created by this Act include all laws, and amendments thereto, which constitute every county in the state, one (1) school district, and all general laws relative thereto.
(b)
The Dougherty County School System by and through its board of education, its successors or assigns, is hereby specifically authorized to acquire real property and to acquire, construct and equip buildings and facilities and to use and equip existing buildings for education beyond the high school level, and to maintain and operate the same, and further, in its discretion, to contribute funds to the board of regents of the University System of Georgia, acting for and on behalf of the regents of the University System of Georgia or to such other appropriate state agency, to be applied towards the acquisition of real property and the acquisition, constructing and equipping of buildings and facilities for education beyond the high school level, and for the maintenance and operation of the same and to convey or otherwise transfer property, buildings, facilities and equipment now owned or hereafter acquired to the board of regents of the University System of Georgia or to such other appropriate state agency, its successors or assigns, to be operated and maintained under such terms and conditions agreed upon between the said Dougherty County School System and the board of regents or such other appropriate state agency.
(Ga. Laws 1951, p. 2233, § 4; Ga. Laws 1963, p. 3303, § 1; Code 1979, § 6-103)
State Law reference— See O.C.G.A. § 20-2-370.
Sec. 1-8-4. - Transfer of funds, taxes, property; exception.
All school funds in the custody of the existing independent school system of said city for the operation of schools in said city, and all school funds in the custody of the existing school district in the County of Dougherty outside the corporate limits of said city for the operation of schools in said district, and all school funds in the custody of the State of Georgia and any other political unit for the operation of schools in said independent school system of said city or in said district outside the corporate limits of said city; and all taxes levied by the City of Albany, the State of Georgia and any other political unit for operation of said existing independent school system in said city, and all taxes levied by the commissioners of the County of Dougherty, the State of Georgia and any other political unit for operation of said existing school district in said county outside the corporate limits of said city prior to merger, but which are not collected until after the merged school system actually begins operation, shall, when collected, be paid into the operating fund of said merged school system. All property, real and personal, including moneys, options to purchase and choses in action, owned or held by said city for its existing independent school system or by the existing school district in said county outside the corporate limits of said city, and all such property and funds held by or in the custody of any other person or political unit for the benefit of said independent school system and said district, shall, when said merger actually becomes operative, pass to and be held by said merged system for school purposes. Provided, however, that in case of any property which has been heretofore conveyed to said city for school and other purposes and placed under the jurisdiction of the existing board of education of Albany, Georgia, said property, upon said merger actually becoming operative, shall be held by the board of education of said merged system for all the purposes, and according to the terms, of the deed by which such conveyance was made. The term real property used in this section is limited to existing school buildings and adjacent grounds. Vacant lots are expressly excepted.
(Ga. Laws 1951, p. 2233, § 9; Code 1979, § 6-104)
Sec. 1-8-5. - Taxes.
For the purpose of providing funds for the merged system hereby created, returns for taxation of all property in said county liable for taxation shall be made to the same officials, county and state, as in case of returns of taxes for county and state purposes, and the same provisions, as to time, method and officials and boards in which powers are vested under the laws of Georgia relating to state and county taxes, tangible and intangible (except as herein specifically stated), shall be applicable to taxation for any of the purposes of said merged system, including the time, place and manner of making returns; assessments for taxation; equalization of assessments; payment and collection of taxes; date, rank and fixation of tax liens; issuance and levy of executions; sales to satisfy executions; rights of redemption, transfer of executions; recording of executions; affidavits of illegality and other defenses, and all other methods and provisions provided under the laws of Georgia necessary to financing said merged school system.
(Ga. Laws 1951, p. 2233, § 13; Code 1979, § 6-105)
Sec. 1-8-6. - Contracts; obligations; limitations.
(a)
No contract or other obligation (except as herein specifically provided) shall be incurred by said merged system or in its behalf, unless at the time of incurring same, said merged system shall have in hand, or will have in hand during the fiscal year when such contract is made or obligation incurred, from taxes levied for that fiscal or calendar year or prior years, by the State of Georgia or the board of Dougherty County, sufficient funds to meet the terms of the contract or obligation. Provided, that the above limitation on incurring obligations shall not be applicable to written contracts with teachers and other personnel of said system when such contracts comply strictly with the provisions of section 8 [section 1-8-27] of this Act relating to such written contracts.
(b)
The Dougherty County School System by and through its board of education, its successors or assigns, is hereby specifically authorized to convey all of its interest in that certain real estate located in the City of Albany, Georgia, upon which is located Mills Memorial Stadium and which is bounded by Stadium Drive, Van Buren Drive, Society Avenue and Tift Avenue, together with the improvements thereon, to the Albany Stadium Authority, and, in its discretion, to enter into contracts with said stadium authority relative to the use, maintenance and control of said property for periods of time not exceeding twenty (20) years from the date of the approval of this Act. The Dougherty County School System, by and through its board of education, its successors or assigns, is hereby further specifically authorized to make payments or contributions to said stadium authority as may be called for by said contracts for the use of the facilities of said stadium authority by the school system and to provide funds for the maintenance thereof by the authority.
(Ga. Laws 1951, p. 2233, § 12; Ga. Laws 1964, p. 2006, § 1; Code 1979, § 6-106)
Sec. 1-8-7. - Liens.
(a)
All liens for school taxes unpaid at the time said merger actually becomes operative, whether said liens were created for the benefit of the existing independent school system of said city or for the benefit of the existing school district in said county outside the corporate limits of said city, shall remain of full force and effect, and all powers provided for enforcement thereof shall also remain of full force and effect.
(b)
The said merged school system shall be entitled to its pro rata portion of all school funds now or hereafter provided for school purposes by the laws of the State of Georgia or of the United States.
(c)
The merged school system may receive donations from any source, and administer them for the purposes for which donated.
(Ga. Laws 1951, p. 2233, § 13; Code 1979, § 6-107)
Sec. 1-8-8. - Teachers' retirement system.
Said Dougherty County School System and teachers employed by it shall be subject and entitled to the provisions of the teachers' retirement system of said state, as established by Act approved March 19, 1943 (Georgia Laws 1943, p. 640), and existing and future amendments to said law; the word "teachers" as herein used to have the same meaning as said word is defined in said Act.
(Ga. Laws 1951, p. 2233, § 19; Code 1979, § 6-108)
Sec. 1-8-9. - Commission or fees on school funds.
The commissions or fees of the tax collector of Dougherty County for collection of monies for school purposes shall not exceed the following rates: Two and one-half (2½) percent on the first one hundred twenty-five thousand dollars ($125,000.00) collected. One (1) percent on the second one hundred twenty-five thousand dollars ($125,000.00) collected. One-half (½) of one (1) percent on all amounts collected above two hundred fifty thousand dollars ($250,000.00). The above schedule of rates shall apply to all collections of monies for school purposes including that collected for operation, maintenance, bond retirements, interest payments and for any other school purpose by whatever name called.
(Ga. Laws 1951, p. 2233, § 20; Code 1979, § 6-109)
Cross reference— See also § 1-8-1.
Sec. 1-8-10. - Previous school system abolished.
The existing independent school system of Albany, Georgia, the City Board of Education of Albany, Georgia, the existing school district in the County of Dougherty outside the corporate limits of Albany, the board of education of Dougherty County, and the office and term of the present county school superintendent of Dougherty County are all hereby abolished.
(Ga. Laws 1951, p. 2233, § 16; Code 1979, § 6-110)
Secs. 1-8-11—1-8-19. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - BOARD OF EDUCATION

Sec. 1-8-20. - Members; selection; terms; qualifications; vacancies; oath.
The administration of said school system shall be vested in a board to be known as the Dougherty County Board of Education. The board of education shall consist of seven (7) members, men or women, or some of both, who at the time of their appointments shall be at least twenty-five (25) years of age and have been bona fide residents of Dougherty County for at least four (4) years. No person shall be eligible for appointment as a member of the board whose term of appointment would cause such person to serve more than twelve (12) consecutive years as a member of board, and such person thus becoming ineligible shall not be again appointed unless the term to which such person is appointed shall begin not less than one (1) year from the end of the previous term served by such person. Members of the board shall be persons of good moral character, who shall have a fair knowledge of the elementary branches of an English education and be favorable to the common school system. Two (2) members shall be appointed by the board of city commissioners of the City of Albany; two (2) members shall be appointed by the board of county commissioners of Dougherty County; two (2) members shall be appointed by the grand jury of Dougherty County, and the six (6) members appointed as aforesaid shall elect a seventh member by a majority vote. The first appointments by the grand jury shall be for one (1) year. The first appointments by the county commissioners shall be for two (2) years. The first appointments by the board of city commissioners of the City of Albany shall be for three (3) years. The person elected by the members appointed as aforesaid shall be for a term of three (3) years. Thereafter all succeeding appointments shall be for three (3) years from the expiration of the previous term. All members of the board of education shall hold office until their successors are elected and qualified. In case of a vacancy on said board of education by death, resignation or from any cause other than the expiration of such member's term of office, the board of education shall by secret ballot elect his successor for the unexpired term. All members appointed for a full term shall take office at the organizational meeting provided for in section 6 [section 1-8-22]. All members appointed for an unexpired term shall take office immediately upon their appointment. Each member of the board of education upon assuming office shall take an oath to faithfully perform the duties of his office.
(Ga. Laws 1951, p. 2233, § 5; Ga. Laws 1959, p. 2314, § 1; Code 1979, § 6-201)
Editorial note—Transitional provisions respecting initial appointments have been omitted.
Sec. 1-8-21. - Meetings; quorum; attendance.
(a)
The said board of education shall hold regular monthly meetings except during July and August of each year, on a date fixed by said board. The said board may hold special meetings upon twenty-four (24) hours' written notice to its members. At all meetings four (4) members shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business.
(b)
All of said members shall serve as members of the board without compensation. No person shall be qualified to serve as a member of said board of education while holding any kind of public office for which compensation is paid, except the office of notary public, or secretary and treasurer of the board. Absence by a member of said board from three (3) consecutive regular meetings shall be held to be a resignation from the board, but such absences may be excused by a vote of a majority of the board.
(Ga. Laws 1951, p. 2233, § 5; Code 1979, § 6-202)
Sec. 1-8-22. - Organization; officers; duties; official seal.
(a)
The board of education shall organize at the last regular meeting of the fiscal year. At the organization meeting, the board of education shall select from its membership a president and a vice president, the president to preside at all meetings, and the vice president to preside in the absence of the president. The president, or vice president, shall have such duties as set forth hereinafter, as well as such duties as may be delegated to him by said board, and which are not in conflict with the provisions of this Act. At the organizational meeting the board shall select a secretary and a treasurer, who shall receive such compensation as the board deems proper. The offices of secretary and treasurer may be performed respectively by one (1) and the same person, and may be a person or persons other than a member of said board.
(b)
It shall be the duty of the secretary to attend all regular and special meetings of the board, keep minutes of such meetings, to be custodian of all books and records of said board, keep and use the official seal of said board, and perform such other duties as may be required of said board and which are usually common to officials of his class.
(c)
The treasurer shall be the custodian of all funds of said merged system and of said board. He shall give bond, with corporate surety by a company authorized to do business in Georgia, in such form and in such amount, as will, in the opinion of said board, protect, as fully as possible, funds and property of said board, the premium to be paid by the board of education.
(d)
The board of education shall adopt an official seal, for use when necessary, the wording on said seal to read "Dougherty County School System (Georgia), Organized 1951."
(e)
Immediately upon the appointment and qualification of the members of the board of education, the board shall organize as hereinabove provided, and the elected officers shall hold office until the last meeting in the fiscal year and until their successors are elected and qualified.
(Ga. Laws 1951, p. 2233, § 6; Ga. Laws 1959, p. 2314, § 2, Code 1979, § 6-203)
Sec. 1-8-23. - Appointments; superintendent, assistant principals, teachers, employees, legal counsel.
The said board of education shall appoint a superintendent of education, whose official title shall be Superintendent of Education, Dougherty County, and may appoint such executive assistants to said superintendent as the board deems proper. The board shall also appoint such teachers, principals of schools and their assistants, employees, legal counsel and such other personnel, professional and lay, as said board may deem necessary to the proper functioning of said merged school system.
(Ga. Laws 1951, p. 2233, § 7; Code 1979, § 6-204)
Sec. 1-8-24. - Duties of superintendent and other personnel; limitations.
The duties of the superintendent of education shall be the same as those of county superintendents of schools under the general laws of Georgia, but such duties may be decreased, increased or otherwise modified by action of said board; and the duties of the assistants to said superintendent, teachers, employees, legal counsel and other personnel shall be the same as the duties of their respective classes under the general laws of Georgia, but all such duties may be increased, decreased or otherwise modified by action of said board.
(Ga. Laws 1951, p. 2233, § 7, Code 1979, § 6-301)
Sec. 1-8-25. - Powers as to expenditures by superintendent; limitation on contracts by board; executing contracts with teachers.
The superintendent of education may make contracts for supplies, labor, repairs and other necessary school purposes, binding said merged school system where the expenditure involved does not exceed the amount of five hundred dollars ($500.00). All expenditures for such purposes in excess of that amount must be first authorized by resolution adopted at a regular or special meeting of the board. No purchase involving an expenditure of more than one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) shall be made in any case without an opportunity for competitive bids. No contracts in excess of one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) for construction, alteration or repair of buildings, or installation of equipment, which involve the doing of labor or the furnishing of materials shall be entered into by said board without taking the statutory performance bond required of counties and cities by the laws of said state in such cases. Contracts with teachers and other personnel shall, when authorized by said board, be executed by the superintendent of education alone.
(Ga. Laws 1951, p. 2233, §§ 10, 11; Code 1979, § 6-302)
Sec. 1-8-26. - Rules and regulations.
The board of education shall have the power and authority to adopt and enforce all rules and regulations, not in conflict with the provisions of this Act, necessary to the maintenance of discipline within said merged system; and such rules and regulations may delegate to officers, principals of schools, teachers and other employees such authority as the board deems necessary to that end.
(Ga. Laws 1951, p. 2233, § 7; Code 1979, § 6-205)
Sec. 1-8-27. - Requirements as to contracts.
(a)
The board of education may enter into written contracts with teachers and other personnel of said merged school system, and into contracts for transportation of pupils, but none of such contracts shall be made for a longer period than twelve (12) months; except that said board may enter into a written contract with a superintendent of education for a longer period than twelve (12) months, but in no case for a period longer than four (4) years.
(b)
Written contracts made with teachers and other personnel by the existing independent school system of the City of Albany, and written contracts made with teachers and other personnel by the existing school district in the County of Dougherty outside the corporate limits of said city, prior to the time when said merged school system actually becomes operative, shall, when such contracts are made for a period not exceeding twelve (12) months, continue of full force, after said merger actually becomes operative, in accordance with the terms of said contracts. Nothing in this section shall prevent the board of education, after the merger, from increasing the compensation of any of said teachers and other personnel holding such prior written contracts which were in existence at the time of the merger, so as to provide for proper adjustments of compensation within said merged school system.
(Ga. Laws 1951, p. 2233, § 8; Code 1979, § 6-206)
Sec. 1-8-28. - Powers as to finances; suits; property.
(a)
The merged system hereby created, through its said board of education, shall have power to use for the operation of said merged system all funds appropriated for that purpose. The Dougherty County School System may create debts, borrow money, purchase supplies, make contracts, construct, alter, repair, improve and equip buildings and related facilities for school educational and physical development purposes.
(b)
The Dougherty County School System is hereby authorized to incur bonded indebtedness, and to issue bonds and other evidence of indebtedness, for the purpose of constructing, erecting, enlarging, repairing and improving the necessary school buildings and related facilities, for school, educational and physical development and for acquiring the necessary property therefor, and paying the expenses incident thereto.
(c)
The Dougherty County School System hereby created shall have power to sue, and be sued, but its object is declared to be governmental and shall not be liable to suit in actions arising ex delicto, except where specifically authorized by law.
(d)
When in the opinion of said board of education it is necessary to acquire property for the purposes of said merged system, the said board may exercise all the powers of eminent domain, with all the remedies to execute such powers, provided under any of the laws of said state.
(e)
Title to all property acquired or held by said merged system shall be taken in the name of Dougherty County School System.
(f)
Property of said merged system which in the opinion of the board of education is no longer available for its purposes may be sold, exchanged or otherwise disposed of in such manner as the board may deem fit and the proceeds used exclusively for school purposes.
(Ga. Laws 1951, p. 2233, § 10; Code 1979, § 6-207)
Sec. 1-8-29. - Method of disbursement; execution of contracts.
(a)
All disbursements of said merged system shall be paid by check signed by the treasurer. In case of absence or disability of the treasurer, the board may designate a person to perform the duties of the treasurer required by this Act; provided adequate bond is given.
(b)
All contracts, bonds and other evidences of indebtedness shall be executed by the president (or vice-president) and the secretary of the board of education in the name of Dougherty County School System; contracts of the board with the superintendent of education shall be signed by the president (or vice-president) and the secretary of the board.
(Ga. Laws 1951, p. 2233, § 10; Code 1979, § 6-208)
Sec. 1-8-30. - Tax levy.
The board of education of said merged school shall annually, within the time required by law, recommend to the commissioners of Dougherty County the rate of the levy necessary to be made for taxes for the support and maintenance of said school system. As provided in the amendment to the Constitution of Georgia pursuant to which this Act is enacted, the fiscal authorities of Dougherty County shall levy a tax for the support, operation and maintenance of said merged school system of not greater than twenty (20) mills, (as recommended by the board of education) uniform throughout the county, of all taxable property in the county.
(Ga. Laws 1951, p. 2233, § 13; Code 1979, § 6-209)
Sec. 1-8-31. - Bonded indebtedness; election; issued by board of commissioners.
(a)
The bonded indebtedness herein authorized shall be incurred pursuant to Article VII, section 7, paragraphs 1 and 2 of the Constitution of Georgia, 1945. The election required shall be called by said board of education by the adoption of a resolution to that effect, said resolution specifying what amount of bonds are to be issued, for what purposes, what interest they are to bear, how much principal and interest are to be paid annually, and when they are to be paid off, and all proceedings relative to the issuance of said bonds shall be in accordance with the general law applicable to the issuance of bonds now or hereafter of force.
(b)
If the majority of the qualified voters of said county voting in said election assent to the issuance of said bonds, the board of education shall recommend, and the commissioners of said county shall, at or before incurring the indebtedness by issuing the bonds, provide for, the assessment and collection of an annual tax sufficient in amount to pay the principal and interest of said debt within thirty (30) years from the date of the incurring of said indebtedness, as is provided by Article VII, section 7, paragraph 2 of the Constitution of Georgia of 1945 and in accordance with the terms of said bonds. The Dougherty County School [district] created being a political subdivision separate from the political entities of the City of Albany and the County of Dougherty, debts may be incurred by said district pursuant to the above cited provisions of the Constitution of 1945 to the extent of seven (7) percent of the assessed value of all the taxable property in Dougherty County without any regard to the amount of any indebtedness of said city and county governments. The taxes levied for the payment of the principal and interest on bonds issued by said school system shall be in addition to taxes levied yearly for the support and maintenance of schools, and other operations coming within the jurisdiction of said school system and its board of education. Proceedings for validation of said bonds shall be had pursuant to provisions of Chapter 87-3 of the Code of Georgia of 1933, as amended [O.C.G.A. Title 36, Chapter 82].
(Ga. Laws 1951, p. 2233, § 14; Code 1979, § 6-210)
Sec. 1-8-32. - Temporary loans; restrictions; limitations.
(a)
In addition to obligations allowed to be incurred by other provisions of this Act, and the general and special laws of said state, authority is hereby given to the board of education to make temporary loans in each year for the benefit of the Dougherty County School System, hereby created, for the support and maintenance of schools coming within the jurisdiction of said system and its board of education, the temporary loans to be made between January first and December thirty-first in each year to pay the expenses of said support and maintenance for such year.
(b)
The aggregate amount of temporary loans outstanding at any one (1) time shall not exceed seventy-five (75) percent of the total gross income of said Dougherty County School System from taxes collected from all sources during the preceding year. The aggregate amount of temporary loans which may be made for the benefit of said school system for 1951 shall not exceed seventy-five (75) percent of the total gross income of the existing independent school system of Albany and the school system of Dougherty County outside the corporate limits of Albany for the calendar year 1950.
(c)
Each such loan shall be payable on or before December thirty-first of the calendar year in which such loan is made. No loan may be made in any year under the provisions of this paragraph when there is a loan then unpaid which was made in prior year under the provisions of this paragraph.
(d)
There shall not be incurred for the benefit of said school district in any one (1) calendar year an aggregate of such temporary loans and other contracts or obligations for the support and maintenance of said school district in excess of the total anticipated revenue of said district, from all sources, for such calendar year; provided, that where temporary loans are incurred, pursuant to this section, for the purpose of paying contracts and obligations for the support and maintenance of said school district maturing within the calendar year in which such loans are incurred, and the amount secured by said loans are paid to cancel or reduce the amount of such other contracts or obligations, such temporary loans shall not be held to be obligations in addition to the amount of such other contracts or obligations, but shall be held to be in diminution of the amounts of such other contracts and obligations; and, provided further, that creditors making such temporary loans to said school district may rely exclusively upon the contents of a resolution adopted by the board of education to the effect that the funds are borrowed to be applied as herein provided, and failure of said board or any officials of said school district so to apply said funds shall be no defense to any action upon the part of said creditor, and said obligations incurred by said temporary loans shall be legal and binding.
(e)
There shall not be issued for the benefit of said district, in one (1) calendar year, obligations for such temporary loans in a total amount in excess of such anticipated revenue for said year.
(Ga. Laws 1951, p. 2233, § 15; Code 1979, § 6-211)
Sec. 1-8-33. - Liberal construction.
The specifications of certain powers herein of the Dougherty County School System is not intended to be exclusive, it being the intent of the General Assembly that all powers granted to the board of education are to be liberally construed so as to effectuate the general purposes of establishing and maintaining a comprehensive system of public education throughout the limits of Dougherty County.
(Ga. Laws 1951, p. 2233, § 17; Code 1979, § 6-212)
Sec. 1-8-34. - Workers' compensation.
The board of education is authorized, in its discretion, to make the Dougherty County School System and its employees subject to the provisions of the workmen's [workers'] compensation law of said state in the same manner as said workmen's [workers'] compensation law now or hereafter applies to municipal corporations and their employees.
(Ga. Laws 1951, p. 2233, § 18; Code 1979, § 6-213)
State Law reference— Workers' Compensation Law, O.C.G.A. § 34-9-1 et seq.
Sec. 1-8-35. - Board of education in certain counties authorized to provide group insurance.
(a)
The board of education of any county having a population of not less than seventy-six thousand (76,000) or more than one hundred thirty-five thousand (135,000), according to the 1960 United States decennial census or any such future census is hereby authorized and empowered to make contracts of insurance with any insurance company authorized to transact business within the State of Georgia, insuring its elected or appointed officers and employees or any class or classes thereof under a policy or policies of group insurance covering life, health, hospitalization, medical service or accident insurance, and for such purposes, may agree to pay part or all of the premiums or charges for carrying such contracts, and may appropriate out of its treasury or funds, any money necessary to pay such premium or charges or portion thereof.
(b)
Such boards of education are hereby authorized, enabled and permitted to deduct from the officer's or employee's pay, salary or compensation, such part of the premium as is payable by the officer or employee and as may be so authorized by the officer or employee in writing.
(c)
All contracts procured hereunder shall conform and be subject to all the provisions of any existing or future laws concerning group insurance and group annuity contracts.
(Ga. Laws 1965, p. 3420, §§ 1—3; Code 1979, § 6-214)
