Chapter 1-4 - BOARDS, COMMISSIONS AND AUTHORITIES
ARTICLE I. - JOINT BOARD OF REGISTRATION AND ELECTIONS[1]

Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
State Law reference— Eligibility to membership, O.C.G.A. § 21-2-75.

Secs. 1-4-1—1-4-29. - Reserved.
Editor's note— For current law, see Acts 1986, p. 3831.
ARTICLE II. - ALBANY-DOUGHERTY PAYROLL DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY

Sec. 1-4-30. - Short title.
This article may be cited as the "Albany-Dougherty Payroll Development Authority."
(Ga. Laws 1958, p. 2870, § 1; Code 1979, § 3-302)
Sec. 1-4-31. - Membership; purpose; powers; restrictions.
Article V of the Constitution of the State of Georgia is hereby amended by adding to the end thereof a new section and paragraph to be known as section 9*, paragraph 1, which shall read as follows, to-wit:
"Article V, section 9, paragraph 1. There is hereby created a body corporate and politic to be known as the 'Albany-Dougherty Payroll Development Authority' which shall be deemed to be an instrumentality of the State of Georgia and a public corporation, its scope and jurisdiction to be limited to the territory embraced by Dougherty County. The County of Dougherty and the City of Albany may contract with the authority as a public corporation as provided by the Constitution of Georgia.
Editor's note— This Amendment has been continued in existence.
"The authority shall consist of five (5) members who shall have such control, duties, powers and authority as are hereby conferred and as may be prescribed or provided for by the General Assembly of Georgia, and such additional powers as may be delegated to the authority by the County of Dougherty and the City of Albany. Members of the authority shall be the chairman of the board of commissioners of Dougherty County, the mayor of the City of Albany, the president of the Albany Chamber of Commerce and two (2) other members who shall be residents of Dougherty County within or without the corporate limits of the City of Albany. The General Assembly shall provide for appointment and terms of office of the members of the authority who are not members thereof by virtue of their office. The authority shall elect a chairman and a treasurer. The executive vice-president of the Albany Chamber of Commerce shall serve as secretary of the authority.
"All lands and improvements thereon, the title to which is vested in the authority, and all debentures and revenue anticipation certificates issued by the authority, and all income earned therefrom by the holders of said evidences of indebtedness shall be exempt from state and local taxation.
"Said authority is created for the purpose of developing and promoting for the public good and general welfare jobs and payrolls in industry, agriculture, commerce and natural resources and the making of long-range plans for the coordination of such development, promotion and expansion, within its territorial limits, and shall specifically be authorized to enter into contracts and agreements for periods of time extending beyond the terms of the members of the authority in office at the time of such contracts and agreements. The authority shall not be empowered or authorized in any manner to create a debt as against the State of Georgia, the County of Dougherty or the City of Albany. The authority is created for nonprofit purposes and all property acquired by the authority shall be used continually and exclusively for the purposes for which the authority is created.
"The specifications of certain powers herein is not intended to be exclusive, it being the intention of this amendment that all powers hereby granted, and to be granted by the General Assembly pursuant hereto, are to be liberally construed to effectuate the general purposes of said authority as hereinabove set out.
"The powers hereby granted to the General Assembly, to the fiscal authorities of Dougherty County and to be granted by the General Assembly to effectuate the purposes herein set forth shall exist notwithstanding other provisions of this constitution or any general or special laws of the state."
(Ga. Laws 1958, p. 444, § 1; Code 1979, § 3-301)
Sec. 1-4-32. - Creation; authority; members; qualifications; appointments; terms; vacancies; officers.
There is hereby created a body corporate and politic to be known as the "Albany-Dougherty Payroll Development Authority" which shall be deemed to be an instrumentality of the State of Georgia and a public corporation, and by that name, style and title said body may contract and be contracted with, sue and be sued, plead and be impleaded, and complain and defend in all courts of law and equity. The authority shall consist of five (5) members who shall be the chairman of the board of commissioners of Dougherty County, the mayor of the City of Albany, the president of the Albany Chamber of Commerce and two (2) appointed members who shall be residents of Dougherty County within or without the corporate limits of the City of Albany, and not less than thirty (30) years of age at the time of appointment. In making the nominations of members of the authority not more than one (1) member shall be nominated from any one (1) family, partnership or other business organization. The members shall be selected in the following manner: Immediately after the effective date of this Act the directors of the Albany Chamber of Commerce shall select and nominate persons for appointment and submit four (4) or more names to the city and county. From such lists of nominees the commission of the City of Albany and the commissioners of Dougherty County each shall appoint one (1) member of the authority. For the first appointments, the county shall appoint one (1) person for three (3) years, and the city shall appoint one (1) person for two (2) years. Thereafter all terms and appointments, except in case of a vacancy, shall be for three (3) years. In the event a vacancy occurs in the city appointment, the city shall fill such vacancy by appointment for the unexpired term. In the event a vacancy occurs in the county appointment, the county shall fill such vacancy by appointment for the unexpired term. In making any appointment for a vacancy or after the expiration of a term, the city and the county shall make such appointments from four (4) nominations for each member to be appointed, which nominations are to be made by the directors of said Chamber of Commerce. The authority shall elect a chairman and a treasurer. The executive vice-president of the Albany Chamber of Commerce shall serve as secretary of the authority without compensation. The members of this authority shall be entitled to no compensation.
(Ga. Laws 1958, p. 2870, § 2; Code 1979, § 3-303)
Sec. 1-4-33. - Definitions.
As used in this article, the following words and terms shall have the following meanings, unless a different meaning clearly appears from the context:
(1)
The word "authority" shall mean the "Albany-Dougherty Payroll Development Authority" created by this Act and by and under Article V, section 9, paragraph 1 of the Constitution of the State of Georgia.
(2)
The word "project" shall be deemed to mean and include the acquisition of lands, properties and improvements for development, expansion and promotion of jobs and payrolls in industry, commerce, agriculture and natural resources; the construction of buildings and plants or the acquisition of equipment for the purpose of selling, leasing or renting such structures or equipment to private persons, firms or corporations. The word "project" shall also include the acquisition, construction, improvement or modification of any property, real or personal used as air or water pollution control facilities which any federal, state or local agency having jurisdiction in the premises shall have certified as necessary for the continued operation of the industry or industries which the same is to serve and is necessary for the public welfare. For purposes hereof, the term "air pollution control facility" means any property used primarily to abate or control atmospheric pollution or contamination by removing, containing, altering, disposing or storing of atmospheric pollutants or contaminants if such facility is in furtherance of federal, state or local standards for control of atmospheric pollution or contaminants. For the purpose hereof, the term "water pollution control facility" means any property used primarily to control water pollution by removing, storing, altering or disposing of pollutants, contaminants, wastes or heat, including the necessary intercepting sewers, outfall sewers, pumping, power and other equipment, holding ponds, lagoons and their appurtenances, if such facility is in the furtherance of federal, state or local standards for the control of water pollution.
(3)
The term "cost of project" shall embrace the cost of construction, the cost of all lands, properties, easements, rights and franchises acquired, the cost of machinery and equipment, financing charges, interest prior to and during construction and for one (1) year after completion of construction, cost of engineering, architectural and legal expenses, and plans and specifications and other expenses necessary or incident to determining the feasibility or practicability of the project, administrative expenses, and such other expenses as may be necessary or incident to the financing herein authorized, the construction of any project and placing the same in operation; provided, however, that in no event shall entertainment or promotional expense be considered a part of the cost of any project. It is the intention here that funds the authority may borrow and the interest paid thereon, for interim or temporary financing for any of the above-named items properly included in "cost of project" for the use of a designated project, pending the issue and validation of revenue anticipation bonds for such project, shall be considered a "cost of project" which may be paid or repaid from the proceeds of the revenue anticipation bonds authorized herein in section 1-4-36(12).
(Ga. Laws 1958, p. 2870, § 3; Ga. Laws 1962, p. 2778, § 1; Ga. Laws 1975, p. 3172, § 1; Code 1979, § 3-304)
Sec. 1-4-34. - Authority to contract with city and county.
The County of Dougherty and the City of Albany are expressly authorized to enter into contracts with the authority as a public corporation.
(Ga. Laws 1958, p. 2870, § 4; Code 1979, § 3-305)
Sec. 1-4-35. - Quorum; minimum votes for approval.
Any three (3) members shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of the ordinary business of the authority; however, any action with respect to any project of the authority must be approved by not less than three (3) affirmative votes.
(Ga. Laws 1958, p. 2870, § 5; Code 1979, § 3-306)
Sec. 1-4-36. - Powers.
The authority shall have powers:
(1)
To have a seal and alter the same at pleasure.
(2)
To acquire, hold and dispose of personal property, including the stock of other corporations, for its corporate purposes.
(3)
To enter into contracts for periods of time not in excess of fifty (50) years.
(4)
To acquire in its own name by purchase, on such terms and conditions, and in such manner as it may deem proper, real property or liens or easements therein or franchises necessary or convenient for its corporate purposes, and to use the same, and to lease or make contracts with respect to the use of same or to dispose of same in any manner the authority deems to its best advantage. If the authority shall deem it expedient to construct any project or use any project or use any project already constructed on lands, the title to which shall then be in the County of Dougherty or the City of Albany; the governing authorities of Dougherty County and the City of Albany are authorized in their discretion to convey title to such lands, including any improvements thereon, to the authority.
(5)
To appoint and select officers, agents and employees, including engineers, architects, builders and attorneys, and to fix their compensation.
(6)
To make contracts, and to execute all instruments necessary or convenient, including contracts for construction of projects and leases and rental and sale of projects, or contracts with respect to the use of projects, which it erects or acquires.
(7)
To construct, erect, acquire, own, repair, remodel, maintain, extend, improve, sell, equip, expand, add to, operate and manage projects and to pay the cost of any such project from the proceeds of revenue anticipation certificates or bonds or any other income of the authority, or from any contributions or loans by persons, firms or corporations, all of which the authority is hereby authorized to receive and accept and use.
(8)
To borrow money for any of its corporate purposes and to execute notes, mortgages, deeds to secure debts, trust deeds and such other instruments as may be necessary or convenient to evidence and secure such borrowing; it being the intention here that in addition to the pledge of revenue from any project for the payment of revenue anticipation bonds and for the benefit of the bond-holders, the authority is authorized to execute mortgages, deeds to secure debts, trust deeds and such other instruments as may be necessary or convenient covering the property of any particular project as additional security for the bondholders of such project.
(9)
To exercise any power granted by the laws of the State of Georgia to public or private corporations, performing similar functions, which is not in conflict with the constitution and laws of the State of Georgia.
(10)
To do all things necessary or convenient to carry out the powers expressly conferred by this Act.
(11)
To adopt, alter or repeal its own bylaws, rules and regulations governing the manner in which its business may be transacted in which the power granted to it may be enjoyed, as the authority may deem necessary or expedient in facilitating its business.
(12)
To issue revenue anticipation certificates for the purpose of paying all or any part of the cost of any project of the authority. Such revenue anticipation certificates shall be issued and validated under and in accordance with the applicable provisions of the Act of the General Assembly of 1937, (Ga. Laws 1937, pp. 761—774), and as subsequently amended, providing for the issuance of revenue anticipation certificates.
(Ga. Laws 1958, p. 2870, § 6; Ga. Laws 1962, p. 2778, § 2; Code 1979, § 3-307)
Sec. 1-4-37. - Authority to acquire and develop land; bonds.
(a)
The authority is hereby specifically authorized to purchase or otherwise acquire land and to improve and develop same so as to make said land more desirable for industrial purposes. Such land acquisition and development may be undertaken by the authority at any time whether or not there is at such time a prospective industry considering the purchase or lease of an industrial site in Dougherty County. Such land and improvements may be held by the authority for any length of time it deems desirable, but any sale, lease or other disposition of same when made, shall be subject to the provisions of section 1-4-39 hereof.
(b)
The purposes of this Act are to develop and promote for the public good and general welfare trade, commerce, industry and employment opportunities and to promote the general welfare of the state. No bonds except refunding bonds shall be issued by an authority hereunder unless its board of directors shall adopt a resolution finding that the project for which the bonds are to be issued will promote the foregoing objectives and will increase employment in such area, or will prevent a decrease in employment in such area. Notwithstanding the foregoing requirement, bonds may be issued to finance projects for air and water pollution control facilities by industry as hereinabove provided without a finding that the project will increase employment or prevent a decrease in employment so long as any federal, state or local agency having jurisdiction in the premises shall have certified that the project is necessary for the continued operation of the industry or industries which the same is to serve and is necessary for the public welfare.
(Ga. Laws 1958, p. 2870, § 7; Ga. Laws 1975, p. 3172, § 2; Code 1979, § 3-308)
Sec. 1-4-38. - No public funds for entertainment or promotion.
No moneys derived by the authority from any source other than gifts and contributions from private individuals, firms or corporations shall at any time be used for entertainment or other promotional expenses.
(Ga. Laws 1958, p. 2870, § 8; Code 1979, § 3-309)
Sec. 1-4-39. - Gifts prohibited.
All projects of the authority shall be on a self-liquidating basis, and the authority shall not make gifts, directly or indirectly, to any person, firm or corporation.
(Ga. Laws 1958, p. 2870, § 9; Code 1979, § 3-310)
Sec. 1-4-40. - Disposition of property.
Should said authority for any reason be dissolved, title to all property of every kind and nature, real and personal, held by the authority at the time of such dissolution shall revert to Dougherty County subject to any mortgages, liens, leases or other encumbrances outstanding against or in respect to said property at that time.
(Ga. Laws 1958, p. 2870, § 10; Code 1979, § 3-311)
Sec. 1-4-41. - Tax exemption.
All lands and improvements and personal property the title to which is vested in the authority, and all debentures, notes, bonds and revenue anticipation certificates issued by the authority shall be exempt from state and local taxation.
(Ga. Laws 1958, p. 2870, § 11; Code 1979, § 3-312)
Sec. 1-4-42. - No debt against city or county.
The authority shall not be empowered or authorized in any manner to create a debt as against the State of Georgia, the County of Dougherty or the City of Albany.
(Ga. Laws 1958, p. 2870, § 12; Code 1979, § 3-313)
Sec. 1-4-43. - Annual audit; copies.
The books and records of the authority shall be audited at least annually, at the expense of the authority, by a competent auditor. The authority shall furnish the copies of said audit to the County of Dougherty and the City of Albany, and shall publish same one (1) time in all newspapers printed in Dougherty County.
(Ga. Laws 1958, p. 2870, § 13; Code 1979, § 3-314)
Sec. 1-4-44. - Liberal construction.
This Act being for the purpose of developing and promoting the public good and the welfare of the County of Dougherty and the City of Albany and their inhabitants, shall be liberally construed to effect the purposes hereof.
(Ga. Laws 1958, p. 2870, § 14; Code 1979, § 3-315)
Sec. 1-4-45. - Severability.
The provisions of this Act are severable, and if any of its provisions shall be held unconstitutional by any court of competent jurisdiction, the decision of such court shall not affect or impair any of the remaining provisions.
(Ga. Laws 1979, p. 2870, § 15; Code 1979, § 3-316)
Secs. 1-4-46—1-4-49. - Reserved.
ARTICLE III. - ALBANY-DOUGHERTY HOSPITAL AUTHORITY

Sec. 1-4-50. - Establishing authorized.
The board of commissioners of Dougherty County may, by resolution, establish and change from time to time the number of members of the Albany-Dougherty Hospital Authority, their terms of office, the manner of appointment, the method of filling vacancies, and all other matters relative to the membership of the authority.
(Ga. Laws 1978, p. 4136, § 1; Code 1979, § 3-401)
Cross reference— Additional member, § 2-2-3.
State Law reference— Creation of authority, O.C.G.A. § 31-7-72; audit required, O.C.G.A. § 31-7-91.
