Chapter 2-7 - FIRE PROTECTION AND PREVENTION[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Cross reference— Fire prevention districts, § 1-7-14 et seq.; authority, § 1-7-17; building codes, § 2-4-1; civil preparedness, Ch. 2-5; special districts for fire protection, § 2-16-10.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 2-7-1. - State minimum fire safety standards—Adopted by reference; effect on technical codes.
(a)
The state minimum fire safety standards, as adopted in the rules and regulations promulgated by the state fire safety commissioner pursuant to Chapter 2 of Title 25 of the Official Code of Georgia Annotated, as said rules and regulations now exist, and as they shall be lawfully amended from time to time, are hereby adopted by this county, and the City of Albany, hereinafter referred to as "city." Future amendments to and changes in such standards as reflected in future amendments to or changes in said rules and regulations are hereby adopted and shall become effective in the county and the city upon promulgation without the necessity of further action on the part of the county or the city.
(b)
The joint building code, gas code, plumbing code, heating, ventilation and air conditioning code, housing code, electrical code and the county sign regulations shall remain in full force and effect, but wherever state law or the state minimum fire safety standards are inconsistent with [these codes or regulations,] or impose more stringent requirements, the provisions of state law or the state minimum fire safety standards shall control.
(Res. No. 86-014, §§ 1, 2, 4-28-86)
Sec. 2-7-2. - Same—Buildings presenting special hazards.
No plans or specifications for the construction of any building or structure which is subject to the provisions of section 25-2-13 of the official Code of Georgia Annotated shall be utilized, and no building permit shall be issued for the construction of any such building or structure until after such plans and specifications shall have been submitted to the chief of the city fire department and approved by such chief as being in compliance with the state minimum fire safety standards herein adopted. No temporary or permanent certificate of occupancy shall issue with respect to said buildings or structures without the certification of the chief of the city fire department that construction has been in accordance with the state minimum fire safety standards.
(Res. No. 86-014, § 3, 4-28-86)
Sec. 2-7-3. - Inspection and enforcement responsibility—Chief of city fire department; designee of chief.
(a)
For the purpose of making inspections and carrying out and enforcing the provisions of this chapter, including the state minimum fire safety standards, the chief of the city fire department shall have all of the powers and authority granted to the chief building official and such official's designees under the joint county and city codes referred to in section 2-7-1(b). Specifically, and without in any way limiting the generality of the foregoing provision, the chief of the city fire department shall have all of the powers granted to the building official of the county and the city by sections 103.2, 103.4 and 103.5 of the joint building code, as the same shall be amended from time to time. The chief of the city fire department shall have authority to delegate any or all of the powers and authority herein granted to one (1) or more designees.
(b)
Any designee of the chief of the city fire department who has been duly certified by the Georgia Peace Officer Standards and Training Council in the performance of such designee's duties under this chapter, shall have all of the powers of a peace officer as defined by the Georgia Peace Officer Standards and Training Act.
(Res. No. 86-014, §§ 4, 6, 4-28-86)
State Law reference— For such Act see O.C.G.A. §§ 35-8-1—35-8-20.
Sec. 2-7-4. - Same—Coordination of activities.
The inspection and enforcement activities of the fire department and the inspection department shall be coordinated so as to conserve time and expense and result in a minimum of inconvenience to property owners, lessees, tenants, and builders, and said departments and the personnel thereof shall cooperate with each other to the fullest extent in carrying out their respective functions and duties.
(Res. No. 86-014, § 5, 4-28-86)
Sec. 2-7-5. - Same—Abatement of hazardous conditions.
(a)
Any person who fails or refuses upon demand of the fire chief or the chief's designee to correct any hazardous condition or any condition which is in violation of the state minimum fire safety standards, or is otherwise unlawful, or denies the fire chief or the chief's designee the right of entry and inspection of property or in any way interferes therewith, or fails to obey any lawful order of the fire chief or the chief's designee, or otherwise violates or fails to comply with any provision of this chapter shall be guilty of an offense and shall be punished as provided in section 1-4 of the Code of the city or section 2-1-8 of this Cede. Each day any condition, failure, or refusal, or violation described in this section continues shall be a separate offense punishable as aforesaid.
(b)
Any condition which constitutes a fire hazard or is in violation of the state minimum fire safety standards shall constitute a nuisance and shall be abatable under Chapter 13 of the Code of the city or otherwise under authority of law.
(Res. No. 86-014, §§ 7, 8, 4-28-86)
State Law reference— Remedies in case of violation of codes, O.C.G.A. § 36-13-10; abatement of nuisance, O.C.G.A. § 41-2-1 et seq.
Sec. 2-7-6. - Joint fire prevention code adopted; authority of fire chiefs to inspect buildings and certain premises.
(a)
Applicability. There is hereby adopted by the board of commissioners of the City of Albany and Dougherty County a fire prevention code that allows the fire chief or his designee of the City of Albany and Dougherty County the authority to inspect all buildings and premises except one- and two-family dwellings. However, this code shall also apply to one- and two-family dwellings in which the building or premises contains a business required to be licensed by a federal, state or local government agency. The fire chief or his designee is granted the right of entry to inspect for fire hazards and to make recommendations as to the abatement of such fire hazards in accordance with state minimum fire safety standards.
(b)
Buildings used for personal care homes, etc. The fire chief or his designee is granted the right of entry to any and all buildings of whatever size or nature which are being used for personal care homes and housing individuals not related by blood or marriage. The fire chief or his designee is granted the right of entry to inspect for fire hazards, to make recommendations as to the abatement of such fire hazards, and to enforce the abatement of such fire hazards in accordance with state minimum fire safety standards.
(c)
Fire hydrants. All fire hydrants located within the City of Albany and Dougherty County must be clearly visible, accessible, and painted yellow with silver bonnets. No fire hydrants may be used for any purpose other than firefighting without the express permission of the water, gas and light commission.
(d)
Access roads and fire lanes. All access roads and fire lanes shall be capable of supporting the loads of fire apparatus and shall have a minimum of thirteen (13) feet, six inches of vertical clearance.
(e)
Private fire water systems, etc. All private fire water systems, fire hydrants, valves and other associated equipment for fire protection installed within Dougherty County and the City of Albany shall be compatible with the existing water systems, their fixtures, and approved by the water, gas and light commission prior to installation.
(Ord. No. 88-026, § 5, 5-16-88; Ord. No. 92-052, § 1, 11-16-92)
Editor's note— Resolution No. 88-026, adopted May 16, 1988, did not specifically amend this Code; hence, inclusion of §§ 1—5 as § 2-7-6 was at the discretion of the editor.
Sec. 2-7-7. - Fire department user fees within unincorporated areas of county.
The Albany Fire Department in providing and affording fire protection in the unincorporated areas of Dougherty County, Georgia, is hereby authorized to impose the following user fees within the unincorporated areas of the county:
(a)
A flat fee of one hundred dollars ($100.00) for the review of sprinkler/stand pipe plans.
(b)
A flat fee of one hundred dollars ($100.00) for each tank removal/installation at any particular site.
(c)
A flat fee of fifty dollars ($50.00) for permitting an inspection for commercial burning. The permit will be valid for a period of thirty (30) days from the date of issuance for each location.
(d)
A flat fee of fifty dollars ($50.00) for a second re-inspection of any fire code violations, and if necessary, a flat fee of twenty-five dollars ($25.00) for each additional re-inspection until all violations are cleared.
(Res. No. 99-010, § 1, 3-1-99)
Secs. 2-7-8—2-7-20. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - FIRE CODE BOARD OF APPEALS[2]

Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
Editor's note— Inclusion of §§ 1—5 of Res. No. 88-005, adopted Jan 19, 1988, as §§ 2-7-21—2-7-25, comprising a new Art. II to Ch. 2-7, was at the editor's discretion, the resolution being nonamendatory of the Code.
Cross reference— Administration, Ch. 2-2; appointment to boards, § 2-2-1.

Sec. 2-7-21. - Established.
There is hereby established a fire code board of appeals for Dougherty County and the City of Albany, Georgia, hereinafter referred to as "board of appeals."
(Res. No. 88-005, § 1, 1-19-88)
Sec. 2-7-22. - Organization.
(a)
Membership; appointment. The fire code board of appeals shall consist of five (5) members, to be appointed jointly by the board of county commissioners and the board of city commissioners from nominations received from the county administrator and city manager. Anyone eligible to hold office in Dougherty County and the City of Albany shall be eligible for appointment to the board of appeals.
(b)
Initial appointments. Initially, the board of county commissioners and the board of city commissioners shall appoint one (1) citizen member each, to serve for a term of three (3) years, and three (3) members jointly, to serve for a term of two (2) years. All citizen members shall serve until their successors have been appointed and qualified.
(c)
Removal of members; vacancies. The board of county commissioners and the board of city commissioners, on the recommendation of the board of appeals, shall have the right to remove any member of the board of appeals who is absent for three (3) consecutive meetings unexcused by the board of appeals or who is otherwise delinquent in the performance of his or her duties on the board of appeals. Vacancies occurring prior to termination of the term of a member shall be filled by the board of county commissioners and the board of city commissioners jointly for the remainder of the term.
(d)
Officers. The board of appeals shall elect a chairperson and such other officers as the board of appeals shall determine. Officers shall be elected for a term of one (1) year and until their successors have been elected.
(e)
Quorum. Three (3) voting members of the board of appeals shall constitute a quorum, and the vote of a majority of those present at a meeting at which there is a quorum shall be sufficient to take action.
(f)
Rules of procedure. The board is authorized to adopt such rules of procedure as it shall deem appropriate.
(g)
Meetings. The board of appeals shall meet whenever directed by the appointing authority to interpret the provisions of the fire code and to consider and rule on any properly filed appeal from a decision of the fire marshal, giving at least five (5) days notice of hearing, but, in no case, shall it fail to meet on an appeal within thirty (30) days of the filing of notice of appeal. All of the meetings of the board of appeals shall be open to the public.
(h)
Compensation. Members of the board of appeals shall not be entitled to compensation for service on the board of appeals except for actual expenses necessarily incurred by them in the performance of their duties.
(Res. No. 88-005, § 2, 1-19-88)
Sec. 2-7-23. - Powers.
The board of appeals shall provide for reasonable interpretations of the provisions of the fire code and rule on appeals from decisions of the fire marshal.
(Res. No. 88-005, § 3, 1-19-88)
Sec. 2-7-24. - Appeals—Stay of order of fire marshal.
Pending final decision of the board of appeals, the order of the fire marshal based on his interpretation of the code shall be stayed unless there is an immediate fire hazard to life or property.
(Res. No. 88-005, § 4, 1-19-88)
Sec. 2-7-25. - Same—Procedures.
(a)
Appeal to fire marshal. Where any person seeks relief from a decision of a fire official enforcing provisions of the fire prevention code applicable to Dougherty County and the City of Albany, including permits, certificates, waivers, alternate materials, alternate methods, approvals, or variances or matters of code interpretation, that person may request reconsideration of the fire official's decision by appealing in writing to the fire marshal within fifteen (15) days of the receipt of the decision stating the reasons why relief is sought and what decision the person feels should be forthcoming. The fire marshal shall, within ten (10) days after receiving a copy of the appeal in writing, hold a hearing and decide the question after hearing testimony from all concerned persons. The fire marshall shall render a written decision within five (5) days after the hearing is completed.
(b)
Appeal to board of appeals. After such a hearing by the fire marshal, any person seeking relief from a decision of the fire marshal regarding provisions of this code may appeal to the board of appeals within fifteen (15) days after receipt of written notice of the fire marshal's decision. Such appeal shall be in writing and directed to the fire marshal. Copies of the appeal shall be promptly transmitted to the board of appeals by the fire marshal. Upon giving not less than five (5) business days' notice to the person interested, a hearing shall be held. The board may, after such a hearing, by a majority vote, affirm, annul, or modify the action of the fire marshal. The decision of the board shall be in writing, and a copy shall be mailed to the appellant within seven (7) business days after the conclusion of the hearing and any decisions made shall be final.
(Res. No. 88-005, § 5, 1-19-88)
