Chapter 1-2 - BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 1-2-1. - Composition; election.
The board of commissioners of Dougherty County shall be composed of a chairman and six (6) other members. The chairman shall be elected from the county at large. The remaining six (6) members shall be elected from commission districts composed of portions of Dougherty County as hereinafter provided. All of such members shall be elected at the times and in the manner provided for hereinafter.
(Ga. Laws 1978, p. 3058, § 1(a); Code 1979, § 1-101)
Sec. 1-2-2. - Qualifications; residence.
All members of the board of commissioners shall be qualified electors of Dougherty County. The chairman of the board shall have been a resident of Dougherty County for at least one (1) year prior to the date he takes office, and each of the other commissioners shall have been a resident of his respective commission district for at least six (6) months prior to the date of taking office. In the event the chairman ceases to be a resident of Dougherty County during his term of office or in the event any member ceases to be a resident of his respective commission district during his term of office, a vacancy shall thereby be created and shall be filled in the manner hereinafter provided. The chairman of the board shall be elected by the qualified electors of the entire county. Each of the other members shall be elected by the qualified electors of Dougherty County residing within his respective commission district. Any person wishing to offer as a candidate for chairman shall offer as a candidate for that office. Any person offering as a candidate for commissioner other than chairman shall designate the commission district for which he is offering. The chairman and all other members of the board shall be nominated and elected in accordance with the provisions of Code Title 34 [O.C.G.A. Title 21], known as the "Georgia Election Code," as now or hereafter amended.
(Ga. Laws 1978, p. 3058, § 1(b); Code 1979, § 1-102)
Sec. 1-2-3. - Commission districts.
For the purpose of electing the members of the board of commissioners, other than the chairman, Dougherty County shall be divided into six (6) commission districts.
(Ga. Laws 1978, p. 3058, § 1(c); Code 1979, § 1-103)
Sec. 1-2-4. - Initial elections.
(a)
The first members of the board of commissioners provided for herein shall be elected as follows:
(1)
The chairman shall be elected at the general election of 1978 and shall take office on the first day of January, 1979, for a term of four (4) years and until his successor is elected and qualified.
(2)
The member from Commission District 3 shall be elected at the general election of 1978 and shall take office on the first day of January, 1979, for an initial term of two (2) years and until his successor is elected and qualified.
(3)
The members from Commission Districts 2, 4 and 6 shall be elected at the general election of 1978 and shall take office on the first day of January, 1979, for terms of four (4) years and until their successors are elected and qualified.
(4)
The members from Commission Districts 1 and 5 shall be elected at the general election of 1980 and shall take office on the first day of January, 1981, for terms of four (4) years and until their successors are elected and qualified.
(b)
Successors to the chairman and other members elected pursuant to subsection (a) hereof shall be elected at the general election immediately preceding the expiration of their respective terms of office and shall take office on the first day of January immediately following their election for terms of four (4) years and until their successors are elected and qualified.
(c)
For the period beginning January 1, 1979, and ending December 31, 1980, the board of commissioners of Dougherty County shall consist of the chairman and four (4) members elected pursuant to paragraphs (1) through (3) of subsection (a) of this section and the two (2) incumbent members of the present board of commissioners of Dougherty County whose regular terms of office expire on December 31, 1980. During such period of time said two (2) incumbent members shall be deemed to be the commissioners from Commission Districts 1 and 5, and at the first regular meeting of the board held in January, 1979, the board, by resolution, shall designate the incumbent commissioner who shall represent Commission District 1 and the incumbent commissioner who shall represent Commission District 5.
(Ga. Laws 1978, p. 3058, § 2; Code 1979, § 1-104)
Sec. 1-2-5. - Oath.
The members of said board before entering upon their duties shall take an oath before the judge of probate or some officer authorized to administer oaths, or before one (1) of their number, to discharge honestly and faithfully all the duties of said office according to the laws and the constitution of the State of Georgia, which oath shall be subscribed upon the minutes of the board by them.
(Ga. Laws 1941, p. 834, § 3; Code 1979, § 1-105)
Sec. 1-2-6. - Chairman; duties and authority.
The chairman of the board of commissioners shall preside at all meetings of the board and shall be a full voting member of the board for all purposes, but the chairman shall not have any veto power. The chairman shall call meetings of the board as hereinafter provided and as requested by a majority of the members of the board. The chairman shall also appoint members and chairman of all committees of the board. The chairman shall be recognized as the official head of Dougherty County by state, federal and other authorities for military and ceremonial functions. In time of danger or emergency the chairman may, with consent of two (2) commissioners, take command of the police and govern the county by proclamation and maintain order and enforce laws.
(Ga. Laws 1978, p. 3058, § 2; Code 1979, § 1-106)
Sec. 1-2-7. - Vice-chairman; selection and duties.
The board of commissioners may elect from its membership a vice-chairman to serve at the pleasure of the board. The vice-chairman shall preside at meetings of the board in the absence, disability or disqualification of the chairman and during a vacancy in the office of chairman until such vacancy is filled as hereinafter provided. The vice-chairman shall receive no additional salary for service as vice-chairman, and his rights and duties as a member of the board shall not be impaired by reason of such service as vice-chairman.
(Ga. Laws 1978, p. 3058, § 2; Code 1979, § 1-107)
Sec. 1-2-8. - Meetings; quorum; voting.
The board of commissioners shall hold a regular meeting at 10:00 a.m. on the first and third Mondays of every month at the Dougherty County Courthouse, and they may hold special meetings at any time and at any place within the county that their duties may require. Four (4) members of the board shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business, but the concurrence of at least four (4) commissioners shall be necessary to take official action.
(Ga. Laws 1978, p. 3058, § 2; Code 1979, § 1-108)
Editor's note— For current law, see 1986 amendatory Act of the General Assembly.
Sec. 1-2-9. - Compensation.
Be it further enacted by the authority aforesaid, that the salary of the chairman of the board shall be three thousand six hundred dollars ($3,600.00) per annum and the salaries of the remaining members of the board shall be three thousand dollars ($3,000.00) per annum. Said salary shall be paid in equal monthly installments out of the treasury of Dougherty County.
(Ga. Laws 1941, p. 834; Ga. Laws 1969, p. 2797; Code 1979, § 1-110)
Sec. 1-2-10. - Vacancies.
(a)
In the event of a vacancy in the membership of the board of commissioners of Dougherty County because of death, resignation, removal of residency from the county or commission district, or for any other reason, said vacancy shall be filled as hereinafter provided.
(1)
If the unexpired term is six (6) months or less, the remaining members of said board of commissioners, within thirty (30) days after the occurrence of the vacancy, shall appoint a qualified person to fill the vacancy for the unexpired term.
(2)
If the unexpired term is more than six (6) months [and] a November election, as defined by subsection (m) of Code section 34-103 of the Georgia Election Code, as amended, [O.C.G.A. § 21-2-2(12)] will be held within one hundred eighty (180) days, but not less than thirty (30) days, after the occurrence of the vacancy, then the remaining members of said board of commissioners, within thirty (30) days after the occurrence of said vacancy, shall appoint a qualified person to serve until the vacancy is filled for the remaining unexpired term by a person elected at a special election called for the same date as the November election as hereinafter provided. The board of elections of Dougherty County shall issue the call for a special election for the purpose of electing a qualified person to fill the vacancy for the remaining unexpired term, and said board shall set the date of said special election for the same date as the November election. The call for said special election shall be issued not more than forty-five (45) days, nor less than thirty (30) days, prior to the date of said special election. In the event the remaining term is more than six (6) months but the vacancy occurs within less than thirty (30) days prior to the date of the next November election, as herein defined, then such vacancy shall be filled in the manner prescribed by paragraph (3) hereof.
(3)
If the unexpired term is more than six (6) months and a November election, as hereinabove defined, will not be held within one hundred eighty (180) days and at least thirty (30) days after the occurrence of the vacancy, then within thirty (30) days after the occurrence of said vacancy, the board of elections of Dougherty County shall issue the call for a special election for the purpose of electing a qualified person to fill the vacancy for the unexpired term. Said board shall set the date of said special election for a day not less than thirty (30) nor more than forty-five (45) days after the date of the issuance of the call.
(b)
When a vacancy occurs in the office of chairman of the board of commissioners, the person elected or appointed to fill said vacancy, as the case may be, may reside anywhere within the territorial limits of Dougherty County, and when filled by a special election, the qualified electors of the entire county shall be eligible to vote at said special election. When the vacancy occurs in the office of a district commissioner, the person elected or appointed to fill said vacancy, as the case may be, shall be a resident of the commission district wherein the vacancy exists, and when filled by a special election, only the qualified electors of Dougherty County who reside within the commission district wherein the vacancy exists shall be eligible to vote at said special election. Persons elected or appointed to fill vacancies as provided by this section shall be subject to the same qualifications as required of other persons elected to the office of chairman or commissioner of Dougherty County.
(c)
The provisions of Code Title 34 [O.C.G.A. Title 21], known as the Georgia Election Code, as amended, shall apply to special elections to fill vacancies provided for in this section.
(Ga. Laws 1941, p. 834, § 5; Ga. Laws 1975, p. 2656; Ga. Laws 1978, p. 3058, § 2; Code 1979, § 1-109)
Secs. 1-2-11—1-2-19. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - POWERS
DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Sec. 1-2-20. - Enumeration of general powers.
Said board of commissioners shall have, and they are hereby vested with exclusive jurisdiction over the following matters:
(1)
In directing and controlling and caring for all property of the county according to law;
(2)
In levying taxes according to law; in establishing, altering or abolishing roads, private ways, bridges [and] ferries according to law;
(3)
In establishing, abolishing and changing election precincts and militia districts;
(4)
In supervising the tax collector's and tax receiver's books and allowing the insolvent list for said county, according to law;
(5)
In settling all claims or accounts of officers having the care, management, keeping, collecting or disbursement of money belonging to the county, or appropriated for its use and benefit and bringing them to settlement, and especially are they charged with the duty to examine and audit frequently the books of the county depository, the tax collector, the tax receiver, the sheriff, the superintendent of public schools or other officers of said county through whose hands funds may pass, and this may be done by said commissioners themselves or by their clerk or auditor, and they may require from all such officers and depository such reports as may be necessary to keep such board fully informed at all times of the financial condition of the county according to law;
(6)
In making such rules, regulations and provisions for the support of the poor of the county, and for the preserving and promoting of public health of the county, with authority to quarantine against contagious diseases and epidemics according to law;
(7)
In regulating peddling and fixing license fees, according to law;
(8)
And generally to have and exercise all the powers which are by the constitution and laws of Georgia vested in probate judges when sitting for county purposes, and to exercise such other powers as are granted by law or as may be indispensable to their jurisdiction over matters of county finances, including all powers not inconsistent with this Act, which have heretofore been exercised by the board of commissioners of Dougherty County under the Act approved August 6, 1904 (Ga. Laws 1904, p. 262) and under all Acts amendatory thereof;
(9)
In selecting and appointing all minor officials of the county whose election or appointment is not otherwise provided for by law, such as superintendent and guards of convicts and chaingang, janitor of court house, superintendent of the pauper farms, county physician, health officer, tax assessors, county policemen and other officers and guards as may be needed and authorized by law; [and]
(10)
Said board of commissioners is authorized to enter into an agreement with the City of Albany to jointly collect, and by the terms of said agreement, appropriate the proceeds from the excise tax collected on alcoholic beverages, wine and beer.
(Ga. Laws 1941, p. 834; Ga. Laws 1967, p. 2856; Code 1979, § 1-201)
Cross reference— Election by clerk of board, assistant clerk, attorney, § 1-3-1 et seq.
Sec. 1-2-21. - Garbage disposal and sanitary districts; sanitary and garbage collection systems; tax levy therefor.
(a)
The board of commissioners of Dougherty County is hereby authorized and empowered to provide systems of garbage disposal in said county in all areas in Dougherty County outside the limits of any incorporated municipality. The commissioners are further authorized to create sanitary districts in Dougherty County outside the limits of the incorporated municipalities thereof.
(b)
The board of commissioners of Dougherty County shall have the right to provide a county sanitary system to be operated by the county, making such expenditures in connection with the establishment and operation thereof as the commissioners deem necessary. The commissioners shall have the further right to contract with an independent contractor to collect and dispose of garbage and shall have further right to authorize the collection and disposal of garbage by individuals or others.
(c)
The governing authority is hereby authorized to levy a tax upon the taxable property in said county or in any district created hereunder for the purpose of establishing, maintaining and operating any system provided for hereunder, or by assessments on the property owners utilizing such system within the county or any district created hereunder.
(d)
The board of commissioners of Dougherty County are hereby authorized and directed to regulate the collection and disposition of garbage, trash and refuse throughout the county. The commissioners shall make all rules and regulations necessary for the collection and disposal of such garbage and shall regulate the fees or charges for the services rendered. Such regulations shall not conflict with any general laws of force in this state. The commissioners may prescribe different charges for different classes of customers such as commercial or residential, but such charges or fees shall be uniform per pickup or per service rendered within each class.
(e)
In order to protect the public health and welfare, said commissioners shall prescribe rules and regulations for the disposal and removal of garbage from all businesses, residences and occupied dwellings, providing when it shall be removed, and to where it shall be removed.
(Ga. Laws 1941, p. 834, § 9; Ga. Laws 1969, p. 2980, §§ 9B, 9C, 9D, 9E and 9F; Code 1979, § 1-202)
Cross reference— See also § 1-2-30 as to garbage, and § 1-2-32 as to sewer.
Sec. 1-2-22. - Contributions for road improvements.
Said board of commissioners may receive contributions for the improvement of the public roads of the county from persons who own property along the same or from any other persons or from the state government or the United States government, and such contributions, when received, shall be used for the improvement of the roads designated by the contributor.
(Ga. Laws 1941, p. 834, § 10; Code 1979, § 1-203)
Sec. 1-2-23. - Improvement and subdivision of land.
(a)
The board of commissioners of Dougherty County, Georgia, are hereby authorized and empowered to make rules and regulations providing for the development and improvement of real estate in said county lying outside the corporate limits of all municipalities in said county, and/or regulating the subdividing of said property by owners or other persons for residential purposes.
(b)
The commissioners of Dougherty County, Georgia, shall have the power to enforce all said rules and regulations by injunction and other appropriate equitable relief.
(c)
The violation of any rule or regulation adopted by the commissioners of Dougherty County, Georgia, pursuant to this Act shall be [a] misdemeanor, and shall be punished in the manner provided by Code section 27-2506 [O.C.G.A. § 17-10-3].
(Ga. Laws 1960, p. 2837, §§ 1—3; Code 1979, § 1-208)
State Law reference— Punishment for violation of county ordinance, O.C.G.A. §§ 15-10-60, 36-1-20.
Sec. 1-2-24. - Authority to appropriate general funds to school system.
Pursuant to the provisions of an amendment to Article VIII, section 5, paragraph 1 of the Constitution [Const. 1983, Art. VIII, § 5, ¶¶ 1, 2], … providing for the establishment of a countywide board of education for Dougherty County … the City of Albany and the County of Dougherty are hereby authorized to appropriate money from their general funds to said Dougherty County school system and the board of education thereof to be used for any and all educational purposes for which said board may be now or hereafter authorized to expend funds.
(Ga. Laws 1963, p. 2976, § 1; Code 1979, § 1-209)
Cross reference— Dougherty County School System, § 1-8-1 et seq.
Sec. 1-2-25. - Business or occupational taxes authorized.
Said county board of commissioners for the County of Dougherty is authorized and empowered to levy such licenses and specific or occupation taxes on all those who transact or offer to transact business within said county, other than within the incorporated limits of an incorporated town or city, as said county board of commissioners may deem expedient or necessary for the safety, benefit, convenience or advantage of said county, and the citizens thereof; to classify businesses or occupations for the purpose of such taxation in any way which may be lawful; to require such person to procure licenses before engaging in business or offering to transact business in such area; to compel the payment of such licenses and taxes by execution or in any other lawful manner, and to make all suitable laws and regulations necessary and proper to the carrying out of the powers herein conferred, and to prescribe suitable penalties for violation thereof. Without in any way limiting other methods by which the payment of such licenses may be enforced, it is enacted that the same may be enforced as provided in section 92-3907; section 92-3908; section 92-3910, of the Code of 1933 [1], relating to collection of licenses for the exhibition of shows, etc.
(Ga. Laws 1943, p. 952, § 1; Code 1979, § 1-210)
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Editor's note— These sections of the 1933 Code were repealed.
Cross reference— See also 2-10-1 et seq.

Sec. 1-2-26. - Buildings, fences and similar structures may be regulated.
(a)
Said board is further authorized and empowered to pass necessary rules and ordinances regulating buildings, fences and similar structures within the limits of said county and other than within the incorporated limits of an incorporated town or city, and to require a permit from said county board of commissioners for the erection of any building, fence or similar structure where in the opinion of said county board of commissioners the erection of any such building, fence or structure is so located with reference to other buildings, fences, or structures, or with reference to properties belonging to other parties as to make it to the public interest to have such building, fence or structure conform to regulations and standards adopted by said board of county commissioners.
(b)
Anyone erecting any building, fence or other similar structure within the area aforesaid without first obtaining a permit therefor, where such permit is required, or failing or refusing to comply with any of the rules, regulations and standards adopted by said board of county commissioners, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and on conviction shall be punished as provided by section 27-2506, of the Code of 1933 [O.C.G.A. § 17-10-3].
(Ga. Laws 1943, p. 952, § 2; Code 1979, § 1-211)
Cross reference— See also § 2-4-1.
Secs. 1-2-27—1-2-29. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - CONSTITUTIONAL[2]

Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
Cross reference— See also §§ 1-2-24, 1-4-31, 1-4-33, 1-5-21, 1-8-1 and 1-8-31 as to constitutional amendments.

Sec. 1-2-30. - Authority to regulate and police collection of garbage.
Article VII, section 4, paragraph 1 of the Constitution [Const. 1983, Art. IX, § 4, ¶¶ 1—3] is hereby amended by adding at the end thereof, the following: "The governing authority of Dougherty County, in order to provide for the public welfare, health and security of the people of Dougherty County, shall have the right to regulate and exercise police powers over the collection of garbage in all areas of Dougherty County outside the incorporated limits of municipalities and shall have the right to issue exclusive franchises for the collection of garbage in any areas of Dougherty County outside the incorporated limits of municipalities; and in assessing the fees or charges for such franchises; to prescribe the fees to be charged by any and all parties franchised by the governing authority and to provide for the payment of such fees, including the right of the governing authority to make collections for the holders of such franchises; and to make such necessary rules and regulations pertaining to the collection of garbage as may be necessary to effectuate the powers herein granted.
(Ga. Laws 1974, p. 1770; Code 1979, § 1-301)
Editor's note— This Amendment No. 12 has been continued in existence.
Cross reference— See also, § 1-2-21.
Sec. 1-2-31. - Authority to abolish office of tax commissioner and merge board of tax assessors and offices of county relating to return, assessment, collection of taxes.
Article XI, section 1, paragraph 6 of the Constitution of Georgia [3] is hereby amended by adding at the end thereof, the following: "Notwithstanding any provision of law or of this constitution to the contrary, the office of tax commissioner of Dougherty County is hereby abolished upon the expiration of the term of the present tax commissioner of Dougherty County, December 31, 1976, or upon a vacancy occurring in the office of tax commissioner of Dougherty County, whichever shall occur first, and the governing authority of the County of Dougherty may, by resolution and without any enabling act of the General Assembly of Georgia, merge, consolidate and combine the board of tax assessors, departments, offices, officers and functions of the County of Dougherty relating to the return and assessment of property for taxation, notice of property assessment, hearings, appeals, arbitration, reviews of property assessment, and the enforcement and collection of taxes; may provide in said resolution for liens, priority of liens, and for the enforcement and collection of ad valorem taxes levied by the County of Dougherty and State of Georgia, and any and all other matters relating to or incident to the same; may specify and provide for the time, method and manner of performing any and all such matters and functions, including, without limitation of the foregoing generally, the retention, release or combination of the present offices and officers, positions and employees, the election or selection of officers and employees to perform such consolidated and combined tax functions, the compensation and tenure of office and employment of such officers and employees, and may provide for all other related or incidental matters. Provided, that there shall be vested in and conferred upon such combined board of tax assessors, departments, offices and officers, such authority as may be conferred upon board of tax assessors under existing laws or those hereinafter enacted. Provided, further, that, except as provided hereafter, upon resolution of the governing authority of the County of Dougherty, combining the tax functions of offices, boards and officers now existing under any and all acts relating to the County of Dougherty or to board of tax assessors of counties generally, such board of tax assessors and tax departments, offices and officers shall be abolished and of no force and effect within the County of Dougherty, and all functions heretofore performed by the board of tax assessors and tax departments, offices, officers and employees of the County of Dougherty, shall be performed by said tax boards, departments and officers, all as provided in said resolution. Provided, further, that upon the effective date of the abolishment of the office of tax commissioner of the County of Dougherty, the duties, responsibilities and authority of the tax commissioner shall be vested in such official or officials or board as shall be designated in the resolution of the governing authority of the County of Dougherty. Provided, further, that in the performance of any and all of the matters herein authorized, due process of law shall be afforded, and the rights of persons to homestead exemptions as now or hereafter provided by law, as related to ad valorem taxation due to the State of Georgia and the County of Dougherty shall not be affected hereby.
"Provided further, that the powers herein delegated may be exercised from time to time. Provided, further, that nothing herein contained shall be construed to authorize any change in the ad valorem millage limitation provided by the Constitution of the State of Georgia or by any legislative act."
(Ga. Laws 1974, p. 1654, § 1; Code 1979, § 1-304)
Editor's note— This Amendment No. 11 has been continued in existence.
Footnotes:
--- (3) ---
Editor's note— There is no counterpart in the 1983 constitution.
Cross reference— See also § 2-16-1 et seq.

Sec. 1-2-32. - Authority to establish sewer system; assess property owners; issue revenue certificates; contract.
Article VII, section 7, paragraph 1 of the Constitution [Const. 1983, Art. IX, § 5, ¶¶ 1, 4, 5] is hereby amended by adding at the end thereof the following: "The governing body of Dougherty County is hereby authorized to establish, construct, maintain, operate and administer a system of sewerage, including sanitary and storm sewers and a sewage disposal plant, in said county. In order to accomplish the foregoing, the governing authority is hereby authorized to assess the cost of sanitary sewers against the property owners served thereby, to acquire rights-of-way for such sewers by contract of purchase or by the power of eminent domain, and to create indebtedness, and to issue revenue anticipation certificates and/or general obligation bonds but the amount of such bonds outstanding at any one (1) time shall not exceed two million five hundred thousand dollars ($2,500,000.00) in addition to the seven (7) percent limitation now imposed by the constitution. The governing body of said county is hereby given full authority to determine the aggregate amount of bonds to be issued from time to time, the maturity dates not to exceed thirty (30) years from date of issue, the date of issuance and other details incident to the issuance and sale of said bonds. Such bonds may be issued after submitting the question of such issuance to the voters of the county and the approval of such issuance by a majority of the qualified voters of said county voting on such question. In the event such bonds are issued, the governing body shall provide for the assessment and collection of an annual tax on all the property in said county subject to taxation for bond purposes sufficient to pay the principal of and interest on said bonds as the same mature. The aforesaid governing body is further authorized to levy a tax, fee or charge as necessary, to assure the acquisition, construction, equipping and, thereafter, operating, maintaining and extending such system, and, in their discretion, to levy a sewer charge for the use of sewers constructed hereunder for such purposes, and to contract with the governing authority of the City of Albany relative to the establishment, construction, maintenance, financing, administration, operation and use of such sewerage system and sewage disposal, including the aforesaid sewage disposal plant, and such contract may include provisions relative to the joining of the aforesaid system to any system now or hereafter created in or by the City of Albany."
(Ga. Laws 1956, p. 467, § 1; Code 1979, § 1-305)
Editor's note— This Amendment No. 5 has been continued in existence.
Cross reference— See also, § 1-2-21.
