Chapter 2-5 - CIVIL PREPAREDNESS[1]

Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Editor's note— Res. No. 92-012, adopted March 10, 1992, did not specifically amend the Code and at the discretion of the editor said provisions have been codified as superseding former Ch. 2-5, §§ 2-5-1—2-5-7, relative to emergency management. Former Ch. 12 derived from Code 1979, § 1-5-6 and Res. No. 80-155, §§ 2—6, adopted Aug. 18, 1980.
Cross reference— Fire prevention and protection Ch. 2-7.

Sec. 2-5-1. - Definition.
As used in this chapter, the term "emergency management" shall mean the preparation for and the carrying out of all emergency and disaster functions other than those functions for which military forces or state and federal agencies are primarily responsible, to prevent, minimize, and repair injury and damage resulting from emergencies or disasters, or the imminent threat thereof, of man-made or natural origin. These functions include, without limitation, fire fighting services, police services, medical and health services, rescue, engineering, warning services, communications, protection against the effects of radiological, chemical and other special weapons, evacuation of persons from stricken areas, emergency welfare services, emergency transportation, plant protection, shelter, temporary restoration of public utility services, and other functions related to civilian population, together with all other activities necessary or incidental to total emergency and disaster preparedness for carrying out the foregoing functions.
(Res. No. 92-012, § 1, 3-10-92)
Cross reference— Definitions, O.C.G.A, § 38-3-3.
Sec. 2-5-2. - Emergency management agency, emergency management director; duties.
It is the desire and intent of the governing officials of the City of Albany, Georgia, and Dougherty County, Georgia, that the City of Albany, Georgia, be a part of the Dougherty County Emergency Management Agency. The Chairman, Board of Commissioners of Dougherty County, Georgia, with concurrence of the Mayor of the City of Albany, Georgia, shall nominate for appointment, by the Governor, the Chief of the Albany Fire and Emergency Services Department as emergency management director for the entire county. When appointed, the emergency management director, in conjunction with the emergency management coordinator, are charged with the following duties:
(1)
To represent the governing officials of the city and county on matters pertaining to emergency management;
(2)
To assist city and county officials in organizing city and county departments for emergency operations;
(3)
To develop, in conjunction with city and county departments, the Dougherty County Plan for emergency functions set forth in section 2-5-1 of this chapter. Such plan will be in consonance with the Georgia Natural Disaster Operations Plan and Nuclear Emergency Operations Plan, and shall be submitted to the governing officials of Dougherty County, Georgia and the City of Albany, Georgia, therein for approval, and thence to the Georgia Emergency Management Agency for approval;
(4)
To maintain the emergency management agency and carry out the day-to-day administration of the Dougherty County Emergency Management Program, including the submission of required reports, to the Georgia Emergency Management Agency;
(5)
To submit reports as required by governing officials in keeping with good management practices, e.g., financial, daily activity, etc.;
(6)
To obtain, with the authority of governing officials, a facility to be used as the Dougherty County Emergency Operating Center; and
(7)
To coordinate the activities of the Dougherty County Emergency Operating Center staff during periods of an emergency, and under the supervision of Dougherty County governing officials.
(Res. No. 92-012, § 2, 3-10-92)
Sec. 2-5-3. - Functional organization.
The Dougherty County Emergency Management Agency shall be established around existing city and county departments and the emergency functions described in section 2-5-1 above are assigned as follows:
EXPAND
Department/Agency Functions*
(1) Mayor, Chairman, Board of Commissioners of Dougherty County, Georgia Direction and control
(2) Police Department
Sheriff's Office Communications and warning - police services - evacuation
(3) Emergency Management Agency Public information State military support Training - Preliminary damage assessment and reporting - Public property assistance - Attack preparedness - Specific hazards
(4) Fire Department Search, rescue and recovery - Fire services - Hazardous materials - Radiological protection
(5) Public works Engineering - Petroleum and solid fuel services - Utilities
(6) School Superintendent Transportation Services - Food services
(7) Health Department Health and medical services
(8) Clerk's Office Administrative services - Resource management
(9) Department of Family and Children Services Social services - Shelter and temporary housing
(*As appropriate to the local organization, these functions can be assigned to existing departments or may be separate. Functions should be assigned consistent with the local Emergency Operations Plan.)
  Heads of city departments listed above are responsible for assisting county department heads in developing appropriate annexes to the local Emergency Operations Plan (EOP) for their emergency functions. Such annexes will be submitted to the emergency management coordinator for inclusion in the local EOP for submission to appropriate local officials for approval.
(Res. No. 92-012, § 3, 3-10-92)
Sec. 2-5-4. - Emergency powers.
In the event of a man-made or natural disaster, actual enemy attack upon the United States, or any other emergency which may affect the lives and property of the citizens of the City of Albany, Georgia, the Mayor of the City of Albany, Georgia, separately, or jointly with the Chairman, Board of Commissioners of Dougherty County, Georgia, or in their absences the county administrator and the city manager, may determine that an emergency or disaster exists and thereafter shall have and may exercise for such period as such emergency or disaster exists or continues, the following powers:
(1)
To enforce all rules, laws and regulations relating to emergency management, and to assume direct operational control over all emergency management resources;
(2)
To seize, or take for temporary use, any private property for the protection of the public;
(3)
To sell, lend, give or distribute all or any such property or supplies among the inhabitants of the county and to maintain a strict accounting of property or supplies distributed and for funds received for such property or supplies; and
(4)
To perform and exercise such other functions and duties, and take such emergency actions as may be necessary to promote and secure the safety, protection and well-being of the inhabitants of the county.
(Res. No. 92-012, § 4, 3-10-92)
Sec. 2-5-5. - Volunteers.
All persons, other than officers and employees of the City of Albany, Georgia, performing emergency functions pursuant to this resolution and ordinance, shall serve with or without compensation. While engaged in such emergency functions, duly assigned volunteers shall have the same immunities as city and county officers and employees.
(Res. No. 92-012, § 5, 3-10-92)
Sec. 2-5-6. - Penalty.
Any person violating any provision of this chapter, or any rule, order, or regulation made pursuant to this resolution or ordinance, shall, upon conviction thereof, be punishable for committing a misdemeanor.
(Res. No. 92-012, § 6, 3-10-92)
