Chapter 58 - PLANNING
FOOTNOTE(S):
--- (1) ---
Cross reference— Any zoning ordinance saved from repeal, § 1-7(10); administration, ch. 2; buildings and building regulations, ch. 18; environment, ch. 30; floods, ch. 34; manufactured homes and trailers, ch. 46; subdivisions, ch. 70
ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Secs. 58-1—58-30. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - COMPREHENSIVE PLAN

Sec. 58-31. - Adopted.
The Blairsville-Union County Comprehensive Plan is approved and adopted, along with the accompanying maps, goals, policies, objectives and programs, as a general guide for future growth, change, development and progress.
(Res. of 3-7-1994)
Secs. 58-32—58-60. - Reserved.
ARTICLE III. - PLANNING BOARD

FOOTNOTE(S):
--- (2) ---
Cross reference— Authorities, boards and commissions, § 2-171 et seq.
Sec. 58-61. - Established.
There is established a planning board for the county which shall be comprised of seven members, each of whom shall serve at the pleasure of the commissioner for terms of three years each and until their successors are appointed. Original appointments to the planning board shall be for terms of one, two and three years so that the terms of such members shall be staggered. Each member shall be designated by a post number. The commissioner may appoint one additional person as an ex officio member to act as an advisor.
(Res. No. 97-006, 3-25-1997)
Sec. 58-62. - Officers; budget; staff.
The planning board shall elect one of its members as chairman, who shall serve for one year or until reelected or a successor is elected. A second member shall be elected as vice-chairman, and shall serve for one year or until reelected or a successor is elected. A third member shall be elected as secretary, and shall serve for one year or until reelected or a successor is elected. The planning board is a volunteer board with no provisions for a budget or staff.
(Res. No. 97-006, § 1, 3-25-1997)
Cross reference— Officers and employees, § 2-61 et seq.
Sec. 58-63. - Meetings.
The planning board shall meet at least once each month at the call of the chair, and at such other times as the chair or the planning board may determine, shall adopt rules for the transaction of business and shall keep a record of its recommendations, findings and determinations, which record shall be a public record.
(Res. No. 97-006, § 2, 3-25-1997)
Sec. 58-64. - Staff support; reports.
(a)
The county erosion and sediment control officer is assigned as the liaison for the commissioner and the planning board, and the planning board shall seek the advice of the county erosion and sediment control officer.
(b)
The planning board shall make periodic reports to the commissioner as needed or requested.
(Res. No. 97-006, § 3, 3-25-1997)
Sec. 58-65. - Powers and duties.
Subject to the approval and authorization of the commissioner, it shall be the function and duty of the planning board to make such careful and comprehensive surveys and studies of existing conditions and probable future developments, and to prepare such plans for physical, social and economic growth as will best promote the public health, safety, morals, convenience, prosperity or the general welfare as well as efficiency and economy in the development of the unincorporated areas of the county. The planning board may recommend for adoption by the commissioner such plans, resolutions or regulations as the planning board determines desirable or necessary. The planning board shall review existing resolutions of the county, and recommend for adoption by the commissioner such additions or changes in such resolutions as it deems necessary or desirable. Included within such existing resolutions are the soil and sediment resolution and the resolution establishing general road and subdivision requirements. The planning board shall undertake such other duties as assigned by the commissioner from time to time.
(Res. No. 97-006, § 4, 3-25-1997)
Sec. 58-66. - Principal functions and responsibilities.
The principal functions of the planning board is to help the county anticipate the future and, at the same time, to conduct current business in a manner consciously designed to achieve county goals. At all times, planning board members shall closely cooperate with the commissioner, department heads, elected officials and citizen groups in order to plan for the future and implement such plans. A broad range of responsibilities of the planning board shall include, but is not limited to:
(1)
Maintaining and updating the county comprehensive plan;
(2)
Developing such specific plans as may be necessary and desirable for industrial parks, neighborhoods, park sites and other community facilities;
(3)
Assisting in the development of the capital improvements program;
(4)
Encouraging public participation in planning and governmental affairs;
(5)
Helping county officials, as well as neighborhood and special interest groups, define their needs and goals as a part of the planning process;
(6)
Assisting county government in formulating a shortterm work program and projects that will satisfy county objectives; and
(7)
Coordinating federal and state participation in local capital improvement projects.
Specific plans and programs of concern to the planning board shall include:
a.
Roads, streets, highways and public transportation;
b.
Flood or other pertinent environmental control;
c.
Revisions of subdivision regulations;
d.
Establishment of a housing inspection program, including minimum or better electrical, plumbing and other codes as outlined by the state;
e.
Establishment of a licensing regulation for building contractors operating in the county;
f.
Community appearance, including sign and billboard controls; and
g.
Soil and water conservation, including sedimentation controls.
(Res. No. 97-006, § 5, 3-25-1997)
