ARTICLE II. - BOARD OF ELECTIONS

FOOTNOTE(S):
--- (2) ---
Editor's note—Printed herein is the 2001 Ga. Laws, page 4105, which created the Board of Elections of Union County. Amendments to the act are indicated by parenthetical history notes following amended provisions. The absence of a history note indicates that the provision remains unchanged from the original act. Obvious misspellings have been corrected without notation. For stylistic purposes, a uniform system of headings, catchlines and citations to state statutes has been used. Additions made for clarity are indicated by brackets.
Section 1. - Created.
Pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 21-2-40, there is created the board of elections of Union County which shall have jurisdiction over the conduct of primaries and elections in Union County in accordance with the provisions of this act, which board of elections is sometimes referred to as "board" in this act.
Section 2. - Membership.
The board of elections of Union County shall be composed of five members, each of whom shall be an elector and resident of Union County and who shall be selected in the following manner:
(1)
Two members of the board shall be selected by the chairperson of the county executive committee of the political party which received the highest number of votes within the county for its candidate for President of the United States in the general election immediately preceding the appointment of the member. Each selection shall have been ratified by a majority of the members of the executive committee voting at a regularly scheduled meeting or at a meeting duly called and held for such purpose. Selected names shall be submitted to the governing authority of Union County for appointment as members of the board of elections for Union County;
(2)
Two members of the board shall be selected by the chairperson of the county executive committee of the political party which received the second highest number of votes within the county for its candidate for President of the United States in the general election immediately preceding the appointment of the member. Each selection shall have been ratified by a majority of the members of the executive committee voting at a regularly scheduled meeting or at a meeting duly called and held for such purpose. Selected names shall be submitted to the governing authority of Union County for appointment as members of the board of elections for Union County; and
(3)
The fifth member of the board of elections shall be appointed by the governing authority of Union County. Said member shall not be an officer or member of the executive committee of any political party at the time of such member's selection or at any time during such member's term of office as a member of the board of elections.
Section 3. - Chairperson.
The members of the board of elections shall elect one of the members of the board to serve as chairperson of the board.
Section 4. - Initial appointments.
In making the initial appointments to the board, the governing authority of Union County shall appoint two members, one from each political party, for an initial term beginning on September 1, 2001, and ending on December 31, 2002, and two members for an initial term beginning on September 1, 2001, and ending on December 31, 2003. The one member appointed pursuant to paragraph [subsection] (3) of section 2 of this act shall be appointed for an initial term beginning on September 1, 2001, and ending on December 31, 2004. Each member shall serve until a successor is appointed and qualified. Thereafter, a successor to each member of the board whose term of office is to expire shall be appointed to take office January 1 immediately following the expiration of such term and shall serve for a term of four years and until his or her successor is appointed and qualified.
Section 5. - Persons holding elective public office; family members.
No person who holds elective public office shall be eligible to serve as a member during the term of such elective office and the position of any member shall be deemed vacant upon such member's qualifying as a candidate for elective public office. Further, no immediate family member of an elected public official shall be eligible to serve as a member during the elected official's term of office.
Section 6. - Appointment of members.
The appointment of each member shall be made by the appointing authority by filing an affidavit with the Clerk of the Superior Court of Union County not later than 30 days preceding the date at which such member is to take office, stating the name and residential address of the person appointed and certifying that such member has been duly appointed as provided in this act. The clerk of the superior court shall record each of such certifications on the minutes of the court, shall certify the name of each appointed member of [to] the secretary of state, and shall provide for the issuance of appropriate commissions to the members within the same time and in a manner as provided by law for registrars. If any appointing authority does not, in conformity with this act, certify an appointment to the board within 30 days after the beginning of a term of office or within 30 days after the creation of a vacancy in that office, a vacancy shall be deemed to have been thereby created and the governor, pursuant to Article V, Section II, Paragraph VIII(a) of the Constitution of the State of Georgia shall fill that vacancy by making the appointment thereto and shall certify it as provided in this section.
Section 7. - Term of office.
Each member of the board shall serve until his or her successor is appointed and qualified, except in the event of resignation or removal as provided in this act, and shall:
(1)
Be eligible to succeed himself or herself and have the right to resign at any time by giving written notice of his or her resignation to the governing authority of Union County and to the Clerk of the Superior Court of Union County; and
(2)
Be subject to removal from the board at any time, for cause after notice and hearing, in the same manner and by the same authority as provided for removal of registrars.
Section 8. - Vacancy in office.
In the event a vacancy occurs in the office of any member before the expiration of his or her term, by removal, death, resignation, or otherwise, the governing authority of Union County shall appoint a successor to serve the remainder of the unexpired term, in the same manner as an original appointment to such post.
Section 9. - Oath of office.
Before entering upon his or her duties, each member of the board shall take substantially the same oath as is required by law for registrars and shall have the same privileges from arrest.
Section 10. - Duties and powers.
The board of elections shall, with regard to the preparation for and conduct and administration of elections and primaries, succeed to and exercise all duties and powers granted to and incumbent upon the judge of the probate court pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 21-2-1 et seq., the "Georgia Election Code," as the same now exists or may hereafter be amended, or any other provision of law.
Section 11. - Election superintendent relieved of powers and duties.
On September 1, 2001, the election superintendent of Union County shall be relieved from all powers and duties to which the board succeeds by the provisions of this act and shall deliver thereafter to the chairperson of the board, upon his or her written request, the custody of all equipment, supplies, materials, books, papers, records and facilities of every kind pertaining to such powers and duties.
Section 12. - Poll workers.
The board shall be responsible for the selection, appointment and training of poll workers in elections, and such workers shall be appointed, insofar as practicable, from lists provided to the board by the county executive committee of each political party.
Section 13. - Chief executive officer.
The chairperson of the board of elections shall be the chief executive officer of the board of elections and shall generally supervise, direct and control the administration of the affairs of the board of elections pursuant to law and duly adopted resolutions of the board of elections. The board of elections shall fix and establish by appropriate resolution entered on its minutes, directives governing the executions of matters within its jurisdiction.
Section 14. - Compensation.
Compensation for the members of the board of elections shall be in the same manner as registrars as prescribed in subsection (d) of O.C.G.A. § 21-2-212. Compensation for clerical assistants and other employees shall be such as may be fixed by the governing authority of Union County. Said compensation shall be paid wholly from the funds of Union County.
Section 15. - Provision of offices and employees.
The governing authority of Union County shall provide the board of elections with such proper and suitable offices and with such clerical assistants and other employees as the governing authority shall deem appropriate.
Section 16. - Definitions.
The words "election," "elector," "political party," "primary," "public office," "special election" and "special primary" shall have the same meaning ascribed to those words by O.C.G.A. § 21-2-1 et seq., the "Georgia Election Code," as the same now exists or may hereafter be amended, unless otherwise clearly apparent from the context of this act.
Section 17. - Submission of act for approval.
It shall be the duty of the governing authority of Union County to require the attorney therefor to submit this act for approval pursuant to Section 5 of the federal Voting Rights Act of 1965, as amended.
Section 18. - Effective date.
Only for purposes of making initial appointments to the board, this act shall become effective July 1, 2001. For all other purposes, this act shall become effective on September 1, 2001.
