ARTICLE I. - OFFICE OF COMMISSIONER

FOOTNOTE(S):
--- (1) ---
Editor's note—Printed herein is the 1984 Ga. Laws, page 4281, which created the office of commissioner as the governing authority of the county. Amendments to the act are indicated by parenthetical history notes following amended provisions. The absence of a history note indicates that the provision remains unchanged from the original act. Obvious misspellings have been corrected without notation. For stylistic purposes, a uniform system of headings, catchlines and citations to state statutes has been used. Additions made for clarity are indicated by brackets.
State Law reference— County a body corporate, O.C.G.A. § 36-1-3; organization of county government, O.C.G.A. § 36-5-20 et seq.; matters over which governing authority has jurisdiction, O.C.G.A. § 36-5-22.1; counties a body corporate and politic, Ga. Const. art. IX, § I, ¶ I; county officers; election; term; compensation, Ga. Const. art. IX, § I, ¶ III; home rule for counties, Ga. Const. art. IX, § II, ¶ I.
Section 1. - Created.
There is created the office of commissioner of Union County as the governing authority of said county. The commissioner shall exercise the powers and duties and be charged with the responsibilities imposed upon said officer by this act.
Section 2. - Term of office.
(a)
The first commissioner of Union County provided for by this act shall be elected at the general election of 1984 and shall take office on the first day of January, 1985, for a term of four years and until a successor is elected and qualified. Thereafter, successors shall be elected at the general election immediately preceding the expiration of the term of office and shall take office on the first day of January immediately following the election for a term of four years and until a successor is elected and qualified.
(b)
The commissioner shall be elected by a majority of the qualified voters of Union County voting on a county-wide basis. The commissioner shall be nominated and elected in accordance with the provisions of O.C.G.A. § 21-2-1 et seq., known as the "Georgia Election Code."
Section 3. - Vacancy in office.
(a)
In the event a vacancy occurs for any reason in the office of commissioner of Union County, such vacancy shall be filled for the unexpired term by special election. Such special election shall be called by the election superintendent of Union County within ten days after the date of the vacancy and shall be held not less than 30, nor more than 45, days after the date of the issuance of the call. Such special election shall be held and conducted in accordance with the applicable provisions of O.C.G.A. § 21-2-1 et seq., known as the "Georgia Election Code."
(b)
From the date of the occurrence of a vacancy until such vacancy is filled by special election as provided for by subsection (a) of this section, the judge of the Probate Court of Union County shall be vested with and exercise the powers and duties of the commissioner of Union County.
Section 4. - Oath of office.
Before entering upon the discharge of the commissioner's duties, a person elected commissioner shall subscribe to an oath before the judge of the Probate Court of Union County for the true and faithful performance of duties as commissioner and that the person is not the holder of any unaccounted for public funds.
Section 5. - Surety bond.
The commissioner shall give a satisfactory surety bond approved by the judge of the Probate court of Union County and payable to said officer and filed in the office of the judge of the probate court in the sum of $25,000.00, conditioned upon the faithful performance of the duties of the commissioner's office. The cost of such bond shall be paid from the funds of Union County.
Section 6. - Salary.
(a)
The commissioner shall receive an annual salary which shall be equal to $4,800.00 above the annual salary now or hereafter received by the elective county officer of Union County who receives the highest annual salary pursuant to general or local law. For purposes of this subsection, the elective county officers of Union County shall be the clerk of the superior court, sheriff, judge of the probate court and tax commissioner of Union County. Such salary for the commissioner shall be paid in equal monthly installments from the funds of Union County.
(b)
In addition to the compensation provided for by subsection (a) of this section, the commissioner shall receive an expense allowance of $200.00 per month to reimburse said officer for expenses incurred in carrying out official duties within Union County. Said officer shall also be reimbursed for actual and necessary expenses incurred by said officer when traveling outside of Union County on official business. The expenses provided for in this subsection shall be paid from the funds of Union County. In the event said officer uses said officer's personal automobile in carrying out official duties, the expenses for the maintenance and operation of said automobile shall be paid from county funds, and such expenses shall be in addition to other expenses provided for by this subsection.
(1990 Ga. Laws, page 4396)
Section 7. - Full-time position; maintenance of office; hours of business.
(a)
The commissioner shall devote full-time to the business and interests of Union County in the performance of the commissioner's duties.
(b)
The commissioner shall have and maintain an office for the transaction of county business at the courthouse of Union County. The office of the commissioner shall remain open during regular hours of business on all days except Saturdays, Sundays and holidays.
Section 8. - Powers.
The commissioner shall have the power to fix and establish policies, rules and regulations governing all matters within the commissioner's jurisdiction as the governing authority of the county. The commissioner may exercise the powers and shall be subject to the duties and responsibilities now or hereafter provided by the Constitution and general laws of this state relative to county governing authorities. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, the following specific powers are vested in the commissioner:
(1)
To levy taxes;
(2)
To make appropriations;
(3)
To fix rates and charges for services provided by the county;
(4)
To authorize the incurring of indebtedness;
(5)
To order work done where the cost is to be assessed against benefited property and to fix the basis for such assessment;
(6)
To authorize and enter into contracts;
(7)
To establish, alter, open, close, build, repair or abolish public roads, private ways, bridges and ferries, according to law;
(8)
To establish, abolish or change election precincts and militia districts according to law;
(9)
To allow the insolvent lists for the county;
(10)
To accept for the county the provisions of any optional statute where the statute permits its acceptance by the governing authority of the county;
(11)
To create and change the boundaries of special taxing districts as authorized by law;
(12)
To fix the bonds of county officers where same are not fixed by statute;
(13)
To enact any ordinances, resolutions or other legislation the county may be given authority to enact;
(14)
To determine the priority of capital improvements;
(15)
To call bond elections; and
(16)
To exercise all of the power and authority heretofore vested by law in the judge of the probate court when sitting for county purposes, together with all power and authority which may hereafter be delegated by law to the governing authority of Union County or to the governing authorities of counties generally.
Section 9. - Authority to require officers to report of financial affairs.
The commissioner is authorized to require all county officers to report on the general or specific conduct of the financial affairs of their respective offices.
Section 10. - Power over employees' compensation.
(a)
The commissioner shall have the exclusive power and authority to appoint, remove and fix the compensation of all employees of the county.
(b)
The appointment and removal of, and the compensation to be paid to, persons filling offices and positions created by state statute, where not otherwise prescribed by such statute, shall be made and fixed by the commissioner.
Section 11. - Compliance with budgeting and auditing procedures.
The commissioner shall comply with the budgeting and auditing procedures and requirements set forth in O.C.G.A. § 36-81-1 et seq., relative to budgets and audits of local governments.
Section 12. - Expenditure of county funds.
The expenditure of county funds shall be made in accordance with the county budget or amendments thereto adopted by the commissioner. The commissioner shall enforce compliance with this requirement by all departments of county government, including the departments of the elected county officers, and to this end, the commissioner shall institute a system to control county purchasing and to account for the expenditure of all funds budgeted and appropriated by the commissioner.
Section 13. - Effective date.
The provisions of this act necessary for the election in 1984 of the commissioner of Union County created by this act shall be effective upon the approval of this act by the governor or upon its otherwise becoming law. This act shall become effective for all purposes on January 1, 1985.
