Chapter 1-4 - BOARDS, COMMISSIONS, AUTHORITIES[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Cross reference— Recreation authority, § 2-13-2 et seq.; airport commission, § 2-3-30 et seq.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Secs. 1-4-1—1-4-19. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - ROME-FLOYD COUNTY DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY

Sec. 1-4-20. - Created; members; powers.
Article VII, Section VII, Paragraph V of the Constitution of the State of Georgia [Const. 1983, Art. IX, § 6, ¶¶ 1, 2] is hereby amended by adding at the end thereof the following:
"(A)
In addition to the purposes for which revenue anticipation obligations may be issued by counties, municipal corporations and political subdivisions, as provided in said Article VII, Section VII, Paragraph V of the Constitution of the State of Georgia [Const. 1983, Art. IX, § 6, ¶ 1, 2], the Rome-Floyd County Development Authority, hereinafter created, be and is hereby authorized to issue revenue obligations to provide funds to be used by said authority in assisting, promoting, establishing and developing new industries, and assisting, promoting and expanding existing industry, agriculture, trade and commerce within the territorial limits of Floyd County, Georgia, as hereinafter provided. Said purposes are hereby found, determined and declared to be for the benefit of the citizens and residents of said county and to be an essential governmental function in relieving unemployment, improving the economy, limiting poor relief assistance, developing natural resources, and otherwise promoting the general welfare.
(B)
In furtherance of the purposes for which such issuance of revenue anticipation obligations is authorized there is hereby created a body corporate and politic to be known as the `Rome-Floyd County Development Authority,' which shall be deemed to be a creature of the State of Georgia, an instrumentality of the County of Floyd, and a public corporation. The name of said authority may be changed from time to time by an act of the general assembly. The said authority is created for the purposes of assisting, promoting, establishing and developing new industry, and assisting, promoting and expanding existing industry, agriculture, trade and commerce within the territorial limits of Floyd County, Georgia, both within and without the limits of municipalities therein, for the public good and general welfare of said county and its citizens. The scope and jurisdiction of the authority is restricted to the territorial limits of Floyd County, Georgia. The authority shall not be operated for profit, is an institution of purely public charity, and is an industrial development agency qualified to receive loans and other assistance from the Industrial Development Commission of the State of Georgia, or other governmental agencies.
(C)
In carrying out the foregoing objectives, the authority shall be deemed to be engaging in such functions of government, activities and transactions as the County of Floyd, the City of Rome, and the City of Cave Spring are by law authorized to undertake.
(D)
The said authority shall consist of seven (7) members, one (1) of whom shall be the chairman of the city commission of the City of Rome; one (1) of whom shall be the chairman of the board of commissioners of Floyd County; one (1) of whom shall be the president of the Chamber of Commerce of Rome and Floyd County, or its successor; one (1) of whom shall be the chairman of the Industrial Development Committee of the Chamber of Commerce of Rome and Floyd County, or its successor; and three (3) of whom shall be appointed by the other four (4) members first above mentioned.
(1)
The terms of office of the members who are the chairman of the city commission of the City of Rome, the chairman of the board of commissioners of Floyd County, the president of the Chamber of Commerce of Rome and Floyd County, or its successor, and the chairman of the Industrial Development Committee of the Chamber of Commerce of Rome and Floyd County, or its successor, shall run concurrently with their respective tenures of such offices in said bodies, and their respective successors in such offices shall succeed them as members of the said authority.
(2)
The three (3) members initially appointed by the other four (4) members first mentioned shall be appointed for terms expiring December 31, 1963, December 31, 1964, and December 31, 1965, respectively; and thereafter their respective successors shall be appointed for terms of three (3) years. In the event of the death or resignation of either one of said appointed members, his successor shall be appointed by the remaining members for the balance of the unexpired term. No vacancy shall impair the power of the authority to act.
(3)
Prior to taking office the members shall subscribe to the following oath, to wit: `I do solemnly swear that I will fully and fairly perform the duties as a member of the Rome-Floyd County Development Authority, So Help Me God.'
(4)
The members of the said authority shall be entitled to no compensation.
(E)
As used herein, the following words and terms shall have the following meanings, unless a different meaning clearly appears from the context:
(1)
The word `authority' shall mean the `Rome-Floyd County Development Authority,' created hereby.
(2)
The word `project' shall be deemed to mean and include property, real and/or personal, acquired or held by the authority for the assistance, promotion, establishment or development of a new industry or industries, or the assistance, promotion or expansion of existing industry, trade or commerce in Floyd County, or any combination thereof; the acquisition of any such property for any such purpose or purposes; the improvement of any such property or properties; and/or the construction, installation and/or expansion of one (1) or more buildings, plants, and/or articles of equipment for the purpose of using, selling, donating, leasing and/or renting such land, properties, improvements, structures or equipment to public or private persons, firms, corporations and/or associations for such purposes.
(3)
The term `cost of project' shall embrace: the cost of lands, buildings, improvements, machinery, equipment, properties, easements, rights, franchises, materials, labor and services acquired and/or contracted for; the cost of financing charges and/or of interest prior to and during construction; architectural, accounting, engineering, inspection, fiscal and/or legal expenses; cost of plans and/or specifications; and/or any other expenses necessary or incident to construction and/or improvements, and/or to determining the feasibility and/or practicability of the project, administrative expenses, and/or the acquisition, construction, equipping and/or operating [of] any project or any part thereof.
(F)
Any four (4) members shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of ordinary business of the authority; however, any action with respect to any project of the authority must be approved by not less than four (4) affirmative votes.
(G)
The powers of the authority herein created shall include, but are not limited to, the power, for its corporate purposes:
(1)
To have a corporate seal and alter the same at pleasure.
(2)
To contract and be contracted with, sue and be sued, implead or be impleaded, and complain and defend in all courts of law and equity, to contract with the State of Georgia and any instrumentality thereof, any county or municipality thereof, and any other political subdivisions, and with private persons, firms, corporations, and associations.
(3)
To receive and administer gifts, grants and donations and to administer trusts.
(4)
To buy, acquire, receive as gifts, own, improve, expand, develop, operate, maintain, sell, donate, lease as lessor or lessee, mortgage, pledge, convey to secure debt, and/or otherwise encumber and/or dispose of land, buildings, equipment, furnishings, and/or property of all kinds, real and/or personal, within Floyd County, Georgia, and to make a contract or contracts and/or to execute any instrument or document for the accomplishment thereof, or other purposes.
(5)
To make contracts, and to execute any and all instruments necessary or convenient to, or in aid of, the accomplishment of any of the purposes of said authority, and/or the exercise of any power or powers of said authority.
(6)
To enter into any contract or contracts for any period of time not exceeding fifty (50) years.
(7)
To appoint and select officers, agents, and employees, including engineering, architectural and construction experts, fiscal agents and attorneys, and to fix their compensation.
(8)
To construct, erect, buy, receive as a gift, acquire, own, repair, remodel, maintain, equip, furnish, extend, expand, develop, improve, donate, sell, lease as lessor or lessee, equip, add to, operate and manage projects and to pay the costs of such projects from any income of the authority, from the proceeds of revenue bonds issued and sold by the authority or others, from any taxes levied for the purpose by the State of Georgia, Floyd County, or any of the municipalities therein, or from any contributions or loans by political subdivisions or instrumentalities, persons, firms, or corporations, all of which the authority is hereby authorized to receive and accept and use.
(9)
To elect its own officers from the membership of the authority; to elect and employ an executive director who is not required to be a member of the authority; and to authorize and empower such officers to act for the authority generally or in any specific matter.
(10)
To borrow money and to execute debentures, bonds, notes, mortgages, deeds or bills of sale to secure debt, trust deeds and/or other such instruments as may be necessary or convenient to evidence and secure such borrowing.
(11)
To issue and sell revenue bonds for the purpose of raising funds for the payment, in whole or in part, of the cost of any project of the authority; to secure the payment of the obligations of such bonds by, but not limited to, selling, conveying, mortgaging, pledging and/or assigning any or all of its funds, income and/or property; and to exercise all the rights, powers and privileges, and to be subject to all the duties and liabilities, which a municipality may exercise and/or be subject to under the provisions of the Revenue Bond Law (Chapter 87-8 of the Code of Georgia) [O.C.G.A. section 36-82-60 et seq.], as the same now is, or hereafter may be, amended. The rights, powers and privileges of the authority are not limited to those of such a municipality, however.
(12)
To use public funds appropriated to it, the rents, profits and proceeds from the projects erected, leased or sold, and other funds and income of the authority, to provide for the operation and maintenance of such projects or other projects, to discharge the principal, interest and expenses of bonds, revenue bonds, and notes issued by the authority, to pay other debts of the authority, and to further and promote the objectives of the authority.
(13)
To exercise any power granted by the laws of the State of Georgia to public corporations or authorities performing similar functions.
(14)
To accumulate its funds from year to year and to invest accumulated funds in any manner that public funds of the State of Georgia or any of its political subdivisions may be invested.
(15)
To adopt, alter, amend and/or repeal its own bylaws, rules and regulations governing the manner in which its business may be transacted and in which the powers granted to it may be enjoyed, as the authority may deem necessary or expedient in facilitating its business.
(16)
To do all things necessary and convenient to carry out the powers expressly conferred by this Act upon the authority.
(H)
The acquisition, construction, improvement, betterment, expansion or extension of any undertaking or project of the authority, and the issuance in anticipation of the collection of revenues of such undertaking or project, of bonds to provide funds to pay the whole or a part of the costs thereof, may be authorized by resolution or resolutions of the authority which may be adopted at a regular or special meeting by a majority of the members of the authority. Unless otherwise provided therein, such resolution or resolutions shall take effect immediately and need not be laid over or published or posted. The authority in determining the cost of any undertaking or project for which revenue bonds are to be issued may include all costs as hereinbefore defined. Such bonds shall bear such date or dates, mature at such time or times, not exceeding thirty (30) years from their respective dates, bear interest at such rate or rates not exceeding seven (7) percent per annum, and may be in such denominations and may carry such registration privileges and be subject to redemption and may contain such terms, covenants, assignments and conditions as the resolution or resolutions authorizing the issuance of such bonds may provide. Except as herein provided to the contrary, such bonds shall be issued and validated in the Superior Court of Floyd County, Georgia, in the same manner as revenue bonds of municipalities are issued and validated under the Revenue Bond Law (Ga. L. 1937, pp. 761—774; Chapter 87-8 of the Code of Georgia) [O.C.G.A. section 36-82-60 et seq.], as now and hereafter amended. In the proceedings to validate such bonds, the Rome-Floyd County Development Authority shall be named as party defendant. In the event no bill of exceptions is filed within the time prescribed by law, or if filed, the judgment validating the bonds shall be affirmed by the Supreme Court of Georgia, such judgment shall be forever conclusive as to the validity of said bonds and the security therefor against said authority.
(I)
All property, real and personal, the title to which is vested in the authority, and all debentures, notes, bonds, and revenue bonds issued by the authority, and interest thereon and income therefrom, shall be exempt from state, county, city, and local taxation for any purpose.
(J)
It shall be the duty of the authority to have all persons handling funds of the authority fully and adequately bonded for their faithful accounting for such funds.
(K)
The authority shall not be authorized to create in any manner any debt, liability or obligation, against the State of Georgia, Floyd County, or any municipality therein. No debt, liability or obligation of the authority shall be considered a pledge or loan of the credit of the State of Georgia, or any county, city or other subdivision thereof.
(L)
If the authority shall deem it expedient to construct any project or use any project already constructed on lands, the title to which shall be in the County of Floyd and/or any incorporated city or town in said county, the governing authorities of the County of Floyd and of said municipalities, respectively, are authorized in their discretion to convey title to such lands, including any improvements thereon, without cost, to the authority. Said county and/or said municipalities may donate to said authority, real estate, personal property and service for any such project. Any such land, improvements, or personal property so conveyed or donated to the authority may be mortgaged, conveyed, or pledged to secure obligations of the authority.
(M)
Should said authority for any reason be dissolved, title to all property of every kind and nature, real and personal, held by the authority at the time of such dissolution, shall be conveyed to Floyd County subject to any mortgages, liens, leases or other encumbrances outstanding against or in respect to said property. No private interest shall exist in the property of the authority. The authority shall hold title only for the benefit of the public.
(N)
The books and records of the authority shall be audited at least annually, at the expense of the authority, by a competent independent auditor; and the minutes and records of the same shall be filed with the clerk of the board of commissioners of said county, and shall be available for public inspection.
(O)
The authority shall exist and have all of said powers, and the right to exercise the same for its corporate purposes, regardless of whether or not it shall issue revenue anticipation obligations hereunder.
(P)
This amendment shall be effective immediately upon proclamation of its ratification by the governor. No enabling act or legislation of the general assembly shall be necessary to place the same in effect. However, the General Assembly of the State of Georgia is hereby authorized to enact any laws from time to time, not in conflict herewith, to further define and prescribe the powers and duties of the authority and the exercise thereof, to enlarge and/or restrict the same, to regulate the management and conduct of the authority, and/or to further and assist the objectives and purposes of the authority.
(Q)
The provisions hereof are severable, and if any of the provisions hereof shall be held in violation of the constitution of the United States or invalid by any court of competent jurisdiction, the decision of such court shall not affect, impair or invalidate any of the remaining portions hereof. If this amendment necessarily conflicts with some previous provision of the constitution of the State of Georgia, this amendment shall prevail as a modification pro tanto of the former provision."
(Ga. L. 1962, p. 1067; Code 1979, § 3-201)
Sec. 1-4-21. - Continued in existence.
That constitutional amendment which was proposed by Resolution Act No. 216 (House Resolution No. 491-965) of the 1962 General Assembly (Ga. L. 1962, p. 1067), and which was duly ratified at the 1962 general election and which relates to the creation of the Rome-Floyd County Development Authority and provisions for its powers, authorities, funds, purposes, and procedures connected therewith shall not be repealed or deleted on July 1, 1987, as a part of the constitution of the State of Georgia, but is specifically continued in force and effect on and after that date as a part of the constitution of the State of Georgia.
(Ga. L. 1985, p. 4877, § 1)
Sec. 1-4-22. - Powers under Development Authorities Law—Granted.
In addition to any other powers granted to the Rome-Floyd County Development Authority and without limiting any such powers, said authority is hereby granted all powers granted to authorities under the Development Authorities Law, approved March 28, 1969, (Ga. L. 1969, p. 137) [O.C.G.A. section 36-62-1 et seq.] as now or hereafter amended.
(Ga. L. 1980, p. 3060, § 2)
Sec. 1-4-23. - Same—Exercise thereof regarding projects thereunder.
In addition to any other projects regarding which the Rome-Floyd County Development Authority may exercise its powers and duties and without limiting any such projects, such powers and duties may also be exercised regarding any "project" as defined in the Development Authorities Law, approved March 28, 1969, (Ga. L. 1969, p. 137) as now or hereafter amended.
(Ga. L. 1980, p. 3060, § 3)
Editor's note— See subsection (E)(2) of § 1-4-20 for a definition of "project."
Sec. 1-4-24. - Setting rates.
In addition to any other powers granted to the Rome-Floyd County Development Authority and without limiting any such powers, said authority is hereby authorized to set the rate or rates at which bonds of the authority bear interest without any ceiling as to such rate or rates.
(Ga. L. 1980, p. 3060, § 4)
Secs. 1-4-25—1-4-29. - Reserved.
ARTICLE III. - HOSPITAL AUTHORITY[2]

Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
State Law reference— Creation of authority, O.C.G.A. § 31-7-72; audit required, O.C.G.A. § 31-7-91.

Sec. 1-4-30. - Membership.
(a)
The members of the Hospital Authority of Floyd County who are serving as such upon the date this Act becomes effective in 1996 shall serve out their terms of office and until their successors are appointed and qualified pursuant to the provisions of this section. That member of the authority who is a member of the board of commissioners of Floyd County and appointed by such board shall serve until such member's term of office as a member of that board of commissioners next expires and until the appointment and qualification of a successor.
(b)
The successors to the members of the authority whose terms of office expire on or after the 1996 effective date of this section and all future successors to members whose terms of office expire shall be nominated by the board of commissioners of Floyd County and selected by the grand jury of Floyd County. That board shall submit a list of three (3) eligible persons to the grand jury of Floyd County. Such list shall be furnished to the foreman of the grand jury of Floyd County, and that grand jury shall either select by majority vote one (1) of the persons named in such list or decline to select any of the persons named in the list. Should the grand jury decline to select any of the persons named in the list, the foreman of the grand jury shall so notify the board of commissioners. Such board shall then submit a new list of three (3) eligible persons, none of whom was named on the earlier list, to the grand jury. The grand jury shall select one (1) of the persons named in such list or decline to select any of the persons named in the list. This process shall be repeated until one (1) of the persons named in the list is selected. Nothing in this section shall prohibit a member of the board of commissioners of Floyd County from being selected as a member of Hospital Authority of Floyd County.
(c)
If a vacancy occurs in the office of any member of the authority other than by expiration of term, that vacancy shall be filled within sixty (60) days of the date of the vacancy as provided in subsection (b) of this section, unless fewer than sixty (60) days remain in the term of the vacated office, in which case the office may remain vacant for the remainder of its term at the discretion of the board of commissioners of Floyd County and shall thereafter be filled as provided in subsection (b) of this section. The duration of the terms of office of members of the hospital authority shall not be changed by this section.
(Ga. L. 1973, p. 2057, § 2; Ga. L. 1996, p. 3807, § 2; Ga. L. 1997, p. 3675, § 1)
Secs. 1-4-31—1-4-39. - Reserved.
ARTICLE IV. - ROME-FLOYD COUNTY HUMAN RELATIONS COMMISSION

Sec. 1-4-40. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
City means the City of Rome, Georgia, a municipal corporation.
Commission means the Rome-Floyd County Human Relations Commission created by joint ordinances of the City of Rome and Floyd County.
County means Floyd County, Georgia, a political subdivision of the State of Georgia.
(Amend. of 6-28-94, § 1)
Sec. 1-4-41. - Creation of commission.
The Rome-Floyd County Human Relations Commission is hereby created and established by this ordinance [article] in conjunction with the passage of an identical ordinance by the Rome City Commission.
(Amend. of 6-28-94, § 1)
Sec. 1-4-42. - Composition; terms of members; appointment of successors; filling of vacancies; removal; service without compensation.
(a)
The commission shall consist of twenty (20) voting members, one (1) of whom shall be a member of the city commission, appointed by that body, and one (1) of whom shall be a member of the county board of commissioners, appointed by that body. Nine (9) of the remaining members shall be appointed by the city commission, and nine (9) of the remaining members shall be appointed by the county board of commissioners from a list of persons submitted by the nominating committee of the commission following the guidelines of the Georgia Human Relations Commission.
(b)
No restrictions on numbers of representatives living in the city or county shall be established.
(c)
The members shall serve for three-year staggered terms and until their successors are appointed as provided for in this section. Initially, each local government shall appoint three (3) members to serve for a period of one (1) year, three (3) members to serve for a period of two (2) years and three (3) members to serve for a period of three (3) years. No member may serve more than two (2) consecutive terms, not to exceed six (6) years.
(d)
Any vacancy in membership, whether caused by the expiration of a member's term, or otherwise, shall, subject to the confirmation procedures contained in subsection (e), be filled by the governing body which originally appointed that member. Any appointment for an unexpired term shall terminate at the expiration of such term. All members shall serve without compensation, but may be reimbursed for actual expenses incurred in connection with their official duties.
(e)
When any vacancy on the commission occurs, the commission shall, subject to the written policies and procedures established by the commission and approved by the city and county, recommend to the appropriate local government the name of at least two (2) persons to fill such vacancy. The appropriate local government shall appoint the replacement from the names submitted by the commission, or shall direct the commission, consistent with its said policies and procedures, to make additional recommendations for said appointment. The local government shall not appoint any person to fill any vacancy on the commission who has not been recommended by the commission.
(Amend of 6-28-94, § 1)
Sec. 1-4-43. - Organization; rules; staff, finances.
(a)
The commission shall elect its chairman, vice-chairman, and secretary from among its appointed members. The term of officers shall be one (1) year, or until they are re-elected or until their successors are elected. The appointed secretary may be an officer or employee of the city or county, or a member of the commission. The commission shall determine its time of meetings, and shall make its own rules of procedure, including any rule, providing for termination of membership by reason of non-attendance at meetings. All meetings of the commission at which official action is taken shall be open to the public, and all records of the commission shall be public records.
(b)
The commission may appoint such employees and staff as it may deem necessary for such work and may cooperate with, contract with, or accept funds from federal, state, or local, public or semi-public agencies or private individuals or corporations; may expend such funds; and may carry out such cooperative undertakings and contracts. The expenditures of the commission, exclusive of gifts and contract receipts, shall be within the amounts appropriated for the purpose by the governing bodies of the city and county.
(Amend. of 6-28-94, § 1)
Sec. 1-4-44. - Powers and duties.
The commission shall have the following duties and functions:
(1)
To encourage, promote, and develop fair and equal treatment and opportunity in the Rome-Floyd County Community for all persons regardless of race, color, creed, sex, religion, national origin, age, and physical or mental impairment (the "affected persons");
(2)
To cooperate with and provide guidance to local government agencies on human relations matters;
(3)
To cooperate with private industry, community, professional, civic and religious organizations, and federal, state, county and municipal agencies in the development of public information programs, leadership, and activities in the interest of equal opportunity and treatment of all the affected persons;
(4)
To examine, study and inform the public as to complaints received concerning discriminatory practices regarding the affected persons, and transmit such complaints to appropriate agencies for investigation and corrective action, when necessary;
(5)
To coordinate research projects and studies and to make reports on human relations to the city commission and county commission;
(6)
To implement programs which will insure fairness to all minority groups in such areas as housing, recreation, education, employment, law enforcement, vocational guidance and related matters;
(7)
To provide a forum for airing human relations problems and to promote cross-cultural and inter-community communication;
(8)
To recommend to the city commission and county board of commissioners such additional legislation and programs to effectuate the purposes of this article; and
(9)
Perform such other human relations duties as may be reasonably requested of the commission by either the city commission or county board of commissioners.
(Amend. of 6-28-94, § 1)
