Chapter 2 - ADMINISTRATION[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Cross reference— Administration of building regulations, § 14-31 et seq.; licensing and registration of businesses generally, § 18-26 et seq.; civil emergencies, ch. 22; historic preservation commission, § 42-31 et seq.; planning, ch. 54; planning commission, § 54-26 et seq.; downtown development authority, § 54-56 et seq.; taxation, ch. 74; utilities, ch. 82; tree board, § 86-56 et seq.; administration and enforcement of zoning regulations, § 90-801 et seq.; board of zoning appeals, § 90-836 et seq.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 2-1. - Meetings of mayor and council.
(a)
The regular meetings of the mayor and council shall be held on the second Monday of each month.
(b)
Notice of meetings of the mayor and council shall be posted on the front and back doors of the city hall, at least 24 hours prior to the meeting. Notice of meetings shall be furnished to the local newspaper in which the city places legal publications, in time for publication of the newspaper before the time of the meeting for which the notice is given.
(Code 1989, § 2-1)
Sec. 2-2. - Municipal court—Created.
There is created for the city a municipal court.
(Code 1989, § 2-2)
Charter reference— Recorder authorized, § 42.
Sec. 2-3. - Same—Bimonthly sessions.
Sessions of the municipal court will be held bimonthly, on the second and fourth Tuesdays.
(Code 1989, § 2-3)
Charter reference— Appeals, § 42.
Sec. 2-4. - Social security—Declaration of policy and purpose; execution of agreements.
(a)
It is declared to be the policy and purpose of the city to extend under the agreement entered into by the state and the federal social security administrator, to the city employees and officials and its instrumentalities, not excluded by law or ordinance, the benefits of the system of old age and survivors insurance as authorized by the federal social security act and amendments thereto, including Public Law 734 of the 81st Congress, and as provided for in O.C.G.A. §§ 47-18-1—47-18-80. In pursuance of such policy and for that purpose, the city shall take such action as may be required by applicable state or federal laws or regulations.
(b)
The mayor is authorized and directed to execute all necessary agreements and amendments thereto with the state employees' retirement system and officials as provided for in subsection (a) of this section.
(Code 1989, § 2-4)
Sec. 2-5. - Same—Withholding from salaries or wages; contributions.
(a)
Withholding from salaries or wages of employees and officials for the purpose provided for in section 2-4 is authorized to be made in the amounts and at such times as may be required by applicable state and federal laws and regulations, and shall be paid over to the Employees' Retirement System of Georgia.
(b)
There shall be appropriated from general funds such amounts at such times as may be required by applicable state and federal laws and regulations for employer's contributions, administrative expenses, and a guaranty fund to ensure that the state will not incur any debt or loss as a result of the agreement referred to in section 2-4. Such funds shall be paid over to the Employees' Retirement System of Georgia in accordance with regulations established by such agency.
(Code 1989, § 2-5)
Sec. 2-6. - Same—Records and reports.
The city shall keep such records and make such reports as may be required by applicable state and federal laws and regulations for the purposes of section 2-4.
(Code 1989, § 2-6)
Sec. 2-7. - Same—Authority limited.
There is excluded from sections 2-4 through 2-6 any authority to make any agreement with respect to any position or any employee or official not authorized to be covered by applicable state or federal law or regulation.
(Code 1989, § 2-7)
Sec. 2-8. - Record management plan.
The records management plan, one or more copies of which is on file in the office of the city clerk, is incorporated in this Code and made a part of this Code as fully as if set out at length in this section.
(Code 1989, § 2-9)
State Law reference— Georgia Records Act, O.C.G.A. § 50-18-91 et seq.
Sec. 2-9. - Voiding of city contracts for racially discriminatory, insulting or offensive conduct.
(a)
Purpose. The City of Washington, Georgia (hereinafter "the city") has a substantial interest in representing and promoting the values of its residents and providing quality services to its citizens. Racially discriminatory, insulting or offensive conduct does not promote this interest or reflect the values of the city's elected officials, employees or residents.
(b)
Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply:
The city: The City of Washington, Georgia.
Contractor: Any party entering into a contract to provide goods or services to the City of Washington, Georgia.
(c)
Prohibited conduct. All contractors shall refrain from engaging in any racially discriminatory, insulting or offensive conduct while under contract to provide goods or services to the city. If, at any time while under contract with the city, a contractor or a contractor's employees or agents engage in conduct deemed by the city to be racially discriminatory, insulting or offensive, this conduct shall constitute a material breach making the contract voidable.
(d)
Procedure for handling complaints. Complaints alleging racially discriminatory, insulting or offensive conduct against a contractor or a contractor's employees or agents at any time while under contract with the city for the provision of goods or services will be resolved in the following manner:
(1)
The city administrator shall receive all complaints of racially discriminatory, insulting or offensive conduct against a contractor or a contractor's employees or agents at any time while under contract with the city for the provision of goods or services.
(2)
Upon receipt of a complaint, the city administrator shall notify the contractor and conduct an investigation into the matter. After an investigation into the complaint, the city administrator shall provide the findings to the city council and mayor. A quorum of the city council, by majority vote, shall determine whether the findings warrant a full hearing into the matter. If so, a hearing shall be scheduled before a quorum of the city council. The parties shall be notified in advance of the hearing's date and time. At the hearing, each party shall have the opportunity to be represented by counsel and to present evidence on their behalf.
(3)
If, at the conclusion of the hearing, the city council determines by majority vote that the conduct alleged was racially discriminatory, insulting or offensive, then the contract shall be deemed to be in material breach of the contract. The city council shall then determine, by majority vote, whether to void the contract. If the contract if voided, the city shall compensate the contractor for all goods and services provided up to the date of the voiding of the contract.
(e)
Required contract language. Effective from the date of adoption of this section [May 14, 2008], all future contracts and requests for proposals involving the provision of goods or services to the city may include the following language:
The City of Washington, Georgia (hereinafter "the City"), has a substantial interest in representing and promoting the values of its residents and providing quality services to its citizens. Racially discriminatory, insulting or offensive conduct does not promote this interest or reflect the values of the City's elected officials, employees or residents. Therefore, any party entering into a contract to provide goods or services for the City (hereinafter "Contractor") shall refrain from engaging in any racially discriminatory, insulting or offensive conduct. If at any time while under contract with the City a contractor or a contractor's employees or agents engage in conduct deemed by the City to be racially discriminatory, insulting or offensive, pursuant to the procedures set forth by ordinance, this conduct shall constitute a material breach making the contract voidable.
(Ord. of 5-14-08(2))
Sec. 2-10. - Decorum.
(a)
All city officials shall conduct themselves in a professional and respectful manner. All remarks should be directed to the chair and not to individual council members, staff, or citizens in attendance. Personal remarks are inappropriate.
(b)
City officials are not allowed to speak, debate, make motions, or present papers of any kind until recognized by the chair.
(c)
. City officials shall observe decency of speech and gentleness of behavior at all meetings.
(Ord. of 4-8-2013, § 2)
Sec. 2-11. - Enforcement of decorum.
(a)
The chair shall enforce these rules of decorum. If a member of council believes that a rule has been broken, they may raise a point of order. A second is not required. The chair may rule of the question or should council disagree with the ruling of the chair, a point of order can be made and the ruling of the chair subjected to a voted of council.
(b)
Violations of decorum may result in any of the following punishments at the chair's discretion:
(1)
Formal warning.
(2)
One hundred fifty dollar fine to be docked from the offender's monthly pay from the city.
(3)
Expulsion from the meeting.
(Ord. of 4-8-2013, § 2)
Sec. 2-12. - Meeting agenda.
At the mayor's direction, except for any special called meetings, the city administrator shall prepare a detailed agenda on the subjects to be covered or acted on and/or objectives to be met for each regular scheduled meeting, public hearing, or work session. The detailed agenda shall be made available to each council member at least one business day before each regular scheduled board meeting, public hearing, or work session.
The mayor or any council member may add items to the agenda at any time up to two business days before each regular scheduled meeting, public hearing, or work session if a detailed description is given to the administrator. Submission of items to the agenda by a council member shall be designated as either an item for which action will be considered or as an item for discussion only. Items submitted for discussion only may not be commented upon by a single councilmember for a period of time in excess of five minutes (unless granted additional time by the chair) and shall not be the basis for any motion. In case of emergency, the council may waive this requirement.
(Min. of 1-12-2015; Ord. of 5-14-2018; Res. of 9-13-2021)
Secs. 2-13—2-35. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES[2]
Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
Cross reference— Any ordinance consistent with this Code fixing salaries of officials, officers or employees of the city saved from repeal, § 1-14(4); building official, § 14-31.

DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Secs. 2-36—2-65. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - CITY ADMINISTRATOR

Sec. 2-66. - Creation of office.
The office of city administrator is created.
(Code 1989, § 2-20)
Sec. 2-67. - Appointment.
The city administrator shall be appointed by the mayor and council for an indefinite term. The administrator shall be chosen solely on the basis of executive and administrative qualifications, with special reference to actual experience in or knowledge of accepted practice in respect to the duties of the office set forth in this division. No mayor or council member shall receive such appointment during the term for which appointed or within 90 days after expiration of the term.
(Code 1989, § 2-21; Res. of 2-12-2018, § 1)
Sec. 2-68. - Removal.
The mayor and council may remove the city administrator at any time by a majority vote adopting a resolution to that effect. The action of the mayor and council in removing the city administrator shall be final. Upon removal as provided in this section, the city administrator shall be paid forthwith any unpaid balance of salary for the calendar month in which removed and such salary for the next six calendar months following, contingent upon serving a one-year probationary period at which time he/she can be terminated with one month's pay.
(Code 1989, § 2-22)
Sec. 2-69. - Powers and duties.
The city administrator shall be the chief administrative officer of the city. The city administrator shall be responsible to the mayor and council for the proper administration of all affairs of the city. To that end, the city administrator shall have power and shall be required to:
(1)
Prepare the budget annually and submit it to the mayor and council, together with a message describing the important features, and be responsible for its administration after adoption.
(2)
Prepare and submit to the mayor and council as of the end of the fiscal year a complete report on the finances and administrative activities of the city for the preceding year.
(3)
Keep the mayor and council advised of the financial condition and future needs of the city, and make such recommendations as he may deem desirable.
(4)
Recommend to the mayor and council a standard schedule of pay for each appointive office and position in the city service, including minimum, intermediate, and maximum rates, in accordance with the adopted personnel system.
(5)
Recommend to the mayor and council from time to time adoption of such measures as he may deem necessary or expedient for the health, safety or welfare of the community, or for the improvement of administrative services.
(6)
Consolidate or combine offices, positions, departments or units under such administrator's jurisdiction, with the approval of the mayor and council. The city administrator may be the head of one or more departments, as assigned by the council.
(7)
Attend regular meetings of the mayor and council unless excused therefrom, and take part in the discussion of matters coming before it. The administrator shall attend special meetings of the mayor and council by invitation only.
(8)
See that all laws and ordinances are duly enforced.
(9)
Investigate the affairs of the city or any department or division thereof; investigate all complaints in relation to matters concerning the administration of the city government and in regard to service maintained by the public utilities in the city and see that all franchises, permits, and privileges granted by the city are faithfully observed.
(10)
Perform such other duties as may be required by the mayor and council, not inconsistent with the Charter, with law or with ordinance.
(11)
All formal contracts to which the city is a party shall be executed on behalf of the city by the city administrator and attested by the city clerk, after an approving resolution of the mayor and council. When carrying out the expenditures of monies already approved by city council during the annual approval process of the city budget, the city administrator may enter into contracts without seeking an additional approval of mayor and council.
(Code 1989, § 2-23; Ord. of 6-22-15)
Sec. 2-70. - Appointment of personnel; interference by mayor and council; orders by mayor and council to administrator's subordinates.
(a)
The appointment of personnel in accordance with the city personnel system shall be the responsibility of the city administrator. This does not preclude the mayor or councilmembers from submitting recommendations for consideration; however, neither the mayor nor any councilmember shall use the influence of his office to coerce, intimidate or otherwise threaten the city administrator into appointing a person of his choice.
(b)
All department heads are responsible to the city administrator.
(c)
The city administrator is responsible for the day-to-day operation of the city and is the general supervisor of all city employees; however, any department head may confer with the mayor or their respective council committee members; however, neither the mayor, the council nor any member thereof shall give orders to any subordinate of the city administrator, either publicly or privately.
(d)
Any employee who feels apprehensive about going to his department head or the city administrator may go to the mayor or any councilmember; however, neither the mayor nor any councilmember shall attempt to take any action until such time as he shall bring the matter to the attention of the city administrator.
(Code 1989, § 2-24)
Sec. 2-71. - Reports of suspension, removal.
The city administrator shall report to the mayor and council the suspension or removal of any city employee, including department heads.
(Code 1989, § 2-25)
Sec. 2-72. - Emergencies.
If an accident, a disaster, or another circumstance creating a public emergency occurs, the city administrator may award contracts and make purchases for the purpose of meeting the emergency, but shall file promptly with the mayor and council a certificate showing such emergency and the necessity for such action, together with an itemized account of all expenditures. This certificate shall be presented to the mayor and council within 18 hours after such an emergency is known to exist.
(Code 1989, § 2-26)
Sec. 2-73. - Bond.
The city administrator shall furnish a surety bond to be approved by the mayor and council, such bond to be conditioned on the faithful performance of the administrator's duties. The premium of the bond shall be paid by the city. The amount of the bond shall be set by the mayor and council.
(Code 1989, § 2-27)
Sec. 2-74. - Compensation.
The city administrator shall receive such compensation as the mayor and council shall fix from time to time.
(Code 1989, § 2-28)
Sec. 2-75. - Vacancy.
Any vacancy in the office of city administrator shall be filled as soon as possible after the effective date of such vacancy. During such vacancy, the mayor shall discharge the duties and functions of city administrator for a period not to exceed 180 days and shall be compensated accordingly.
(Code 1989, § 2-29)
Secs. 2-76—2-90. - Reserved.
DIVISION 3. - CITY CLERK

Sec. 2-91. - Creation of office; duties.
(a)
The office of city clerk is created by section 8 of the city Charter. The principal duties of the city clerk are to manage and supervise the receipt and disbursement of all municipal funds and for serving as custodian of all legal documents for the city. Numerous references are made to these duties throughout the Charter and this Code.
(b)
Additionally the city clerk shall act as purchasing agent of the city, by whom all purchases of supplies shall be made, subject to the rules and regulations to be prescribed by the mayor and council, and shall approve all vouchers for the payment of purchases. In the capacity of purchasing agent, the city clerk shall also conduct all sales of personal property which the mayor and council may authorize to be sold as having become unnecessary or unfit for the city's use. All purchases and sales shall conform to such regulations as the mayor and council may from time to time prescribe. Competitive bidding shall be required on all major purchases as defined by ordinance.
(c)
A complete job description is contained in the city's personnel system.
Charter reference— Office of city clerk authorized, § 8; purchases, § 8.
Secs. 2-92—2-115. - Reserved.
DIVISION 4. - PERSONNEL

Sec. 2-116. - Personnel system; personnel director.
(a)
There is established a personnel system for the city, which system is adopted and incorporated by reference as fully as if set out at length in this section. One or more copies of the personnel system is on file in the city clerk's office.
(b)
The city administrator is designated the personnel director.
(Code 1989, § 13-1)
Sec. 2-117. - Retirement.
The ordinances establishing and amending the employee retirement system for the city are incorporated and made a part of this Code by reference, as fully as if set out at length in this section.
(Code 1989, § 13-2)
Secs. 2-118—2-160. - Reserved.
ARTICLE III. - FINANCE[3]
Footnotes:
--- (3) ---
Cross reference— Any rates, fees or charges consistent with Code saved from repeal, § 1-14(1); any ordinance promising or guaranteeing the payment of money for the city, or authorizing the issuance of any bonds for the city or any evidence of the city's indebtedness, or any contract or obligation assumed by the city saved from repeal, § 1-14(2); any budget ordinance or appropriation ordinance or any ordinance levying any tax saved from repeal, § 1-14(5); any ordinance providing for local improvements or assessing taxes therefor saved from repeal, § 1-14(9); taxation, ch. 74.

DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Secs. 2-161—2-185. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - ABANDONED, STOLEN, LOST PROPERTY

Sec. 2-186. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this division, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Abandoned means left unattended for at least five days.
Cross reference— Definitions generally, § 1-2.
State Law reference— Similar provisions, O.C.G.A. § 40-11-3(a).
Sec. 2-187. - Authority of police to seize.
The police department is authorized and directed to seize and reduce to the possession of the police department any automobile, bicycle, or other vehicle and any machinery or part thereof, whether stolen, wrecked or otherwise abandoned, that may be found upon any of the public streets and highways of the city; any boat or skiff, whether stolen, wrecked or otherwise abandoned, that may be found upon any river or other waterway or upon the banks of such body of water; and any other property, whether stolen, wrecked or otherwise abandoned, upon the public streets and highways or upon the public waterways and the banks thereof or upon any public ground or in any public building in the city.
(Code 1989, § 7-20)
State Law reference— When peace officer may remove vehicles from public property, O.C.G.A. § 40-11-4.
Sec. 2-188. - Authority to sell.
All abandoned, stolen or recovered property of every kind, including motor vehicles, which shall remain unclaimed with the police department for a period of four months, without being claimed or reclaimed by the owner, whether known or not, may be sold and disposed of at public auction in accordance with this article.
(Code 1989, § 7-21)
Sec. 2-189. - Notice to owner; redemption by owner.
During the period of 30 days the city clerk shall make every effort to notify the owner of any abandoned, stolen or recovered vehicle or other property that such is being retained under this article and shall, throughout such period of 30 days, permit the owner to regain possession thereof upon proof of ownership and upon payment of storage charges and costs connected with the seizure and storage thereof.
(Code 1989, § 7-22)
State Law reference— Similar provisions, O.C.G.A. § 40-11-2(d).
Sec. 2-190. - Notice of sale.
After the expiration of the period of 30 days as provided in section 2-189, the city clerk shall publish in a newspaper published in the county or shall post at the city hall a description of the vehicles and other property, together with the date of seizure or taking possession thereof, and shall give notice that if such vehicle or other property is not claimed by the rightful owner thereof within 30 days from date of the publication or posting, such vehicle or other property shall be sold at public auction as provided in this article. The notice shall be published or posted for two consecutive weeks, two publications being sufficient.
(Code 1989, § 7-23)
State Law reference— Notice to motor vehicle owners, O.C.G.A. § 40-11-2.
Sec. 2-191. - Method of sale.
All property sold under this article shall be offered for sale at public auction, to the highest bidder, separately or assembled in lots, whichever, in the discretion of the city clerk, shall offer the best price obtainable, except that motor vehicles shall be sold separately. The public auction shall be conducted by the chief of police at the place and hour designated in the notice given pursuant to section 2-190, and all sales shall be for cash.
(Code 1989, § 7-24)
Sec. 2-192. - Record and report of sale.
The city clerk shall keep an accurate record of each article or motor vehicle sold under this article and the price bid and paid therefor and shall make a complete report in writing to the mayor and council of the time, place and manner of conducting the sale.
(Code 1989, § 7-25)
Sec. 2-193. - Disposition of proceeds of sale; time limitation for redeeming.
(a)
The proceeds of any sale made pursuant to this article, after deducting the costs of storage, advertising, selling and other expenses incident to the selling of such vehicles and other property, shall be turned over to the city clerk and shall be retained in a special fund for a period of one year, during which time the rightful owner, upon satisfactory proof of ownership, shall be entitled to receive any surplus proceeds.
(b)
After the expiration of the period of one year, any sums arising from the sales of vehicles and other property in accordance with this article that are unclaimed by the owners of such vehicles or other property shall be deposited in the city treasury.
(Code 1989, § 7-26)
Sec. 2-194. - Disposal of worthless property.
Any property that has been listed and offered for sale under this article and for which no price or sum has been offered, if deemed in the opinion of the city clerk to be worthless and without value, shall be disposed of in such manner as the mayor and council shall prescribe. The description of all property to be destroyed or disposed of by the city clerk as worthless or without value shall be reported to the mayor and council.
(Code 1989, § 7-27)
Secs. 2-195—2-225. - Reserved.
ARTICLE IV. - CODE OF ETHICS

Sec. 2-226. - Purpose; declaration of policy.
(a)
It is the policy of the City of Washington, hereafter "the city", that the proper operation of democratic government requires that public officials be independent, impartial and responsible to the people; that governmental decisions and policy be made in proper channels of the governmental structure; that public office not be used for personal gain; and that the public have confidence in the integrity of its government. In recognition of these goals, a code of ethics for all city officials is adopted.
(b)
This code has the following purposes:
(1)
To encourage high ethical standards in official conduct by city officials;
(2)
To establish guidelines for ethical standards of conduct for all such officials by setting forth those acts or actions that are incompatible with the best interest of the city;
(3)
To require disclosure by such officials of private, financial or other interest in manners affecting the city; and
(4)
To serve as a basis for disciplining those who refuse to abide by its terms.
(c)
The provisions of this code shall not apply to political contributions, loans, expenditures, reports or regulation of political campaigns or the conduct of candidates in such campaigns.
(Ord. of 3-10-08, § I)
Sec. 2-227. - Scope of persons covered.
The provisions of this code of ethics shall be applicable to the mayor, all members of the city council, planning and zoning commission, board of zoning appeals, all advisory commissions, committee members and certain employees.
(Ord. of 3-10-08, § II)
Sec. 2-228. - Definitions.
As used in this article, the following terms shall have the following meanings, unless the context clearly indicates that a different meaning is intended:
City official or official, unless other expressly defined, means the mayor, members of the city council, municipal court judges, city administrator and city clerk whether such person is salaried, hired or elected, and all other persons holding positions designated by the city charter, as it may be amended from time to time. City official, unless otherwise expressly defined, includes individuals appointed by the mayor and city council to all city commissions, committees, boards, task forces, or other bodies unless specifically exempted from this article by the city council.
Entity means a sole proprietorship, partnership, limited partnership, firm, corporation, professional corporation, holding company, joint stock company, receivership, trust or any other entity recognized by law through which business may be conducted.
Decision means any ordinance, resolution, contract, franchise, formal action or other matter voted on by the city council or other city boards or commissions, as well as the discussions or deliberations of the council, boards, or commissions which can or may lead to a vote or formal action by that body.
Discretionary authority means the power to exercise any judgment in a decision or action.
Immediate family means spouse, mother, father, brother, sister, son, or daughter of any city official.
Remote interest means an interest of a person or entity, including a city official, who would be affected in the same way as the general public. The interest of a city official in the property tax rate, general city fees, city utility charges, or a comprehensive zoning ordinance or similar decisions is incidental to the extent that the city official would be affected in common with the general public.
Incidental interest means an interest in a person, entity or property which is not a substantial interest and which has insignificant value.
Substantial interest means a known interest, either directly or through a member of the immediate family, in another person or entity: (1) the interest is ownership of five percent or more of the voting stock, shares or equity of the entity or ownership of $5,000.00 or more of the equity or market value of the entity; or (2) funds received by the person from the other person or entity either during the previous 12 months or the previous calendar year equaled or exceeded $5,000.00 in salary, bonuses, commissions, or professional fees or $5,000.00 in payment for goods, products or nonprofessional service, or ten percent of the recipient's gross income during that period, whichever is less; (3) the person serves as a corporate officer or member of the board of directors or other governing board of the for-profit entity other than a corporate entity owned or created by the city council; or (4) the person is a creditor, debtor, or guarantor of the other person or entity in an amount of $5,000.00 or more. Substantial interest in real property means an interest in real property which is an equitable or legal ownership with a market value of $5,000.00 or more.
(Ord. of 3-10-08, § III)
Sec. 2-229. - Standards of conduct.
(a)
No city official shall use such positions to secure special privileges or exemptions for such person or others, or to secure confidential information for any purpose other than official responsibilities.
(b)
No city official, in any matter before the council, board or commission in which he or she has a substantial interest, shall fail to disclose for the common good for the record such interest prior to any discussion or vote.
(c)
No city official shall act as an agent or attorney for another in any matter before the city council or any board or commission.
(d)
No city official shall directly or indirectly receive, or agree to receive, any significant compensation, gift, reward, or gratuity in any matter or proceeding connected with, or related to, the duties of this office except de minimis items or as may be provided by law.
(e)
No city official shall enter into any contract with the city except as specifically authorized by state statutes. Any city official who has a proprietary interest in an agency doing business with the city shall make known that interest in writing to the city council and the city clerk.
(f)
All public funds shall be used for the general welfare of the people and not for personal economic gain.
(g)
Public property shall be disposed of in accordance with Georgia law.
(h)
No city official shall solicit or accept other employment to be performed or compensation to be received while still a city official or employee, if the employment or compensation could reasonably be expected to impair his or her judgment or performance of city duties.
(i)
If a city official accepts or is soliciting a promise of future employment from any person or entity who has a substantial interest in a person, entity or property which would be affected by any decision upon which the city official might reasonably be expected to act, investigate, advise, or make a recommendation, the city official shall disclose the fact to the council, board or commission on which he or she serves or to his or her supervisor and shall take no further action on matters regarding the potential future employer.
(j)
No city official shall make significant use of city facilities, personnel, equipment or supplies for private purposes, except to the extent such are lawfully available to the public.
(k)
No city official or employee shall grant or make available to any person any consideration, treatment, advantage or favor beyond that which it is the general practice to grant or make available to the public at large.
(Ord. of 3-10-08, § IV)
Sec. 2-230. - Conflict of interest; prohibition.
A city official may not participate in a vote or decision on a matter affecting a person, entity, or property in which the official or employee has a substantial interest; in addition, a city official or employee who serves as a corporate official or member of the board of directors of a nonprofit entity may not participate in a vote or decision regarding any significant funding by or through the city of the entity. Where the interest of a city official or employee in the subject matter of a vote or decision is remote or incidental, the city official or employee may participate in the vote or decision and need not disclose the interest.
(Ord. of 3-10-08, § V)
Sec. 2-231. - Decorum.
(a)
All city officials shall conduct themselves at all times with dignity and with respect for others in a manner to ensure appropriate decorum in the deliberations of city business and to reflect the responsibilities incumbent upon a city official.
(b)
City officials shall observe decency of speech and gentleness of behavior at all meetings.
(c)
No city official in speaking shall be disrespectful to any other official and shall carefully avoid reference to personalities when conducting city business.
(d)
Profane, obscene or indecent language is prohibited at city meetings.
(e)
No city official shall debate, make motions, or present papers of any kind until recognized by the presiding official. While one city official is speaking, others shall refrain from speaking unless recognized by the presiding officer.
(Ord. of 3-10-08, § VI)
Sec. 2-232. - Exemptions.
This code shall not be construed to require the filing of any information relating to any person's connection with, or interest in, any professional society or any charitable, religion, social, fraternal, educational, recreational, public service, civil or political organization, or any similar organization not conducted as a business enterprise or governmental agency, and which is not engaged in the ownership or conduct or a business enterprise or governmental agency. This code shall not be construed to affect a preexisting contract or any preexisting employment of the immediate family of individuals later elected or appointed to a city position.
(Ord. of 3-10-08, § VII)
Sec. 2-233. - Severability.
The provisions of this article are severable. If any provision of this article or the application thereof to any person or circumstance is held invalid, such invalidity shall not affect other provisions or applications of this article which can be given effect without the invalid provisions or application.
(Ord. of 3-10-08, § VIII)
Sec. 2-234. - Investigation and hearings.
(a)
Any person having a complaint against any city official for an alleged ethics violation shall file in writing a verified complaint setting forth the particular facts and circumstances which constitute the alleged violation by the city official. The complaint shall be filed with the mayor or in the event of a complaint pertaining to the mayor the complaint shall be filed with the mayor pro tern. Upon receipt of a complaint, and if the complaint is against an elected or appointed official or the city administrator, the mayor shall appoint three members of council, who along with the city attorney shall constitute an investigating committee. In the event the complaint is against, the mayor protem shall appoint said committee as described above. If the complaint is against an employee the complaint shall be forwarded to the city administrator who shall constitute the investigative committee, conduct the investigation, and take the required action or hand down any penalties along with assistance from the city attorney and city clerk as needed.
(1)
Any elected official who files a complaint against another elected official for an alleged ethics violation must simultaneously submit a $100.00 deposit to the city clerk accompanying the complaint. The city clerk shall hold the $100.00 deposit until the alleged violation is either dismissed or prosecuted.
(2)
If the complaint is dismissed prior to a full hearing before the mayor and council, the $100.00 shall then be deposited into the city's general fund and the elected official who filed the complaint shall pay for any associated attorney's fees borne by the city.
(3)
If the complaint comes before mayor and council, no matter its final disposition, the city clerk shall refund the $100.00 to the elected official who filed the complaint and made the deposit.
(b)
The committee shall determine whether the complaint against an elected or appointed official or the city administrator sets forth sufficient facts and circumstances so as to warrant a hearing. The committee shall have 60 days to complete the investigation. Any complaint deemed non-frivolous by the committee shall warrant a hearing. If the committee determines a hearing is warranted, said hearing shall be held within 60 days of the conclusion of the investigation. In the event the complaint does not set forth sufficient facts to constitute an alleged violation and is found unjustified, frivolous or patently unfounded, it shall be dismissed and the complainant notified immediately.
(c)
If a hearing is warranted, the mayor shall conduct said hearing with a quorum of the council present. If the complaint is against the mayor, the mayor pro tem shall conduct the hearing. Any elected official that either files a complaint or is the subject of a complaint shall abstain from participating or voting in the hearing except for presenting the facts or issues of the complaint or establishing a defense against a complaint at the hearing.
(Ord. of 3-10-2008, § IX; Ord. of 6-10-2013, § 1; Ord. of 9-8-2014, § 1)
Sec. 2-235. - Penalties and member rights.
(a)
Any city official who knowingly violates any provision of the code of ethics provided in this article shall be subject to private reprimand, public censure, or a request for resignation by the city council. Employees are subject to other disciplinary procedures allowed by the city ordinances and procedures.
(b)
At any hearing held by the mayor and council, the city official who is the subject of inquiry shall have the right to written notice of the allegations at least ten business days before a hearing, to be represented by counsel, to hear and examine the evidence and witnesses and present evidence and witnesses in opposition or in extenuation.
(c)
Each council, board, commission or committee shall have authority to establish rules and regulations to impose said penalties.
(Ord. of 3-10-08, § X)
Sec. 2-236. - Appeals.
(a)
Any city official or complainant adversely affected by these findings may obtain judicial review of such decision as provided in this section.
(b)
An action for judicial review may be commenced by filing an application for a writ of certiorari in the Superior Court of Wilkes County within 30 days after the decision of the mayor and council. The filing of such application shall act as supersedeas.
(Ord. of 3-10-08, § XI)
