Chapter 66 - STREETS, SIDEWALKS AND OTHER PUBLIC PLACES[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Cross reference— Any ordinance dedicating, naming, establishing, locating, relocating, opening, closing, paving, widening or vacating any street or public way in the city saved from repeal, § 1-14(7); any ordinance establishing and prescribing the grades of any street in the city saved from repeal, § 1-14(8); any ordinance providing for local improvements or assessing taxes therefor saved from repeal, § 1-14(9); buildings and building regulations, ch. 14; peddlers and itinerant vendors, § 18-236 et seq.; environment, ch. 26; floods, ch. 34; historical preservation, ch. 42; parks and recreation, ch. 50; planning, ch. 54; signs, ch. 58; subdivisions, ch. 70; traffic and vehicles, ch. 78; utilities, ch. 82; vegetation, ch. 86; zoning, ch. 90.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 66-1. - Laying of pavement.
No paving shall be laid without the written authorization of the mayor and council. This section shall not apply to city officers, employees and other agents.
(Code 1989, § 15-4)
Secs. 66-2, 66-3. - Reserved.
Sec. 66-4. - Unpacking merchandise.
No person shall unpack goods, wares or merchandise on the streets or sidewalks, but every person receiving goods, wares or merchandise shall unpack the goods, wares or merchandise in and upon his own premises, except articles of merchandise packed in boxes or packages too large to get in through the doors.
(Code 1989, § 15-7)
Sec. 66-5. - Washing vehicles.
It shall be unlawful to wash or rinse any vehicle adjacent to or near a sidewalk or street where the mud, dirt, or sand washes across the sidewalk or into the street. It is mandatory that all washing of vehicles be done in an area where this section is not violated or done over a regular wash rack provided with a proper drain and catchbasin so the debris will in no way wash into city sidewalks or city streets.
(Code 1989, § 15-8)
Cross reference— Traffic and vehicles, ch. 78.
Sec. 66-6. - Gates to open inside enclosure.
All gates opening on the streets and sidewalks of the city shall be swung on hinges or other fastenings in such a manner that such gates shall open on the inside of the enclosure, and it shall be unlawful for any person to hang any gate in such a manner that the gate will swing over any street or sidewalk.
(Code 1989, § 15-9)
Sec. 66-7. - Spilling gasoline or kerosene on pavements.
It shall be unlawful for any person to spill, waste or otherwise cause any gasoline or kerosene to be put on the asphalt or other pavements of the city streets.
(Code 1989, § 15-10)
Sec. 66-8. - Street renaming procedure.
(a)
Any party interested in renaming a street within the city shall send a written request for consideration to the city, attention the city administrator. The request shall identify which portion of the existing street is desired to be renamed, what the desired new name is, and the rationale for changing the name. The administrator shall insure that no similar name exists within the city or within the county. After the screen to eliminate duplicates or near duplicates, the administrator shall forward the request to the committee of the council with interest in the streets, buildings, and grounds department and shall provide comments and a recommendation.
(b)
The committee shall determine if the request is to be considered by the full council, modified, or denied. If the committee decides to proceed with the request, the request shall be returned to the requestor to complete the actions as described herein. The requestor shall conduct two surveys as follows: The surveys shall identify the street or portion of street requested to be renamed, the name of the requestor, the rationale for requesting renaming, space for each respondent to sign and date their choice of renaming or not renaming and to provide comments as desired. One survey shall be conducted of the head of household or individual in charge of the business from each address of the street or portion of the street in question. One survey shall be conducted of all property owners of property along the street or portion of the street in question. These two surveys may be conducted in person or by mail.
(c)
Once the two surveys are complete the requestor shall provide the original copy of all responses and results to the city, attention the city administrator. The administrator shall provide all information received and a recommendation to the council committee. The committee shall tabulate the results and present their findings to the full council at a public hearing called to consider the question. The cost of advertising the hearing shall be borne by the requestor. In order for the full council to approve the renaming a minimum of 75 percent of residents and 75 percent of property owners must have expressed support for the renaming.
(d)
After the council has approved the renaming all required street signs shall be procured and erected at the expense of the city.
(Ord. of 12-11-00)
Sec. 66-9. - Riding roller skates, roller blades, skateboards or bicycles on public sidewalks or on public streets.
(a)
It shall be unlawful for any person to roller skate, roller blade, ride a skateboard or ride a bicycle on any public sidewalk or grass area located within the area designated as "The Square," which includes the portion of the commercial downtown district bounded by and including both sides of Court Street, Allison Street, Liberty Street and Alexander Avenue.
(b)
It shall be unlawful for any person to roller skate, roller blade, ride a skateboard, or ride a bicycle on any public sidewalk in any zoning district where the door of an adjacent building opens directly onto the sidewalk. The beginning and end of each such portion of sidewalk shall have a sign stating that riding on the sidewalk is prohibited between the signs.
(c)
It shall be unlawful for any person to roller skate, roller blade, or ride a skateboard on any public street within the area designated as "The Square," which includes the portion of the commercial downtown district bounded by and including both sides of Court Street, Allison Street, Liberty Street and Alexander Avenue.
(d)
Any person found in violation of this section for the first time shall be given a warning citation; and, if a minor, a parent or guardian shall be notified as soon as possible. Upon subsequent violation, the person shall be charged with such violation and, if found guilty upon trial as a misdemeanor, such person shall be subject to punishment as provided in section 1-8 of the Code of Ordinances of the City of Washington.
(Ord. of 5-14-08(1))
Sec. 66-10. - Ignition of fireworks on city property.
It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, corporation, association, or partnership to use or ignite any consumer fireworks within any property owned by or operated by, for, or under the custody and control of the city, except pursuant to a special use permit or other express permission of the governing authority of the city. Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall be punished as provided in section 1-8 of the Code.
(Ord. of 9-12-2016)
Secs. 66-11—66-35. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - PROPERTY NUMBERING[2]

Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
Cross reference— Buildings and building regulations, ch. 14.

Sec. 66-36. - Numbering system adopted.
A uniform system of numbering properties and principal buildings, as shown on the map and within other records, which are on file in the office of the building official, is adopted for use in the city. The office of the building official shall be charged with the maintenance of the official numbering system. The map, other records, and explanatory matter thereon are adopted and made a part of this article by reference.
(Code 1989, § 15-1)
Sec. 66-37. - Assignment of numbers.
(a)
All properties or parcels of land within the corporate limits shall be identified by reference to the uniform numbering system adopted in section 66-36.
(b)
A separate number shall be assigned for each property or portion thereof, as indicated by the official numbering system.
(c)
Each principal building shall bear the number assigned to the frontage on which the front entrance is located. If a principal building is occupied by more than one business or family dwelling unit, each separate front entrance of such building shall bear a separate number.
(d)
Numerals indicating the official number for each principal building or each front entrance to such building shall be posted in a manner as to be visible from the street on which the property is located. When the numbers cannot be posted on the front entrance and be visible from the street, the numbers shall be posted at the main entrance to the property or main driveway. Posting numbers on mailboxes does not comply with this subsection.
(e)
It shall be the owner's responsibility to provide the numbers to be posted. The numbers must be a minimum of three inches in height and a maximum of six inches in height. The numbers must be of the reflective type.
(Code 1989, § 15-2)
Secs. 66-38—66-65. - Reserved.
ARTICLE III. - PARADES AND PROCESSIONS[3]

Footnotes:
--- (3) ---
Charter reference— Authority to provide for peaceful assembly, § 71.
Cross reference— Traffic and vehicles, ch. 78.
State Law reference— Operation of motor vehicles in parades, O.C.G.A. § 40-6-7.

Sec. 66-66. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Parade, march or procession means a group or number of people or vehicles or the combination thereof, consisting of five or more vehicles or 20 or more persons or a combination of three or more vehicles and 15 or more persons, proceeding or moving in a body or in concert along the city streets or sidewalks.
(Code 1989, § 12-18(a))
Cross reference— Definitions generally, § 1-2.
Sec. 66-67. - Permit required.
It shall be unlawful for any person to be a part of or to engage in any parade, march or procession or to march, parade or proceed along any city street or sidewalk as a part of or a party to such parade, march or procession without there having been first obtained a written permit from the chief of police for the holding of such parade, march or procession.
(Code 1989, § 12-18(b))
Sec. 66-68. - Application for permit.
The permit required by this article shall be secured from the chief of police by filing a written application therefor at least 48 hours prior to the time the proposed parade, march or procession is desired to be held. Applications shall be filed on forms provided by the city and signed by the persons desiring to conduct such parade, march or procession or by the properly authorized agent of the organization or by persons who propose to conduct such parade, march or procession. The application forms shall be filled out completely, giving all legal information as designated in such forms.
(Code 1989, § 12-18(c))
Sec. 66-69. - Conditions for issuance of permit.
(a)
The permit for a parade, march or procession issued by the chief of police shall show the time and place of beginning of the parade, march or procession; the route it shall follow; and the destination thereof. All of such conditions shall be decided by the chief of police giving full consideration to the conditions contained in the request of the applicant, the condition and width of the streets or sidewalks along such proposed route, and the nature of traffic conditions as related to the number of participants and the number and type vehicles to participate in the parade, march or procession as shown on the application for such permit.
(b)
The chief of police shall not arbitrarily withhold granting a permit, but shall issue a permit to parade, march or proceed along the city streets and sidewalks giving full consideration to traffic conditions and the number of police personnel available to direct traffic; to properly manage the parade, march or procession; and to provide police protection to participants and the general public.
(Code 1989, § 12-18(d), (e))
Sec. 66-70. - Use of police vehicle; conduct.
All parades, marches, or processions through the city streets shall be preceded by a police vehicle and shall be conducted in such manner as to impede and interfere with the flow of traffic to the least possible extent.
(Code 1989, § 12-18(f))
Sec. 66-71. - Funeral processions excepted.
This article shall not apply to funeral processions.
(Code 1989, § 12-18(g))
Secs. 66-72—66-100. - Reserved.
