SECTION 12. - ADMINISTRATION, ENFORCEMENT AND PENALTIES

12-1 - Land development administrator.
The county code enforcement officer, designated as the land development administrator by the board of commissioners, Berrien County, Georgia, shall administer and enforce the provisions of this ordinance.
12-2 - Building/development permit required.
A building/development permit issued by the land development administrator is required in advance of the initiation of construction, erection, moving, demolition or alteration of any building or structure or any land development. However, a building permit issued before the effective date of this ordinance shall remain valid with the same requirements as issued under this ordinance.
12-3 - Application for building/development permit.
All applications for building/development permits shall be accompanied by a site plan, drawn to scale, showing the actual dimensions of the lot to be built upon, the size and location of the lot, the number of dwelling units, the setback lines of the building on the "permit lot," the various easements on the lot and such other information as required by the county. The following information is required to be included with each site plan prior to any review by the land development administrator and any permits being issued:
1.
Survey plat, prepared by a registered surveyor, including a certification from the clerk of superior court for Berrien County [that] said lot is a lot of record;
2.
Set of building plans or drawings for the proposed building(s);
3.
An approved application for septic tank and well installation, signed by the county health department sanitarian;
4.
Location of all proposed driveways;
5.
Other information required by the code enforcement officer, to include, but not limited to, topographic survey, proposed drainage plans, wetlands delineation, etc.
12-4 - Permit time frame.
Any building/development permit shall become void if the work has not begun within six months after the date of issuance of the permit. Any extensions of time may not exceed six additional months by the land development administrator.
12-5 - Coordination with development of regional impact requirements.
The Georgia Department of Community Affairs, pursuant to the Georgia Planning Act, has established criteria for the identification of certain large scale developments which have the potential to cause land use impacts beyond the boundaries of the respective local government where a project might be proposed. These developments, known as developments of regional impact (DRIs), shall be submitted, based on established DCA standards, procedures and format, to the Southeast Georgia Regional Development Center (SEGRDC) for review and recommendation prior to issuance of any local building or development permit.
12-6 - Coordination with water resource district requirements.
Prior to issuance of any local building/development permits, all requirements of section 10, Water Resource Districts, shall be enforced as part of the permitting process.
12-7 - Activities to comply with site plan.
All development activities or site work conducted after approval of the site plan shall conform with the specifications of said site plan. The site plan may be amended only with the approval of the land development administrator or his designee.
12-8 - Penalties for violations.
If any building or structure is erected, constructed, reconstructed, demolished, altered, repaired, moved, converted or maintained, or land in violation of this ordinance, the offender shall, upon conviction in magistrate's court, be fined no more than $500.00 dollars or imprisoned for not more than 60 days, or both, for each offense. Each day of continued violation shall be considered a separate offense.
When any removal of vegetative cover, excavation or fill has taken place in violation of this ordinance, the violator shall be required to restore the land to its original contours and to restore vegetation per the requirements of the land development administrator. All such actions shall be closely coordinated with the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers' supervision, if applicable. If the land development administrator discovers any violation of the provisions of the Clean Water Act, as amended, the land development administrator shall issue a written notification of the violation to the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, the county attorney and the landowner.
12-9 - Enforcement.
The magistrate's court of Berrien County shall have jurisdiction over violators of this ordinance and all procedures for enforcement of such ordinance shall be as provided in O.C.G.A. tit. 15, ch. 10, art. 4. Complaints of violations of any provision of this ordinance shall be brought before the magistrate's court by the county attorney.
12-10 - Remedies.
If any building or structure is or is proposed to be erected, constructed, reconstructed, altered, converted or maintained, or any building, structure or land is or is proposed to be used in violation of these regulations, the land development administrator, county attorney or any adjacent or neighboring property owner who would be damaged by such violation may, in addition to other remedies, institute injunction, mandamus or other appropriate action or proceedings to prevent such unlawful actions.
12-11 - Complaints regarding violations.
When a violation of this ordinance occurs, or is alleged to have occurred, any person may file a written complaint stating the causes and basis thereof with the land development administrator. He shall investigate said compliant and, within 30 days, take the appropriate action.
12-12 - Cancellation of permits.
A demolition, building or development permit shall be canceled by the land development administrator when the method of demolition, construction or use violates any provision contained in these regulations, or any state or local ordinance or resolution. Upon such cancellation, any further work upon the demolition, construction, alteration or repair on said building or structure, and any further use of said building or structure or land, shall be deemed a violation. Each and every day such unlawful demolition, construction, alteration or repair on said building or structure, or further use of said building or structure or land continues, shall be deemed a separate offense.
12-13 - Certificate of occupancy.
A certificate of occupancy shall be issued by the land development administrator in accordance with the following provisions:
12-13.1 Certificate of occupancy required. A certificate of occupancy issued by the land development administrator is required in advance of occupancy or use of:
a.
A building hereafter erected.
b.
A building hereafter altered so as to affect the height or the side, front or rear yard.
c.
Any building or premises where a change in the type of use will occur.
12-13.2 Issuance of certificate of occupancy. Upon payment of all required fees, the land development administrator shall sign and issue a certificate of occupancy if the proposed use of land or building is found to conform to the applicable provisions of this ordinance.
One copy of all certificates of occupancy issued which contain a statement of the intended use of the applicable property and other pertinent information, signed by the owner or his agent, shall be kept on file in the office of the land development administrator.
12-13.3 Denial of certificate of occupancy. A certificate of occupancy shall not be issued unless the proposed use of a building or land conforms to the applicable provisions of this ordinance, and substantially complies with the sketches or plans submitted for obtaining the building permit. When a permit is denied, the land development administrator shall provide in writing, upon request of the applicant for a permit, the reasons for denying the permit within ten days after said request.
12-14 - Appeals.
Appeals from the decisions of the land development administrator with regard to interpretation, administration and enforcement shall be made to the board of county commissioners in accordance with the provisions of section 13.
