Chapter 34 - MANUFACTURED HOMES AND TRAILERS[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Cross reference— Buildings and building regulations, ch. 10; environment, ch. 22; floods, ch. 26; roads and bridges, ch. 46; solid waste, ch. 50; subdivisions, ch. 54.
State Law reference— Mobile home installation, O.C.G.A. § 8-2-160 et seq.; mobile home location permits, O.C.G.A. § 48-5-492 et seq.; tax assessment list, O.C.G.A. § 48-5-266.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Secs. 34-1—34-30. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - MOBILE HOMES

Sec. 34-31. - Site permit.
(a)
Required. No mobile home shall be located and set up for occupancy, or relocated and set up for occupancy, in the county without first obtaining and displaying thereon a mobile home site permit.
State Law reference— Mobile home installation, O.C.G.A. § 8-2-160 et seq.
(b)
Application. Prior to the issuance of a mobile home site permit, the owner thereof, or an agent of the owner, shall apply to the chief appraiser of the county, or his designee, for a mobile home site permit. The permit shall be in the form as prescribed by the chief appraiser and approved by the county board of tax assessors. The application shall, without limitation, include the following:
(1)
The name of the owner.
(2)
The location, by address and the tax map parcel number identification, where the mobile home is to be set up for occupancy.
(3)
The previous location of the mobile home (address, map and parcel number if in the county, or county and state if outside of the county), and the name of the seller if this is the first occupancy of the owner.
(4)
The name of the owner of the real estate on which the mobile home is to be situated.
(5)
The mailing address of the owner.
(6)
The name and address of the applicant, if different from the owner.
(c)
Fee. An applicant for a mobile home site permit shall pay a permit fee as determined by the board of commissioners prior to the issuance of the permit.
(d)
Issuance. Upon the completion of the application for a mobile home site permit as set forth in this section, and the payment of the permit fee, the chief appraiser or his designee shall issue a mobile home site permit. The permit shall be in the design and color as deemed appropriate by the chief appraiser and approved by the county board of tax assessors.
(e)
Display. No mobile home shall be moved into or within the county for which a mobile home site permit is required by the provisions of this article unless the mobile home site permit is affixed to the middle area of the left rear of the mobile home as it appears while being transported.
(f)
Permit required prior to obtaining utility service. No public utility shall provide service to any mobile home which is hereafter located or relocated in the county without first determining that a mobile home site permit was issued for the mobile home as required by the provisions of this article.
(Ord. of 2-9-1998, §§ 1—6)
Sec. 34-32. - Notice of mobile home purchase.
Every mobile home dealer with a location in the county selling new and used mobile homes shall within ten days following the sale of a mobile home give notice to the chief appraiser of such sale. The notice shall contain the name and address of the purchaser, the make, model and size of the mobile home and the location where the mobile home is to be placed.
(Ord. of 2-9-1998, § 7)
Sec. 34-33. - Enforcement; citations.
The county chief tax appraiser or his designee, the county sheriff, the deputies thereof, constables, and all other law enforcement officers shall be authorized to issue citations to violators of any provisions of this article. Such citation shall state the time and place at which the accused is to appear for trial, shall identify the offense with which the accused is charged, shall have an identifying number by which it shall be filed with the court, shall indicate the identity of the accused and the date of service, and shall be signed by the officer who completes and services it.
(Ord. of 2-9-1998, § 8)
