Chapter 14 - CIVIL EMERGENCIES AND EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT[1]

Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Cross reference— Administration, ch. 2; emergency services, ch. 18; law enforcement, ch. 30; courts, app. E, ch. 6.
State Law reference— Emergency management, O.C.G.A. § 38-3-1 et seq.

Sec. 14-1. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Emergency management means the preparation for and the carrying out of all emergency and disaster functions other than those functions for which military forces or state and federal agencies are primarily responsible, to prevent, minimize, and repair injury and damage resulting from emergencies or disasters, or the imminent threat thereof, of a technological or natural origin. These functions include, without limitation, firefighting services, police services, medical and health services, rescue, engineering, warning services, communications, protection against the effects of radiological, chemical and other special weapons, evacuation, emergency transportation, plant protection, shelter, temporary restoration of public utility services, and other functions related to the general population, together with all other activities necessary or incidental to total emergency and disaster preparedness for carrying out such functions.
(Res. No. 96.007, § I, 9-12-1996)
Cross reference— Definitions generally, § 1-2.
State Law reference— Definitions, O.C.G.A. § 38-3-3.
Sec. 14-2. - Emergency management director.
In agreement with the governing officials of the cities within the county, there is hereby established the county emergency management agency. The chairman of the board of commissioners, with concurrence of the mayors of cities within the county, shall nominate, for appointment by the governor, a director of emergency management for the entire county. When appointed, the emergency management director is charged with the following duties:
(1)
Represent the governing officials of the county and cities therein on matters pertaining to emergency management.
(2)
Assist county and city officials in organizing county and city departments for emergency operations.
(3)
Develop, in conjunction with county and city departments, the county plan for emergency functions as set forth in section 14-1. Such plan will be in consonance with the Georgia Emergency Operations Plan and shall be submitted to the governing officials of the county and the cities therein for approval, and thence to the state emergency management agency for approval.
(4)
Maintain the emergency management agency and carry out the day-to-day administration of the county emergency management program, including the submission of required reports to the state emergency management agency.
(5)
Submit reports as required by governing officials in keeping with good management practices, e.g., financial daily activity, etc.
(6)
Obtain, with the authority of governing officials, a facility to be used as the county emergency operating center.
(7)
Coordinate the activities of the county emergency operating center staff during periods of an emergency, under the supervision of county governing officials.
(Res. No. 96.007, § II, 9-12-1996)
Cross reference— Officers and employees, § 2-151 et seq.
State Law reference— Director's power, O.C.G.A. § 38-3-27.
Sec. 14-3. - Emergency management agency.
(a)
The county emergency management agency shall be established around existing county and city departments and the emergency functions listed in section 14-1 are assigned as follows:
EXPAND
Department/Agency Functions*
(1) Chairman, county commissioners
Mayors of cities Direction and control
(2) Sheriff's office Communications and warning
Law enforcement services
Evacuation services
(3) Emergency management agency Emergency public information
Damage assessment services
Specific impact hazards
(4) Fire departments Fire services
Radiological protection
Hazardous materials (specific impact hazard)
(5) Public works director Public works
(6) School superintendent Transportation services
Food services
(7) Health department Medical and deceased identification services
(8) Clerk's office Resource management
(9) Department of family and children services Human services
Emergency shelter services
(10) Berrien County search and rescue Search and rescue services
* As appropriate to the local organization, these functions can be assigned to existing departments or may be separated. Functions should be assigned consistent with the local emergency operations plan.
  (b)
Heads of departments listed in subsection (a) of this section are responsible for developing appropriate annexes to the local emergency operations plan (EOP) for their assigned emergency functions. Such annexes will be submitted to the emergency management director for in inclusion in the local emergency operations plan for submission to the appropriate local officials for approval.
(Res. No. 96.007, § III, 9-12-1996)
State Law reference— Local emergency management, O.C.G.A. § 8-3-27.
Sec. 14-4. - Powers during emergency or disaster.
In the event of a technological disaster, a natural disaster, an actual enemy attack upon the United States, or any other emergency which may affect the lives and property of the citizens of the county, the chairman of the board of commissioners, jointly with the mayors of the affected cities, or in their absences their appointed successors, the county emergency management agency director and his agents, may determine that an emergency or disaster exists and thereafter shall have and may exercise, for such period as such emergency or disaster exists or continues, the following powers:
(1)
Enforce all rules, laws and regulations relating to emergency management, and assume direct operational control over all emergency management resources;
(2)
Seize or take, for temporary use, any private property for the protection of the public;
(3)
Sell, lend, give, or distribute all or any such property or supplies among the inhabitants of the county and maintain a strict accounting of property or supplies distributed and of funds received for such property or supplies; and
(4)
Perform and exercise such other functions and duties and take such emergency actions as may be necessary to promote and secure the safety, protection and well-being of the inhabitants of the county.
(Res. No. 96.007, § IV, 9-12-1996)
Sec. 14-5. - Volunteers.
All persons, other than officers and employees of the county and cities therein, performing emergency functions pursuant to this chapter shall serve with or without compensation. While engaged in such emergency functions, duly assigned volunteers shall have the same immunities as county and city officers and employees.
(Res. No. 96.007, § V, 9-12-1996)
State Law reference— Immunity for workers, O.C.G.A. § 38-3-35.
