ARTICLE V. - BOARDS, COMMISSIONS AND SIMILAR BODIES

Sec. 2-237. - Establishment; membership.
(a)
Creation; power and duties. The city council shall create by ordinance such boards, commissions, and authorities to fulfill any investigative, quasi-judicial, or quasi-legislative function the city council deems necessary and shall by ordinance establish the composition, period of existence, duties, and powers thereof.
(b)
Appointment of members; term. All members of boards, commissions, and authorities of the city shall be appointed by the city council for such terms of office and in such manner as shall be provided by ordinance, except where other appointing authority, terms of office, or manner of appointment is prescribed by this chapter or by law. Except as otherwise provided by the Charter or by law, no member of any board, commission, or authority shall hold any elective office in the city.
(c)
Member compensation. The city council by ordinance may provide for the compensation and reimbursement for actual and necessary expenses of the members of any board, commission, or authority.
(d)
Vacancies. Any vacancy on a board, commission, or authority of the city shall be filled for the unexpired term in the manner prescribed in this chapter for original appointment, except as otherwise provided by this chapter or by law.
(e)
Oath of office. No member of a board, commission, or authority shall assume office until that person has executed and filed with the clerk of the city an oath obligating that person to perform faithfully and impartially the duties of that person's office, and such oath shall be prescribed by ordinance and administered by the mayor.
(f)
Removal. All members of boards, commissions, or authorities of the city serve at will and may be removed at any time by the city council unless otherwise provided by law.
(g)
Officers; rules of procedure. Except as otherwise provided by this chapter or by law, each board, commission, or authority of the city shall elect one of its members as chairperson and one member as vice chairperson and may elect as its secretary one of its own members or may appoint as secretary an employee of the city. Each board, commission, or authority of the city government may establish such bylaws, rules, and regulations, not inconsistent with this chapter, ordinances of the city, or law, as it deems appropriate and necessary for the fulfillment of its duties or the conduct of its affairs. Copies of such bylaws, rules, and regulations shall be filed with the clerk of the city.
Secs. 2-238—2-267. - Reserved.
