ARTICLE IV. - DEPARTMENTS

Sec. 2-214. - Administrative and service departments.
(a)
Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, the city council by ordinance shall prescribe the functions or duties and establish, abolish, alter, consolidate, or leave vacant all non-elective offices, positions of employment, departments, and agencies of the city as necessary for the proper administration of the affairs and government of this city.
(b)
Except as otherwise provided by this chapter or by law, the directors of departments and other appointed officers of the city shall be appointed solely on the basis of their respective administrative and professional qualifications.
(c)
All appointed officers and directors of departments shall receive such compensation as prescribed by ordinance.
(d)
There shall be a director of each department or agency who shall be its principal officer. Each director shall, subject to the direction and supervision of the city manager, be responsible for the administration and direction of the affairs and operations of that director's department or agency.
(e)
All appointed officers and directors under the supervision of the city manager shall be nominated by the city manager with confirmation of appointment by the city council. All appointed officers and directors shall be employees at will and subject to removal or suspension at any time by the city manager unless otherwise provided by law or ordinance.
Sec. 2-215. - Code enforcement.
(a)
The city manager may hire one or more code enforcement officers, who may be but are not required to be Georgia Peace Officer Standards and Training (P.O.S.T.) certified, who shall be authorized to enforce the codes of the city.
(b)
Authority. The code enforcement officer shall be authorized:
(1)
To enforce the various codes of the city:
(2)
To issue stop work orders as provided in this Code;
(3)
To investigate complaints and potential violations of this Code;
(4)
To coordinate with the city's building officials and police department to enforce this Code and to assist in the investigation and enforcement of state law and the minimum standard codes;
(5)
To issue warning notices for code violations;
(6)
To issue citations to the municipal court for code violations;
(7)
To initiate and prosecute unfit property actions;
(8)
To take other reasonable actions to enforces this Code, as provided by law and this Code.
(c)
Oath. Before assuming the position of code enforcement officer, an individual shall take the following oath:
"I swear (or affirm) that I will well, faithfully, and impartially and without fear, favor, or affection discharge my duties as code enforcement officer for City of Adairsville."
(Ord. No. 2022-0002, § 1, 4-14-2022)
Secs. 2-216—2-236. - Reserved.
