ARTICLE X. - FILM PRODUCTION

Sec. 12-328. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Film production means any and all motion picture production, television production, videography or web video (meaning video production for distribution on the internet).
Sec. 12-329. - Permit required.
No person shall engage in, conduct or carry on the business of film production on private or public property within the unincorporated area of the city including, but not limited to, rights-of-way, without first obtaining a film production permit from the city in addition to any permit that may be required by any other provision of this Code, including the city's adopted fire code. Use of a city facility or building (other than a road) shall also require the applicant for the permit enter into a location agreement with the city governing the use of city property.
Sec. 12-330. - Application.
Any person seeking the issuance of a film production permit shall complete a written application form provided by the city and shall provide all information requested thereon not less than five or more than 180 days prior to the commencement of film production. The application must be signed by an authorized representative of the applicant.
Sec. 12-331. - Exemptions.
Film production by news media, personal or family videos (wedding, etc.), studio filming inside a movie studio, student film productions, low impact productions (utilizing ten or fewer crew for three or fewer days and taking place entirely on private property) and such other productions as are approved by the city manager are exempt from permit requirements unless the filming activity proposes to use city facilities or block or interfere with a city street, property, or right-of-way in which case a permit shall be required.
Sec. 12-332. - Administration.
This article shall be administered by the city clerk and the facilities manager or his designee.
Sec. 12-333. - Special conditions may be imposed.
A permit may be issued with special conditions unique to the particular film production based on the circumstances of the request and location or other special factors.
Sec. 12-334. - Safety requirements.
(a)
Roads, rights-of-way and traffic. If city roads or lanes are to be blocked or traffic disrupted in any manner, off-duty city law enforcement officers must be hired by the permit holder to provide safety supervision. Requirements of the most recent edition of the state Manual on Uniform Traffic Control Devices for flagging and lane closures shall be observed. Filming on state highways require permission of the state department of transportation. Removal, cutting or trimming of the right-of-way is prohibited unless specifically approved in the permit.
(b)
Fire marshal access and approval. The county fire marshal shall have full access to any film production to ensure safety for crew members, the public, and surrounding properties. No film activity involving the use of explosives, pyrotechnics, smoke machines or fire shall be permitted without approval of the fire marshal.
Sec. 12-335. - Public notice required.
The owners of property adjacent to filming activities shall be notified in advance of the filming and provided a contact number for any complaints or concerns. At least seven days' notice shall be posted, in a manner approved by the road department director, of any planned full or partial road closure. A detour route must be provided and posted for full road closures.
Sec. 12-336. - Fees.
There shall be a fee for a permit issued pursuant to this article and, additionally, fees for each road closure and the use of city facilities. Fees shall be in the amount provided in the city fee schedule.
Sec. 12-337. - Insurance, indemnification and security deposit required.
(a)
Liability insurance. Before a permit is issued pursuant to this article, the applicant shall provide a current, valid certificate of insurance evidencing liability insurance coverage in a minimum amount of $1,000,000.00 naming the city and its officers and employees as additional insureds for protection against claims of third persons for personal injury, wrongful death and property damage. The liability insurance coverage shall not be subject to cancellation or modification until after 30 days' written notice to the city. A copy of the certificate provided under this section shall remain on file in the office of the city clerk.
(b)
Workers' compensation insurance. Permit holders shall conform to all applicable state and federal law regarding provision of workers' compensation insurance.
(c)
Hold harmless agreement. The applicant's acceptance of a permit under this article constitutes a hold harmless agreement between the applicant and the city holding the city and its officers and employees harmless from all damages, suits, actions, or liabilities, including attorney's fees, arising out of or resulting from the filming activity, or from the acts of the filming company or its agents during the filming activity or occurring as a result of the use of filming locations by the filming company.
(d)
Damage to property. Any damage to city-owned property, facilities or infrastructure, including roads, arising from or relating to the film production, shall be the responsibility of the permit holder who shall repair all such damage or pay the city costs of repair.
(e)
Security deposit. To ensure clean-up and restoration of the site, an applicant may be required to submit a refundable security deposit in an amount determined by the city administrator;. Upon completion of filming and inspection of the site by the city, if no verifiable damage has occurred, the security deposit shall be returned to the applicant. If verifiable damage has occurred, the security deposit shall be applied toward the costs of repair. If the cost of repair is less than the deposit, the remaining deposit shall be refunded. If the cost of repair is greater than the deposit, the deposit shall be applied to repair costs and the permit holder shall immediately reimburse the city for the remaining costs.
Sec. 12-338. - Notice of violation; cessation of filming activity.
If the holder of a permit under this article violates any provision of this article or any condition of the permit, the city may provide the permit holder verbal or written notice of the violation. If the applicant fails to correct the violation, the city may revoke the permit and all filming activity must cease immediately.
Sec. 12-339. - Revocation of permit upon threat to public safety.
Activity that threatens public safety will result in immediate revocation of the permit.
