Chapter 33 - OFFENSES

Sec. 33-1. - State misdemeanors adopted.
The state criminal statutes, as such statutes apply to municipalities within this state are adopted by reference with full force and effect as if set out in full in this section. The municipal judge is authorized to impose fines in an amount equal to the amount provided by state law.
(Code 2004, § 50-1)
Sec. 33-2. - Disorderly conduct.
(a)
It is unlawful for any person within the corporate limits of the city to violate any of the following:
(1)
No person shall act in a violent or tumultuous manner toward another whereby any person is placed in danger of safety of his life, limb or health;
(2)
No person shall act in a violent or tumultuous manner toward another whereby the property of any person is placed in danger of being destroyed or damaged;
(3)
No person shall cause, provoke or engage in any fight, brawl or riotous conduct so as to endanger the life, limb, health or property of another;
(4)
No person shall assemble or congregate with another or others for the purpose or with the intent to engage in gaming;
(5)
No person shall frequent any public place with intent to obtain money from other persons by illegal and fraudulent schemes, tricks, artifices or devices;
(6)
No person shall assemble for the purpose of engaging in any fraudulent scheme, device or trick, to obtain any valuable thing in any place or from any person in the city, or aid or abet therein;
(7)
No person shall without provocation, use to or of another person in such other person's presence, opprobrious or abusive words which by their very utterance tend to incite to an immediate breach of the peace, that is to say, words which as a matter of common knowledge and under ordinary circumstances will, when used to or of another person in such other person's presence, naturally tend to provoke violent resentment, that is, words commonly called "fighting words";
(8)
No person shall without provocation, use obscene and vulgar or profane language in the presence of or by telephone to a person under the age of 14 years which threatens an immediate breach of the peace;
(9)
No person shall by acts of violence interfere with another's pursuit of a lawful occupation; or
(10)
No person shall congregate with another or others in or on any public way so as to halt the flow of vehicular or pedestrian traffic and then refuse to clear such public way when ordered by the city police or other lawful authority.
(b)
Any person who shall violate any subsection of this section may be charged with the offense of disorderly conduct and, on conviction thereof, may be found guilty of disorderly conduct.
(Code 2004, § 50-2)
State Law reference— Similar provisions, O.C.G.A. § 16-11-39.
Sec. 33-3. - Loitering or prowling.
(a)
A person commits the offense of loitering or prowling when he is in a place at a time or in a manner not usual for law-abiding individuals under circumstances that warrant a justifiable and reasonable alarm or immediate concern for the safety of persons or property in the vicinity.
(b)
Among the circumstances which may be considered in determining whether an alarm is warranted is the fact of whether or not the person takes flight upon the appearance of a law enforcement officer, refuses to identify himself, or manifestly endeavors to conceal himself or any object. Unless by flight the person or other circumstances make it impracticable, a law enforcement officer shall, prior to any arrest for an offense under this chapter, afford the person an opportunity to dispel any alarm or immediate concern which would otherwise be warranted by requesting the person to identify himself and explain his presence and conduct. No person shall be convicted of an offense under this chapter if the law enforcement officer failed to comply with the foregoing procedure or it appears at trial that the explanation given by the person was true and would have dispelled the alarm or immediate concern.
(Code 2004, § 50-3)
State Law reference— Similar provisions, O.C.G.A. § 16-11-36.
Sec. 33-4. - Public drunkenness.
A person who shall be and appear in an intoxicated condition in any public place or within the curtilage of any private residence not his own other than by invitation of the owner or lawful occupant, which condition is made manifest by boisterousness, by indecent condition or act, or by vulgar, profane, loud, or unbecoming language, is guilty of public drunkenness.
(Code 2004, § 50-4)
State Law reference— Similar provision, O.C.G.A. § 16-11-41.
Sec. 33-5. - Tampering with or damage to city property.
It is unlawful to tamper with or damage city property including, but not limited to, city utility meters. A first violation of this section is punishable by a fine of $75.00 and a second violation of this section is punishable by a fine of $150.00. Third and subsequent violations of this section require issuance of a citation and appearance before the municipal court and are subject to penalties as provided in section 1-11. In addition, persons violating this section shall pay the cost of any necessary repair or replacement of the property tampered with or damaged.
Sec. 33-6. - Aggressive panhandling.
(a)
Definitions. The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this section, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this subsection, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Aggressive panhandling means and includes:
(1)
Intentionally or recklessly making any physical contact with or touching another person or his vehicle in the course of the solicitation without the person's consent;
(2)
Following the person being solicited, if that conduct is intended to or is likely to cause a reasonable person to fear imminent bodily harm or the commission of a criminal act upon property in the person's possession, or is intended to, or is reasonably likely to intimidate the person being solicited into responding affirmatively to the solicitation;
(3)
Continuing to solicit within five feet of the person being solicited after the person has made a negative response, if continuing the solicitation is intended to or is likely to cause a reasonable person to fear imminent bodily harm or the commission of a criminal act upon property in the person's possession, or is intended to, or is reasonably likely to intimidate the person being solicited into responding affirmatively to the solicitation;
(4)
Intentionally or recklessly blocking the safe or free passage of the person being solicited or requiring the person, or the driver of a vehicle, to take evasive action to avoid physical contact with the person making the solicitation;
(5)
Intentionally or recklessly using obscene or abusive language or gestures intended to or likely to cause a reasonable person to fear imminent bodily harm or the commission of a criminal act upon property in the person's possession, or words intended to, or reasonably likely to intimidate the person being solicited into responding affirmatively to the solicitation;
(6)
Approaching the person being solicited in a manner that is intended to or is likely to cause a reasonable person to fear imminent bodily harm or the commission of a criminal act upon property in the person's possession, or is intended to, or is reasonably likely to intimidate the person being solicited into responding affirmatively to the solicitation.
Public area means an area to which the public or a substantial group of persons has access including, but not limited to, alleys, bridges, buildings, driveways, parking lots, parks, playgrounds, plazas, sidewalks, and streets that are open to the general public.
Solicit means to request an immediate donation of money or other thing of value from another person, regardless of the solicitor's purpose or intended use of the money or other thing of value, including employment, business or contributions or to request the sale of goods or services. The solicitation may be, without limitation, by the spoken, written, or printed word, or by other means of communication.
(b)
Prohibitions. It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, organization, or corporation to aggressively panhandle within any public area in the city or panhandle or solicit funds for the sole benefit of the solicitor:
(1)
In any public transportation vehicle, or bus or subway station or stop;
(2)
Within 15 feet of any entrance or exit of any bank or check cashing business or within 15 feet of any automated teller machine during the hours of operation of such bank, automated teller machine or check cashing business without the consent of the owner or other person legally in possession of such facilities. Provided, however, that when an automated teller machine is located within an automated teller machine facility, such distance shall be measured from the entrance or exit of the automated teller machine facility;
(3)
On private property if the owner, tenant, or lawful occupant has asked the person not to solicit on the property, or has posted a sign clearly indicating that solicitations are not welcome on the property; or
(4)
From any operator of a motor vehicle that is in traffic on a public street, whether in exchange for cleaning the vehicle's windows, or for blocking, occupying, or reserving a public parking space; provided, however, that this paragraph shall not apply to services rendered in connection with emergency repairs requested by the operator or passengers of such vehicle.
(c)
Applicability. This article regulates the time, place and manner of solicitations and shall not apply to any persons to prevent them from exercising their clearly established constitutional right to picket, protest or engage in other constitutionally protected activity.
(Ord. No. 2019-0005, § 1, 9-12-2019)
