ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 12-1. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Administrative fee means a component of an occupational tax which approximates the reasonable cost of handling and processing the occupation tax.
ATF means the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms.
City means the City of Adairsville, Georgia.
Dealer means:
(1)
Any person engaged in the business of purchasing precious metals or gems or goods made from precious metals or gems from persons or sources other than manufacturers, manufacturers' representatives, or other dealers in precious metals or gems; or
(2)
A person engaged in any other business if, in conjunction with such business, precious metals or gems or goods made from precious metals or gems are purchased from persons or sources other than manufacturers, manufacturers' representatives, or other dealers in precious metals or gems.
Director means the city community development director.
Licensed day-care center means a facility licensed by the state, whether situated within the city or not, that provides care, training, education, custody, treatment or supervision for more than 12 children under 14 years of age, where such children are not related by blood, marriage or adoption to the owner or operator of the facility, for less than 24 hours a day, regardless of whether or not the facility is operated for a profit or charges for the services it offers.
Location of office shall not include a temporary worksite which serves a single customer or project.
Month means that period of time from one date in a calendar month to the corresponding date in the following calendar month, but if there is no such corresponding date, then the last day of such following month.
Occupation tax means a tax levied on persons, partnerships, corporations or other entities for engaging in an occupation, profession or business for revenue raising purposes.
Pawn transaction means any loan on the security of the pledged goods or any purchase of pledged goods on the condition that the pledged goods may be redeemed or repurchased by the pledgor or seller for a fixed price within a fixed period of time. This includes swap shops, exchange shops, etc.
Pawnbroker means any person engaged in whole or in part in the business of lending money on the security of pledged goods, or in the business of purchasing tangible personal property on the condition that it may be redeemed or repurchased by the seller for a fixed price within a fixed period of time, or in the business of purchasing tangible personal property from the persons or sources other than manufacturers or licensed dealers as a part of or in conjunction with the business activities described in this definition.
Peddler includes any person, whether a resident of the city or not, traveling by foot, wagon, truck, automotive vehicle, or any other type of conveyance, from place to place, from house to house, or from street to street, carrying, conveying or transporting furniture, house wares, luggage, decorative accessories, clothing, meats, fish, or other goods, wares or merchandise, offering and exposing them for sale; making sales and delivering articles to purchasers; or without traveling from place to place, sells or offers them for sale from a wagon, truck, automotive vehicle, railroad car, or other vehicle or conveyance. One who solicits orders and as a separate transaction makes deliveries to purchasers as a part of a scheme or design to evade the provisions of this article shall be deemed a peddler subject to the provisions of this article. The term "peddler" includes the terms "hawker," "huckster" and "transient merchant."
Person means individual, proprietorship, partnership, corporation, association, or other legal entity.
Pledged goods means tangible personal property, including, without limitation, all types of motor vehicles or any motor vehicle certificate of title, which property is purchased by, deposited with, or otherwise actually delivered into the possession of a pawnbroker in connection with a pawn transaction. However, for purposes of this section, possession of any motor vehicle certificate of title which has come into the possession of a pawnbroker through a pawn transaction made in accordance with law shall be conclusively deemed to be possession of the motor vehicle, and the pawnbroker shall retain physical possession of the motor vehicle certificate of title for the entire length of the pawn transaction but shall not be required in any way to retain physical possession of the motor vehicle at any time. The term "pledged goods" shall not include choses in action, securities, or printed evidences of indebtedness.
Practitioner of profession or occupation means a person who by state law requires state licensure regulating such profession or occupation. The term "practitioners of profession or occupation" shall not include a practitioner who is an employee of a business, if the business pays an occupation tax.
Precious metals means gold, silver, or platinum or any alloy containing gold, silver, or platinum.
Regularly means and refers to the consistent and repeated doing of the act so described.
Regulatory fees means payments, whether designated as license fees, permit fees or by another name, which are required by a local government as an exercise of its police power and as a part of or as an aid to regulation of an occupation, profession or business. The amount of a regulatory fee shall approximate the reasonable cost of the actual regulatory activity performed by the city. A regulatory fee may not include an administrative fee. Development impact fees as defined by O.C.G.A. § 36-71-2 or other costs or conditions of zoning or land development are not regulatory fees.
(Code 2004, §§ 22-31, 58-142; Ord. of 12-8-1994, §§ 8.1, II; Ord. of 4-12-2012, § 22-31; Ord. of 11-12-2015(01), § 2)
State Law reference— Similar definitions, O.C.G.A. § 44-12-130.
Secs. 12-2—12-18. - Reserved.
