Chapter 20 - FIRE PREVENTION, PROTECTION AND CONTROL

Sec. 20-1. - Fees.
Fees associated with this chapter shall be as provided in the city fee schedule or in the county's fee schedule as applicable.
Sec. 20-2. - Adoption of state minimum fire safety standards.
(a)
In accordance with O.C.G.A. § 25-2-12, adopt the state minimum fire safety standards adopted in the rules and regulations promulgated pursuant to chapter 2 of title 12 of the Georgia Code, including all subsequent revisions thereof, entitled the "Rules and Regulations for the State Minimum Fire Safety Standards" as set forth in the Georgia Administrative Code, ch. 120-3-3.
(b)
The fire marshal for the county is authorized to enforce the provisions of this section.
(c)
The commissioner of the county shall be authorized to adopt a fee schedule for such inspections and related activities as performed by the fire marshal.
(Ord. of 4-11-2013, § 18-1)
Sec. 20-3. - Existing buildings and special historical buildings.
(a)
In accordance with O.C.G.A. § 8-2-203, the provisions of title 8, chapter 2, article 3 of the Georgia Code, "Application of Building and Fire Related Codes to Existing Buildings," (O.C.G.A. § 8-2-200 et seq.) are adopted by reference.
(b)
The building official and fire marshal for Bartow County, Georgia are authorized to enforce the provisions of this section and O.C.G.A. § 8-2-200 et seq.
(c)
The building official and fire marshal, upon reviewing an existing building or special historic building to which this section is applicable, may, in their discretion based on the standards contained in O.C.G.A. § 8-2-200 et seq., require compliance alternatives as indicated therein. However, this subsection is only applicable as to buildings constructed prior to December 31, 1945, and no exceptions to this building or fire code pursuant to this section are permitted on building constructed after January 1, 1946.
(d)
This section is not applicable to buildings being used for residential uses or those used for industrial uses as specific in the city zoning regulations.
(e)
No exceptions or compliance alternatives are allowed with respect to the state fire code, the most current edition as adopted by the state.
(f)
Appeals of decisions of the building official or fire marshal shall be made to the city community development director.
(Ord. of 4-11-2013, § 18-2)
Sec. 20-4. - Fees.
Fees associated with this chapter shall be as provided in the city fee schedule.
Ord. of 4-11-2013, § 18-3)
Sec. 20-5. - Fire hydrant testing, maintenance and identification.
(a)
Purpose. The purpose of this article is to provide a standard system for hydrant color identification and establish a practice of maintenance for fire hydrants within the service area of the county fire department, which includes the incorporated areas of this city. These provisions shall incorporate by reference the American Water Works Association (AWWA) manual M17, "Installation, Field Testing, and Maintenance of Fire Hydrants"; the National Fire Protection Association (NFPA) 291 latest edition, defining Fire Flow Testing and Marking Hydrants; and Insurance Service Organization (ISO) standards for fire hydrant testing, collectively referred to herein as the "standards."
(b)
Testing required. All fire hydrants within the service area of the county fire department and owned by the water system of this city shall be flowed and tested in accordance with the standards. The testing shall determine the gallons per minute (GPM) fire flow for that hydrant. Testing shall be coordinated with the water system. Proper public notice shall be issued in advance of any testing to ensure the public is aware of potential water discoloration.
(c)
Color coding. After testing, each hydrant shall then be color coded in accordance with NFPA 291, as follows:
Standard Hydrants:
EXPAND
GMP Flow rate Paint color
Barrels: Any Safety yellow
Bonnets and caps: less than 500 Safety Red
500 to 999 Safety orange
1,000 to 1,499 Safety green
1,500 or greater Safety blue
Trim of bonnet: Any Silver or white
Reflective (if available)
Disclaimer: Color coding is only descriptive of what GPM flow was at the time of the last documented test. It in no way guarantees that the hydrant will flow that GPM at the time of an incident and does not take into account any high demands, broken mains, closed valves or other events that could affect GPM flow. Color coding is only used as a general reference to what the potential flow may be at any given time and citizens and staff should be aware and prepared for GPM changes.
  Special Hydrants:
EXPAND
Bastard thread hydrant (Non-NST): Caps—gloss black
Private hydrant: Barrel, bonnet and caps—solid red
Out of service hydrant: Barrel, bonnet and caps - safety yellow or clearly marked with a covering to identify out of service status.
    (d)
Maintenance procedures. An annual maintenance schedule and visual check program shall be established by the county fire department. Personnel and citizen safety shall be a high priority. All fire hydrants are to be opened and closed very slowly to prevent water hammer, line damage and equipment failure.
(e)
Recording data. All test data shall be maintained in the county fire department records as well as the records of the city's water system. A record of malfunctions, corrections and system changes shall be recorded. Any malfunction of the system, while performing work on the system, is to be immediately reported to the battalion chief, who will in turn notify appropriate water system officials.
(Ord. of 10-9-2014, § 1-2)
