Chapter 37 - SOLID WASTE[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
State Law reference— Georgia Comprehensive Solid Waste Management Act, O.C.G.A. § 12-8-20 et seq.; local, multijurisdictional and regional solid waste plans, O.C.G.A. § 12-8-31.1; unlawful placement of signs within right-of-way of public road, O.C.G.A. § 32-6-51; authorization to provide garbage and solid waste collection and disposal, Ga. Const. art. IX, § II, ¶ III(a)(2).

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Secs. 37-1—37-18. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - COLLECTION AND DISPOSAL[2]

Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
State Constitution reference— Authority of municipalities to provide for garbage and solid waste collection and disposal, Ga. Const. art. IX, § II, ¶ III(a)(2).

Sec. 37-19. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Bulky waste means those items of furniture, such as sofas, chairs, tables, carpets and other large items such as mattresses, electronics, tubs, toilets, picnic tables and benches, which cannot reasonably be placed in a 95 gallon rollout cart.
C and D materials means waste material generated by the construction, remodeling, repair or demolition of residential, commercial or other structures.
Collector means a person who is permitted by the city by franchise agreement to engage in the business of collection or transportation of solid waste, with or without compensation, from residential dwellings; provided, however, that this definition shall not include an individual collecting or transporting waste from his own single-family dwelling unit.
Commercial premises means all nonresidential premises, public or private, requiring solid waste collection within the city, including commercial.
Commercial solid waste means all garbage, rubbish and other acceptable waste generated by commercial premises and all C and D materials, excluding hazardous waste.
Curbside means the location adjacent to the traveled portion of a publicly owned roadway designated by the contractor for the placement of carts and other solid waste and recyclables for collection.
Disposal facility means any facility or location where any treatment, utilization, processing, or deposition of solid waste occurs.
Disposal operation means the performance of solid waste disposal, including administration, personnel, land, equipment, design, and other elements necessary or used in the work of solid waste disposal.
Disposal site means the location or land area where the final disposition of solid waste occurs.
Franchisee means the person or company chosen to haul and dispose of solid waste for the citizens of the city by the city council.
Garbage means putrescible animal and vegetable waste resulting from the handling, preparation, cooking, and consumption of food.
Government waste means waste materials generated at institutional or governmental locations.
Hazardous waste means solid or liquid waste material resulting from the manufacture or use of pesticides and drugs (other than normal household use); pathological wastes; highly flammable or explosive wastes; toxic wastes; sewage sludge; and other waste material determined to be a likely hazard to the public health, safety, or environment, except radioactive waste materials as provided for in rules of the department of human resources.
Industrial waste means waste materials generated in industrial operations.
Open dump means a disposal site at which solid waste from one or more sources is consolidated and left to decompose, burn, or to otherwise create environmental pollution or nuisance.
Putrescible waste means wastes that are capable of being decomposed by microorganisms, including kitchen wastes, manure, offal, hatchery and poultry wastes, and garbage.
Reclamation means a controlled method of sorting and storing solid wastes for future use in accordance with an approved plan.
Refuse means all putrescible and nonputrescible solid wastes (except body wastes), including garbage, rubbish, ashes, street cleanings, dead animals, abandoned automobiles, and solid commercial and industrial wastes.
Residential premises means a dwelling within the city limits occupied by a person or group of persons, including single-family homes, duplexes, triplexes, quadraplexes, and mobile homes whether such mobile homes are registered as vehicles or assessed as real property.
Rubbish means nonputrescible solid wastes (excluding ashes), consisting of both combustible and noncombustible wastes, such as paper, cardboard, tin cans, yard clippings, wood, glass, bedding, crockery, and similar materials.
Sanitary landfilling means a method of disposing of putrescible waste or hazardous waste on land by placing an earth cover thereon.
Scavenge means uncontrolled picking from discarded waste materials.
Solid waste means discarded putrescible and nonputrescible waste, except water-carried body waste and recovered materials, and shall include garbage; rubbish such as paper, cartons, boxes, wood, tree branches, yard trimmings, furniture and appliances, metal, tin cans, glass, crockery, or dunnage; street refuse; dead animals; sewage sludge; animal manure; industrial waste; such as waste materials generated in industrial operations; residue from solid waste; thermal treatment technology; food processing waste; construction waste; and any other waste material in a solid, semisolid, or liquid state not otherwise defined.
Solid waste handling means the storage, collection, transportation, treatment, utilization, processing, or disposing of solid wastes, or any combination thereof.
Transfer station means a facility used to transfer solid wastes from one transportation vehicle to another for transportation to a disposal facility.
(Code 2004, § 54-31; Ord. of 6-10-2004(1), § 8-2-1)
Sec. 37-20. - Administration.
(a)
The city manager, mayor or their agents are authorized on behalf of the city to enter into an agreement with a franchisee to provide for solid waste management to include, but not be limited to, the collection, removal and disposal of solid waste for all citizens residing at residential premises. The city manager, mayor or their agents shall, with the approval of the city council, execute an agreement binding the city to the franchisee for such a period of time as may be allowed by law and as determined by the city council to be in the best interest of all the citizens of the city.
(b)
The city manager, mayor or their agents shall have the power and authority to enforce the duties and obligations of the franchisee under the franchise agreement between the franchisee and the city.
(c)
To the extent it is necessary to carry out the administration of the solid waste management code, the city manager, mayor or their agents shall have the authority to establish rules and regulations not inconsistent with any terms contained in the solid waste management franchise agreement between the franchisee and the city. Each residential premises and commercial premises shall be bound by the terms of any franchise agreement.
(d)
The city manager, mayor or their agents shall have the power and authority to enforce the requirements for solid waste management as specified throughout this article. It is unlawful for any person to fail to adhere to the provisions provided for in this article.
(e)
Further, to the extent there is a binding irrevocable contract in place for solid waste pickup with any residential premises or commercial premises, this article shall not be binding on such person (an excluded private resident) until such time as such contract expires. Such contract may not be renewed after the date of the ordinance from which this article is derived.
(f)
All refuse accumulated in the city at any residential premises or commercial premises shall be collected, conveyed and disposed of by the franchisee at a permitted subtitle D sanitary landfill designated by the franchisee. The franchisee shall have the ability to recommend regulations concerning precollection practices for both refuse collection and recyclable item collection, the days of collection, type and location of waste containers and recycling bins, and such other matters pertaining to the collection, conveyance, and disposal as it shall find necessary, and to recommend changes and modifications to the same. The franchisee shall agree that it has been provided with a copy of this article, and is familiar with and to the extent required will adhere to its provisions.
(g)
All residential premises or commercial premises refuse accumulated in the city shall be collected, conveyed and disposed of by the franchisee, except as otherwise provided for in this article. No other person shall collect, convey over any of the streets or alleys of the city, or dispose of any residential premises or commercial premises refuse accumulated in the city. Nothing contained in this article shall preclude any producer from recycling any garbage or rubbish generated by that producer; provided that recycling function is carried on entirely by that producer and is transported to a recycling facility in a vehicle owned or leased by and driven by that producer.
(Code 2004, § 54-32; Ord. of 6-10-2004(1), § 8-2-2)
Sec. 37-21. - Preparation and storage of waste.
(a)
No person shall keep or store solid waste or C and D materials outside of any residence or building within the city, except in proper containers for collection or otherwise prepared, as set forth in this article.
(b)
Garbage containers shall be provided by the city's franchisee to each residence and commercial establishment to be used for solid waste collection services. sufficient in number to accommodate such waste generated by the residence or establishment between collections or shall be provided by the city's franchisee. Containers owned by any owner or occupant shall be of durable metal or plastic, watertight, nonabsorbent, rust-resistant, rodent proof; and easily cleaned. Containers shall be equipped with handles and tightly fitted covers and shall have a capacity of not less than 15 gallons nor more than 35 gallons except as provided by the franchisee. Containers failing to comply with these provisions or defective containers shall be promptly replaced.
(c)
Disposable paper or plastic bags of a type, size, and material designed for solid waste disposal may be used to contain refuse for storage and collection, provided they are unbroken, sealed, and loaded in such manner that normal handling will not cause the bag to open.
(Code 2004, § 54-33; Ord. of 6-10-2004(1), § 8-2-3)
Sec. 37-22. - Placement of waste containers for pickup.
(a)
On days designated as collection days by the franchisee, garbage or rubbish shall be placed for collection on the curb or beside the roadway in front of the residence or establishment owning same, or if the property abuts on an alley, at the rear of the property, but not in the gutter or in the street or alley in such manner as to interfere with pedestrian or vehicular traffic. By previous agreement with the franchisee, residential, collection procedures, may be altered to provide for placement of garbage or rubbish in an area adjacent to the residence.
(b)
Garbage containers may be placed on the curbside the day before scheduled pickup and must be removed from curbside no later than midnight on the day of pickup.
(Code 2004, § 54-34; Ord. of 6-10-2004(1), § 8-2-4)
Sec. 37-23. - Collection of waste.
(a)
Industrial or hazardous waste, large dead animals over ten pounds, or waste from construction, demolition, landscaping, or processing operations will be collected, transported, or disposed of in accordance with the city's contract with the franchisee by the city, or by agreement between such premises and any licensed waste disposal company.
(b)
No person shall place or cause to be placed in any container, box or bundle, or otherwise for collection, any hazardous waste of any kind except upon specific prior arrangement with the city, county health department and the franchisee.
(Code 2004, § 54-35; Ord. of 6-10-2004(1), § 8-2-5)
Sec. 37-24. - Subdivision common area collection.
Homeowners' associations governing residential subdivisions within the city may establish a common area for placement of household trash for collection in lieu of curbside placement by individual subdivision residents. Collection from such common areas shall require that the homeowners' association establish a commercial account with the waste collector subject to such terms and conditions as the collector may impose. Waste placed for collection in such common areas shall be limited to items approved for residential collection, and waste shall be prepared for collection in the same manner as required by this article for individual residential accounts.
Sec. 37-25. - Yard debris removal.
(a)
For purposes of this section, yard debris includes tree limbs, trunks, branches or cuttings and shrubs and bushes (not exceed eight feet in length or six inches in diameter), as well as bagged leaves. The term specifically excludes household trash and garbage, pine straw, grass clippings and stumps.
(b)
Yard debris will be collected every Monday, provided that if a scheduled pickup day falls on a city-observed holiday, the pickup for that week will be rescheduled for the first business day following the holiday. Debris must be placed next to the street prior to the scheduled pickup day.
(c)
Yard debris removal is also available by appointment. Upon request for removal of yard debris by appointment, a city employee will inspect the debris to be removed and provide to the property owner or resident an estimate of the cost for removal, if any. The cost of removal shall be added to the utility bill for the property.
Sec. 37-26. - Unauthorized accumulation of waste; nuisance.
Any unauthorized accumulation of solid waste is declared to be a nuisance and is prohibited. The city manager, mayor or their agents, by written notice, shall notify the owner or occupant of any premises with such solid waste accumulation to remove same. Failure to remove such accumulation within two weeks of the date of such written notice shall be deemed a violation of these regulations and subject the owner or occupant to penalties hereinafter set forth, a separate violation shall be deemed committed each day during or upon which such unlawful accumulation continues.
(Code 2004, § 54-36; Ord. of 6-10-2004(1), § 8-2-6)
Sec. 37-27. - Disposal of waste.
(a)
All disposal of solid waste shall be at disposal sites operated in accordance with state laws and with rules and regulations of the state department of natural resources, and at no other place. Waste deposited during the operating hours at any site operated by the county or municipality shall be placed as designated by the attendant on duty.
(b)
No truck shall discharge waste at a publicly operated disposal unless the owner's name, telephone number, permit number, truck number, and rated load capacity are clearly printed on the door of such truck or in an equally conspicuous place.
(Code 2004, § 54-37; Ord. of 6-10-2004(1), § 8-2-7)
Sec. 37-28. - Scavenging.
No person other than the owner or authorized collection personnel shall sift the contents of or remove anything from containers, boxes, or bundles containing garbage or rubbish.
(Code 2004, § 54-38; Ord. of 6-10-2004(1), § 8-2-8)
Sec. 37-29. - Service charges.
(a)
Solid waste service charges for the purpose of financing the collection and disposal of refuse in the city shall be as established in the franchise agreement between the franchisee and the city or shall be levied upon every residence, except the excluded private residents. The schedule of rates shall be maintained on file in the office of the city clerk where it is available for inspection by the public.
(b)
Delinquent accounts if billed by the city shall be subject to the following:
(1)
A ten percent penalty shall be assessed on all accounts considered delinquent.
(2)
All accounts shall be considered delinquent if not paid by the 23rd of the second month following the prior billing date and shall subject the customer to an additional penalty often a percentage of the total utility bill. An administrative fee will be assessed for the delinquent notice. All delinquent accounts are subject to stoppage of service without notice.
(3)
Upon delinquent notification, if a delinquent account is not paid within 48 hours, the franchisee may cease any refuse collection for that account. Service shall be resumed thereafter only upon payment of the entire balance on the account plus all penalties, and all applicable reconnection or container resetting charges.
(4)
The stoppage of services for nonpayment of collection charges shall be in addition to the right of the city to proceed for the collection of such unpaid charges in a manner provided by law.
(c)
Solid waste deposits and service charges shall be collected or billed by the city directly to the customer in accordance with the city's agreement.
(Code 2004, § 54-40; Ord. of 6-10-2004(1), § 8-2-10)
Sec. 37-30. - Enforcement.
(a)
The city manager, mayor or their agents shall be responsible for the administration and enforcement of this article. He shall inspect and regulate the operations of private collectors and private transportation and disposal systems to ensure that such operations are in compliance with the provisions of this article.
(b)
All regulatory actions of the city manager, mayor or their agents shall be subject to the review of the city council.
(c)
Any person aggrieved by the action of the city manager, mayor or their agents shall have the right to appeal to the city council, who may, upon hearing, confirm, modify, or revoke such action.
(Code 2004, § 54-41; Ord. of 6-10-2004(1), § 8-2-11)
Sec. 37-31. - Penalties.
Any person convicted of violating any of the provisions of this article shall be punished by a fine not exceeding $100.00 for each violation or be imprisoned not to exceed 30 days, or both, at the discretion of the judge of the municipal court. For purposes hereof, each day shall constitute a separate violation.
(Code 2004, § 54-42; Ord. of 6-10-2004(1), § 8-2-12)
Secs. 37-32—37-59. - Reserved.
ARTICLE III. - LITTER CONTROL[3]

Footnotes:
--- (3) ---
State Law reference— Litter Control Law, O.C.G.A. § 16-7-40 et seq.; littering highways, O.C.G.A. § 40-6-249.

Sec. 37-60. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Litter means any organic or inorganic waste material, rubbish, refuse, garbage, trash, hulls, peelings, debris, grass, weeds, ashes, sand, gravel, slag, brickbats, metal, plastic, and glass containers, broken glass, dead animals or intentionally or unintentionally discarded materials of every kind and description that are not "waste" as such term is defined in O.C.G.A. § 16-7-51(6).
Public property and private property means the right-of-way of any road or highway; any body of water or watercourse or the shores or beaches thereof; any park, playground, building, refuge, or conservation or recreation area, and residential or farm properties, timberlands or forests.
(Code 1986, ch. VIII, § 1.1; Code 2004, § 54-81)
Sec. 37-61. - Prohibited.
(a)
It is unlawful for any person to keep or store any litter on any privately owned property within the city, or to keep or store such litter in a building that is not wholly enclosed, except for doors for ingress and egress, and any person violating this section shall be guilty of maintaining a nuisance.
(b)
It is unlawful for any person to throw, to drop or leave any litter upon any public property or another person's private property in this city, or any waters within the city boundaries, provided that this section shall not apply if such property is designated by the city for the disposal of litter, or the material is deposited in a litter receptacle or container installed for such purpose.
(Code 1986, ch. VIII, §§ 1.2, 1.3; Code 2004, §§ 54-39, 54-82, 54-83; Ord. of 6-10-2004(1), § 8-2-9)
Sec. 37-62. - Litter dumped from vehicle or other conveyance.
(a)
Pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 16-7-44, if litter is thrown, deposited, dropped, or dumped from any motor vehicle, boat, airplane or other conveyance, the trier of fact may in its discretion and in consideration of the totality of the circumstances infer that the operator of the conveyance has littered in violation of section 37-61(b).
(b)
Except as provided in subsection (a) of this section, whenever any litter which is dumped, deposited, thrown, or left on public or private property is discovered to contain any article or articles, including, but not limited to, letters, bills, publications, or other writings which display the name of a person thereon in such a manner as to indicate that the article belongs or belonged to such person, the trier of fact may in its discretion and in consideration of the totality of the circumstances infer that such person has violated section 37-61(b).
Sec. 37-63. - Penalty for violation of article.
Any person found guilty of violating this article shall be punished as provided in section 1-11; and, in addition, the court may order a nuisance abated by causing removal by either the defendant, or other person, or by the city. The nuisance may be abated in a summary manner at the expense of the party whose acts or negligence caused the nuisance, or owner of the property upon which the nuisance is located as the city manager, mayor or their agents may elect; and execution may issue against the party to collect the expenses of removal of the nuisance, which may be collected by the municipal court, and by levy and sale as other executions are collected in favor of the city.
(Code 1986, ch. VIII, § 1.5; Code 2004, § 54-85)
