[ARTICLE 3A.] - PLANNED UNIT DISTRICT REGULATIONS

[Sec. 3A.1.] - NUP Neighborhood Unit Plan.
NUP District scope and intent. Regulations set forth in this section are the NUP district regulations. The NUP district is intended to provide land areas devoted to low- to medium-density single-family residential uses of 3 or fewer units per acre consistent with the densities ranges suggested by the City Council. The NUP district is intended to: 1) encourage the development of medium sized tracts of land as planned neighborhoods or the development of vacant parcels of land with transitional densities in built-up areas; 2) encourage the preservation of trees and vegetation; and to 3) encourage innovative site planning. Land proposed for a NUP shall comply with the following standards:
A.
Provide a density that is consistent with the plan densities.
B.
Protect neighboring properties by requiring peripheral setbacks and development standards as required by the conditions of zoning.
Use Regulations. within the NUP district, land and structures shall be used in accordance with standards herein. Any use not specifically designated as a permitted use in this section shall be prohibited.
A.
Permitted Uses — Structures and land may be used for only the following purposes:
1.
Single-family dwelling.
2.
Recreation facilities associated with single-family development.
B.
Accessory Uses — A structure or land may be used for uses customarily incidental to any permitted use and a dwelling may be used for a home occupation.
C.
All Homeowner covenants that establish homeowners responsibility for the open space are made a part of this ordinance.
Development Plan. The development plan shall be the zoning control document for features depicted graphically. The site plan requirement applicable to rezoning requests shall be adhered to for NUP rezoning requests.
A.
Development Standards:
1)
Height Regulations — No building shall exceed (40) feet in height.
2)
Minimum lot area per unit - 6,000 sq. ft.
3)
NUP Size — Minimum 4 contiguous acres, maximum 26 contiguous acres.
4)
Maximum Density — 3 units per gross acre.
5)
Minimum lot width — None unless specified in conditions.
6)
Minimum development frontage — 35 feet.
7)
Minimum heated floor area per unit — 1400 sq. ft. detached.
8)
Minimum Perimeter setback for the entire NUP development — A 20-foot setback shall be provided around the periphery of the development.
9)
Minimum interior setbacks:
a)
Minimum front yard — 20 feet.
b)
Minimum side yard — 7.5 feet.
c)
Minimum rear yards — 10 feet.
10)
Minimum interior building separations — To place a building along an Interior side lot line at between zero and 7 feet shall require an encroachment and maintenance easement allowing a minimum of 7 feet of access to such buildings. A minimum building separation of 14 feet shall be maintained.
11)
Minimum Accessory Structure Requirements — Accessory structures May be located in rear or sides yards, but shall not be located within a minimum rear yard except that detached garages may locate along a rear lot line at between zero and 7 feet with an encroachment and maintenance easement allowing a minimum of 7 feet of access to the garage.
(Ord. of 2-24-2003)
