[ARTICLE 10. - SUPPLEMENTAL REGULATIONS]
[To] be erected, planted or maintained within the area of a corner lot that is included between the lines of the intersecting streets and a straight line connecting them at points twenty-five (25') feet distant from the intersection of the street lines.

[Sec.] 10.4. - Accessory Uses and Structures.
10.4-1
An accessory structure shall not be permitted in any required front yard, except as specified in Section 10.4-8.
10.4-2
No accessory building or structure shall be erected beyond a required yard line along any street.
10.4-3
Residential accessory uses such as garages, greenhouses or workshops, shall not be rented or occupied for commercial purposes.
10.4-4
All residential accessory buildings must be located at least ten (10') feet from the principal building.
10.4-5
Areas in which the accessory storage of a boat, boat trailer or travel trailer is permitted shall not include the required front yard.
10.4-6
Gasoline station pumps and pump islands where permitted may occupy the required yards, provided that they shall not be less than fifteen (15') feet from street lines; canopies, whether attached or detached from the principal building must be at least fourteen (14') feet in height and the outermost edge shall be five (5') feet from any property line.
10.4-7
All nonresidential accessory buildings shall only be used by the owners, employees, lessee or tenants of the premises, and shall meet the setback requirements of the principal building.
10.4-8
An open or unenclosed swimming pool may occupy a required rear or side yard, provided that the pool is not located closer than six (6') feet to a rear lot line or ten (10') feet to an interior side lot line. A three (3') foot wide walk space shall be provided between pool walls and protective fences or barrier walls.
[Sec.] 10.5. - Residential Home Occupations.
The conduct of business in residential units may be permitted under the provisions of this section. It is the intent of this section to ensure the following:
a.
Compatibility of home occupations with other uses permitted in residential zoning districts;
b.
Maintain and preserve the character of residential neighborhoods and provide peace, quiet and domestic tranquility within all residential neighborhoods;
c.
Within the district, in order to guarantee all residents freedom from excessive noise, traffic, nuisance, fire hazard, and other possible effects of commercial uses being conducted in this district.
Residential home occupations, where permitted, must meet the following special requirements:
10.5-1
A home occupation is subordinate to the use of a dwelling unit for residential purposes. No more than twenty-five (25%) percent of the floor area of the dwelling unit may be used in connection with a home occupation or for storage purposes in connection with a home occupation.
10.5-2
No more than one (1) home occupation shall be permitted within a single dwelling unit.
10.5-3
A home occupation shall be carried on wholly within the principal use. No home occupation nor any storage of goods, materials, or products connected with a home occupation shall be allowed in accessory buildings or garages which are attached or detached.
10.5-4
The residential home occupation is limited to employment of residents of the property and not more than one (1) additional person.
10.5-5
A home occupation shall produce no noise or obnoxious odors, vibrations, glare, fumes, or electrical interference detectable to normal sensory perceptions outside the principal structure.
10.5-6
No traffic shall be generated by such home occupations in greater volume than would normally be expected in a residential neighborhood, and any need for parking generated by the conduct of such home occupation shall be met by providing off-street space and located in rear or side yard.
10.5-7
On the premises, retail sales are prohibited, except for the retail sales of products or goods produced or fabricated on the premises as a result of the home occupation.
10.5-8
There shall be no exterior indication of the home occupation or variation from the residential character of the principal use.
10.5-9
No on-street parking of business-related vehicles (either marked or commercially equipped) shall be permitted at any home. No business related vehicles larger than a van, panel truck or pickup truck is permitted to park overnight on the premises. The [permitted] number of business-related vehicles is one (1).
10.5-10
No commercial telephone directory listing, newspaper, radio or television service shall be used to advertise the location of a home occupation to the general public.
10.5-11
Permitted residential home occupations:
a.
Architectural services.
b.
Art studio.
c.
Consulting services.
d.
Data processing.
e.
Dental technician and laboratory.
f.
Direct sale product distribution (Amway, Avon, Jaffra, Mary Kay, Tupperware, etc.) provided there is no production on premises.
g.
Drafting and graphic services.
h.
Dressmaking, sewing, tailoring, contract sewing (1 machine).
i.
Electronic assembly.
j.
Engineering service.
k.
Financial planning or investment services.
l.
Flower arranging.
m.
Home office.
n.
House cleaning service.
o.
In-home child care, but not more than six (6) children at a time, including the caregiver's own pre-school children.
p.
Insurance sales or broker.
q.
Interior design.
r.
Laundry and ironing service.
s.
Locksmith.
t.
Real estate sales, broker or appraiser.
u.
Telephone answering, switchboard call forwarding.
v.
Tutoring, including all indoor and outdoor instructional services, limited to two (2) students at a time.
w.
Writing, resume services, computer programming.
10.5-12
Prohibited residential home occupations:
a.
Ambulance service.
b.
Restaurants, food preparation.
c.
Automobile repair, parts sales, upholstery, or detailing, washing services.
d.
Veterinary services (including care, grooming and boarding).
[Sec.] 10.6. - Rural Home Occupations.
Rural home occupations in the rural development districts shall be permitted under the provisions of this section. It is the intent of the section to ensure the compatibility of rural home occupations with other uses permitted in the Rural Development (RD) districts; maintain and preserve the rural character of the area and not create a nuisance for residents in the area by exceeding traffic, smoke, noise or be [being] a fire hazard. The purpose of rural home occupations is to provide a means for residents in the larger lot, rural development districts to participate in the type of businesses permitted in residential districts, be able to conduct home occupations in an accessory building where necessary, and to park, on-site, vehicles required for home occupations. Rural home occupations, where permitted, must meet the following special requirements:
10.6-1
The minimum lot size is two acres. For lots less than two acres, the home occupation is limited to the provisions of Section 10.5.
10.6-2
The rural home occupation shall be clearly subordinate to the principal use of the parcel and shall not change the residential and agricultural character of the area. No more than 25 percent of the floor area of the principal dwelling shall be used in connection with the home occupation or storage purposes.
10.6-3
The rural home occupation shall be conducted within a dwelling or within an accessory building provided all structure uses are harmonious in appearance with the zoning district in which [the] rural home occupation is located.
10.6-4
One accessory building not exceeding the minimum yard requirements of the district in which it is located may be used in connection with the rural home occupation.
10.6-5
The business of selling stocks of merchandise, supplies or products shall not be conducted on premises except under the following circumstances:
1.
Orders previously made by telephone or at sales parties may be filled on premises; and
2.
Incidental retail sales may be in connection with the permitted home occupation.
10.6-6
The existence of the rural home occupation shall not be apparent outside the dwelling or accessory building in which the rural home occupation is conducted, except that one display sign limited to nine square feet of sign area shall be permitted. The display sign added to all other signs on the parcel shall not exceed the maximum signage allowed in the district.
10.6-7
No outside storage of equipment or materials used in the conduct of the rural home occupation, other than trade vehicles, is permitted.
10.6-8
The rural home occupation is limited to residents or the property and not more than two additional persons.
10.6-9
No additional points of access to any street shall be permitted, unless necessary to provide safe and proper access to the proposed use.
10.6-10
Permitted rural home occupations:
1.
All occupations permitted in Section 10.5.
2.
Appliance repair.
3.
Auto repair.
4.
Barbershops/Beauty shops (limited to two stations).
5.
Cabinet making.
6.
Ceramics.
7.
Contracting, masonry, plumbing or painting.
8.
Tow truck services.
9.
Upholstery.
10.
Veterinary services.
11.
Antique shop.
