ARTICLE IV. - PRIVATE CLUB ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE REGULATIONS

Sec. 5-235. - Requirements.
Prior to obtaining a license to operate as a private club which allows alcoholic beverages to be served upon its premises, a club shall:
(1)
Provide proof of incorporation under the laws of the state to the city clerk. Said proof shall include a copy of the corporate articles of incorporation obtained from the secretary of state and proof that the annual fee for the current year of the corporation has been paid to the secretary of state. Thereafter licenses shall be renewable on a yearly basis upon proof that the club is a corporation in good standing with the secretary of state.
(2)
Provide the premises of the club with a telephone and provide the city clerk with the telephone number on the premises. Said telephone shall be kept operational as long as the club uses said premises.
(3)
Comply with all other applicable state, federal and local laws and ordinances regarding the licensing for sale and consumption of alcoholic beverages of any nature, shall be sold or consumed on the premises or in any manner dispensed or delivered or given away to any person in violation of any state, federal or local law.
(4)
It shall be a condition precedent to the obtaining of a license to operate a private club which sells alcoholic beverages or allows the consumption of alcoholic beverages for the operator of said club to consent to the inspection of the club at reasonable times and in a manner by the officials of the city to determine if its ordinances and regulations are being complied with. The application for a license shall be deemed implicit consent to such inspection.
(Prior Code, § 5.28.010; Ord. No. 540, § 1, 7-12-1982)
Sec. 5-236. - Hours of operation.
Private clubs which comply with the provisions of section 5-235 may operate within the following hours: No malt beverages, foreign or domestic wine, or any other sort of alcoholic beverages shall be sold, or in any manner dispensed, or delivered, or given away to any person between the hours of 2:00 a.m. and 7:00 a.m. Monday through Friday nights and between 12:00 midnight on Saturday and 7:00 a.m. on the following Monday. The tables, counters, or any other place from which beer, malt beverages, and wine are usually served, must be cleared of all glasses, bottles, cans or containers, or any other evidence which may indicate that malt beverages and wine have been or are being served by 2:30 a.m. each Monday through Friday and 12:00 midnight on Saturday night.
(Prior Code, § 5.28.020; Ord. No. 540, § 2, 7-12-1982)
Secs. 5-237—5-244. - Reserved.
