ARTICLE II. - WETLAND PROTECTION

Sec. 17-19. - Purpose.
The intent of this article is to establish minimum development standards and criteria which will afford reasonable protection of environmentally sensitive natural resources found throughout the city. Based on the findings of the city's comprehensive plan, it has been determined the wise management of these resources as defined in this article is essential to maintaining the health, safety, general welfare and economic well-being of the public.
(Prior Code, § 17.02.010; Ord. No. 712, § 1.1, 8-28-2000)
Sec. 17-20. - Establishment of wetland districts.
This article shall include the wetlands district. The boundaries of these wetland districts are shown on a set of maps designated as the overlay district and are included as part of the city's official zoning map, which is on file with the city clerk and located at city hall.
(Prior Code, § 17.02.020; Ord. No. 712, § 1.2, 8-28-2000)
Sec. 17-21. - Definitions.
In addition to the definitions provided elsewhere in this chapter, the following definitions shall apply to this article:
Aquifer means any stratum or zone of rock beneath the surface of the earth capable of containing or producing water from a well.
DRASTIC means the standardized system for evaluating groundwater pollution potential using the hydrogeologic settings described in U.S. Environmental Protection Agency document EPA-600/2-87-035. The DRASTIC methodology is the most widely used technique for evaluating pollution susceptibility.
Hazardous waste means any solid waste, by reason of its toxic, caustic, corrosive, abrasive, or otherwise injurious properties may be detrimental to the health of any person handling or otherwise coming into contact with such material or substance. The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency has developed a list of hazardous wastes based upon corrosivity, reactivity and toxicity.
Pollution susceptibility means the relative vulnerability of an aquifer to being polluted from spills, discharges, leaks, impoundments, applications of chemicals, injections and other human activities in the recharge area.
Pollution susceptibility maps means maps of relative vulnerability to pollution prepared by the department of natural resources, using the DRASTIC methodology. Pollution susceptibility maps categorize the land areas of the state into areas having high, medium and low groundwater pollution potential.
Recharge area means any portion of the earth's surface, where water infiltrates into the ground to replenish an aquifer.
River/stream bank means the rising ground, bordering a river or a stream, which serves to confine the water to the natural channel during the normal course of flow.
Significant recharge area means those areas mapped by the department of natural resources in Hydrologic Atlas 18 (1998) edition. Mapping of recharge areas is based on outcrop area, lithology, soil type, thickness, slope, density of lithologic contacts, geologic structure, presence of karst, and potentiometric surfaces. Significant recharge areas are as follows in the various geologic provinces of the state: In the Piedmont and in the Blue Ridge, rocks have little primary porosity, with most groundwater being stored in the overlying soils. The significant recharge are those with thicker soils. Field mapping indicates thick soils in the Piedmont and Blue Ridge are characterized by a density of two or more geologic contacts per four square miles (source: 1976 1:500,000 Geologic Map of Georgia) and slopes lower than eight percent.
Utility means public, private water or sewer piping systems, water or sewer pumping stations, electric power lines, fuel pipelines, telephone lines, roads, driveways, bridges, river/lake access facilities, stormwater systems and railroads or other utilities identified by a local government.
Wetland district means a map overlay which imposes a set of requirements in addition to those of the underlying zoning district.
Wetlands means those areas inundated or saturated by surface water or groundwater at a frequency and duration sufficient to support, and under normal circumstances do support, a prevalence of vegetation typically adapted for life in saturated soil conditions. Wetlands generally include swamps, marshes, bogs and similar areas. The ecological parameters for designating wetlands include hydric soils, hydrological vegetation and hydrological conditions involving a temporary or permanent source of water to cause soil saturation.
(Prior Code, § 17.02.030; Ord. No. 712, § 1.3, 8-28-2000)
Sec. 17-22. - Wetlands district.
The wetlands within the city are indispensable and fragile natural resources with significant development constraints due to flooding, erosion and soil limitations. In their natural state, wetlands serve man and nature. They provide habitat areas for fish, wildlife and vegetation; water quality maintenance and pollution control; flood control; natural resource education; scientific study; and recreational opportunities.
(Prior Code, § 17.02.040; Ord. No. 712, § 1.4, 8-28-2000)
Sec. 17-23. - Purpose of district.
The purpose of this district is to promote the wise use of wetlands and protect them from alterations which will significantly affect or reduce the primary functions for water quality, floodplain and erosion control, groundwater recharge, aesthetic natural areas and wildlife habitat areas.
(Prior Code, § 17.02.050; Ord. No. 712, § 1.5, 8-28-2000)
Sec. 17-24. - District delineation.
These regulations shall apply to all lands within wetlands located within the city. The wetland district overlay map, adopted as part of this article, shows the general location of wetlands, according to the 1987 National Wetlands Inventory and should be consulted by persons considering activities in or near wetlands before engaging in a regulated activity. The standards for this district shall comply with Department of Natural Resources Rule 391-3-16-.03, criteria for wetlands protection.
(Prior Code, § 17.02.060; Ord. No. 712, § 1.6, 8-28-2000)
Sec. 17-25. - Wetland development permit requirements.
No activity or use except those identified in section 17-26 shall be allowed within the wetland district without a permit issued by the U.S. Army Corp of Engineers, if the subject property contains or is near (within 50 feet) of jurisdictional wetlands of the United States as delineated by the national wetland inventory map or as determined by the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers. If jurisdictional wetlands are contained within the subject property, the applicant must document receipt of a nationwide, regional, general or individual permit, from the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers under section 404 of the Clean Water Act before a development permit will be issued by the city.
(Prior Code, § 17.02.070; Ord. No. 712, § 1.7, 8-28-2000)
Sec. 17-26. - Permitted uses.
The uses set forth in this section are permitted by right within the wetland district to the extent they are not prohibited by any other ordinance or law and provided they do not require structures, grading, fill, draining or dredging. Forestry practices applied in accordance with best management practice approved by the state forestry commission. Section 404 of the Clean Water Act does not require permits for normal, ongoing silvicultural activities. However, section 404 does list some required road construction best management practices that must be followed in order to qualify for such an exemption, which include the following:
(1)
Conservation or preservation of soil, water, vegetation, fish or other wildlife, provided the conservation or preservation does not affect waters of the state or of the United States in such a way that would require an individual 404 permit.
(2)
Outdoor passive recreational activities, including fishing, bird watching, hiking, boating, horseback riding and canoeing.
(3)
Natural water quality treatment or purification.
(4)
Normal agriculture activities including the planting and harvesting of crops and pasturing of livestock. Such activities shall be subject to best management practices approved by the state department of agriculture.
(Prior Code, § 17.02.080; Ord. No. 712, § 1.8, 8-28-2000)
Sec. 17-27. - Prohibited uses.
The following uses are prohibited in a wetland district:
(1)
Receiving areas for toxic or hazardous waste or other contaminants.
(2)
Hazardous or sanitary landfill.
(Prior Code, § 17.02.090; Ord. No. 712, § 1.9, 8-28-2000)
Secs. 17-28—17-57. - Reserved.
