ARTICLE II. - REGULATIONS FOR THE SALE OF PACKAGE LIQUOR
DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Sec. 5-27. - Definitions.
(a)
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Adequate parking means one off-street parking space for 150 square feet of customer service area within the premises of applicant, but not less than five parking spaces. Such off-street parking shall have vehicular access to a street and shall be constructed of all-weather surface.
Church means a permanent building where persons regularly assemble for religious worship.
Distance means the measurement in linear feet from the nearest wall enclosing the proposed premises of licensee to the nearest wall of any church, or to the nearest property line of any school or residence, the same to be measured by way of the nearest traveled road, street or highway, as provided by law.
Family means and includes any person related to the holder of a license issued under the provisions of this article within the first degree of consanguinity or affinity as determined according to the law of this state.
License means the authorization by the governing authority of the city to engage in the sale of alcoholic beverages in the city in one of the following classes:
(1)
Class A, retail package store;
(2)
Class B, wholesale.
Licensee means a person, real or artificial, holding any class of license issued under the terms of this article.
Manufacturer means a producer or bottler of vinous liquors or spirituous liquors.
Package store means a geographic location within the city wherein a license may be issued for the sale of packaged spirituous liquors. Such package store must be operated as a distinct business and cannot be operated in conjunction with or as a part of any other business, except only as provided in this article and/or by the law of this state.
Person means an individual, a partnership, a corporation and an association.
Premises means the definite closed or partitioned, in locality whether a room, shop or building, wherein spirituous liquors are sold.
Private residence means a house or dwelling wherein not less than one nor more than three families customarily reside and shall not include an apartment house having facilities for housing four or more families and any residence which has been unoccupied for a period of six consecutive months immediately prior to the filing of an application hereunder.
Retail sale means selling or offering for sale alcoholic beverages to any member of the public.
School means only such state, county, city, church or other schools as teach the subjects commonly taught in the common schools of this state and shall not include private schools where only specialized subjects such as law, stenography, business, music, art, medicine, dentistry, vocational occupations and other special subjects are taught.
Spirituous liquors means any alcoholic beverages containing alcohol obtained by distillation, mixed with water or other substance in solution, and includes brandy, rum, whiskey, gin, cordials, or other spirituous liquors by whatever name called to include fortified wines, as defined by the Federal Alcohol Administration.
Wholesaler means any person, firm, or corporation engaged in distribution or selling to retailers for the purpose of resale, any spirituous liquors as defined herein.
(b)
The definitions set forth in O.C.G.A. § 3-1-2, alcoholic beverages, general provisions, definitions, shall be effective as definitions of the words, terms and phrases used in this article. All words, terms and phrases used herein, other than those specifically defined elsewhere in this chapter, shall have the respective meanings ascribed to them in O.C.G.A. § 3-1-2, and shall have the same scope and effect that the same words, terms and phrases have where used in O.C.G.A. § 3-1-2.
(Prior Code, § 5.20.010; Ord. No. 552, § 1.1, 4-17-1981)
Sec. 5-28. - Purpose of article.
This article has been enacted for the purpose of promoting the health and general welfare of the city, to establish reasonable and ascertainable standards for the regulations and control of the licensing and sale of spirituous liquors, to protect and preserve schools and churches, to give effect to existing land use, to preserve residential areas with reasonable consideration being given to the character of the area and their peculiar suitability for particular uses, the congestion in roads and streets, and with a general view of promoting desirable living conditions, sustaining the stability of neighborhoods and property values, to protect against the evils of concentration of retail licenses for intoxicating liquors in one family, and/or corporations, and to prevent an undesirable person from engaging in or having an interest in intoxicating liquors or the sale thereof in the city.
(Prior Code, § 5.20.020; Ord. No. 552, § 1.2, 4-17-1981)
Sec. 5-29. - Compliance with article required.
It is unlawful for any person to sell or offer for sale at wholesale or retail any alcoholic beverages within the city without having first complied with the provisions of this article.
(Prior Code, § 5.20.030; Ord. No. 552, § 1.3, 4-17-1981)
Sec. 5-30. - Inspections of stocks.
The city clerk, chief of police or other officer directed by the mayor and council to make inspections to determine whether or not the terms and provisions of this article are complied with, are clothed with the power and authority to promulgate and enforce such reasonable regulations and requirements for the stacking and placing and keeping of all retail stocks as will most effectively facilitate such examinations and inspections; and a lawful and continued violation of such reasonable regulations, independent of any or all other causes or reasons, shall be sufficient ground for the revocation of the license of the offending dealer by the city.
(Prior Code, § 5.20.040; Ord. No. 552, § 1.4, 4-17-1981)
Sec. 5-31. - Penalties and punishment; suspension or revocation of license and permit by mayor and council.
Any person who shall violate any of the provisions of this article, or who shall assist another to evade or avoid the payment of the license or excise tax imposed and provided herein, shall be deemed guilty of a crime against the city, and upon conviction thereof in the recorder's court, may be punished as provided in the city general penalties provision set forth in section 1-7, and in addition thereto, the license of such offender may be suspended or revoked in the discretion of the governing body.
(Prior Code, § 5.20.050; Ord. No. 552, § 1.5, 4-17-1981)
Sec. 5-32. - Compliance with federal, state and municipal laws and regulations required.
In addition to all other rules and regulations, each applicant for an alcoholic beverage license in the city shall comply with all state and federal laws, municipal ordinances and the rules and regulations of the state revenue commissioner, including licensing qualifications. The violation of any such laws shall subject the licensee to the immediate revocation of his license and for criminal prosecution.
(Ord. No. 01-2010, § 1(1.6), 1-25-2010)
Secs. 5-33—5-52. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - LICENSES, APPLICATIONS AND ISSUANCE

Sec. 5-53. - Adoption by reference of state and federal laws, rules and regulations.
The council by this article adopts and makes a part of this article by reference as fully as if incorporated herein, all laws of the state, federal laws, and rules and regulations of the state revenue commissioner relating to the manufacture, sale and distribution of distilled spirits in the state, which laws, rules and regulations shall apply to the manufacture, sale and distribution of distilled spirits in the city.
(Prior Code, § 5.20.060; Ord. No. 552, § 2.1, 4-17-1981)
Sec. 5-54. - License required for sale.
No alcoholic beverages shall be sold except under a license granted by the mayor and council, as provided herein.
(Prior Code, § 5.20.070; Ord. No. 552, § 2.2, 4-17-1981)
Sec. 5-55. - Application form; content; proceeds; deposit.
(a)
All persons desiring to obtain a license under this article shall make written application therefor to the mayor and council upon forms to be prepared and provided by the city. Such application shall state the name and address of the applicant; the place where the proposed business is to be located; the nature and character of the business to be conducted therein; if the applicant is a partnership, the names of all partners, whether general or limited; the names of all persons, firms or corporations which have or will have a direct or indirect beneficial interest in the license to be issued; and such other appropriate information as may be required by this article, or by the mayor and council. If the applicant is a corporation, and the application is for a Class A (package store) license, the applicant shall furnish the names of all officers thereof and all stockholders therein; and the application shall be sworn to by the applicant or by a duly authorized officer or employee of the applicant before filing.
(b)
All applicants shall furnish all data, information and records pertinent to the application requested of them by the police department of the city, and failure to furnish such date, information and records within 30 days from the date of such request shall automatically serve to dismiss, with prejudice, the application. All applicants shall submit a completed copy of the personnel statement form ATT-17, state department of revenue, alcohol tax and control unit. The applicants, by filing an application, agree to produce for oral interrogation any person requested by the police department of the city and considered as being important in the ascertainment of the facts relative to such application and/or license issued under the terms of this article. The failure to produce such person or persons within 30 days after being requested to do so shall result in the automatic dismissal of any application pending under this article.
(c)
Each applicant shall submit a survey by a registered land surveyor showing compliances with all distance requirements contained herein.
(d)
The city shall require not less than 30 nor more than 45 days for processing any application for license under the terms of this article.
(e)
Upon filing of the application with the clerk of the city, the applicant shall deposit in cash or by certified check a processing fee to cover the expense of investigation, and processing the application, which fee shall not be refundable. The amount of the fee shall be as established by the city council, from time to time.
(f)
Along with the application, the applicant will also file the bond required in section 5-119(c)(5).
(g)
Upon approval, in accordance with the terms of this article of application for license, the license fee shall be paid by certified check prior to the issuance of a license and within ten days after approval.
(h)
In the event the applicant is denied a license by the state, the license fee shall be refunded.
(Prior Code, § 5.20.080; Ord. No. 552, § 2.3, 4-17-1981)
Sec. 5-56. - Advertisement of intent to engage in business; signs posted.
(a)
All applicants for licenses hereunder shall give notice of the making of an application by advertisement once a week for two consecutive weeks prior to the date of hearing on such application, in the newspaper in the county in which legal advertisements are published, which notice shall contain a complete description of the location of the proposed business and shall give the name of the applicant and if a partnership, the names of the partners, whether limited or general, and if a corporation, the name of the principal officer of such corporation in the state and the name of the person who will be the manager of the business to which the license will be issued, and the date and time the mayor and council will hear such application.
(b)
The applicant shall cause to be placed upon the location of the proposed business a sign stating the following:
Liquor License Applied for. Hearing Before Mayor and Council of the City of Grantville, Georgia, on the _____ Day of _______, 20___.
(c)
The sign required by subsection (b) of this section shall be not less than 24 inches by 36 inches and shall face toward all public streets, alleys, sidewalks, or other public property adjoining the proposed location. Such signs shall be placed where they can be easily seen from all public properties adjoining the proposed location.
(Prior Code, § 5.20.090; Ord. No. 552, § 2.4, 4-17-1981)
Sec. 5-57. - Investigation of application; report.
All applications required by this article shall be investigated by the city police department and the report of investigation presented to the mayor and council for consideration with the application.
(Prior Code, § 5.20.100; Ord. No. 552, § 2.5, 4-17-1981)
Sec. 5-58. - Payment of taxes and other debts to the city.
The clerk of the city shall cause an inquiry to be made into the tax records to determine if any applicant or other parties interested in an application have any outstanding taxes or special assessments that are delinquent or any other monies owing to the city. No license shall be issued, nor shall a license be renewed for consideration with the application if such taxes or assessments are owed.
(Prior Code, § 5.20.110; Ord. No. 552, § 2.6, 4-17-1981)
Sec. 5-59. - Issuance of licenses limited to designated area.
(a)
Wholesaler's license. No license shall be issued to a wholesaler of alcoholic beverages except where the wholesale business is to be located in an area of the city which is zoned for commercial or industrial uses.
(b)
Packaged spirituous liquors. No license to engage in the sale of packaged liquors at retail shall be granted except in an area zoned for commercial or industrial uses.
(Prior Code, § 5.20.120; Ord. No. 552, § 2.7, 4-17-1981)
Sec. 5-60. - Citizenship, residence requirements.
Before a license for the retail sale of spirituous liquors under a Class A (package store) license may be granted to an applicant, that is not a resident of the city, he must first obtain and present to the city a bond security in the amount of $1,000.00. The bond shall stand as security for the tax liability sustained by the applicant while a holder of the license.
(Prior Code, § 5.20.130; Ord. No. 552, § 2.8, 4-17-1981; Ord. No. 666, § 2.8, 5-13-1996)
Sec. 5-61. - Issuance of license to persons with prior convictions prohibited; exception.
No license for the sale of alcoholic beverages in the city shall be issued to any person, partnership, or corporation where any individual having an interest therein, either as owner, partner, stockholder, or having a direct or indirect beneficial or absolute interest, or the spouse of any such person, shall have been convicted or shall have taken or entered a plea of nolo contendere within a period of ten years immediately prior to the filing of such application for any felony or misdemeanor of any state, or of the United States, or any municipal ordinance except traffic violation. The term "conviction" includes an adjudication of guilt or a plea of guilty, or a plea of nolo contendere or the forfeiture of a bond by a person charged with a crime. Where the violation is for a misdemeanor, forfeiture of a bond, violation of a municipal ordinance, or where there is a plea of nolo contendere, the mayor and council may, after investigation, waive such conviction as a disqualification.
(Prior Code, § 5.20.140; Ord. No. 552, § 2.9, 4-17-1981)
Sec. 5-62. - Location restrictions.
(a)
No application for a retail license to sell spirituous liquors shall be granted to any person unless the proposed location is in compliance with state law.
(b)
No application for a retail license to sell spirituous liquors shall be granted unless the following distance requirements are met:
(1)
The proposed location of a business shall be situated 200 yards from any school building, educational building, school grounds or college campus.
(2)
The proposed location of a business shall be situated 100 yards from any church, provided that this restriction shall not apply to those places of business licensed to sell alcoholic beverages prior to the location of a church within the prohibited distance.
(3)
The proposed location of such a business shall be situated 100 yards away from any alcoholic treatment center owned and operated by the state or any county or municipal government.
(c)
Each application for a retail license to sell spirituous liquors shall include a scale drawing of the location of the proposed building showing the distance to the nearest school building, educational building, school grounds, college campus, church or alcoholic treatment center or a certificate of a registered surveyor that such location complies with this section.
(Prior Code, § 5.20.160; Ord. No. 552, § 2.11, 4-17-1981; Ord. No. 698, 9-14-1998; Ord. No. 01-2010, § 2(2.11), 1-25-2010)
Sec. 5-63. - General qualifications.
No application for a license hereunder shall be granted where the application, investigation or the evidence presented at a hearing before the mayor and council shows any of the following conditions to exist:
(1)
That the applicant or any person owning a direct or indirect beneficial interest in the license for which application is made, or does not have sufficient mental capacity to conduct the business for which application is made, or who has been dishonorably discharged from the Armed Services of the United States.
(2)
If the applicant, or any person having a direct or indirect beneficial interest in the issuance of the license has had any license issued by the city or by any other city in the state, or by any other licensing authority in the state relating to the manufacture, distribution or sale of alcoholic or malt beverages previously suspended or revoked.
(3)
That the applicant, or any person who shall have a direct or indirect beneficial interest in the license, as a previous holder of a license to sell alcoholic beverages has violated any law, regulation or ordinance relating to such business within a ten-year period immediately preceding the date of the application for license hereunder.
(4)
That any applicant for a retail license hereunder is related to any distributor or wholesaler of alcoholic beverages within the first degree of consanguinity or affinity as computed according to the laws of the state.
(5)
That the applicant's premises meet all requirements of this article and that the premises provide adequate parking, as defined in this article.
(Prior Code, § 5.20.170; Ord. No. 552, § 2.12, 4-17-1981)
Sec. 5-64. - Prohibition against holding or having beneficial interest in more than two Class A licenses.
(a)
No person shall be issued more than two Class A licenses, nor shall any person be permitted to have a beneficial interest in more than two Class A licenses, regardless of the degree of such interest.
(b)
For purposes of this section the beneficiaries of a trust shall be considered to have a beneficial interest in any business forming a part of the trust estate.
(c)
Nothing contained in this section shall prohibit the reissuance of a Class A license if the license has been held prior to the creation of any of the relationships set forth in this section by marriage.
(Prior Code, § 5.20.180; Ord. No. 552, § 2.13, 4-17-1981; Ord. No. 01-2010, § 2(2.13), 1-25-2010)
Sec. 5-65. - Advertisement of and public hearing on application.
(a)
No application for a license hereunder shall be acted upon or issued by the mayor and council until after advertisement and public hearing thereon, as required herein.
(b)
A public hearing upon all applications for a license hereunder shall be held before the mayor and council at a regular meeting, not less than 15 days nor more than 45 days after the filing of the application. It shall be the responsibility of the applicant for a license to advertise the notice of hearing as required in this article as follows:
Notice of Application for License to Sell
Spirituous Liquors
The undersigned has made application to the Mayor and Council of the City of Grantville for a license to sell spirituous liquors at ___________.
This application will be heard by the Mayor and Council of the City of Grantville at its regular meeting to be held at _____ p.m. on the _____ day of _______, 20___.
Signed ___________
Applicant
(Prior Code, § 5.20.190; Ord. No. 552, § 2.15, 4-17-1981)
Sec. 5-66. - Completion of proposed licensed premises.
Where a building in which a retailer proposes to operate under the provisions of this article is at the time of application for such license not in existence, or not yet completed, a license may be issued for such location provided the plans and specifications for the proposed building are filed with the city and show clearly a compliance with the other provisions of this article and applicable ordinances of the city. No sales shall be allowed in such establishment until it has been completed in accordance with said plans and specifications and is in conformity with all other provisions of this article and applicable ordinances of the city.
(Prior Code, § 5.20.200; Ord. No. 552, § 2.16, 4-17-1981)
Sec. 5-67. - Acceptance and consideration of application after rejection or revocation.
When any license to sell alcoholic beverages under this article is revoked by the mayor and council, it shall be unlawful for the clerk to accept and for the mayor and council to consider any application from the same applicant for a license within 12 months from the time of such revocation by the mayor and council.
(Prior Code, § 5.20.210; Ord. No. 552, § 2.17, 4-17-1981)
Sec. 5-68. - Time limit for commencement of business in licensed establishments; forfeiture for nonuse.
(a)
All holders of license hereunder must, within six months after the issuance of said license, open for business the establishment referred to in the license. Failure to open the licensed establishment within six months after the issuance of such license shall serve as the automatic forfeiture and cancellation of such license and no refund of license fee shall be made to the license holder.
(b)
Any holder of a license hereunder who shall begin the operation of the business authorized in the license, but who shall for a period of six consecutive months thereafter cease to operate the business as authorized in said license, shall upon expiration of such six months period, automatically forfeit such license, which license shall, by virtue of such failure to operate, be cancelled without the necessity of any further action of the mayor and council, and no refund of license fee shall be made to the license holder.
(Prior Code, § 5.20.220; Ord. No. 552, § 2.18, 4-17-1981)
Sec. 5-69. - Payment of license fees; amount; license for each location; penalty.
(a)
All annual license fees hereunder shall be paid in advance on or before January 1 of each year and any new licensee granted hereunder during a calendar year shall pay the full license fee without proration; provided, however, that if a license is granted after July 1, the license fee shall be one-half of the annual license for such calendar year.
(b)
Each person selling spirituous liquors in the city except wholesalers not maintaining a place of business in the city shall pay an annual license tax as follows:
(1)
Beer and wine licenses: $250.00;
(2)
Liquor licenses: $5,000.00;
(3)
Any person licensed hereunder shall be required to renew his license on or before January 1 of each year. A penalty of ten percent of the license fee shall be assessed for failure to renew the license on or before January 1.
(Prior Code, § 5.20.230; Ord. No. 552, § 2.19, 4-17-1981; Ord. No. 09-2007, 10-22-2007)
Sec. 5-70. - Sale of other commodities by packaged sales of distilled spirits licensee prohibited; exceptions.
No retailer licensed for the package sale of spirituous liquors shall sell or offer for sale or display or keep in stock at his place of business where distilled spirits are offered for sale, any other products or commodity except as may be authorized by the laws of the state and regulations implemented by an agency having jurisdiction thereof.
(Prior Code, § 5.20.240; Ord. No. 552, § 2.20, 4-17-1981; Ord. No. 01-2010, § 2(2.20), 1-25-2010)
Sec. 5-71. - Compliance with laws and regulations.
All retail licensees shall meet and continuously comply with all state and local fire and health laws and regulations as the same may now or hereafter exist.
(Prior Code, § 5.20.250; Ord. No. 552, § 2.21, 4-17-1981)
Sec. 5-72. - Annual renewal.
All licensees hereunder shall be required to renew their licenses annually on forms prescribed by the city.
(Prior Code, § 5.20.260; Ord. No. 552, § 2.22, 4-17-1981)
Sec. 5-73. - License constitutes grant or privilege.
(a)
All licenses issued under this article shall constitute a mere grant or privilege to carry on or conduct a business covered by such license during the term of the license, subject to the terms and conditions imposed by the Charter of the city, this article, and other applicable ordinances of the city and the Constitution, laws and regulations of the state and United States of America applicable thereto.
(b)
All licenses issued under this article shall have printed on the face the following words:
This License is a Mere Privilege and it is Subject to Being Revoked and Annulled by the Mayor and Council of the City of Grantville and is Subject to Laws, Ordinances and Regulations Hereafter Adopted.
(Prior Code, § 5.20.270; Ord. No. 552, § 2.23, 4-17-1981)
Sec. 5-74. - Grounds for suspension or revocation; notice; hearing; refund.
(a)
Any license which has been issued or which may hereafter be issued by the city to any licensee may be suspended or revoked for due cause as hereinafter defined, and after a hearing is held by the mayor and council for the purpose of considering any such suspension or revocation. At least five days prior to such hearing written notice of the time, place and purpose of such hearing, a statement of the charge or charges upon which such hearing is to be held shall be given to the holder of such license for which suspension or revocation is to be considered.
(b)
Due cause for the suspension or revocation of a license shall consist of a violation of any laws or ordinances applicable to or regulating such business, violation of regulations made pursuant to authority granted for the purpose of regulating such business; or for the violation of any state or federal law or regulation, or for the violation of any city ordinances other than traffic ordinances; or failure of the licensee or his employees to promptly report to the city police department any violation of the law or ordinances, any breach of the peace, disturbance or altercation resulting in violence which may occur in or upon the licensed premises.
(c)
The mayor is authorized to suspend any license issued hereunder in any emergency situation such as civil disorders or natural disasters, or in any situation wherein the mayor deems such immediate suspension necessary for the protection of the health and welfare of the citizens of the city, and said suspension may be made effective immediately and shall remain in force until the mayor determines the emergency is over or until the next regular meeting of the mayor and council, or a meeting called prior to the next regular meeting.
(d)
When a license is suspended or revoked, the city shall not refund any portion of the license tax to the holder of such suspended or revoked license.
(Prior Code, § 5.20.280; Ord. No. 552, § 2.24, 4-17-1981)
Sec. 5-75. - Automatic revocation of city license upon revocation of state license.
Whenever the state shall revoke any permit or license to manufacture or sell at wholesale or retail any alcoholic beverages, the city license to manufacture or sell at wholesale or retail any such product within the city shall thereupon be automatically revoked without any further action by the mayor and council or any officer of the city.
(Prior Code, § 5.20.290; Ord. No. 552, § 2.25, 4-17-1981)
Sec. 5-76. - Removal of signs after revocation.
When any license for the sale of alcoholic beverages is revoked, all signs indicating that such beverages may be sold or purchased shall be immediately removed from both inside and outside the place of business. Upon receipt by the police department of notice of revocation, the police department shall take the necessary steps to see that this article is enforced.
(Prior Code, § 5.20.300; Ord. No. 552, § 2.26, 4-17-1981)
Sec. 5-77. - Revocation upon violation of any provision of this article.
Violation of any of the provisions of this article by the holder of a license issued hereunder shall subject the holder of such license to revocation of said license as provided herein.
(Prior Code, § 5.20.310; Ord. No. 552, § 2.27, 4-17-1981)
Sec. 5-78. - Restriction of transfer of license.
(a)
No license granted in accordance with the provisions of this article shall be transferable.
(b)
In case of the death of any person owning a license or an interest therein; the same may, with approval of the governing body, be transferred to the administrator, executor or personal representative of the deceased person, or to the heirs at law of the deceased person, if such heirs meet all other qualifications. The license of such deceased person or such deceased person's interest therein shall be held by the administrator, executor, or personal representative of such deceased person only for the time necessary to complete execution of his estate, but in no event to exceed 12 months.
(c)
Nothing in this article shall prohibit one or more of the partners in a partnership holding a license to withdraw from the partnership, and to assign his interest in such partnership to one or more of the partners who were the partners at the time of the issuance of the license. No stockholder shall transfer a stock in a corporation holding a license under this article except to another stockholder of said corporation. Such withdrawals shall not serve to bring any new ownership into the partnership or corporation.
(d)
The transfer of the location of a license issued under this article to a new location shall be required to meet all requirements of a new license except payment of license fee.
(e)
The adding of an additional partner to a partnership holding a license or an interest therein, or a new stockholder to a corporation holding a license or interest therein must be approved by the mayor and council.
(Prior Code, § 5.20.320; Ord. No. 552, § 2.28, 4-17-1981)
Sec. 5-79. - Employees of licensees to be fingerprinted; procedure.
(a)
No person may be employed by an establishment holding a license hereunder until such person has been fingerprinted by the police department and has been issued a letter of clearance by the police department indicating the person to be employed is eligible for such employment.
(b)
The police department shall make a complete and exhaustive search relative to the record of any person so fingerprinted. In the event there is a record of a violation of this article, the chief of police shall issue a letter to the person fingerprinted stating that the person is not eligible for employment. The chief of police shall likewise notify the employer that such person is not eligible for continued employment.
(c)
Letter of eligibility; terms. Any letter of eligibility for employment issued hereunder shall expire 12 months from the date of issuance unless earlier cancelled by the police department. The police department may prescribe regulations for certifying the eligibility for continued employment without the necessity of an employee being again fingerprinted. The police department may prescribe reasonable fees for certifying the eligibility for employment, which fees shall be paid by the employer or the employee at the time request for eligibility certification is made. Any such fees charged shall be approved by the mayor and council.
(Prior Code, § 5.20.330; Ord. No. 552, § 2.29, 4-17-1981)
Sec. 5-80. - Employment of persons with prior convictions prohibited.
No licensee shall employ in any premises for the sale of alcoholic beverages any person in any capacity whatsoever, who has been convicted in this state or in any other state, or in the United States, or in any other country within ten years immediately prior to the application for employment, of soliciting for prostitution, pandering, letting premises for prostitution, keeping a disorderly place, illegally dealing in narcotics, sex offenses, or other charges relating to the manufacture or sale of intoxicating liquors, or any crime involving moral turpitude.
(Prior Code, § 5.20.340; Ord. No. 552, § 2.30, 4-17-1981)
Sec. 5-81. - Employment of minors.
No retailer licensed for the package sale of spirituous liquors shall employ, require or permit persons under 21 years of age to sell or take orders for any distilled spirits.
(Prior Code, § 5.20.350; Ord. No. 552, § 2.31, 4-17-1981; Ord. No. 01-2010, § 2(2.31), 1-25-2010)
Sec. 5-82. - Sale to minors, incompetents, drunkards prohibited.
No licensee hereunder shall sell alcoholic beverages or to any person known to such licensee or his employees to be an habitual drunkard, or to any person known to such licensee or his employees to be of unsound mind.
(Ord. No. 552, § 2.32, 4-17-1981; Ord. No. 572, § II, 11-10-1986)
Sec. 5-83. - Hours of operation.
(a)
Class A, retail package store. No retailer of spirituous liquors by the package shall engage in the sale of distilled spirits, alcoholic beverages, wine, beer or malt beverages at any time on Thanksgiving Day, Christmas Day; at any time in violation of a municipal ordinance or state statute. Package licensees of spirituous liquors shall not engage in the sale of alcoholic beverages except 8:00 a.m. and 11:45 p.m. Monday through Saturday and between the hours of 12:30 p.m. and 11:30 p.m. on Sundays.
(b)
Wholesalers. The business hours of any wholesale liquor dealer licenses hereunder shall be sunup to sundown Monday through Saturday.
(Prior Code, § 5.20.360; Ord. No. 552, § 2.33, 4-17-1981; Ord. No. 01-2010, § 2(2.33), 1-25-2010; Ord. No. 10-2012, 9-24-2012)
Sec. 5-84. - Keeping or storing without appropriate license.
It shall be unlawful for any person operating under a license for the sale of beer or wine or both to store or have therein any whiskey or intoxicating liquors without an appropriate license therefor.
(Prior Code, § 5.20.370; Ord. No. 552, § 2.34, 4-17-1981)
Sec. 5-85. - Sale or delivery to unlicensed premises.
It shall be unlawful for a Class A licensee hereunder to make deliveries of alcoholic beverages by the package beyond the boundaries of the premises covered by such license.
(Prior Code, § 5.20.380; Ord. No. 552, § 2.35, 4-17-1981)
Sec. 5-86. - Wholesale licensees prohibited from interest in other licenses.
No person who has any direct financial interest in a license for the sale of alcoholic beverages at wholesale shall hold any other license or have an interest in any other license issued under the terms of this division.
(Prior Code, § 5.20.390; Ord. No. 552, § 2.36, 4-17-1981)
Sec. 5-87. - Misrepresentation of alcoholic beverages.
It shall be unlawful for licensees hereunder or their agents to add to the contents of a bottle or to refill empty bottles or in any manner misrepresent the quantity, quality or brand name of any alcoholic beverage.
(Prior Code, § 5.20.400; Ord. No. 552, § 2.37, 4-17-1981)
Sec. 5-88. - Name of licensee to be displayed.
Each licensee for the sale of alcoholic beverage by the package at retail shall have printed on the front window of the licensed premises the name of the licensee in uniform letters, not less than four inches nor more than eight inches in height and the words "Liquor," Liquor Store" or "Package Store." Such signs shall not be illuminated.
(Prior Code, § 5.20.410; Ord. No. 552, § 2.38, 4-17-1981)
Sec. 5-89. - Prices to be conspicuously displayed.
Each Class A licensee hereunder shall have conspicuously displayed within the interior of the licensed premises not less than four copies of a printed price list of the liquors offered for sale; provided, however, that a licensee in lieu of having four copies of a printed list, may have the price placed on the bottle or on the shelf where liquors are exhibited for sale.
(Prior Code, § 5.20.420; Ord. No. 552, § 2.39, 4-17-1981)
Sec. 5-90. - Advertisement.
No advertising of prices outside retail package store in any manner whatsoever, including signs on the retail package store or store window shall be permitted.
(Prior Code, § 5.20.430; Ord. No. 552, § 2.40, 4-17-1981; Ord. No. 01-2010, § 2(2.40), 1-25-2010)
Sec. 5-91. - Gambling.
There shall be no gambling as defined by O.C.G.A. tit. 16, ch. 12, art. 2 (O.C.G.A. § 16-12-20 et seq.) in any retail package store, or in any room adjoining same, owned, leased, or controlled by a licensee. Any violation of this section shall be cause for suspension or revocation of a license. The prohibition outlined in this section does not apply to:
(1)
The sale of Georgia Lottery tickets issued by the Georgia Lottery Corporation; and
(2)
Any approved Georgia Lottery Corporation lottery materials;
provided such licensee has been approved by and is in good standing with the Georgia Lottery Corporation.
(Prior Code, § 5.20.440; Ord. No. 552, § 2.41, 4-17-1981; Ord. No. 01-2010, § 2(2.41), 1-25-2010)
Sec. 5-92. - Allowing persons under 21 of age on licensed premises.
No person who holds a Class A license for the sale of spirituous liquors shall allow any person under 21 years of age to be in, frequent, or loiter about the premises of the licensee, unless such minor is accompanied by his parent or legal guardian.
(Ord. No. 552, § 2.44, 4-17-1981; Ord. No. 572, § VI, 1986)
Sec. 5-93. - Consumption prohibited.
It shall be unlawful for any person to consume any alcoholic beverage on premises licensed for the sale of packaged liquor, and it shall be unlawful for any licensee to permit the consumption of alcoholic beverages on said premises. If such licensee shall also have a license to sell malt beverages or wine, it shall likewise be unlawful for any of such items to be consumed on the premises where alcoholic beverages sale is licensed.
(Prior Code, § 5.20.460; Ord. No. 552, § 2.45, 4-17-1981)
Secs. 5-94—5-118. - Reserved.
DIVISION 3. - EXCISE TAX

Sec. 5-119. - Excise tax, levied; amount, payment, duties of dealers and wholesalers.
(a)
Scope of division. In addition to all other taxes or license fees heretofore or hereafter imposed upon retail dealers engaged in the city in the business of selling spirituous liquors, as defined under the laws of the state, there is imposed and levied upon all hereafter-described dealers within the city an excise tax to be computed and collected as hereinafter set forth.
(b)
Basis for computation of tax. The tax levied hereunder shall be computed on the basis of an amount which shall not exceed $0.22 per liter of distilled spirits, excluding fortified wine, and a proportionate tax at the same rate on all fractional parts of a liter.
(c)
Computation; payment; duties of wholesale dealer and distributor.
(1)
The tax imposed shall be computed and payable monthly. Each wholesale dealer or distributor selling, shipping, or delivering spirituous liquors to any retail dealer in the city shall, as a condition to the privilege of conducting said business in the city:
a.
Keep and maintain true and correct records of all sales, shipments or deliveries of spirituous liquors to each retail dealer in the city, such records to be preserved for a period of not less than one year and to be made available on request for the inspection of any duly authorized representative of the city.
b.
Collect from each retail dealer in the city at time of delivery of spirituous liquors, the amount of tax due under the terms of this section and hold the same in trust for the city until such tax is remitted to the city as herein provided.
(2)
On or before the tenth day of each calendar month, each wholesaler shall make a verified and comprehensive report to the city which shall correctly show and reflect all sales and deliveries of spirituous liquors to or for retail dealers in the city for the calendar month immediately preceding the date of said report. Said report shall show the name and address of each retail dealer, the quantities delivered to each retail dealer, the amount of excise tax collected under the terms of this section and such other reasonable information as may be requested by the city. Said report shall be accompanied by remittance payable to the city for all taxes collected or due, as shown on said report.
(3)
The excise tax levied in this section is hereby levied upon the retailer licensed to do business in the city and it is the intent of this article to so levy this tax but require the payment of the tax at the time of delivery by the retailer to the wholesaler who shall have the responsibility of remitting the tax to the city on behalf of the retailer on or before the tenth day of each calendar month, as hereinbefore required. In the event the tax due hereunder is not paid on or before the tenth day of each calendar month, a ten percent penalty on the gross tax will be levied by the city against each defaulting retailing licensee for whom the tax is not paid on or before the tenth day of the month.
(4)
To ensure payment of the excise tax levied hereby and prior to the issuance of any retail liquor license in the city, an applicant must post and file with the governing authority of the city, along with his application, a performance bond with a corporate surety company conditioned upon the faithful observance and performance by the applicant of the rules and regulations contained in this article, and upon the payment of any taxes due to the city. Upon the violation of this article, or any part thereof, such bond will be partly or wholly forfeited as determined by the mayor and council at a hearing held for that purpose upon five days' written notice given to the licensee concerned. The bond shall be payable to the clerk of the city and shall be in the amount of $2,500.00 and shall be in a form furnished by the city and must be approved by the mayor and council. The surety company shall be one licensed to do business within the state.
(d)
Noncompliance by wholesale dealer; distributor. If any wholesale dealer or distributor fails or refuses to make the reports required herein, the city shall notify such dealer or distributor in writing and if the reports are not made and the taxes remitted within five days from the date of such notice, such wholesale dealer or distributor shall be prohibited from making any further deliveries in the city, and the retail licensees served by such wholesale dealer or distributor for whom the taxes have not been paid shall be subject to having their license suspended or revoked as herein provided.
(e)
Unlawful retail sales. It shall be a violation of this article for any person, firm or corporation to sell at retail within the city any spirituous liquors on which the taxes herein provided for have not been paid.
(f)
Unlawful deliveries. It shall be unlawful and a violation of this article for any wholesale dealer or distributor, person, firm or corporation to deliver any spirituous liquors to any retail dealer in the city without at the time of such delivery collecting the excise taxes herein provided for.
(g)
Violations and penalties. Any person, firm or corporation violating any of the provisions of this article or who shall assist any retail dealer in spirituous liquors in the city to evade or avoid the payment of the taxes herein provided for shall be guilty of a violation of this section and on conviction thereof in the municipal court shall be fined or sentenced as provided by this Code, and any such person so convicted shall also be subject to having his license suspended or revoked and his bond forfeited if he shall be a licensed dealer in spirituous liquors at retail.
(Prior Code, § 5.20.470; Ord. No. 552, § 3.1, 4-17-1981)
Sec. 5-120. - Requirements of wholesalers.
All wholesale dealers or distributors shall be licensed by the state revenue department and shall comply with all laws and regulations of the state revenue department before they sell or deliver any spirituous liquors in the city. Deliveries and sales shall be made only to retailers licensed under the provisions of this article, and all deliveries shall be made in conveyances owned and operated by such wholesale dealers or distributors.
(Prior Code, § 5.20.480; Ord. No. 552, § 3.2, 4-17-1981)
Sec. 5-121. - Retailers to purchase from licensed wholesalers only.
Retail dealers in spirituous liquors licensed under the provisions of this article shall not buy nor accept deliveries of spirituous liquors from wholesalers, dealers or distributors, except who are licensed by the state revenue department.
(Prior Code, § 5.20.490; Ord. No. 552, § 3.3, 4-17-1981)
Sec. 5-122. - Regulations governing retail storage.
All licensed retailers shall store all spirituous liquors on the premises for which the license was issued and at no other place. All spirituous liquor stock shall be available at all times for inspection by the mayor and council, or their duly authorized representatives. Any spirituous liquors found in any retailer's stock that is sold or distributed by a wholesaler who is not licensed in accordance with the laws of the state to make sales and deliveries in the city shall be subject to immediate confiscation.
(Prior Code, § 5.20.500; Ord. No. 552, § 3.4, 4-17-1981)
Sec. 5-123. - Invoices.
(a)
Upon each and every delivery by a licensed wholesaler to a licensed retailer, an invoice in triplicate shall be prepared, showing the quantities and brands of spirituous liquors delivered, together with the price thereof and the excise tax due and collected thereon. The original of such invoice shall be delivered by the wholesaler to the retailer simultaneously with such delivery. The wholesaler shall retain the second copy of such invoice and shall keep it for a period of 12 months after the date of delivery and during such 12-month period, such invoices shall be made available for inspection by the mayor and council or their duly authorized representatives. Upon request of the city, a copy of such invoice shall be attached to any reports requested or required by the city.
(b)
Each retail licensee doing business in the city shall keep and maintain the original invoice of each sale to him or purchase by him from a wholesaler of any spirituous liquors for at least 12 months after the date of such purchase and shall maintain records to show the sales of spirituous liquors and any other records required by the city. The city, or its duly authorized representative shall have the right to inspect the records of each licensee and make a complete audit of the records of each licensee at any time. Failure of a licensee to properly maintain records showing receipt of spirituous liquors, payment therefor, and payment of the taxes due thereon to the appropriate wholesaler, and records which clearly show the sales, the amount of sales, and the types of sales of each licensee may, at the discretion of the mayor and council, after a hearing as herein provided, result in the revocation or suspension of such license.
(Prior Code, § 5.20.510; Ord. No. 552, § 3.5, 4-17-1981)
Sec. 5-124. - Revocation or suspension of license.
The violation of any term, condition or provision of this division in any particular, or as to any detail whatsoever, shall be conclusive cause for the immediate revocation or suspension of any license described in this article.
(Prior Code, § 5.20.520; Ord. No. 552, § 3.6, 4-17-1981)
Sec. 5-125. - Production of records.
In conjunction with any application for license, or in conjunction with any license which has been issued under the terms hereof, or in conjunction with the revocation, suspension or cancellation of any license, or in conjunction with any of the hearings contemplated by this article, or in conjunction with the payment or nonpayment of any excise tax levied or to be collected hereunder, the mayor and council shall have the right to subpoena all or any part of the records, books, documents, reports or invoices, of any licensee for the purpose of auditing the records of such licensee, securing compliance by such licensee with the provisions of this article, proving or disproving violation of any part of this article by any licensee, or to show payment or nonpayment of any taxes, fees, charges, or the like due hereunder.
(Prior Code, § 5.20.530; Ord. No. 552, § 3.7, 4-17-1981)
Secs. 5-126—5-148. - Reserved.
