Chapter 8 - BUILDINGS AND BUILDING REGULATIONS
ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Secs. 8-1—8-20. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - ADOPTION OF STATE CODES

Sec. 8-21. - One- and two-family dwelling code.
The 2009 edition of the International Residential Code promulgated pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 8-2-25, as amended from time to time, is hereby adopted as the one- and two-family dwelling code of the city, subject to all exceptions, amendments and modifications contained in this article, which in the event of conflict shall supersede and take priority over any amended or unamended section. Amendments shall be construed as superseding only that part of the section with which there is a conflict. The city further adopts chapter 1 of the International Residential Code for administration of such code.
(Ord. No. 090307, art. I, § A, 9-3-2007)
State law reference— Required standards, O.C.G.A. §§ 8-2-20(B)(i)(VI), 8-2-25.
Sec. 8-22. - Energy code adopted.
The 2009 edition of the International Energy Conservation Code promulgated pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 8-2-25, as amended from time to time, is hereby adopted as the energy code of the city.
(Ord. No. 090307, art. I, § B, 9-3-2007)
State law reference— Required standards, O.C.G.A. §§ 8-2-20(B)(i)(VII), 8-2-25.
Sec. 8-23. - Building code.
The 2009 edition of the International Building Code promulgated pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 8-2-25, as amended from time to time, is hereby adopted as the building code of the city, subject to all exceptions, amendments and modifications contained in this article, which in the event of conflict shall supersede and take priority over any amended or unamended section. Amendments shall be construed as superseding only that part of the section with which there is a conflict. The city further adopts sections 101 through 115 of chapter 1 of the International Building Code for administration of such code. The sign appendix thereto is also adopted.
(Ord. No. 090307, art. II, § A, 9-3-2007)
State law reference— Required standards, O.C.G.A. §§ 8-2-20(B)(i)(I), 8-2-25.
Sec. 8-24. - Electrical code.
The 2009 edition of the National Electrical Code promulgated pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 8-2-25, as amended from time to time, is hereby adopted as the electrical code of the city, subject to all exceptions, amendments and modifications contained in this article, which in the event of conflict shall supersede and take priority over any amended or unamended section. Amendments shall be construed as superseding only that part of the section with which there is a conflict.
(Ord. No. 090307, art. III, § A, 9-3-2007)
State law reference— Required standards, O.C.G.A. §§ 8-2-20(B)(i)(II), 8-2-25.
Sec. 8-25. - Gas code.
The 2009 edition of the International Fuel Gas Code promulgated pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 8-2-25, as amended from time to time, is hereby adopted as the gas code of the city, subject to all exceptions, amendments and modifications contained in this article, which in the event of conflict shall supersede and take priority over any amended or unamended section of the adopted gas code. Amendments shall be construed as superseding only that part of the section with which there is a conflict. The city further adopts sections 101 through 109 of the International Fuel Gas Code for the administration of such code.
(Ord. No. 090307, art. IV, § A, 9-3-2007)
State law reference— Required standards, O.C.G.A. §§ 8-2-20(B)(i)(III), 8-2-25.
Sec. 8-26. - Plumbing code.
The 2009 edition of the International Plumbing Code promulgated pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 8-2-25, as amended from time to time, is hereby adopted as the plumbing code of the city, subject to all exceptions, amendments and modifications contained in this article, which in the event of conflict shall supersede and take priority over any amended or unamended section of the adopted plumbing code. Amendments shall be construed as superseding only that part of the section with which there is a conflict. The city further adopts sections 101 through 109 of the plumbing code for the administration of such code.
(Ord. No. 090307, art. V, § A, 9-3-2007)
State law reference— Required standards, O.C.G.A. §§ 8-2-20(B)(i)(V), 8-2-25.
Sec. 8-27. - Mechanical code.
The 2009 edition of the International Mechanical Code promulgated pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 8-2-25, as amended from time to time, is hereby adopted as the mechanical code of the city, subject to all exceptions, amendments and modifications contained in this article, which in the event of conflict shall supersede and take priority over any amended or unamended section of the adopted mechanical code. Amendments shall be construed as superseding only that part of the section with which there is a conflict. The city further adopts sections 101 through 109 of the mechanical code for the administration of such code.
(Ord. No. 090307, art. VI, § A, 9-3-2007)
State law reference— Required standards, O.C.G.A. §§ 8-2-20(B)(i)(IV), 8-2-25.
Secs. 8-28—8-57. - Reserved.
ARTICLE III. - UNFIT BUILDINGS

Sec. 8-58. - Notice and hearing.
Whenever a request is filed with the city or police chief by a public authority, or by five residents of the incorporated area of the city, charging that any dwelling, building, or structure is unfit for human habitation or for commercial, industrial, or business use or whenever it appears to the building inspector, on his own motion, that any dwelling, building, or structure is unfit for human habitation or is unfit for its current commercial, industrial, or business use, the building inspector shall, if his preliminary investigation discloses a basis for such charges, issue and cause to be served upon any parties in interest in such dwelling, building, or structure a complaint stating the charges in that respect and containing a notice that a hearing will be held before the city judge upon the building inspector issuing a citation; that the owner and any parties in interest shall be given the right to file an answer to the complaint and to appear in person or otherwise and give testimony at the place and time fixed in the complaint; and that the rules of evidence prevailing in courts of law or equity shall not be controlling in hearings before the judge.
(Ord. of 8-18-1994, § 1)
Sec. 8-59. - Orders after hearing.
If, after such notice and hearing, the judge determines that the dwelling, building, or structure under consideration is unfit for human habitation or is unfit for its commercial, industrial, or business use, he shall state in writing his findings of fact in support of such determination and shall issue and cause to be served upon the owner thereof an order:
(1)
If a repair, alteration, or improvement of the dwelling, building, or structure can be made at a reasonable cost in relation to the value of the dwelling, building, or structure, requiring the owner or parties in interest, within the time specified in the order, to repair, alter, or improve such dwelling, building, or structure so as to render it fit for human habitation or for current commercial, industrial, or business use or to vacate and close the dwelling, building, or structure as a human habitation; or
(2)
If the repair, alteration, or improvement of the dwelling, building or structure cannot be made at a reasonable cost in relation to the value of the dwelling, building, or structure, requiring the owner or parties in interest, within the time specified in the order, to remove or demolish such dwelling building or structure.
(Ord. of 8-18-1994, § 2)
Sec. 8-60. - Orders for demolition.
In no event shall the mayor and council require the removal or demolition of any dwelling, building, or structure except upon a finding that the cost of repair, alteration, or improvement thereof exceeds one-half the value that such dwelling, building, or structure will have when repaired to satisfy the minimum requirements of this article.
(Ord. of 8-18-1994, § 3)
Sec. 8-61. - Failure to comply with orders; posting of property.
If the owner or parties in interest fail to comply with an order to vacate and close or demolish the dwelling, building or structure, the chief of police may cause such dwelling, building, or structure to be repaired, altered, or improved or to be vacated and closed or demolished; and the building inspector may cause to be posted on the main entrance of any building, dwelling, or structure so closed a placard with the following words:
"THIS BUILDING IS UNFIT FOR HUMAN HABITATION OR COMMERCIAL, INDUSTRIAL, OR BUSINESS USE. THE USE OR OCCUPATION OF THIS BUILDING FOR HUMAN HABITATION OR FOR COMMERCIAL, INDUSTRIAL, OR BUSINESS USE IS PROHIBITED AND UNLAWFUL."
(Ord. of 8-18-1994, § 4)
Sec. 8-62. - Failure to comply with demolition order.
If the owner fails to comply with any order to remove or demolish the dwelling, building, or structure, the building inspector may cause such dwelling, building, or structure to be removed or demolished. This shall not be exercised until the mayor and council have, by ordinance, ordered the chief to proceed to effectuate the purpose with respect to the particular property which the building inspector shall have found to be unfit for human habitation or unfit for its current commercial, industrial, or business use, which property shall be described in the ordinance.
(Ord. of 8-18-1994, § 5)
Sec. 8-63. - Costs as a lien against property.
The amount of the cost of such vacating and closing or removal or demolition by the building inspector shall be a lien against the real property upon which such cost is incurred. Such lien shall attach to the real property upon the payment of all costs of demolition by the city and the filing of an itemized statement of the total sum of such costs by the building inspector in the office of the city clerk and in the office of the mayor and council on a lien docket maintained by the clerk. If the dwelling, building, or structure is removed or demolished by the building inspector, he shall sell the materials of such dwelling, buildings, or structure and shall credit the proceeds of such a sale against the cost of the removal or demolition, and any balance remaining shall be deposited in the clerk's office by the building inspector, shall be secured in such a manner as may be directed by such court, and shall be disbursed by such court to the persons found to be entitled thereto by final order or decree of such court.
(Ord. of 8-18-1994, § 6)
Sec. 8-64. - Enforcement.
The mayor and council may enforce the collection of any amount due on such lien for removal or demolition of a dwelling, building, or structure only in the following manner. The owner or parties at interest shall be allowed to satisfy the amount due on such lien by paying to the city within 30 days after the perfection of said lien, a sum of money equal to or injurious to the health, safety, or morals of the occupants of such dwelling, building, or structure; of the occupants of neighborhood dwellings, buildings, or structure; or of other residents of the city. Such conditions may include the following:
(1)
Dilapidation;
(2)
Disrepair;
(3)
Structural defects; and
(4)
Uncleanliness.
(Ord. of 8-18-1994, § 7)
Sec. 8-65. - Powers of the building inspector.
The building inspector shall have all powers of investigation, examination, appointment and delegation, etc., as set out in this article. The inspector shall also have all powers regarding the removal of junk cars and obnoxious vegetation, and the rendering of property to a sanitary condition.
(Ord. of 8-18-1994, § 9)
