ARTICLE II. - JUNK AND JUNKYARDS[2]
Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
Cross reference— Traffic, ch. 94.
State Law reference— Junk dealers, O.C.G.A. § 43-22-1 et seq.

DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Sec. 22-31. - Statement of findings.
It has been determined by the board of commissioners for the city that it is the practice of certain persons to allow junk automobiles to accumulate in sections of the city, thereby creating a nuisance by reason of the growth of weeds and ponding of water, allowing insects and rodents ideal places to raise, and further creating an unsightly and unhealthy situation.
(Code 1976, § 16-1)
Sec. 22-32. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Junk automobile means any vehicle normally propelled by its own power which, through age, condition or decay, is incapable of being used for such purpose.
Junkyard means any location for which a license is required by the terms of this article.
(Code 1976, § 16-2)
Cross reference— Definitions generally, § 1-2.
Sec. 22-33. - Standards for operation of a junkyard.
No license to operate a junkyard in the city shall be issued until and unless the following conditions shall be complied with:
(1)
Each junkyard shall be enclosed with a fence in conformance with the requirements set out in section 22-34.
(2)
Junkyards shall be permitted only in commercial and industrial areas, as defined and described in the zoning ordinance of the city (appendix A of this Code).
(3)
Junkyards shall not be constructed or permitted within 420 feet of a church or school.
(Code 1976, § 16-4)
Sec. 22-34. - Junkyard regulations.
Each licensee under this article shall conform to the following regulations in the operation of junkyards:
(1)
Each junkyard shall be enclosed with a fence not less than six feet in height, which shall be kept neatly painted and in good repair at all times, and which shall be constructed of plank board or corrugated steel or aluminum so as to exclude such junkyard from public view. The fence along the front part of the property and running parallel with the front of the building shall be constructed as set forth in this subsection. In lieu of the materials set forth above in this subsection, the side and rear lines of the junkyard may be a densely planted and maintained buffer strip of the same height as set forth for a fence in this subsection. The fence along the front of the property shall be parallel with the primary building on such property, and in no event closer to the street or roadway than the front wall of such primary building. (Such requirement shall not apply to fences constructed prior to the date of the ordinance from which this section is derived [September 5, 1989] which are otherwise in compliance with all other requirements of this section.) The fence shall be constructed so as to exclude the junkyard from public view, and shall be constructed in a uniform manner and kept neat and in good repair at all times.
(2)
The fence enclosing the junkyard shall not be used for bill postings or other advertising purposes.
(3)
The contents of the junkyard shall not be placed or deposited to a height greater than the height of the fence.
(4)
Each junkyard shall be constructed and maintained so surface water drains freely from the junkyard, and no water shall be allowed to accumulate either on such property or in junk automobiles.
(5)
Weeds shall not be allowed to unreasonably accumulate around junk automobiles.
(6)
All existing junkyards shall be in compliance with this section within a period of 90 days from the date of the passage of the ordinance from which this section is derived [September 5, 1989]; provided, however, if an existing junkyard operator decides to plant a buffer strip around the sides and rear of the junkyard as outlined in subsection (1) of this section, such buffer strip shall be planted within the time stated in subsection (1) of this section, and shall be of such plants that will reach the required height under this section within 365 days from the date of passage of the ordinance from which this section is derived.
(Code 1976, § 16-5)
Sec. 22-35. - Maintenance of junk automobiles.
It shall be unlawful for any person to allow or permit any junk automobile, as defined in section 22-32, to remain upon any property owned or controlled by such person on any property within the city, except upon a junkyard for which a license shall have been issued in accordance with the provisions of this article. The maintenance of junk automobiles in any location other than a licensed junkyard is hereby declared to be a nuisance.
(Code 1976, § 16-6)
Sec. 22-36. - Notice to remove junk automobile.
Upon discovering any junk automobile existing in violation of the provisions of this article, it shall be the duty of the city marshal to cause notice to be given to the owner of such property, or the person having legal control thereof, requiring that such junk automobile be removed within a reasonable time, but not more than 30 days. Upon failure of such person to remove the junk automobile within the allotted time, the city marshal shall cause the junk automobile to be removed to a location as the city marshal shall designate, and the costs of such removal shall be assessed against such defaulting party and the property upon which such vehicle is located, and shall be collected as the general taxes of the city are collected.
(Code 1976, § 16-7)
Sec. 22-37. - Violation; penalty.
Any person guilty of a violation of this article shall be punished as provided in section 1-11 of this Code.
(Code 1976, § 16-3)
Secs. 22-38—22-60. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - LICENSE

Sec. 22-61. - Required.
No person shall allow any junk automobile to exist or remain upon any property within the city without first obtaining a license to operate a junkyard as provided in this division.
(Code 1976, § 16-18)
Sec. 22-62. - Application.
Any person desiring to operate a junkyard, as defined in section 22-32, shall make a written application for a license, which shall contain the following information:
(1)
Name of the applicant.
(2)
Address proposed to be used as a junkyard.
(3)
A check in payment of the business and occupation tax required by chapter 90 of this Code.
(Code 1976, § 16-19)
Sec. 22-63. - Issuance.
A license application shall be presented by the clerk to the board of commissioners who shall authorize the license to be issued after determining that the application meets the standards of this division.
(Code 1976, § 16-20)
Sec. 22-64. - Failure to maintain standards; revocation.
If any licensee should fail to maintain any junkyard in accordance with the standards of this article, the board of commissioners shall cause notice to be served upon such licensee, requiring him to remedy any default within a reasonable length of time, but not more than 30 days, upon failure of which, the board of commissioners shall revoke the license previously issued.
(Code 1976, § 16-21)
Secs. 22-65—22-100. - Reserved.
