ARTICLE IV. - SOLICITORS[4]
Footnotes:
--- (4) ---
Cross reference— Streets and sidewalks, ch. 86.
State Law reference— Georgia Charitable Solicitations Act of 1988, O.C.G.A. § 43-17-1 et seq.; peddlers and itinerant traders, O.C.G.A. § 43-32-1 et seq.; exception from local peddler or itinerant vendor licensing requirements for persons selling agricultural products, O.C.G.A. § 43-32-6; Transient Merchant Act of Georgia, O.C.G.A. § 43-46-1 et seq.

DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Sec. 22-181. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Board means the solicitations advisory board provided for by the provisions of this article.
Charitable has its usual meaning, including the terms "patriotic," "philanthropic," "social service," "benevolent," "educational," "civic" or "fraternal," either actual or purported.
Contribution has its usual meaning, including alms, food, clothing, money, subscriptions, property or donations under the guise of a loan of money or property.
Director means the director of solicitations.
Local means a resident of Jesup County or Wayne County when referring to an individual, and one having its principal place of business and/or principal existence in Jesup or Wayne County when referring to a corporation, company, organization or society.
Promoter means any person who promotes, manages, supervises, organizes or attempts to promote, manage, supervise or organize a campaign of solicitations.
Religious and religion have their commonly accepted definitions, excluding the term "charitable," as defined in this section.
Solicit and solicitation mean the request, directly or indirectly, of money, credit, property, financial assistance or other thing of value on the plea or representation that such money, credit, property, financial assistance or other thing of value will be used for a charitable or religious purpose, as defined in this section. Such terms shall also mean and include the following methods of securing money, credit, property, financial assistance or other thing of value on the plea or representation that it will be used for a charitable or religious purpose, as defined in this section:
(1)
Any oral or written request.
(2)
The distribution, circulation, mailing, posting or publishing of any handbill, written advertisement or publication.
(3)
The making of any announcement to the press over the radio, by telephone or telegraph, concerning an appeal, assemblage, athletic or sports event, bazaar, benefit, campaign, contest, drive, entertainment, exhibition, exposition, party, performance, picnic, sale or social gathering, which the public is requested to patronize or to which the public is requested to make a contribution for any charitable or religious purpose connected with such event.
(4)
The sale, offer or attempt to sell of any advertisement space, book, card, chance, coupon, device, magazine, membership, merchandise, subscription, ticket or other thing in connection with which any appeal is made for any charitable or religious purpose, or where the name of any charitable or religious person is used or referred to in any such appeal as an inducement or reason for making any such sale, or when or where in connection with any such sale any statement is made that the whole, or any part of, the proceeds from any such sale, or when or where in connection with any such sale any statement is made that the whole, or any part of, the proceeds from any such sale will go or be donated to any charitable or religious purpose.
A solicitation shall be deemed to be complete when it is made, whether or not the person making the solicitation receives any contribution or makes any sale referred to in this definition.
To sell and to solicit mean an offer to sell goods, services or merchandise in either of the following methods:
(1)
Person to person contact on the public streets, highways, parks or other public areas within the city limits;
(2)
Door to door contact within the city;
(3)
Contact by telephone within the city.
(Code 1976, §§ 30-1, 30-19)
Cross reference— Definitions generally, § 1-2.
Sec. 22-182. - Use of fictitious name.
No person shall, directly or indirectly, solicit contributions for any purpose by misrepresentation of his name, occupation, financial condition, social condition or residence, and no person shall make or perpetrate any other misstatement, deception or fraud in connection with any solicitation or contribution for any purpose within the city, or in any application or report filed under this article.
(Code 1976, § 30-2)
Secs. 22-183—22-200. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - PERMIT

Sec. 22-201. - Required.
(a)
No local person shall solicit contributions within the city without a permit from the director authorizing such solicitations; provided, however, that the provisions of this section shall not apply to any established local persons organized and operating exclusively for religious or charitable purposes and not operated for the pecuniary profit of any local person if the solicitations by such established local person are conducted among the members thereof, by other members or officers thereof, voluntarily and without remuneration for the making of such solicitations, or if the solicitations are in the form of collections or contributions at the regular assemblies or services of any such established local person; provided, further, that the provisions of this section should not apply to any local farmers in the sale of their crops, stock, animals or other items produced on their farms.
(b)
It shall be unlawful for any person who is otherwise authorized by law under ordinances of the city, and who does not come within the purview of subsection (a) of this section, to engage in the sale and/or solicitation of orders for the sale of goods, wares and merchandise or in the solicitation of subscription contracts to magazines, newspapers, books or periodicals without first obtaining a permit therefor as provided in this division.
(Code 1976, § 30-14)
Sec. 22-202. - Application.
Each individual desiring a permit under this division shall complete an application for such permit provided by the office of the director of solicitations in the city, which application shall be in a form and shall provide the following information, and any other information needed for a complete and thorough investigation of the applicant:
(1)
The name and address or headquarters of the person applying for such permit;
(2)
The purpose of the solicitations;
(3)
The name and address of the persons who will be in direct charge of conducting the solicitations, and the names of all promoters connected, or to be connected, with the proposed solicitations;
(4)
An outline of the methods to be used in conducting the solicitations;
(5)
The time when such solicitations shall be made, giving the preferred dates for the beginning and ending of such solicitations;
(6)
The amount of any wages, fees, commissions, expenses or emoluments to be expended or paid to any person in connection with such solicitations, and the names and addresses of all such persons;
(7)
A full statement of the character and extent of the charitable work being done by the applicant within the city;
(8)
Such other information as may be reasonably necessary and required by the director of solicitations in order for him and his committee to determine the kind and character of the proposed solicitations and whether such solicitations are in the interest of, and not inimical to, the public welfare.
(Code 1976, § 30-15)
Sec. 22-203. - Investigation of applications.
The director of solicitations shall examine all applications filed under this division and shall make, or cause to be made, such further investigation as he deems necessary for him to perform his duties under this article. Upon request by the director, any applicant shall make available for inspection, at any reasonable time, by the director, or any person designated by the director as his representative, all of the applicant's books, records and papers.
(Code 1976, § 30-16)
Sec. 22-204. - Standards for issuance; fee; renewal.
(a)
The director of solicitations for the city shall issue a permit under this division, which the city manager must cosign, if the information furnished to him, and other evidence introduced before him, shows that the:
(1)
Statements contained in the application are true;
(2)
Applicant is the bona fide agent in good standing of a reputable person engaged in the business of manufacturing, selling or distributing such goods, wares or merchandise offered for sale through such solicitor or peddler;
(3)
Applicant is the bona fide agent in good standing of a person engaged in the business of selling or distributing any such magazines, newspapers, books or periodicals; or
(4)
Applicant is engaged in the bona fide sale of goods, wares and merchandise to be offered by him for sale;
except no such permit shall be issued to any agent or employee until a letter verifying such agent's or employee's relationship is received, by United States mail, directly from the principal or employer of the applicant and the report on the applicant's fingerprints is received from the Federal Bureau of Investigation and the state bureau of investigation; and provided, however, no such permit shall be issued to any applicant until the expiration of a period of ten days from the date the application is filed.
(b)
A fee as set forth in the schedule of fees and charges on file in the office of the city clerk shall be paid by the applicant at the time his application for a permit is filed, which sum shall be used to defray the expenses to the city for furnishing the application, making investigation, photographing, fingerprinting and all other expenses incurred in the administration of this article.
(c)
The permit may be renewed in the following year, provided that the applicant works for the same company and has met all requirements provided by this division. The renewal fee for the permit will be as set forth in the schedule of fees and charges on file in the office of the city clerk.
(Code 1976, § 30-17)
Sec. 22-205. - Appeal from denial.
If the director of solicitations should determine that any permit application should be denied, the applicant may file an appeal from such decision with the solicitations advisory board. Such appeal shall be in writing, setting forth the grounds of the appeal and such other matters as the applicant shall desire. Such appeal shall be determined by the solicitations advisory board within ten days after the appeal has been filed, the majority governing, and the decision of the solicitations advisory board shall be final.
(Code 1976, § 30-18)
Sec. 22-206. - Exception.
Any person peddling or soliciting under the terms of this article who holds a valid current license from a state agency authorizing such peddling and solicitations, and which state agency regulated such person licensed by it, is hereby excepted from the provisions of this division.
(Code 1976, § 30-20)
Secs. 22-207—22-240. - Reserved.
