ARTICLE III. - PEDDLERS[3]
Footnotes:
--- (3) ---
Cross reference— Noise control for hawkers, peddlers and vendors, § 38-114; streets and sidewalks, ch. 86.
State Law reference— Georgia Charitable Solicitations Act of 1988, O.C.G.A. § 43-17-1 et seq.; peddlers and itinerant traders, O.C.G.A. § 43-32-1 et seq.; exception from local peddler or itinerant vendor licensing requirements for persons selling agricultural products, O.C.G.A. § 43-32-6; Transient Merchant Act of Georgia, O.C.G.A. § 43-46-1 et seq.

DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Sec. 22-101. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Peddler means any individual, whether a resident of the city or not, traveling by foot, wagon, automobile, motor truck or any other type of conveyance, from place to place, house to house or street to street, for the sale of, as well as the selling, offering for sale or taking or attempting to take orders for the sale of, goods, wares and merchandise, personal property of any nature whatsoever for future delivery, or for services to be furnished or performed in the future, whether or not such individual has, carries or exposes for sale a sample of the subject of such sale or whether or not he is collecting advance payments on such sales, provided that this definition shall include any person who, for himself or for another person, hires, leases, uses or occupies any building, structure, tent, railroad boxcar, boat, hotel room, lodginghouse, apartment, shop or any other place within the city for the sole purpose of exhibiting samples and taking orders for future delivery. The term "peddler" shall include the term "canvasser," "transient or itinerant merchant or vendor" or "transient or itinerant photographer."
(Code 1976, § 22-1)
Cross reference— Definitions generally, § 1-2.
Sec. 22-102. - Exceptions.
The provisions of this article shall not apply to the following:
(1)
Solicitations, sales or distributions made by charitable, educational or religious organizations which have their principal place of activity in the city.
(2)
The sale or solicitation of orders for the sale of milk, dairy products, vegetables, poultry, eggs and other farm and garden produce grown or produced by the person selling such items.
(3)
The sale or introduction into the city of any agricultural products raised in the state, including swine, cattle, sheep, goats and poultry, and the products thereof, and any unprocessed seafood, where the sale of such products is made within 90 days of the introduction of such products into the city.
(4)
A traveling salesman engaged in taking orders for the sale of goods where no delivery of goods is made at the time of taking such order.
(5)
A merchant or dealer, the site of whose business is elsewhere, who delivers goods to either wholesale or retail customers in the city on orders previously taken by his salesmen or on orders previously given directly to him by such wholesale or retail customers.
(6)
The employees of any merchant or dealer doing business in the city in a manner defined by subsection (5) of this section, who are engaged in the delivery of such goods to either wholesale or retail customers.
(7)
Any individual, firm, corporation or other entity otherwise engaged in the sale of goods, wares, merchandise, supplies or other personal property to any person being in business within the city, as defined in section 90-41 of this Code, provided, such items sold are for use by such person in his business or are for resale by such person.
(Code 1976, § 22-2)
Sec. 22-103. - Entrance to premises restricted.
It shall be unlawful for any peddler to enter upon any private premises when such premises are posted with a sign stating "No Peddlers Allowed," "No Solicitations Allowed" or other words to such effect.
(Code 1976, § 22-3)
Sec. 22-104. - Refusal to leave.
Any peddler who enters upon a premises owned, leased or rented by another and refuses to leave such premises after having been notified by the owner or occupant of such premises or his agent to leave and not return to such premises, shall be deemed guilty of an offense.
(Code 1976, § 22-4)
Sec. 22-105. - Misrepresentation.
It shall be unlawful for any peddler to make false or fraudulent statements concerning the quality of his goods, wares, merchandise or services for the purpose of inducing another to purchase the goods, wares, merchandise or services.
(Code 1976, § 22-5)
Sec. 22-106. - Hours of operation.
It shall be unlawful for any peddler to engage in the business of peddling within the city between the hours of one-half hour before sunset and 9:00 a.m. the following morning, or at any time on Sundays, except by specific appointment with, or invitation from, the prospective customer.
(Code 1976, § 22-6)
Secs. 22-107—22-130. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - PERMIT

Sec. 22-131. - Required.
It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in business as a peddler within the city without first obtaining a permit to do so.
(Code 1976, § 22-18)
Sec. 22-132. - Application.
Applicants for a permit under this division shall file with the city clerk a sworn application in writing, in duplicate, on a form to be furnished by the city clerk, which shall give the following information:
(1)
The name and a description of the applicant;
(2)
The permanent home address and full local address of the applicant;
(3)
A brief description of the nature of the business and the goods to be sold;
(4)
If employed, the name and address of the employer, together with credentials establishing the exact relationship;
(5)
The length of time for which the right to do business is desired;
(6)
The place where the goods or property proposed to be sold, or orders taken for the sale thereof, are manufactured or produced, where such goods or products are located at the time the application is filed and the proposed method of delivery;
(7)
A photograph of the applicant, taken within 60 days immediately prior to the date of filing of the application, which picture shall be two inches by two inches, showing the head and shoulders of the applicant in a clear and distinguishing manner;
(8)
A statement as to whether or not the applicant has been convicted of any crime, offense or violation of any municipal ordinance, the nature of the offense and the punishment or penalty assessed therefor;
(9)
Whether the applicant, upon any sale or order, shall demand, accept or receive payment or deposit of money in advance of final delivery;
(10)
The last five municipalities wherein the applicant has worked before coming to this city; and
(11)
Such other relevant information as may be required by the investigation of the applicant.
(Code 1976, § 22-19)
Sec. 22-133. - Driver's license.
At the time of filing his application for a permit required by this division, the applicant shall present his driver's license, if he has one, to the city clerk.
(Code 1976, § 22-20)
Sec. 22-134. - Application fee.
At the time of filing the permit application, a fee as set forth in the schedule of fees and charges on file in the office of the city clerk shall be paid to the city clerk to cover the cost of investigation of the facts stated in the application.
(Code 1976, § 22-21)
Sec. 22-135. - False or misleading information.
It shall be unlawful for any person to give any false or misleading information in connection with his application for a permit required by this division.
(Code 1976, § 22-22)
Sec. 22-136. - Fingerprints.
At the time of making application for a permit required by this division, the applicant shall submit to fingerprinting by the chief of police.
(Code 1976, § 22-23)
Sec. 22-137. - Permit fee.
Before any peddler's permit shall be issued under the provisions of this article, the applicant shall pay fee of $300.00. The permit shall be valid for 30 days, after which, the permit shall expire.
(Code 1976, § 22-24; Ord. of 3-17-2009)
Sec. 22-138. - Bond.
(a)
Every applicant who is not a resident of the city, or who is a resident of the city and represents a firm whose principal place of business is located outside the state, shall file a surety bond with the city clerk, running to the city, in the amount of $1,000.00, with surety acceptable to and approved by the city clerk, conditioned that the applicant shall fully comply with all of the applicable provisions of this Code, the ordinances of the city and state law regulating and concerning the business of peddling and guaranteeing to any citizen of the city that all money paid as a down payment will be accounted for and applied according to the representations of the peddler, and further guaranteeing to any citizen of the city doing business with such peddler that the property purchased will be delivered according to the representations of such peddler. Action on such bond may be brought in the name of the city to the use or benefit of the aggrieved person.
(b)
If the applicant is an agent, employee, canvasser or solicitor of a corporation authorized to do business in the state or registered under the fictitious name act of the state, such corporation or fictitious name business may furnish one bond in the amount of $1,000.00 for any and all of its agents, employees, canvassers or solicitors.
(Code 1976, § 22-25)
Sec. 22-139. - Service of process.
Before any permit shall be issued under this division, there shall also be filed with the city clerk an instrument in writing, signed by the applicant under oath, nominating and appointing the city clerk as his true and lawful agent, with full power and authority to acknowledge service of notice of process for and on the behalf of such applicant, and service of a summons in any action brought upon the applicant's bond shall be deemed made when served on the city clerk.
(Code 1976, § 22-26)
Sec. 22-140. - Investigation.
Upon receipt of an application for a permit required by this division, the original of such application shall be referred to the chief of police, who shall cause such investigation of the applicant's business and moral character to be made as he deems necessary for the protection of the public good. The chief of police shall complete his investigation within one week of receiving the permit application.
(Code 1976, § 22-27)
Sec. 22-141. - Denial.
If, as a result of the investigation as required by section 22-140, the applicant's character or business responsibility is found to be unsatisfactory, the chief of police shall endorse on the permit application his disapproval and his reasons for such disapproval, and return the application to the city clerk, who shall notify the applicant that his application is disapproved and that no permit shall be issued.
(Code 1976, § 22-28)
Sec. 22-142. - Issuance.
If, as a result of the investigation as required by section 22-140, the character and business responsibility of the applicant are found to be satisfactory, the chief of police shall endorse his approval on the application, execute a permit addressed to the applicant for the carrying on of the business applied for and return the permit along with the application to the city clerk, who shall, upon payment of the required fee, deliver the permit to the applicant.
(Code 1976, § 22-29)
Sec. 22-143. - Contents.
Each permit issued under this division shall contain the signature and seal of the issuing officer and shall show the name and address of the permittee, the class of permit issued, the date of issuance and the length of time the permit shall be operative, as well as the permit number and other identifying description of any vehicle used in such business.
(Code 1976, § 22-30)
Sec. 22-144. - Record.
The city clerk shall keep a permanent record of all permits issued under this division.
(Code 1976, § 22-31)
Sec. 22-145. - Display.
Every peddler having a permit issued under the provisions of this division and doing business within the city shall display his permit upon request of any person, and failure to do so shall be deemed an offense.
(Code 1976, § 22-32)
Sec. 22-146. - Duration.
Every permit issued under the provisions of this division shall be valid for the period of time stated in such permit, but in no event shall any such permit be issued for a period of time in excess of 12 months.
(Code 1976, § 22-33)
Sec. 22-147. - Revocation.
Any permit issued under the provisions of this division may be revoked by the board of commissioners for the violation by the permittee of any applicable provision of this Code, state law or city ordinance, rule or regulation.
(Code 1976, § 22-34)
Secs. 22-148—22-180. - Reserved.
