Chapter 38 - ENVIRONMENT[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Cross reference— Animals, ch. 14; rabies control, § 14-71 et seq.; buildings and building regulations, ch. 18; floods, ch. 46; health and sanitation, ch. 50; unfit buildings or structures and unsafe or unsanitary property, § 50-31 et seq.; historical preservation, ch. 54; manufactured homes, ch. 62; planning and zoning, ch. 70; sewers, ch. 78; solid waste, ch. 82; streets and sidewalks, ch. 86; utilities, ch. 98; vegetation, ch. 102; zoning, app. A; subdivisions, app. B.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Secs. 38-1—38-30. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - OFFENSIVE CONDITIONS[2]

Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
State Law reference— Nuisances, O.C.G.A. § 41-1-1 et seq.; jurisdiction of municipal court or magistrate court to abate nuisances, O.C.G.A. § 41-2-5.

Sec. 38-31. - Weeds, rubbish, brush, trash, etc.
It shall be unlawful for any person who shall own or occupy any lot within the city to permit or allow weeds, rubbish, brush, trash or any other matter liable to produce disease to accumulate or grow on such lot or premises.
(Code 1976, § 13-16)
Cross reference— Solid waste, ch. 82; vegetation, ch. 102.
Sec. 38-32. - Stagnant water.
It shall be unlawful for any person who shall own or occupy any lot within the city to permit or allow holes or places on such lot where water may accumulate and become stagnant, or to permit or allow the accumulation of stagnant water thereon, or permit stagnant water to remain thereon.
(Code 1976, § 13-17)
Sec. 38-33. - Carrion, filth, etc.
It shall be unlawful for any person who shall own or occupy any house, structure, building, establishment, lot or yard within the city to permit or allow any carrion, filth or any other impure or unwholesome matter liable to produce disease to accumulate or remain thereon.
(Code 1976, § 13-18)
Sec. 38-34. - Notice to correct, remedy or remove offensive condition.
Whenever any condition described in this article is found to exist on any premises within the city, the owner of such premises shall be notified by the city, in writing, to correct, remedy or remove the condition within ten days after such notice, and it shall be unlawful for any person to fail to comply with such notice.
(Code 1976, § 13-19)
Sec. 38-35. - Giving of notice.
The notice provided for by section 38-34 shall be personally served on the owner to whom it is directed or shall be given by a letter addressed to such owner at his last known post office address. If personal service cannot be made and the owner's address is unknown, such notice shall be given by publication at least two times within ten consecutive days in a newspaper of general circulation published within the city.
(Code 1976, § 13-20)
Sec. 38-36. - Correction, remedy or removal of conditions by city.
If the owner of any lot or premises upon which a condition described in this article exists fails to correct, remedy or remove such condition within ten days after notice to do so is given in accordance with this article, the city may do such work or make such improvements as are necessary to correct, remedy or remove such condition, or cause such correction, remedy or removal to be done, and pay therefor and charge the expenses incurred by such work or improvements to the owner of such lot. Such expenses shall be assessed against the lot or real estate upon which the work was done or the improvements made. The doing of such work by the city shall not relieve such person from prosecution for failure to comply with such notice in violation of this article.
(Code 1976, § 13-21)
Sec. 38-37. - Filing of statement of expenses incurred by city.
Whenever any work is done or improvements are made by the city under the provisions of this article, the city clerk, on behalf of the city, shall file a statement of the expenses incurred by such work or improvements with the county clerk. Such statement shall give the amount of such expenses, and the dates on which the work was done or the improvements were made.
(Code 1976, § 13-22)
Sec. 38-38. - Lien for and collection of expenses.
After the statement provided for in section 38-37 is filed, the city shall have a privileged lien on the lot or real estate upon which the work was done or the improvements made to secure the expenses thereof. Such lien shall be second only to tax liens and liens for street improvements, and the amount thereof shall bear interest at the rate of ten percent per annum from the date the statement was filed. For any such expenditures and interest, suit may be instituted and recovery and foreclosure of the lien may be had in the name of the city and the statement of expenses made in accord with section 38-37, or a certified copy thereof, shall be prima facie proof of the amount expended for such work or improvements.
(Code 1976, § 13-23)
Sec. 38-39. - Penalties.
Violations of article II, offensive conditions, of chapter 38, environment, of the Code of the City of Jesup, Georgia shall be punishable in accordance with section 1-11, general penalty; continuing violations, of chapter 1, general provisions, of the Code of the City of Jesup, Georgia with the exception that any fine imposed for any violation of any such provisions, whether such fine is imposed exclusively or in concert with other penalties as otherwise authorized under section 1-11, shall not be in an amount that is less than $500.00 for each such violation.
(Ord. No. 2016-03-001, § 2, 4-5-2016)
Secs. 38-40—38-70. - Reserved.
ARTICLE III. - ABANDONMENT OF MATERIALS

Sec. 38-71. - Prohibited.
It shall be unlawful for any person to let, cause, suffer or allow the abandonment of materials such as to cause or present litter, an unsafe condition, unsightly appearance or public nuisance. Abandoned materials covered by this article shall include, but are not limited to, automobiles, appliances, furniture, tires, construction materials, burnt or partially demolished structures, commercial equipment, unsafe and/or uninhabitable structures and discarded household items.
(Code 1976, § 13-61; Ord. of 2-5-2008(2))
Sec. 38-72. - Determination of abandonment; exception.
Materials are deemed to have been abandoned when they have been placed on the right-of-way of any street or alley within the city limits in a condition not suitable to their manufactured intended use and are not actively maintained or used consistent with their original manufactured intended use. Automobiles in particular are deemed to be abandoned whenever they are stored outdoors, are not in working order, are not being expeditiously maintained and do not carry a current year tag. Nothing in this article is intended to prohibit or interfere with the normal operation of properly licensed and operated museums, junkyards, impound yards, automotive repair shops or automobile dealerships on licensed locations.
(Ord. of 8-7-2007)
Sec. 38-73. - Violation; penalty.
Any person suspected of violating this article shall receive a written citation to appear in municipal court to show cause why he/she should not be found to be in violation of this article, and upon failure to show cause, shall be punished as provided by section 1-11 of the City Code.
(Code 1976, § 13-63; Ord. of 2-5-2008(2))
Sec. 38-74. - Eviction by landlord.
In the event of the eviction or removal of a tenant by writ of possession or otherwise by a landlord from the leased premises, or the abandonment of the premises by the tenant, any personal property of the tenant or landlord, placed upon city property or right of way shall be removed by five o'clock p.m. the following day or the city will remove and dispose of same and all costs of removal will be charged the landlord.
(Ord. of 2-5-2008(3))
Sec. 38-75. - Penalties.
Violations of article III, abandonment of materials, of chapter 38, environment, of the Code of the City of Jesup, Georgia shall be punishable in accordance with section 1-11, general penalty; continuing violations, of chapter 1, general provisions, of the Code of the City of Jesup, Georgia with the exception that any fine imposed for any violation of any such provisions, whether such fine is imposed exclusively or in concert with other penalties as otherwise authorized under section 1-11, shall not be in an amount that is less than $500.00 for each such violation.
(Ord. No. 2016-03-001, § 3, 4-5-2016)
Secs. 38-76—38-100. - Reserved.
ARTICLE IV. - NOISE CONTROL[3]

Footnotes:
--- (3) ---
State Law reference— Limits on sound volume produced by radio, tape player or other mechanical sound-making device or instrument from within motor vehicle, O.C.G.A. § 40-6-14.

Sec. 38-101. - General prohibition; exceptions.
It shall be unlawful for any person to make or continue, or cause to be made or continued, any loud, unnecessary or unusual noise or any noise that unreasonably or unnecessarily annoys, disturbs, injures or endangers the comfort, repose, health, peace or safety of others within the city. The provisions of this article shall not apply to or be enforced against:
(1)
Any vehicle of the city while engaged in necessary public business.
(2)
Excavations or repairs of streets at night, by or on behalf of the city, county or state, when the public welfare and convenience renders it impossible to perform such work during the day.
(3)
The reasonable use of amplifiers or loudspeakers in the course of public addresses that are noncommercial in character.
(Code 1976, § 19-1)
Sec. 38-102. - Enumeration not exclusive.
The acts contained in this article, among others, shall constitute a violation of this article, but such enumeration shall not be deemed to be exclusive.
Sec. 38-103. - Horns; signaling devices.
The following shall be a violation of this article:
(1)
The sounding of any horn or signaling device on any automobile, motorcycle or other vehicle upon any street or public place within the city, except as a danger warning.
(2)
The creation of any unreasonably loud or harsh sound by means of any such signaling device and the sounding of any such device for an unreasonable period of time.
(3)
The use of any signaling device, except a police whistle or a signaling device operated by hand or electricity.
(4)
The use of any horn, whistle or other device operated by engine exhaust.
(5)
The use of any signaling device when traffic is held up for any reason.
(Code 1976, § 19-2)
Sec. 38-104. - Radios, musical instruments, phonographs and other machines or devices that produce or reproduce sound.
(a)
The using, operating or permitting to be played, used or operated of any radio receiving set, musical instrument, phonograph or other machine or device for the producing or reproducing of sound in such a manner so as to disturb the peace, quiet and comfort of the neighboring inhabitants, or at any time with a volume louder than is necessary for convenient hearing for the person who is in the room, vehicle or chamber in which such machine or device is operated and who is a voluntary listener shall be a violation of this article.
(b)
The operation of any such radio receiving set, musical instrument, phonograph, machine or device between the hours of 11:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. in such a manner so as to be plainly audible at a distance of 50 feet from the building, structure or vehicle in which it is located shall be prima facie evidence of a violation of this section.
(Code 1976, § 19-3)
Sec. 38-105. - Loudspeakers, amplifiers and other devices for the production or reproduction of sound for advertising.
The using, operating or permitting to be played, used or operated of any radio receiving set, musical instrument, phonograph, loudspeaker, sound amplifier or other machine or device for the producing or reproducing of sound which is cast upon the public streets for the purpose of commercial advertising or attracting the attention of the public to any building or structure without a special permit from the city clerk or board of commissioners shall be a violation of this article. Announcements over loudspeakers can only be made by the announcer, in person, and without the aid of any mechanical device.
(Code 1976, § 19-4)
Sec. 38-106. - Yelling, shouting, hooting, whistling and singing.
Yelling, shouting, hooting, whistling or singing on the public streets, particularly between the hours of 11:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. or at any time or place so as to annoy or disturb the quiet, comfort or repose of any persons in the vicinity, shall be a violation of this article.
(Code 1976, § 19-5)
Sec. 38-107. - Animals and birds.
The keeping of any animal or bird that will disturb the comfort or repose of any persons in the vicinity by making long, continual or frequent noise shall be a violation of this article.
(Code 1976, § 19-6)
Cross reference— Animals, ch. 14.
Sec. 38-108. - Train and steam whistles.
The blowing of any train whistle or steam whistle attached to any stationary boiler, except to give notice of the time to begin or stop work or as a warning of fire or danger or upon request of proper city authorities shall be a violation of this article.
(Code 1976, § 19-7)
Sec. 38-109. - Exhausts.
The discharge into the open air of the exhaust of any steam engine, stationary internal combustion engine, motorboat or motor vehicle, except through a muffler or other device that will effectively prevent loud or explosive noises shall be a violation of this article.
(Code 1976, § 19-8)
Sec. 38-110. - Defect in vehicles or loads.
The use of any automobile, motorcycle or vehicle so out of repair, so loaded or in such a manner as to create loud and unnecessary grating, grinding, rattling or other noise shall be a violation of this article.
(Code 1976, § 19-9)
Cross reference— Operation of vehicles generally, § 94-31 et seq.
Sec. 38-111. - Loading and unloading vehicles; opening and destruction of boxes, etc.
The creation of a loud and excessive noise in connection with loading or unloading any vehicle or the opening and destruction of bales, boxes, crates and containers shall be a violation of this article.
(Code 1976, § 19-10)
Cross reference— Operation of vehicles generally, § 94-31 et seq.
Sec. 38-112. - Construction or repairing of buildings.
The erection, including excavation, demolition, alteration or repair, of any building, other than between the hours of 7:00 a.m. and 6:00 p.m. on weekdays, except on urgent necessity in the interest of public health and safety, and then only with a permit from the city building official, shall be a violation of this article. Such permit may be granted for a period not to exceed three days or less while the emergency continues and may be renewed by the mayor and board of commissioners for periods of three days or less while the emergency continues. If the board of commissioners determines that the public health and safety will not be impaired by the erection, demolition, alteration or repair of any building or the excavation of streets and highways from 6:00 p.m. to 7:00 a.m., and further determines that loss or inconvenience would result to any party in interest, the board of commissioners may grant permission for such work to be done from 6:00 p.m. to 7:00 a.m. upon application made at the time the permit for the work is applied for or during the progress of the work.
(Code 1976, § 19-11)
Cross reference— Buildings and building regulations, ch. 18.
Sec. 38-113. - Schools, courts, churches and hospitals.
The creation of any excessive noise on any street adjacent to any school, institution of learning, church or court while they are in session or adjacent to any hospital, and which unreasonably interferes with the work of such institution, or which disturbs or unduly annoys patients in the hospital, provided that conspicuous signs are displayed about such institutions indicating the presence of such institutions, shall be a violation of this article.
(Code 1976, § 19-12)
Sec. 38-114. - Hawkers, peddlers and vendors.
The shouting and crying of hawkers, peddlers and vendors which disturb the peace and quiet of the neighborhood shall be a violation of this article.
(Code 1976, § 19-13)
Cross reference— Peddlers, § 22-101 et seq.
Sec. 38-115. - Noises to attract attention.
The use of any drum or other instrument or device for the purpose of attracting attention to any performance, show or sale by the creation of noise shall be a violation of this article.
(Code 1976, § 19-14)
Sec. 38-116. - Transportation of metal rails, pillars or columns.
The transportation of rails, pillars or columns of iron, steel or other material over and along streets and other public places upon carts, drays, cars, trucks or in any other manner so loaded as to cause loud noises or so as to disturb the peace and quiet of such streets or other public places shall be a violation of this article.
(Code 1976, § 19-15)
Sec. 38-117. - Railroads.
The causing, permitting or continuing of any excessive, unnecessary and avoidable noise in the operation of a railroad, or cars thereon, is hereby declared to be in violation of this article.
(Code 1976, § 19-16)
Cross reference— Railroads, ch. 74.
Sec. 38-118. - Piledrivers, hammers and other such appliances.
The operation from 10:00 p.m. to 7:00 a.m. of any piledriver, steam shovel, pneumatic hammer, derrick, steam or electric hoist or other appliance, the use of which is attended by loud or unusual noise, without a special permit from the board of commissioners, shall be a violation of this article.
(Code 1976, § 19-17)
Sec. 38-119. - Blowers, power fans and internal combustion engines.
The operation of any noise creating blower, power fan or internal combustion engine, the operation of which causes noise due to the explosion of operating gases or fluids, unless the noise from such blower or fan is muffled and such engine is equipped with a muffler device sufficient to deaden such noise, shall be a violation of this article.
(Code 1976, § 19-18)
Sec. 38-120. - Sound trucks.
The use of mechanical loudspeakers or amplifiers on trucks or other moving or standing vehicles for advertising or other commercial purposes and the use of sound trucks for noncommercial purposes during such hours, in such places or with such volume as would constitute such use a public nuisance shall be a violation of this article.
Sec. 38-121. - Vehicle repair in residential areas.
The repairing, rebuilding or testing of any motor vehicle between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. within any residential area in such a manner so as to disturb the peace, quiet and comfort of the residents of the area shall be a violation of this article.
Sec. 38-122. - Exemptions.
The following uses and activities shall be exempt from the noise regulations set forth in this article:
(1)
Noises of safety signals and warning devices;
(2)
Noises resulting from any authorized emergency vehicle when responding to an emergency call or an emergency;
(3)
Noises resulting from emergency work, to be construed as work made necessary to restore property to a safe condition following a public calamity, or work required to protect persons or property from an imminent exposure to danger.
Applications for other exemptions should be filed with the city clerk for approval by the mayor, and should state the time, date, organization and reason for the request.
Sec. 38-123. - Injunctions.
The operation or maintenance of any device, vehicle or machinery in violation of any provision of this article which causes discomfort or annoyance to reasonable persons of normal sensitivity or which endangers the comfort, repose, health or peace of residents of the city shall be deemed, and is declared to be, a public nuisance, and may be subject to abatement summarily by a restraining order or injunction issued by a court of competent jurisdiction.
Secs. 38-124—38-150. - Reserved.
ARTICLE V. - SOIL EROSION AND SEDIMENTATION CONTROL[4]
Footnotes:
--- (4) ---
State Law reference— Erosion and Sedimentation Act of 1975, O.C.G.A. § 12-7-1 et seq.; local land disturbing activity ordinances, O.C.G.A. § 12-7-4.

DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Sec. 38-151. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Best management practices (BMPs) means a collection of structural measures and vegetative practices which, when properly designed, installed and maintained, will provide effective erosion and sedimentation control for all rainfall events up to and including a 25-year, 24-hour rainfall event.
Board means the Georgia Board of Natural Resources.
Buffer means an area along the course of any state waters which is to be maintained in an undisturbed and natural condition.
Commission means the Georgia Soil and Water Conservation Commission.
Cut means a portion of land surface or area from which earth has been removed, or will be removed, by excavation; the depth below original ground surface to excavated surface; also known as excavation.
Department means the state department of natural resources.
Director means the Director of the Environmental Protection Division of the Georgia Department of Natural Resources.
District means the Satilla River Soil and Water Conservation District.
Division means the Environmental Protection Division of the Georgia Department of Natural Resources.
Drainage structure means a device composed of a virtually nonerodible material, such as concrete, steel, plastic or other such material, that conveys water from one place to another by intercepting the flow and carrying it to a release point for stormwater management, drainage control or flood control purposes.
Erosion means the process by which land surface is worn away by the action of wind, water, ice or gravity.
Erosion and sedimentation control plan means a plan for the control of soil erosion and sedimentation resulting from a land disturbing activity; also known as the plan.
Fill means a portion of land surface to which soil or other solid material has been added; the depth above the original ground.
Finished grade means the final elevation and contour of the ground after cutting or filling and conforming to the proposed design.
Grading means altering the shape of the ground surface to a predetermined condition, which includes stripping, cutting, filling, stockpiling and shaping, or any combination thereof, and shall include the land in its cut or filled condition.
Ground elevation means the original elevation of the ground surface prior to cutting or filling.
Issuing Authority means the governing authority of any county or municipality which has been certified by the Director as an Issuing Authority, pursuant to the Erosion and Sedimentation Act of 1975, as amended, as set forth in O.C.G.A. § 12-7-1 et seq., or the division, in those instances where an application for a permit is submitted to the division.
Land disturbing activity means any activity which may result in soil erosion from water or wind and the movement of sediments into state waters or onto lands within the state, including, but not limited to, clearing, dredging, grading, excavating, transporting and filling of land, but not including agricultural practices as described in subsection 38-152(a)(5).
Metropolitan River Protection Act (MRPA) means the state law referenced as O.C.G.A. § 12-5-440 et seq., which addresses environmental and developmental matters in certain metropolitan river corridors and their drainage basins.
Natural ground surface means the ground surface in its original state before any grading, excavating or filling.
Nephelometric turbidity units (NTUs) means numerical units of measure based upon photometric analytical techniques for measuring the light scattered by finely divided particles of a substance in suspension. Such technique is used to estimate the extent of turbidity in water in which colloidally dispersed particles are present.
Permit means the authorization necessary to conduct a land disturbing activity under the provisions of this article.
Person means any individual, partnership, firm, association, joint venture, public or private corporation, trust, estate, commission, board, public or private institution, utility, cooperative, state agency, municipality or another political subdivision of the state, any interstate body or any other legal entity.
Project means the entire proposed development project, regardless of the size of the area of land to be disturbed.
Roadway drainage structure means a device, such as a bridge, culvert or ditch, composed of a virtually nonerodible material, such as concrete, steel, plastic or other such material that conveys water under a roadway by intercepting the flow on one side of a traveled way consisting of one or more defined lanes, with or without shoulder areas, and carrying water to a release point on the other side.
Sediment means solid material, both organic and inorganic, that is in suspension, is being transported or has been moved from its site of origin by air, water, ice or gravity as a product of erosion.
Sedimentation means the process by which eroded material is transported and deposited by the action of water, wind, ice or gravity.
Soil and water conservation district approved plan means an erosion and sedimentation control plan approved in writing by the Satilla River Soil and Water Conservation District.
Stabilization means the process of establishing an enduring soil cover of vegetation by the installation of temporary or permanent structures for the purpose of reducing to a minimum the erosion process and the resultant transport of sediment by wind, water, ice or gravity.
State waters means any and all rivers, streams, creeks, branches, lakes, reservoirs, ponds, drainage systems, springs, wells and other bodies of surface or subsurface water, natural or artificial, lying within or forming a part of the boundaries of the state, which are not entirely confined and retained completely upon the property of a single individual, partnership or corporation.
Structural erosion and sedimentation control practices means practices for the stabilization of erodible or sediment-producing areas by utilizing the mechanical properties of matter for the purpose of either changing the surface of the land or storing, regulating or disposing of runoff to prevent excessive sediment loss. Examples of structural erosion and sediment control practices are riprap, sediment basins, dikes, level spreaders, waterways or outlets, diversions, grade stabilization structures, sediment traps and land grading, etc. Such practices can be found in the publication known as the Manual for Erosion and Sediment Control in Georgia.
Trout streams means all streams, or portions of streams, within the watershed, as designated by the Game and Fish Division of the Georgia Department of Natural Resources under the provisions of the Georgia Water Quality Control Act, O.C.G.A. § 12-5-20 et seq. Streams designated as "primary trout waters" means water supporting a self-sustaining population of rainbow, brown or brook trout. Streams designated as "secondary trout waters" means streams in which there is no evidence of natural trout reproduction, but which are capable of supporting trout throughout the year. "First order trout waters" means streams into which no other streams flow, except springs.
Vegetative erosion and sedimentation control practices means practices for the stabilization of erodible or sediment-producing areas by covering the soil with:
(1)
Permanent seeding, sprigging or planting, producing longterm vegetative cover;
(2)
Temporary seeding, producing shortterm vegetative cover; or
(3)
Sodding, covering areas with a turf of perennial sod-forming grass.
Such practices can be found in the publication known as the Manual for Erosion and Sediment Control in Georgia.
Watercourse means any natural or artificial watercourse, stream, river, creek, channel, ditch, canal, conduit, culvert, drain, waterway, gully, ravine or wash in which water flows either continuously or intermittently and which has a definite channel, bed and banks, and including any area adjacent thereto subject to inundation by reason of overflow or floodwater.
Wetlands means areas that are inundated or saturated by surface water or groundwater at a frequency and duration sufficient to support, and that under normal circumstances do support, a prevalence of vegetation typically adapted for life in saturated soil conditions. Wetlands generally include swamps, marshes, bogs and similar areas.
(Code 1976, § 29½-2)
Cross reference— Definitions generally, § 1-2.
Sec. 38-152. - Applicability; exemptions.
(a)
This article shall apply to any land disturbing activity undertaken by any person on any land, except for the following:
(1)
Surface mining, as defined in O.C.G.A. § 12-4-72, "Mineral Resources and Caves Act".
(2)
Granite quarrying and land clearing for such quarrying.
(3)
Such minor land disturbing activities as home gardens and individual home landscaping, repairs, maintenance work and other related activities which result in minor soil erosion.
(4)
The construction of single-family residences, when such residences are constructed by or under contract with the owner for his own occupancy, or the construction of single-family residences not a part of a platted subdivision, planned community or an association of other residential lots consisting of more than two lots and not otherwise exempted under this subsection; however, construction of any such residence shall conform to the minimum requirements as set forth in division 3 of this article. For single-family residential construction covered by the provisions of this subsection, there shall be a buffer zone between the residence and any state waters classified as trout streams pursuant to the state water quality control act, O.C.G.A. § 12-5-20 et seq. In any such buffer zone, no land disturbing activity shall be constructed between the residence and the point where vegetation has been wrested by normal stream flow or wave action from the banks of the trout waters. For primary trout waters, the buffer zone shall be at least 50 horizontal feet, and no variance to a smaller buffer shall be granted. For secondary trout waters, the buffer zone shall be at least 50 horizontal feet, but the director may grant variances to no less than 25 feet. Regardless of whether a trout stream is primary or secondary, for first order trout waters, which are streams into which no other streams flow, except for springs, the buffer shall be at least 25 horizontal feet, and no variance to a smaller buffer shall be granted. The minimum requirements of division 3 of this article and the buffer zones provided by this subsection shall be enforced by the issuing authority.
(5)
Agricultural operations, as defined in O.C.G.A. § 1-3-3, which shall include:
a.
Raising, harvesting or storing products of the field or orchard;
b.
Feeding, breeding or managing livestock or poultry;
c.
Producing or storing feed for use in the production of livestock, including, but not limited to cattle, calves, swine, hogs, goats, sheep and rabbits, or for use in the production of poultry, including, but not limited to, chickens, hens and turkeys;
d.
Producing plants, trees, fowl or animals;
e.
The production of aquaculture, horticultural, dairy, livestock, poultry, eggs and apiarian products, farm buildings and ponds; and
f.
Forestry land management practices, including harvesting, provided, however, when such exempt forestry practices cause or result in land-disturbing or other activities otherwise prohibited in a buffer as established in subsections 38-213(15) and (16), no other land-disturbing activities except for normal forest management practices shall be allowed on the entire property upon which the forestry practices were conducted for a period of three years after completion of such forestry practices.
(6)
Any project carried out under the technical supervision of the Natural Resources Conservation Service of the United States Department of Agriculture.
(7)
Any project involving 1.1 acres or less; however, this exemption shall not apply to any land disturbing activity within 200 feet of the bank of any state waters; and for purposes of this subsection, the term "state waters" excludes channels and drainageways that have water in them only during and immediately after rainfall events and intermittent streams that do not have water in them yearround; however, any person responsible for a project which involves 1.1 acres or less that involves land disturbing activity and is within 200 feet of any such excluded channel or drainageway must prevent sediment from moving beyond the boundaries of the property on which such project is located; and further, nothing contained in this subsection shall prevent the Issuing Authority from regulating any such project which is not specifically exempted by subsection (1)—(6), (8) or (9) of this section.
(8)
Construction or maintenance projects, or both, undertaken or financed in whole or in part, or both, by the state department of transportation, state highway authority or state tollway authority, or any road construction or maintenance project, or both, undertaken by the city; however, such projects shall conform to the minimum requirements set forth in division 3 of this article, provided further that construction or maintenance projects of Georgia Department of Transportation or Georgia Tollway Authority which disturbs five or more contiguous acres of land shall be subject to provisions of O.C.G.A. § 12-7-7.1.
(9)
Any land disturbing activities conducted by any electric membership corporation or municipal electrical system or any public utility under the regulatory jurisdiction of the public service commission, provided, any such land disturbing activity shall conform to the minimum requirements set forth in sections 38-212 and 38-213.
(b)
Where this section requires compliance with the minimum requirements set forth in sections 38-212 and 38-213, the issuing authority shall enforce compliance with the minimum requirements as if a permit had been issued; and violations shall be subject to the same penalties as violations by permit holders.
(Code 1976, § 29½-3)
Sec. 38-153. - Inspection of permitted sites; notice to comply; failure to comply.
The city will periodically inspect the sites of land disturbing activities for which permits have been issued to determine if the activities are being conducted in accordance with the plan and if the measures required in the plan are effective in controlling erosion and sedimentation. If, through inspection, it is deemed that a person engaged in land disturbing activities has failed to comply with the approved plan, permit conditions or the provisions of this article, a written notice to comply shall be served upon such person. The notice shall set forth the measures necessary to achieve compliance and shall state the time within which such measures must be completed. If the person engaged in the land disturbing activity fails to comply within the time specified in the notice, he shall be deemed to be in violation of this article.
(Code 1976, § 29½-6(a))
Sec. 38-154. - Right of entry.
The city shall have the power to conduct such investigations as may be reasonably deemed necessary to carry out duties as prescribed in this article, and for such purpose, to enter, at reasonable times, upon any public or private property for the purpose of investigating and inspecting the sites of land disturbing activities.
(Code 1976, § 29½-6(b))
Sec. 38-155. - Refusal of entry or access; hampering or interfering with representatives.
No person shall refuse entry or access to any authorized representative or agent of the issuing authority, the commission, district or division who requests entry for the purpose of inspection, and who presents appropriate credentials; nor shall any person obstruct, hamper or interfere with any such representative while in the process of carrying out his official duties.
(Code 1976, § 29½-6(c))
Sec. 38-156. - Review of issuing authority's actions; deadline for corrective action.
(a)
The district or commission, or both, shall periodically review the actions of the city which have been certified as issuing authorities pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 12-7-8(a). The district or commission, or both, may provide technical assistance to the city for the purpose of improving the effectiveness of the city's erosion and sedimentation control program. The district or commission shall notify the division and request investigation by the division if any deficient or ineffective local program is found.
(b)
The division may periodically review the actions of the city pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 12-7-8(a). Such review may include, but shall not be limited to, review of the administration and enforcement of this article and review of conformance with an agreement, if any, between the district and the mayor and board of commissioners. If such review indicates that the mayor and board of commissioners have not administered or enforced its ordinances or has not conducted the program in accordance with any agreement entered into pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 12-7-7(d), the division shall notify the mayor and board of commissioners in writing. After such notification, the mayor and board of commissioners shall have 30 days within which to take the necessary corrective action to retain certification as an issuing authority. If the city does not take necessary corrective action within 30 days after notification by the division, the division may revoke the certification of the city as an issuing authority.
(Code 1976, § 29½-6(d), (e))
Sec. 38-157. - Failure to obtain a permit for land disturbing activity.
If any person commences any land disturbing activity requiring a land disturbing permit as prescribed in this article without first obtaining such permit, the person shall be subject to revocation of his business license, work permit or other authorization for the conduct of a business and associated work activities within the jurisdictional boundaries of the issuing authority.
(Code 1976, § 29½-7(a))
Sec. 38-158. - Stop work orders.
(a)
For the first and second violations of the provisions of this article, the Director or the Issuing Authority shall issue a written warning to the violator. The violator shall have five days to correct the violation, if the violation is not corrected within five days, the Director or the Issuing Authority shall issue a stop-work order requiring that land-disturbing activities be stopped until necessary corrective action or mitigation has occurred; provided, however, that, if the violation presents an imminent threat to public health or waters of the state or if the land-disturbing activities are conducted without obtaining the necessary permit, the Director or Issuing Authority shall issue an immediate stop-work order in lieu of a warning;
(b)
For a third and each subsequent violation, the Director or Issuing Authority shall issue an immediate stop-work order; and
(c)
All stop-work orders shall be effective immediately upon issuance and shall be in effect until the necessary corrective action or mitigation has occurred.
(Code 1976, § 29½-7(b))
Sec. 38-159. - Failure to comply with plan; bond forfeiture.
If, through inspection, it is determined that a person engaged in land disturbing activities has failed to comply with the approved plan, a written notice to comply shall be served upon such person. The notice shall set forth the measures necessary to achieve compliance with the plan and shall state the time within which such measures must be completed. If the person engaged in the land disturbing activity fails to comply within the time specified, he shall be deemed in violation of this article and, in addition to other penalties, shall be deemed to have forfeited his performance bond, if required to post one under the provisions of section 38-182(e). The issuing authority may call the bond, or any part thereof, to be forfeited and may use the proceeds to hire a contractor to stabilize the site of the land disturbing activity and bring it into compliance.
(Code 1976, § 29½-7(c))
Sec. 38-160. - Monetary penalties.
(a)
Except as provided in subsection (b) below, any person who violates any provisions of this article, the rules and regulations adopted pursuant hereto, or any permit condition or limitation established pursuant to this article or who negligently or intentionally fails or refuses to comply with any final or emergency order of the Director issued as provided in this ordinance shall be liable for a civil penalty not to exceed $2,500.00 per day. For the purpose of enforcing the provisions of this article, notwithstanding any provisions in any City Charter to the contrary, municipal courts shall be authorized to impose penalty not to exceed $2,500.00 for each violation. Notwithstanding any limitation of law as to penalties which can be assessed for violations of county ordinances, any magistrate court or any other court of competent jurisdiction trying cases brought as violations of this article under county ordinances approved under this article shall be authorized to impose penalties for such violations not to exceed $2,500.00 for each violation. Each day during which violation or failure or refusal to comply continues shall be a separate violation.
(b)
The following penalties shall apply to land-disturbing activities performed in violation of any provision of this article, any rules and regulations adopted pursuant hereto, or any permit condition or limitation established pursuant to this article:
(1)
There shall be a minimum penalty of $250.00 per day for each violation involving the construction of a single-family dwelling by or under contract with the owner for his or her own occupancy; and
(2)
There shall be a minimum penalty of $1,000.00 per day for each violation involving land-disturbing activities other than as provided in subsection (b)(1) above.
(Code 1976, § 29½-7(d))
Sec. 38-161. - Administrative remedies.
The suspension, revocation, modification or grant with condition of a permit by the issuing authority upon finding that the permit holder is not in compliance with the approved erosion and sediment control plan; or that the permit holder is in violation of permit conditions; or that the permit holder is in violation of any ordinance shall entitle the person submitting the plan or holding the permit to a hearing before the mayor and board of commissioners within 45 days after receipt by the issuing authority of a written notice of appeal.
(Code 1976, § 29½-8(a))
Sec. 38-162. - Judicial review.
Any person aggrieved by a decision or order of the issuing authority, after exhausting his administrative remedies, shall have the right to appeal de novo to the county superior court.
(Code 1976, § 29½-8(b))
Sec. 38-163. - Liability.
(a)
Neither the approval of a plan under the provisions of this article, nor the compliance with provisions of this article, shall relieve any person from the responsibility for damage to any person or property otherwise imposed by law, nor impose any liability upon the issuing authority or district for damage to any person or property.
(b)
The fact that a land disturbing activity for which a permit has been issued results in injury to the property of another shall neither constitute proof of, nor create a presumption of a violation of the standards provided for in this article or the terms of the permit.
(c)
No provision of this article shall permit any persons to violate the Georgia Erosion and Sedimentation Act of 1975, the Georgia Water Quality Control Act or the rules and regulations promulgated and approved thereunder or pollute any Waters of the State as defined thereby.
(Code 1976, § 29½-9(c))
Secs. 38-164—38-180. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - PERMIT PROCEDURES

Sec. 38-181. - Review of ordinances regulating land development by applicant.
The landowner, developer and designated planners and engineers shall review the general development plans and detailed plans of the issuing authority that affect the tract to be developed and the area surrounding such tract. They shall review the zoning ordinance (appendix A), stormwater management ordinance (chapter 78), subdivision ordinance (appendix B), flood damage prevention ordinance (chapter 46), this article and other ordinances that regulate the development of land within the jurisdictional boundaries of the issuing authority; however, the property owner is the only party that can obtain a permit.
(Code 1976, § 29½-5(a))
Sec. 38-182. - Permit required; application requirements.
(a)
No person shall conduct any land disturbing activity within the jurisdictional boundaries of the city without first obtaining a permit from the mayor and board of commissioners to perform such activity.
(b)
The application for a permit shall be submitted to the city hall and must include the applicant's erosion and sedimentation control plan with supporting data, as necessary. Such plans shall include, as a minimum, the data specified in section 38-213. Soil erosion and sedimentation control plans shall conform to the provisions of sections 38-212 and 38-213. Applications for a permit will not be accepted unless accompanied by copies of the applicant's soil erosion and sedimentation control plans.
(c)
A fee as set forth in the schedule of fees and charges on file in the office of the city clerk shall be charged for each acre, or fraction thereof, in the project area.
(d)
Immediately upon receipt of an application and plan for a permit, the issuing authority shall refer the application and plan to the district for its review and approval or disapproval concerning the adequacy of the erosion and sedimentation control plan. The results of the district review shall be forwarded to the issuing authority. No permit will be issued unless the plan has been approved by the district, and any variances required by section 38-213(15) and (16) and bonding, if required as per subsection (e) of this section, have been obtained. Such review will not be required if the issuing authority and the district have entered into an agreement which allows the issuing authority to conduct such review and approval of the plan without referring the application and plan to the district.
(e)
If a permit applicant has had two or more violations of previous permits, this section or the erosion and sedimentation act, as amended, and as set forth in O.C.G.A. § 12-7-1 et seq., within three years prior to the date of filing of the application under consideration, the issuing authority may deny the permit application. The issuing authority may require the permit applicant to post a bond in the form of government security, cash or irrevocable letter of credit, or any combination thereof, up to, but not exceeding, $3,000.00 per acre, or fraction thereof, of the proposed land disturbing activity, prior to issuing the permit. If the applicant does not comply with this article or with the conditions of the permit after issuance, the issuing authority may call the bond, or any part thereof, to be forfeited and may use the proceeds to hire a contractor to stabilize the site of the land disturbing activity and bring it into compliance. These provisions shall not apply unless there is in effect an ordinance or statute specifically providing for hearing and judicial review of any determination or order of the Issuing Authority with respect to alleged permit violations.
(Code 1976, § 29½-5(b))
Sec. 38-183. - Site plan requirements.
(a)
Generally. Site plans must be prepared to meet the minimum requirements contained in this section and section 38-182. Conformance with the minimum requirements may be attained through the use of design criteria as set forth in the current issue of the Manual for Erosion and Sediment Control in Georgia, published by the state soil and water conservation commission as a guide, or through the use of alternate design criteria which conform to sound conservation and engineering practices. The Manual for Erosion and Sediment Control in Georgia is hereby incorporated by reference into this article. The plan for the land disturbing activity shall consider the interrelationship of the soil types, geological and hydrological characteristics, topography, watershed, vegetation, proposed permanent structures including roadways, constructed waterways, sediment control and stormwater management facilities, local ordinances and state laws.
(b)
Data required. The following data shall be required for the site plan:
(1)
Notes or a narrative shall be located on the site plan in general notes or erosion and sediment control notes.
(2)
Description of existing land uses at the project site and a description of the proposed project.
(3)
Name, address and telephone number of the property owner.
(4)
Name and telephone number of a 24-hour local contact who is responsible for erosion and sedimentation control.
(5)
Size of the project, or phase under construction, in acres.
(6)
Activity schedule, showing anticipated starting and completion dates for the project, including the statement, in bold letters, that the installation of erosion and sedimentation control measures and practices shall occur prior to or concurrent with land disturbing activities.
(7)
Stormwater and sedimentation management systems-storage capacity, hydrologic study and calculations, including off-site drainage areas.
(8)
Vegetative plan for all temporary and permanent vegetative practices, including species, planting dates and seeding, fertilizer, lime and mulching rates. The vegetative plan should show options for yearround seeding.
(9)
Detailed drawings for all structural practices. Specifications may follow guidelines set forth in the Manual for Erosion and Sediment Control in Georgia.
(10)
A maintenance statement, "Erosion and sedimentation control measures will be maintained at all times. Additional erosion and sedimentation control measures and practices will be installed if deemed necessary by on-site inspection."
(c)
Certification of plans; contents. Maps, drawings and supportive computations shall bear the signature/seal of a registered or certified professional in engineering, architecture, landscape architecture, land surveying or erosion and sedimentation control. The certified plans shall contain:
(1)
Graphic scale and north point or arrow indicating magnetic north.
(2)
Vicinity maps showing the location of the project and existing streets.
(3)
Boundary line survey.
(4)
Delineation of disturbed areas within the project boundary.
(5)
Existing and planned contours, with contour lines drawn with an interval in accordance with the following:
EXPAND
Map Scale Ground Slope Contour Interval
(feet)
1 inch = 100 feet Flat 0—2% 0.5 or 1
or larger scale Rolling 2—8% 1 or 2
Steep 8%+ 2.5 or 10
  (6)
Indication of adjacent areas and features areas, such as streams, lakes, residential areas, etc., that might be affected.
(7)
Proposed structures or additions to existing structures and paved areas.
(8)
Delineation of the 25-foot horizontal buffer adjacent to state waters and the specified width in MRPA areas.
(9)
Delineation of the specified horizontal buffer along designated trout streams, where applicable.
(10)
Location of erosion and sedimentation control measures and practices using coding symbols from the Manual for Erosion and Sediment Control in Georgia, chapter 6.
(d)
Maintenance of control practices. Maintenance of all soil erosion and sedimentation control practices, whether temporary or permanent, shall at all times be the responsibility of the property owner.
(Code 1976, § 29½-5(c))
Sec. 38-184. - Conditions of issuance, denial, suspension, revocation and modification.
(a)
Issuance or denial. Permits shall be issued or denied as soon as practicable, but in any event, not later than 45 days after receipt by the issuing authority of a completed application, provided that variances and bonding are obtained, where necessary.
(b)
Approval of plan prior to issuance. No permit shall be issued by the issuing authority unless the erosion and sedimentation control plan has been approved by the district and the issuing authority has affirmatively determined that the plan is in compliance with this article, any variances required by sections 38-182 and 38-183 are obtained, bonding requirements, if necessary, as per section 38-182(e) are met and all ordinances and rules and regulations in effect within the jurisdictional boundaries of the issuing authority are met. If the permit is denied, the reason for denial shall be furnished to the applicant.
(c)
Phased development; separate permits. If the tract is to be developed in phases, a separate permit shall be required for each phase.
(d)
Suspension, revocation or modification. The permit may be suspended, revoked or modified by the issuing authority, as to all or any portion of the land affected by the plan, upon a finding that the holder or his successor in the title is not in compliance with the approved plan or is in violation of this article. A holder of a permit shall notify any successor in title to him as to all, or any portion, of the land affected by the approved plan of the conditions contained in the permit.
(e)
Certification of payment of ad valorem taxes required for issuance. No permit shall be issued unless the applicant provides a statement by the tax commissioner and the city clerk certifying that all ad valorem taxes levied against the property and due and owing have been paid.
(Code 1976, § 29½-5(d))
Sec. 38-185. - Injury to property of another by permit holder.
The fact that land disturbing activity for which a permit has been issued results in injury to the property of another shall neither constitute proof, nor create a presumption, of a violation of the standards provided for in this article or the terms of the permit.
(Code 1976, § 29½-4(e))
Secs. 38-186—38-210. - Reserved.
DIVISION 3. - MINIMUM REQUIREMENTS

Sec. 38-211. - Plans to contain control measures and practices; application and installation.
Excessive soil erosion and resulting sedimentation can take place during land disturbing activities; therefore, plans for land disturbing activities which are not excluded by this article shall contain provisions for application of soil erosion and sedimentation control measures and practices, and such provisions shall be incorporated into the plans. Soil erosion and sedimentation control measures and practices shall conform to the minimum requirements of sections 38-212 and 38-213. The application of such measures and practices shall apply to all features of the site, including street and utility installations, drainage facilities and other temporary and permanent improvements. Measures shall be installed to prevent or control erosion and sedimentation pollution during all stages of any land disturbing activity.
(Code 1976, § 29½-4(a))
Sec. 38-212. - Best management practices.
(a)
Best management practices (BMPs) as set forth in this section and section 38-213 shall be required for all land disturbing activities. Proper design, installation and maintenance of BMPs shall constitute a complete defense to any action by the director or to any other allegation of noncompliance with subsection (b) of this section or any substantially similar terms contained in a permit for the discharge of stormwater issued pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 12-5-30(f). As used in this section, the terms "proper design" and "properly designed" mean designed to control soil erosion and sedimentation for all rainfall events up to and including a 25-year, 24-hour rainfall event.
(b)
A discharge of stormwater runoff from disturbed areas where BMPs have not been properly designed, installed and maintained shall constitute a separate violation of any land disturbing permit issued by a local issuing authority or the division or of any general permit for construction activities issued by the division pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 12-5-30(f) for each day on which such discharge results in the turbidity of receiving waters being increased by more than 25 nephelometric turbidity units (NTUs) for waters supporting warm water fisheries or by more than ten NTUs for waters classified as trout waters. The turbidity of the receiving waters shall be measured in accordance with guidelines to be issued by the director.
(c)
Failure to properly design, install or maintain BMPs shall constitute a violation of any land disturbing permit issued by a local issuing authority or the division or of any general permit for construction activities issued by the division pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 12-5-30(f) for each day on which such failure occurs.
(d)
In accordance with regulations adopted by the board, the director may require reasonable and prudent monitoring of the turbidity level of receiving waters into which discharges from land disturbing activities occur.
(Code 1976, § 29½-4(b))
Sec. 38-213. - Conservation and engineering practices.
The rules and regulations, ordinances or resolutions adopted pursuant to this article for the purpose of governing land disturbing activities shall require, as a minimum, best management practices, including sound conservation and engineering practices, to prevent and minimize erosion and resultant sedimentation, which are consistent with, and no less stringent than, the practices contained in the Manual for Erosion and Sediment Control in Georgia published by the state soil and water conservation commission as of January 1 of the year in which the land disturbing activity was permitted, as well as the following:
(1)
Stripping of vegetation, regrading and other development activities shall be conducted in a manner so as to minimize erosion.
(2)
Cut and fill operations must be kept to a minimum.
(3)
Development plans must conform to topography and soil type so as to create the lowest practical erosion potential.
(4)
Whenever feasible, natural vegetation shall be retained, protected and supplemented.
(5)
The disturbed area and duration of exposure to erosive elements shall be kept to a practical minimum.
(6)
Disturbed soil shall be stabilized as quickly as practical.
(7)
Temporary vegetation or mulching shall be employed to protect exposed critical areas during development.
(8)
Permanent vegetation and structural erosion control measures shall be installed as soon as practical.
(9)
To the extent necessary, sediment in runoff water must be trapped by the use of debris basins, sediment basins, silt traps or similar measures until the disturbed area is stabilized. As used in this subsection, a disturbed area is stabilized when it is brought to a condition of continuous compliance with the requirements of O.C.G.A. § 12-7-1 et seq.
(10)
Adequate provisions must be provided to minimize damage from surface water to the cut face of excavations or the sloping surface of fills.
(11)
Cuts and fills may not endanger adjoining property.
(12)
Fills may not encroach upon natural watercourses or constructed channels in a manner so as to adversely affect other property owners.
(13)
Grading equipment must cross flowing streams by means of bridges or culverts, except when such methods are not feasible, provided, in any case, that such crossings are kept to a minimum.
(14)
Land disturbing activity plans for erosion and sedimentation control shall include provisions for treatment or control of any source of sediment and adequate sedimentation control facilities to retain sediments on the site or preclude sedimentation of adjacent waters beyond the levels specified in section 38-212(b).
(15)
Except as provided in subsection (16) of this section, there is established a 25-foot buffer along the banks of all state waters, as measured horizontally from the point where vegetation has been wrested by normal stream flow or wave action, except where the Director determines to allow a variance that is at least as protective of natural resources and the environment, where otherwise allowed by the Director pursuant to O.C.G.A. 12-2-8, or where a drainage structure or a roadway drainage structure must be constructed, provided that adequate erosion control measures are incorporated in the project plans and specifications, and are implemented; provided, however, the buffers of at least 25 feet established pursuant to part 6 of Article 5, Chapter 5 of Title 12, the "Georgia Water Quality Control Act", shall remain in force unless a variance is granted by the Director as provided in this subsection. The following requirements shall apply to any such buffer: No land-disturbing activities shall be conducted within a buffer and a buffer shall remain in its natural, undisturbed state of vegetation until all land-disturbing activities on the construction site are completed. Once the final stabilization of the site is achieved, a buffer may be thinned or trimmed of vegetation as long as a protective vegetative cover remains to protect water quality and aquatic habitat and a natural canopy is left in sufficient quantity to keep shade on the stream bed; provided, however, that any person constructing a single-family residence, when such residence is constructed by or under contract with the owner for his or her own occupancy, may thin or trim vegetation in a buffer at any time as long as protective vegetative cover remains to protect water quality and aquatic habitat and a natural canopy is left in sufficient quantity to keep shade on the stream bed;
(16)
There is established a 50-foot buffer as measured horizontally from the point where vegetation has been wrested by normal stream flow or wave action, along the banks of any state waters classified as "trout streams" pursuant to Article 2 of Chapter 5 of Title 12, the "Georgia Water Quality Control Act", except where a roadway drainage structure must be constructed; provided, however, that small springs and streams classified as trout streams which discharge an average annual flow of 25 gallons per minute or less shall have a 25-foot buffer or they may be piped, at the discretion of the landowner, pursuant to the terms of a rule providing for a general variance promulgated by the Board, so long as any such pipe stops short of the downstream landowner's property and the landowner complies with the buffer requirement for any adjacent trout streams. The Director may grant a variance from such buffer to allow land-disturbing activity, provided that adequate erosion control measures are incorporated in the project plans and specifications and are implemented. The following requirements shall apply to such buffer: No land-disturbing activities shall be conducted within a buffer and a buffer shall remain in its natural, undisturbed, state of vegetation until all land-disturbing activities on the construction site are completed. Once the final stabilization of the site is achieved, a buffer may be thinned or trimmed of vegetation as long as a protective vegetative cover remains to protect water quality and aquatic habitat and a natural canopy is left in sufficient quantity to keep shade on the stream bed; provided, however, that any person constructing a single-family residence, when such residence is constructed by or under contract with the owner for his or her own occupancy, may thin or trim vegetation in a buffer at any time as long as protective vegetative cover remains to protect water quality and aquatic habitat and a natural canopy is left in sufficient quantity to keep shade on the stream bed.
(17)
Land disturbing activities shall not be conducted within 100 horizontal feet, as measured from the point where vegetation has been wrested by normal stream flow or wave action, of the banks of any state waters classified as trout streams pursuant to the state water quality act, O.C.G.A. §§ 12-5-20—12-5-53, unless a variance for such activity is granted by the director, except where a roadway drainage structure must be constructed, provided that adequate erosion control measures are incorporated in the project plans and specifications and are implemented. The fact that land-disturbing activity for which a permit has been issued results in injury to the property of another shall neither constitute proof of nor create a presumption of a violation of the standards provided for in this article or the terms of the permit.
(Code 1976, § 29½-4(c))
Sec. 38-214. - Adoption of requirements exceeding article standards.
Nothing contained in this article shall prevent an issuing authority from adopting rules and regulations, ordinances or resolutions that contain requirements that exceed the minimum requirements in sections 38-212 and 38-213.
(Code 1976, § 29½-4(d))
ARTICLE VI. - UNFIT BUILDINGS AND DERELICT PROPERTY[5]

Footnotes:
--- (5) ---
Editor's note— An ordinance adopted June 1, 2021(3), repealed art. VI in its entirety and enacted a new art. VI, §§ 38-215—38-224. Formerly, art. VI, §§ 38-251—38-255 pertained to unfit buildings or structures and health hazards, and derived from an ordinance adopted June 15, 2004, §§ 1—4.

Sec. 38-215. - Short title.
This article shall be known as the "City of Jesup Unfit Buildings and Derelict Property Ordinance."
(Ord. of 6-1-2021(3))
Sec. 38-216. - Definitions.
As used in this article, the term:
Applicable codes means any optional housing or abatement standard provided in O.C.G.A. tit. 8, ch. 2 as adopted by ordinance or operation of law, or other property-maintenance standards as adopted by ordinance or operation of law, or general nuisance law, relative to the safe use of real property; any fire or life safety code as provided for in O.C.G.A. tit. 25, ch. 2; and any building codes adopted by local ordinance prior to October 1, 1991, or the minimum standard codes provided in O.C.G.A. tit. 8, ch. 2 after October 1, 1991, provided that such building or minimum standard codes for real-property improvements shall be deemed to mean those building or minimum standard codes in existence at the time such real property improvements were constructed unless otherwise provided by law.
Building inspector means a certified inspector possessing the requisite qualifications to determine minimal code compliance within the City of Jesup.
Closing means causing a dwelling, building, or structure to be vacated and secured against entry or occupation.
Drug crime means an act which is a violation of the O.C.G.A. tit. 16, ch. 13, art. 2, known as the "Georgia Controlled Substances Act."
Dwelling, building, or structure means any building or structure or part thereof used and occupied for human habitation or commercial, industrial, or business uses, or intended to be so used, and also includes any outhouses, storage buildings or sheds, other improvements, and appurtenances belonging thereto or usually enjoyed therewith and further also includes any building or structure of any design. As used in this article, the term "dwelling, building, or structure" shall not mean or include any farm, any building or structure located on a farm, or any agricultural facility or other building or structure used for the production, growing, raising, harvesting, storage, or processing of crops, livestock, poultry, or other farm products.
Graffiti means any inscriptions, words, figures, paintings, or other defacements that are written, marked, etched, scratched, sprayed, drawn, painted, or engraved on or otherwise affixed to any surface of public or private property by means of any aerosol paint container, broad-tipped marker, gum label, paint stick, graffiti stick, etching equipment, brush, or other device capable of scarring or leaving a visible mark on any surface without prior authorization from the owner or occupant of the property.
Governing authority means the mayor and board of commissioners of the City of Jesup, Georgia.
Interested party means any of the following:
(1)
The "owner;"
(2)
Persons in possession of said property and premises;
(3)
Those parties having an interest in the property as revealed by a certification of title to the property conducted in accordance with the title standards of the State Bar of Georgia;
(4)
Those parties having filed a notice in accordance with Ga. Code Ann. § 48-3-9; and
(5)
Any other party having an interest in the property whose identity and address are reasonably ascertainable from the records of the City of Jesup or records maintained in the county courthouse or by the clerk of court; provided, however, interested party shall not include the holder of the benefit or burden of any easement or right-of-way whose interest is properly recorded which interest shall remain unaffected.
Municipality means the City of Jesup, Georgia.
Owner means the holder of the title in fee simple and every mortgagee of record.
Public authority means any member of the governing authority, any director of a public housing authority, or any officer who is in charge of any department or branch of government (municipal, county or state) relating to health, fire, life safety, building regulations, or to other activities concerning dwellings, buildings, or structures, or use of private property within the City of Jesup.
Public officer means the city manager, who is authorized to exercise the powers prescribed by article, and any officer or employee of the city to whom he/she delegates such authority. Public officer shall also include the city's building inspector.
Repair means altering or improving a dwelling, building, or structure so as to bring the structure into compliance with the applicable codes in the jurisdiction where the property is located and the cleaning or removal of debris, trash, and other materials present and accumulated which create a health or safety hazard in or about any dwelling, building, or structure.
Resident means any person residing in the jurisdiction where the property is located on or after the date on which the alleged nuisance arose.
(Ord. of 6-1-2021(3))
Sec. 38-217. - Duty of owners of real property and structures thereon.
It is the duty of the owner of every dwelling, building, structure, or private property within the jurisdiction of the City of Jesup to construct and maintain such dwelling, building, structure, or property in conformance with applicable codes in force within the city or such laws and ordinances which regulate and prohibit activities on private property and which declare it to be a public nuisance to construct or maintain any dwelling, building, structure, or use private property in violation of such applicable codes, laws or ordinances.
(Ord. of 6-1-2021(3))
Sec. 38-218. - Declaration of public nuisance.
Every dwelling, building, or structure within the City of Jesup which (i) is constructed or maintained in violation of applicable codes in force within the city; (ii) is unfit for human habitation or commercial, industrial, or business use or occupancy due to inadequate provisions for ventilation, light, air, sanitation, public health or safety, or open spaces; (iii) poses an imminent harm to life or other property due to fire, flood, hurricane, tornado, earthquake, storm or other natural catastrophe; (iv) is vacant and used in the commission of drug crimes; (v) is occupied and used repeatedly for the commission of illegal activities, including facilitating organized crime or criminal enterprises, after written notice to the owner of such activities conducted therein; (vi) is abandoned; or (vii) otherwise constitutes an endangerment to the public health or safety as a result of unsanitary or unsafe conditions, is hereby declared a public nuisance. Every private property within the city on which is being regularly conducted any activity or land use in violation of applicable codes, laws and/or ordinances, including the zoning ordinance of this city, is hereby declared to be a public nuisance. Property which may be deemed esthetically substandard or deteriorating shall not meet the definition of a public nuisance unless the overall condition or use of the property results in impaired public health and safety, transmission of disease, infant mortality, or crime.
(Ord. of 6-1-2021(3))
Sec. 38-219. - Powers of city manager or his/her designee.
(a)
In carrying out his/her duties pursuant to this article, the city manager or his/her designee to whom his/her authority is assigned shall, in addition to those powers otherwise conferred upon or delegated to him by the Charter and other ordinances of the City of Jesup, be empowered to:
(1)
Investigate and inspect the condition of dwellings, buildings, structures, and private property within the city to determine those dwellings, buildings, structures, and property uses in violation of this article. Entries onto private property shall be made in a manner so as to cause the least possible inconvenience; provided, however, the public officer shall not enter into any occupied dwelling, building, or structure without first having obtained the consent of the owner or a person in possession. In those cases where consent to entry is denied after reasonable request, the public officer may apply to the municipal court for an administrative search warrant upon showing probable cause that a violation exists.
(2)
Retain experts including certified real estate appraisers, qualified building contractors, and qualified building inspectors, engineers, surveyors, accountants, and attorneys.
(3)
Appoint and fix the duties of such officers and employees of the city as he/she deems necessary to carry out the purposes of this article; and
(4)
Delegate any of his/her functions and powers under this article to such officers, employees and agents as he/she may designate.
(b)
In addition to the procedures set forth in this article, the city manager or his/her designee(s) may issue citations for violations of state minimum standard codes, optional building, fire, life safety and other codes adopted by ordinance, and conditions declared to constitute a public health or safety hazard or general nuisance, and to seek enforcement of such citations before the municipal court prior to issuing a complaint in rem as provided in this article. Nothing in this article shall be construed to impair or limit in any way the power of the city to define and declare nuisances and to cause their removal or abatement by other summary proceedings.
(c)
Complaint in rem in municipal court; procedure; lien; appeal.
(1)
Whenever a request is filed with the public officer by a public authority or by at least five residents of the municipality charging that any dwelling, building, structure, or property is unfit for human habitation or for commercial, industrial, or business use and not in compliance with applicable codes; is vacant and being used in the commission of drug crimes; or constitutes an endangerment to the public health or safety as a result of unsanitary or unsafe conditions, the public officer may make an investigation or inspection of the specific dwelling, building, structure, or property and make a written report of his/her findings. Such officer shall be guided in his/her investigation by documenting conditions, which include, but are not limited to:
a.
Defects therein increasing the hazards of fire, accidents, or other calamities;
b.
Lack of adequate ventilation, fight, or sanitary facilities;
c.
Dilapidation;
d.
Disrepair by failure to conform to applicable codes and ordinances;
e.
Structural defects which render the structure unsafe for human habitation or occupancy;
f.
Uncleanliness; or
g.
The presence of graffiti which is visible from adjoining public or private property.
(2)
If the public officer's investigation or inspection identifies that any dwelling, building, structure, or property is unfit for human habitation or for commercial, industrial, or business use and not in compliance with applicable codes; is vacant and being used in connection with the commission of drug crimes; or constitutes an endangerment to the public health or safety as a result of unsanitary or unsafe conditions, the public officer shall file a complaint in rem in the municipal court of the city against the lot, tract, or parcel of real property on which such dwelling, building, or structure is situated or where such public health hazard or general nuisance exists and shall cause summons and a copy of the complaint to be served on the interested parties in such dwelling, building, or structure. The complaint shall identify the subject real property by appropriate street address and official tax map reference; identify the interested parties; state with particularity the factual basis for the action; and contain a statement of the action sought by the public officer to abate the alleged nuisance. The summons shall notify the interested parties that a hearing will be held before the municipal court at a date and time certain and at a place within the county or municipality where the property is located. Such hearing shall be held not less than 15 days nor more than 45 days after the filing of said complaint in the proper court. The interested parties shall have the right to file an answer to the complaint and to appear in person or by attorney and offer testimony at the time and place fixed for hearing.
(3)
If, after such notice and hearing, the municipal court determines that the dwelling, building, or structure in question is unfit for human habitation or is unfit for its current commercial, industrial, or business use and not in compliance with applicable codes; is vacant and being used in connection with the commission of drug crimes; or constitutes an endangerment to the public health or safety as a result of unsanitary or unsafe conditions, the court shall state, in writing, findings of fact in support of such determination and shall issue and cause to be served upon the interested parties that have answered the complaint or appeared at the hearing an order:
a.
If the repair, alteration, or improvement of the said dwelling, building, or structure can be made at a reasonable cost in relation to the present value of the dwelling, building, or structure, requiring the owner, within the time specified in the order, to repair, alter, or improve such dwelling, building, or Structure so as to bring it into full compliance with the applicable codes relevant to the cited violation; and, if applicable, to secure by closing the structure so that it cannot be used in connection with the commission of drug crimes; or
b.
If the repair, alteration, or improvement of the said dwelling, building, or structure in order to bring it into full compliance with applicable codes relevant to the cited violations cannot be made at a reasonable cost in relation to the present value of the dwelling, building, or structure, requiring the owner, within the time specified in the order, to demolish and remove such dwelling, building, or structure and all debris from the property. For purposes of this section, the court shall make its determination of reasonable cost in relation to the present value of the dwelling, building, or structure without consideration of the value of the land on which the structure is situated; provided, however, that costs of the preparation necessary to repair, alter, or improve a structure may be considered; and, provided further, that if the unsatisfactory condition is limited solely to the presence of graffiti, the dwelling, building or structure shall not be ordered demolished or closed, but its owner may be ordered to repair the same by cleaning or removal of the graffiti. Income and financial status of the owner shall not be a factor in the court's determination. The present value of the structure and the costs of repair, alteration, or improvement may be established by affidavits of real estate appraisers with a Georgia appraiser classification as provided in the O.C.G.A. tit. 43, ch. 39A, qualified building contractors, or qualified building inspectors without actual testimony presented. Costs of repair, alteration, or improvement of the structure shall be the cost necessary to bring the dwelling, building, or structure into compliance with the applicable codes relevant to the cited violations in force in the jurisdiction.
c.
If the owner fails to comply with an order to repair or demolish the dwelling, building, or structure, the public officer shall cause such dwelling, building, or structure to be repaired, altered, or improved, or to be vacated and closed, or demolished within 270 days of the expiration of time specified in the order for abatement by the owner. Any time during which such action is prohibited by a court order issued pursuant to subsection (c)(3) or any equitable relief granted by a court of competent jurisdiction shall not be counted toward the 270 days in which such abatement action shall commence. The public officer shall cause to be posted on the main entrance of the dwelling, building, or structure a placard with the following words:
"This Dwelling, Building, or Structure is unfit for human habitation or commercial, industrial, or business use and does not comply with the Applicable Codes or has been ordered secured to prevent its use in connection with Drug Crimes or constitutes an endangerment to public health or safety as a result of unsanitary or unsafe conditions. The use or occupation of this Dwelling, Building, or Structure is prohibited and unlawful."
d.
If the public officer has the dwelling, building, or structure demolished, reasonable effort shall be made to salvage reusable materials for credit against the cost of demolition. The proceeds of any moneys received from the sale of salvaged materials shall be used or applied against the cost of the demolition and removal of the dwelling, building, or structure, and proper records shall be kept showing application of sales proceeds. Any such sale of salvaged materials may be made without the necessity of public advertisement and bid. The public officer and governing authority are relieved of any and all liability resulting from or occasioned by the sale of any such salvaged materials, including, without limitation, defects in such salvaged materials.
e.
The amount of the cost of demolition, including all court costs, appraisal fees, administrative costs incurred by the tax commissioner, and all other costs necessarily associated with the abatement action, including restoration to grade of the real property after demolition, shall be a lien against the real property upon which such cost was incurred.
f.
The lien provided for in subsection (c)(6) shall attach to the real property upon the filing of a certified copy of the order requiring repair, closure, or demolition in the office of the-clerk of Superior Court in Wayne County and shall relate back to the date of the filing of the lis pendens notice required under section 38-219(a)(4). The city shall request that the clerk of superior court record and index such certified copy of the order in the deed records of the county and enter the lien on the general execution docket. The lien shall be superior to all other liens on the property, except liens for taxes to which the lien shall be inferior, and shall continue in force until paid. After filing a certified copy of the order with the clerk of superior court, the public officer shall, within 90 days of the completion of repairs, demolition or closure, forward a copy of the order and a final statement of costs to the county tax commissioner.
g.
It shall be the duty of the county tax commissioner to collect the amount of the lien in conjunction with the collection of ad valorem taxes on the property and to collect the amount of the lien as if it were a real property ad valorem tax, using all methods available for collecting real property ad valorem taxes, including specifically O.C.G.A. § 48-4-5; provided, however, that the limitation of O.C.G.A. § 48-4-78 which requires 12 months of delinquency before commencing a tax foreclosure shall not apply; provided, further, that redemption of property from the lien may be made in accordance with the provisions of O.C.G.A. §§ 48-4-80 and 48-4-81. The tax commissioner may initiate enforcement of liens imposed under this section at any time following receipt of the final determination of costs from the public officer. The unpaid lien amount shall bear interest and penalties from and after the date of final determination of costs in the same amount as applicable to interest and penalties on unpaid real property ad valorem taxes.
h.
The tax commissioner shall remit the amount collected to the governing authority of the municipality whose ordinance is being enforced. The tax commissioner may retain an amount equal to the cost of administering collection of the lien. Any such amount collected and retained for administration shall be deposited in the general fund of the county to pay the cost of administering the lien.
i.
The governing authority may waive and release any such lien imposed on property upon the owner of such property entering into a contract with the municipality agreeing to a timetable for rehabilitation of the real property or the dwelling, building, or structure on the property and demonstrating the financial means to accomplish such rehabilitation.
j.
Review of a court order requiring the repair, alteration, improvement, or demolition of a dwelling, building, or structure shall be by direct appeal to the superior court under O.C.G.A. § 5-3-29.
(Ord. of 6-1-2021(3))
Sec. 38-220. - Service of complaints or orders upon owners and interest parties.
(a)
Summons and copies of the complaint shall be served in the following manner:
(1)
In all cases, a copy of the complaint and summons shall be conspicuously posted on the subject dwelling, building, structure, or property within three business days of filing of the complaint and at least 14 days prior to the date of the hearing.
(2)
At least 14 days prior to the date of the hearing, the public officer shall mail copies of the complaint and summons by certified mail or statutory overnight delivery, return receipt requested, to all interested parties whose identities and addresses are readily ascertainable. Copies of the complaint and summons shall also be mailed by first-class mail to the property address to the attention of the occupants, if any;
(3)
For interested parties whose mailing address is unknown, a notice stating the date, time, and place of the hearing shall be published in the newspaper in which the sheriffs advertisements appear in such county once a week for two consecutive weeks prior to the hearing; and
(4)
A notice of lis pendens shall be filed in the office of the clerk of superior court in which the dwelling, building, structure, or property is located at the time of filing the complaint in municipal court.
(b)
The public officer shall cause an affidavit of service to be filed of record in the municipal court prior to the hearing showing compliance with the service requirements of this section. Such affidavit shall constitute a prima facie showing of minimum procedural due process and shall constitute sufficient proof that service was perfected.
(c)
Orders and other filings made subsequent to service of the initial complaint shall be served in the manner provided in this section on every interested party who answers the complaint or appears at the hearing. Any interested party who fails to answer or appear at the hearing shall be deemed to have waived all further notice in the proceedings.
(Ord. of 6-1-2021(3))
Sec. 38-221. - Limitation of liability for code enforcement: No special duty created.
It is the intent of this article to protect the public health, life safety and general welfare of properties and occupiers of dwellings, buildings, and structures within the City of Jesup in general, but not to create any special duty or relationship with any individual person or to any-specified property within or without the boundaries of the city. Approval of a permit and inspection of a property shall in no manner guarantee or warrant to the owner or occupants thereof that said property has been constructed, maintained, or operated in conformance with applicable codes, laws and regulations. The city reserves the right to assert all available immunities and defenses in any action seeking to impose monetary damages upon the city, its officers, employees and agents arising out of any alleged failure or breach of duty or relationship as may now exist or hereafter be created. To the extent any federal or state law, regulation, or ordinance requires compliance as a condition precedent to the issuance of a permit, plan or design approval, inspection or other activity by the city, its officers, employees and agents, issuance of such permit, approval, or inspection shall not be deemed to constitute a waiver or estoppel of the condition precedent, and it shall remain the obligation and responsibility of the owner, his/her design professional(s), and contractor(s) to satisfy such legal requirements.
(Ord. of 6-1-2021(3))
Sec. 38-222. - General cleanliness of premises.
The owner and occupant of property within the city shall each be independently responsible for keeping the premises, including all dwellings, buildings, and structures thereon and the full yard thereof, clean and free from all garbage, refuse, filth, dirt, ashes, trash, rubbish and other offensive materials.
(Ord. of 6-1-2021(3))
Sec. 38-223. - Disorderly house.
(a)
Any person who keeps and maintains, either by himself or others, a common, ill-governed and disorderly house, to the encouragement of gaming, drinking, illicit drug activity, or other misbehavior, to the common disturbance of the neighborhood or orderly citizens, shall be guilty of an offense against the city; provided, however, before any person is charged under this subsection, written notice shall be given to the owner of the property and the person in possession thereof by the chief of police stating the general, customary and common habits of the house, giving fair notice of this subsection and the conduct proscribed thereby.
(b)
Any person who shall allow any boisterous, noisy, drunken or riotous persons to assemble or remain in their house, apartment, dwelling, building, or structure, or upon their property, after receiving oral notice from a police officer that boisterous, noisy, drunken or carousing activities have caused complaint and annoyance to the common disturbance of the neighborhood or orderly citizens, shall be guilty of an offense against the city; provided, however, no person shall be charged under this subsection unless the owner or person in possession of the premises has been afforded an opportunity to disburse the assembly or offending person from the premises. This subsection shall not preclude a police officer from arresting any individual for criminal trespass where such individual knowingly and without authority remains on private property after being notified by the owner or lawful occupant to depart.
(Ord. of 6-1-2021(3))
Sec. 38-224. - Violations: Enforcement penalties.
Any person who willfully refuses to comply with the provisions of this article shall be cited to appear before the municipal court and, upon conviction, shall be fined not less than $100.00; each day of continued violation, after citation, shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. of 6-1-2021(3))
Secs. 38-225—38-270. - Reserved.
ARTICLE VII. - BLIGHTED PROPERTY TAX[6]

Footnotes:
--- (6) ---
Editor's note— An ordinance adopted June 2, 2021(1), enacted provisions designated as art. VII, §§ 38-225—38-232. In order to maintain the Code format, said provisions have been renumbered as art. VII, §§ 38-271—38-278, at the discretion of the editor.

Sec. 38-271. - Short title.
This article shall be known as the "City of Jesup Blighted Property Tax Ordinance."
(Ord. of 6-1-2021(1))
Sec. 38-272. - Purpose.
(a)
The existence of real property which is maintained in a blighted condition increases the burden of the state and local government by increasing the need for government services, including, but not limited to, social services, public safety services, and code enforcement services. Rehabilitation of blighted property decreases this need for such government services.
(b)
In furtherance of its objective to eradicate conditions of slum and blight within the city, this board of commissioners, in exercise of the powers granted to municipal corporations at chapter 61, Urban Redevelopment, of O.C.G.A. tit. 36, has designated those areas of the city where conditions of slum and blight are found or are likely to spread.
(c)
In recognition of the need for enhanced governmental services and in order to encourage private property owners to maintain their real property and the buildings, structures and improvement thereon in good condition and repair, and as an incentive to encourage community redevelopment, a community redevelopment tax incentive program is hereby established as authorized by article IX, section II, paragraph VII(d) of the 1983 Constitution of the State of Georgia.
(Ord. of 6-1-2021(1))
Sec. 38-273. - Definitions.
[The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:]
Blighted property, blighted, or blight means any urbanized or developed property which:
(1)
Presents two or more of the following conditions:
a.
Uninhabitable, unsafe, or abandoned structure;
b.
Inadequate provisions for ventilation, light, air, or sanitation;
c.
An imminent harm to life or other property caused by fire, flood, hurricane, tornado, earthquake, storm, or other natural catastrophe respecting which the governor has declared a state of emergency under the state law or has certified the need for disaster assistance under federal law; provided, however, this division shall not apply to property unless the relevant public agency has given notice in writing to the property owner regarding specific harm caused by the property and the owner has failed to take reasonable measures to remedy the harm;
d.
A site identified by the Federal Environmental Protection Agency as a superfund site pursuant to 42 U.S.C. Section 9601, et seq., or having environmental contamination to an extent that requires remedial investigation or a feasibility study;
e.
Repeated illegal activity on the individual property of which the property owner knew or should have known; or
f.
The maintenance of the property is below state, county, or municipal codes for at least one year after written notice of the code violation to its owner; and
(2)
Is conducive to ill health, transmission of disease, infant mortality, or crime in the immediate proximity of the property.
(3)
Property shall not be deemed blighted solely because of esthetic conditions.
Building inspector means a certified inspector possessing the requisite qualifications to determine minimal code compliance.
Community redevelopment means any activity, project, or service necessary or incidental to achieving the redevelopment or revitalization of a redevelopment area or portion thereof designated for redevelopment through an urban redevelopment plan or thorough local ordinances relating to the repair, closing, and demolition of buildings and structures unfit for human habitation.
Governing authority means the mayor and commissioners of the City of Jesup, a Georgia municipal corporation.
Millage or millage rate means the levy, in mills, which is established by the governing authority for purposes of financing, in whole or in part, the levying jurisdiction's general fund expenses for the fiscal year.
Person means such individual(s), partnership, corporations, business entities and associations which return real property for ad valorem taxation or who are chargeable by law for the taxes on the property.
Public officer means the city manager, building inspector or such officer or employee of the city as designated by the city manager to perform the duties and responsibilities hereafter set forth in this article.
(Ord. of 6-1-2021(1))
Sec. 38-274. - Ad valorem tax increase on blighted property.
(a)
There is hereby levied on all real property within the city which has been officially identified as maintained in a blighted condition an increased ad valorem tax by applying a factor of seven (7.0) to the millage rate applied to the property, so that such property shall be taxed at a higher millage rate generally applied in the municipality, or otherwise provided by general law; provided, however, real property on which there is situated a dwelling house which is being occupied as the primary residence of one or more persons shall not be subject to official identification as maintained in a blighted condition and shall not be subject to increased taxation.
(b)
Such increased ad valorem tax shall be applied and reflected in the first tax bill rendered following official designation of a real property as blighted.
(c)
Revenues arising from the increased rate of ad valorem taxation shall, upon receipt, be segregated by the city manager and used only for community redevelopment purposes, as identified in an approved urban redevelopment program, including defraying the cost of the city's program to close, repair, or demolish unfit building and structures.
(Ord. of 6-1-2021(1))
Sec. 38-275. - Identification of blighted property.
(a)
In order for a parcel of real property to be officially designated as maintained in a blighted condition and subject to increased taxation, the following steps must be completed:
(1)
An inspection must be performed on the parcel of property. In order for an inspection to be performed one of the following conditions must be met:
a.
A request may be made by the public officer or by at least five residents of the city for inspection of a parcel of property, said inspection to be based on the criteria as delineated in this article; or
b.
The public officer may cause a survey of existing housing conditions to be performed, or may refer to any such survey conducted or finalized within the previous five years, to locate or identify any parcels which may be in a blighted condition and for which a full inspection should be conducted to determine if that parcel of property meets the criteria set out in this article for designation as being maintained in a blighted condition.
(2)
A written inspection report of the findings for any parcel of property inspected pursuant to section 38-229(a)(1) above shall be prepared and submitted to the public officer. Where feasible, photographs of the conditions found to exist on the property on the date of inspection shall be made and supplement the inspection report. Where compliance with minimum construction, housing, occupancy, fire and life safety codes in effect within the city are in question, the inspection shall be conducted by a certified inspector possessing the requisite qualifications to determine minimal code compliance.
(3)
Following completion of the inspection report, the public officer shall make a determination, in writing, that a property is maintained in a blighted condition, as defined by this article, and is subject to increased taxation.
(4)
The public officer shall cause a written notice of his/her determination that the real property at issue is being maintained in a blighted condition to be served upon the person(s) shown on the most recent tax digest of Wayne County as responsible for payment of ad valorem taxes assessed thereon; provided, however, where through the existence of reasonable diligence it becomes known to the public officer that real property has been sold or conveyed since publication of the most recent tax digest, written notice shall be given to the person(s) known or reasonably believed to then own the property or be chargeable with the payment of ad valorem taxes thereon, at the best address available. Service in the manner set forth at O.C.G.A. § 41-2-12 shall constitute sufficient notice to the property's owner or person chargeable with the payment of ad valorem taxes for purpose of this section, except that posting of the notice on the property will not be required.
(b)
The written notice given to the person(s) chargeable with the payment of ad valorem taxes shall notify such person of the public officer's determination that the real property is being maintained in a blighted condition and shall advise such person of the hours and location at which the person may inspect and copy the public officer's determination and any supporting documentation. Persons notified that real property of which the person(s) is chargeable with the payment of ad valorem taxes shall have 30 days from the receipt of notice in which to request a hearing before the city's municipal court. Written request for hearing shall be filed with the public officer and shall be date stamped upon receipt. Upon receipt of a request for hearing, the public officer shall notify the municipal court and the building inspector or person who performed the inspection and prepared the inspection report.
(c)
Within 30 days of the receipt of a request for hearing, the municipal court clerk shall set a date, time and location for the hearing and shall give at least ten business days' notice to the person(s) requesting the hearing, the public officer and the building inspector or person who performed the inspection and prepared the inspection report. Notice of scheduled hearings shall be published as a legal advertisement in the Press Sentinel, or other designated legal organ in Wayne County, at least five days prior to the hearing. Hearings may be continued by the municipal court judge upon request of any party, for good cause.
(d)
At the hearing, the public officer shall have the burden of demonstrating by a preponderance of the evidence that the subject property is maintained in a blighted condition, as defined by this article. The municipal court judge shall cause a record of the evidence submitted at the hearing to be maintained. Upon hearing from the public officer and/or their witnesses and the person(s) requesting the hearing and/or their witnesses, the judge of municipal court shall make a determination either affirming or reversing the determination of the public officer. The determination shall be in writing and copies thereof shall be served on the parties by certified mail or statutory overnight delivery. The determination by the court shall be deemed final. A copy of such determination shall also be served upon the tax commissioner of Wayne County, who shall include the increased tax on the next regular tax bill rendered on behalf of the city.
(e)
Persons aggrieved by the determination of the court affirming the determination of the public officer may petition the superior court of Wayne County for a writ of certiorari within 30 days of issuance of the court's written determination.
(Ord. of 6-1-2021(1))
Sec. 38-276. - Remediation or redevelopment.
(a)
A property owner or person(s) who is chargeable with the payment of ad valorem taxes on real property which has been officially designated pursuant to this article as property maintained in a blighted condition may petition the public officer to lift the designation, upon proof of compliance with the following:
(1)
Completion of work required under a plan of remedial action or redevelopment approved by the city's building inspector or city manager which addresses the conditions of blight found to exist on or within the property, including compliance with all applicable minimum codes; or
(2)
Completion of work required under a court order entered in a proceeding brought pursuant to article VI, City of Jesup Unfit Buildings and Derelict Property Ordinance, of chapter 38 of the Official Code of Ordinances of the City of Jesup, Georgia.
(b)
Before action on a petition to lift, the designation, the public officer shall cause the property to be thoroughly inspected by a building inspector who, by written inspection report, shall certify that all requisite work has been performed to applicable code in a workmanlike manner, in accordance with the specifications of the plan of remedial action or redevelopment, or applicable court order. Upon finding required work to be satisfactorily performed, the public officer shall issue a written determination that the real property is no longer maintained in a blighted condition. Copies of this determination shall be served upon the person(s) chargeable with the payment of ad valorem taxes, and upon the tax commissioner of Wayne County.
(c)
All plans for remedial action or redevelopment shall be in writing, signed by the person(s) chargeable with the payment of ad valorem taxes on the real property and the city's building inspector, and contain the following:
(1)
The plan shall be consistent with the city's comprehensive plan and all laws and ordinances governing the subject property, and shall conform to any urban redevelopment plan adopted for the area within which the property lies;
(2)
The plan shall set forth in reasonable detail the requirements for repair, closure, demolition, or restoration of existing structures, in accordance with minimal statewide codes; where structures are demolished, the plan shall include provisions for debris removal, stabilization and landscaping of the property;
(3)
On parcels of five acres or greater, the plan shall address the relationship to local objectives respecting land uses, improved traffic, public transportation, public utilities, recreational and community facilities, and other public improvements;
(4)
The plan shall contain verifiable funding sources which will be used to complete its requirements and show the feasibility thereof;
(5)
The plan shall contain a timetable for completion of required work; and
(d)
Any outstanding ad valorem taxes (state, school, county and city, including the increased tax pursuant to this article) and governmental liens due and payable on the property must be satisfied in full.
(Ord. of 6-1-2021(1))
Sec. 38-277. - Decrease of tax rate.
(a)
Real property which has had its designation as maintained in a blighted condition removed by the public officer, as provided in section 38-229, identification of blighted property, of this article, shall be eligible for a decrease in the rate of city ad valorem taxation by applying a factor of 0.5 to the city millage rate applied to the property, so that such property shall be taxed at a lower millage rate than the millage rate generally applied in the municipality or otherwise provided by general law; such decreased rate of taxation shall be applied beginning with the next tax bill rendered following removal of official designation of a real property as blighted. The decreased rate of taxation may be given in successive years, depending on the amount of cost expended by the person(s) chargeable with payment of ad valorem taxes on the property to satisfy its remediation or redevelopment, with every $25,000.00 or portion thereof equaling one year of tax reduction; provided, however, that no property shall be entitled to reduction in city ad valorem taxes for more than four successive years.
(b)
In order to claim entitlement for a decreased rate of taxation, the person(s) chargeable with payment of ad valorem taxes on the property shall submit a notarized affidavit to the public officer, supported by receipts or other evidence of payment, of the amount expended.
(Ord. of 6-1-2021(1))
Sec. 38-278. - Notice to tax commissioner.
It shall be the duty of the public officer to notify the tax commissioner of Wayne County in writing as to designation or removal of designation of a specific property as maintained in a blighted condition. Such notice shall identify the specific property by street address and tax map, block and parcel number, as assigned by the Wayne County Tax Assessor's Office. The public officer shall cooperate with the tax commissioner to assure accurate tax billing of those properties subject to increased or reduced ad valorem taxation under this article.
(Ord. of 6-1-2021(1))
