ARTICLE III. - CROSS CONNECTIONS

Sec. 98-91. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Air break (drainage system) means a piping arrangement in which a drain from a fixture, appliance or device discharges indirectly into a fixture, receptacle or interceptor at a point below the flood level rim of the receptacle installed so as to prevent backflow or siphonage.
Air gap (drainage system) means the unobstructed vertical distance through the free atmosphere between the outlet of waste pipe and the flood level rim of the receptacle into which it is discharged.
Air gap (water supply system) means the unobstructed vertical distance through the free atmosphere between the lowest opening from any pipe or faucet supplying water to a tank, plumbing fixture or other device and the flood level rim of the receptacle.
Aspirator means a fitting or device supplied with water or other fluid under positive pressure that passes through an integral orifice or construction causing a partial vacuum.
Auxiliary intake means any piping connection or other device whereby water may be secured from a source other than the city water system.
Backflow means a reversal of flow in a pipe from the normal or designated direction of flow.
Backflow preventer (BFP) means a device to prevent backflow.
Backflow preventer, double check valve type (BFP-DCV) means a back-pressure, backflow preventer designed to operate under intermittent or continuous pressure, including back-pressure, where pollutants are involved.
Backflow preventer, double detector check valve type (BFP-DDC) means a line size double check valve assembly with a metered bypass into which has been incorporated an approved smaller-than-line-size double check valve assembly.
Backflow preventer, dual check valve type (BFP-DUC) means a backflow preventer designed to contain a small water supply system from the public system, or isolate cross connections where pollutants are involved.
Backflow preventer, reduced pressure zone type (BFP-RPZ) means a back-pressure, backflow preventer designed to operate under intermittent or continuous pressure, including back-pressure, where contaminants are involved.
Backflow preventer with intermediate atmospheric vent (BFP-IAV) means a small back-pressure and backsiphonage backflow preventer designed to operate under intermittent or continuous pressure, including back-pressure, where low degree contaminants are involved.
Back-pressure means pressure in a pipe which is greater than the supply pressure or, in the case of a drain pipe, greater than the atmospheric pressure.
Backsiphonage means backflow due to a negative pressure in a water pipe.
Backsiphonage preventer means a device to prevent backsiphonage.
Back water valve means a device to prevent backflow in a drain.
Bypass means any system of piping or other arrangement whereby the water may be diverted around any part or portion of a building's water system.
Contaminant means a toxic substance that, if introduced into the potable water supply system, would create a health hazard.
Critical level means a mark on a backflow prevention device or vacuum breaker, established and stamped on the device by the manufacturer, that determines the minimum elevation above the flood level rim of the fixture or receptacle served at which the device may be installed. In the absence of a critical level mark, the bottom of the vacuum breaker, combination valve or any approved device shall constitute the critical level.
Cross connection means any physical connection whereby the public water supply is connected with any other water supply system, whether public or private, either inside or outside of any building, in such a manner that a flow of water into the public water supply is possible either through the manipulation of valves or because of ineffective check or back-pressure valves, or any other arrangement; any connection or arrangement between two otherwise separate piping systems, one of which contains potable water and the other a fluid of questionable safety, whereby there may be a flow from one system to the other (see definitions of "backflow" and "backsiphonage").
Cross connection control by containment means the installation of a backflow preventer at the service connection to a premises to protect the water main (secondary protection).
Cross connection control by isolation means the installation of a backflow preventer or vacuum breaker at each cross connection on a premises to protect both the premises and the main (primary protection).
Cross connection, nonpressure type, means a low inlet installation where the potable water supply line is connected or extended below the overflow rim of a receptacle or an environment that contains a nonpotable fluid and is at atmospheric pressure.
Cross connection, pressure type, means an installation where the potable water supply line is connected to a piping system or a closed vessel that contains a nonpotable fluid above atmospheric pressure.
Domestic sewage means the waterborne wastes derived from ordinary living processes.
Industrial wastes means liquid or liquid-borne wastes resulting from the processes employed in industrial and commercial establishments.
Interconnection means any system of piping or other arrangement whereby the public water supply is connected directly with a sewer, drain, conduit, pool, storage reservoir or other device which does or may contain sewage or other waste or liquid which would be capable of imparting contamination to the public water supply.
Liquid waste means the discharge from any fixture, appliance, area or appurtenance which does not contain human or animal waste matter.
Nonpotable water means water that is not safe for drinking or personal or culinary use.
Pollutant means a nontoxic substance that, if introduced into the potable water supply system, would be objectionable, but would not create a health hazard.
Potable water means water conforming to the requirements of the Georgia Safe Drinking Water Act of 1977.
Public water supply means the waterworks system furnishing water to the city for general use and which supply is recognized as the public water supply by the environmental protection division of the state department of natural resources.
Rated means capacities, loads and/or working pressures assigned to devices, equipment or materials by a nationally recognized testing laboratory, inspection agency or other qualified organization concerned with product evaluation, that maintains periodic inspections of rated items and by whose rating attests to compliance with applicable nationally recognized standards of tests to determine usage in a specified manner.
Sewage means any liquid waste containing animal or vegetable matter in suspension or solution and may include liquids containing chemicals in solution.
Vacuum means any pressure less than that exerted by the atmosphere.
Vacuum breaker means a backsiphonage prevention device that introduces air into the potable water system when the system pressure approaches zero, and which is designed for use when the equipment or environment being served is subjected to atmospheric pressure only.
Vacuum breaker, atmospheric type (VB-AT), means a backsiphonage preventing device designed for use under flow conditions only, where it will be subject to no statistic or back-pressure.
Vacuum breaker, hose type (VB-HT), means a backsiphonage prevention device designed for hose connections, but not designed for continuous pressure, flowing or static.
Vacuum breaker, pressure type (VB-PT), means a backsiphonage prevention device designed to operate under continuous pressure, flowing or static, or both, but no back-pressure.
Vacuum relief valve means a device to limit the degree of vacuum in a vessel, but not for cross connection control.
Water distributing pipe means a pipe within the building or on the premises which conveys water from the water service pipe to the point of usage.
Water main means a water supply pipe for public use.
Water supply system means the water service pipes, water distributing pipes, fixture supply pipes and necessary connecting pipes, fittings, control valves and all appurtenances in or adjacent to the building or premises.
(Code 1976, § 24-30)
Cross reference— Definitions generally, § 1-2.
Sec. 98-92. - Compliance with state and federal laws.
The city's public water supply is to comply with chapter 391-5-.13 [sic] of the Georgia Rules for Safe Drinking Water and PL 93-523, the Federal Safe Drinking Water Act, legally adopted in accordance with this Code, which pertain to cross connections, and establish an effective, ongoing program to control such undesirable connections.
(Code 1976, § 24-31)
Sec. 98-93. - Cross connections, auxiliary intakes, bypasses and interconnections.
(a)
Prohibited. It shall be unlawful for any person to cause a cross connection, auxiliary intake, bypass or interconnection to be made or allow one to exist.
(b)
Approved protective devices. Where the nature of use of the water supplied to a premises by the water department is such that it is deemed:
(1)
Impractical to provide an effective air gap separation;
(2)
The owner and/or occupant of the premises cannot or is not willing to demonstrate to the official in charge of the system or his designated representative that the water use and protective features of the plumbing are such as to propose no threat to the safety or potability of the water supply;
(3)
The nature and mode of operation within a premises are such that frequent alterations are made to the plumbing; and/or
(4)
There is a likelihood that protective measures may be subverted, altered or disconnected;
the city manager or his designated representative shall require the use of an approved protective device on the service line serving the premises to assure that any contamination that may originate in the customer's premises is contained therein. The protective device shall be a backflow preventer approved by the city manager as to the manufacture, model and size of such device. The method of installation of backflow protective devices shall be approved prior to installation and shall comply with the criteria set forth by the city. The installation of such device shall be at the expense of the owner or occupant of the premises.
(b)
Right of inspection and testing. The water department shall have the right to inspect and test the devices on an annual basis, or whenever deemed necessary. Water service shall not be disrupted to test the device without the knowledge of the occupant of the premises.
(c)
Duplicate devices; discontinuance of service for inspection; expense for repairs. Where the use of water is critical to the continuance of normal operations or protection of life, property or equipment, duplicate units shall be provided to avoid the necessity of discontinuing water service to test or repair the protective devices. Where only one unit is installed and the continuance of service is critical, the city manager shall notify, in writing, the occupant of the premises of plans to discontinue water service and arrange for a mutually acceptable time to test and/or repair the device. The water department shall require the occupant of the premises to promptly make all repairs indicated, and the expense of such repairs shall be borne by the owner or occupant of the premises. The repairs shall be made by qualified personnel acceptable to the city manager.
(Code 1976, § 24-32)
Sec. 98-94. - Compliance required.
Any person who has cross connections, auxiliary intakes, bypasses or interconnections in violation of the provisions of this article shall be allowed a reasonable time within which to comply with the provisions of this article. After a thorough investigation of existing conditions and an appraisal of the time required to complete the work, the amount of time for such compliance shall be designated by the city manager.
(Code 1976, § 24-33)
Sec. 98-95. - Inspection and testing.
(a)
Right of entry to inspect for cross connections, etc.. The city manager or his authorized representative shall have the right to enter, at any reasonable time, any property served by a connection to the city's public water supply for the purpose of inspecting the piping system or systems for cross connections, auxiliary intakes, bypasses or interconnections. Upon request, the owner, lessee or occupant of any property so served shall furnish to the inspection agency any pertinent information regarding the piping systems on such property. The refusal of such information or of access, when requested, shall be deemed evidence of the presence of cross connections.
(b)
Right of entry for general inspection, observation, etc. The city manager and other duly authorized representatives of the city, bearing proper credentials and identification, shall be permitted to enter all properties for the purposes of inspection, observation, measurement, sampling and testing in accordance with the provisions of this article.
(c)
No right of inquiry. The city manager or his representatives shall have no authority to inquire into any processes, including metallurgical, chemical, oil refining, ceramic, paper or other industries, beyond the point having a direct bearing on the potential for polluting the public water system.
(d)
Indemnification by city. While performing the necessary work on private properties referred to in this section, the city manager or duly authorized employees of the city shall observe all safety rules applicable to the premises established by the company, and the company shall be held harmless for injury or death by the city manager or his duly authorized representatives, and the city shall indemnify the company against loss or damage to its property by the city manager or its duly authorized representatives and against liability claims and demands for personal injury or property damage asserted against the company and growing out of the inspection and testing operation, except as may be caused by negligence or failure of the company to maintain safe conditions.
(Code 1976, § 24-34)
Sec. 98-96. - Damaging or destroying waterworks.
No unauthorized person shall maliciously, willfully or negligently break, damage, destroy, uncover, deface or tamper with any structure, appurtenance or equipment which is a part of the waterworks. Any person violating this section shall be subject to immediate arrest under a charge of disorderly conduct.
(Code 1976, § 24-35)
Sec. 98-97. - Protection of potable water supply.
The potable water supply made available on the properties served by the public water supply shall be protected from possible contamination as specified in this article. Any water outlet which could be used for potable or domestic purposes, and which is not supplied by the potable system, must be labeled as follows, in a conspicuous manner:
WATER UNSAFE
FOR DRINKING
Acceptable signs shall have, at a minimum, black letters, one inch high, located on a red background.
(Code 1976, § 24-36)
Sec. 98-98. - Violations; penalties.
(a)
Notice. Any person found to be violating any provision of this article shall be served by the city with written notice stating the nature of the violation and providing a reasonable time limit for the satisfactory correction thereof. The offender shall, within the period of time stated in such notice, permanently cease all violations.
(b)
Continuance beyond time limit; each day deemed separate violation. Any person who shall continue any violation beyond the time limit provided in the notice shall be fined as provided in section 1-11 for each violation. Each day in which any such violation shall continue shall be deemed a separate offense.
(Code 1976, § 24-37)
Secs. 98-99—98-130. - Reserved.
