ARTICLE VII. - REQUIRED CONNECTIONS AND AMENDED WATERWORKS[2]
Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
Editor's note— An ordinance adopted Sept. 3, 2019, Pts. I—V, enacted provisions designated as art. VI, §§ 98-144.1—98-148.6. Inasmuch as art. VI already exists, said provisions have been redesignated as art. VII, §§ 98-201—98-204, 98-221—98-224, 98-241—98-244, 98-261, 98-262, 98-276—98-281, at the discretion of the editor, in order to maintain the format of the Code.

DIVISION 1. - AUTHORITY AND DEFINITIONS

Sec. 98-201. - Authority.
This article is adopted pursuant to the police power and authority given to cities and municipalities by the Constitution of the State of Georgia, the codes and general laws of the State of Georgia, and the Amended and Restated Charter of the City of Jesup.
(Ord. of 9-3-2019, Pt. I(98-144.1))
Sec. 98-202. - Purpose.
The purpose of this article is to provide for public health and general welfare, the efficient and effective provision of city services, and the protection of the environment and natural resources of the community. From and after the passage of this article, all residential, business, commercial and industrial occupancies and uses within the city and its services area shall conform to the rules, regulations, and provisions of this article.
(Ord. of 9-3-2019, Pt. I(98-144.2))
Sec. 98-203. - Findings of fact.
The findings and recitations set out in this article are found to be true and correct, and they are hereby adopted by the board of commissioners and are made a part hereof for all purposes.
(Ord. of 9-3-2019, Pt. I(98-144.3))
Sec. 98-204. - Definitions.
For the purposes of this article, the following terms, phrases, words and their derivations shall have the meaning ascribed to them in this section; provided that, unless specifically defined below, words or phrases used in this article shall be interpreted so as to give them the same meaning as they have in common usage, and so as to give this article its most reasonable construction.
Business unit shall mean any premises, locations or entities, public or private engaged in any business-related, industrial or commercial activities within the corporate limits of the City of Jesup, and that are not a residential unit. Business unit shall also include any multi-family residential complex, duplex, apartment house, boarding house, or similar establishment.
City shall mean the City of Jesup, Georgia.
City's operator shall mean the person, firm, corporation, municipal corporation or political subdivision which the City of Jesup has designated to operate and maintain the city's systems.
Commercial or industrial shall mean and include any establishment, public or private, engaged in a business or occupation, rendering a service, manufacturing a product, offering a product for sale, engaged in retail activities or any other similar activity.
Connection shall mean the initial or first connection (tap) or any subsequent additional connection of a residential unit or business unit to the city's systems, water service or sewer infrastructure.
Customer shall mean any person, firm or corporation receiving city services, water service or sewer services as a customer, as a residential unit or business unit or otherwise, and whether within the city limits or outside the city limits.
Person shall mean and include an individual, human, partnership, co-partnership, firm, company, limited liability partnership or other partnership or other such company, joint venture, joint stock company, trust, estate, governmental entity, association or corporation or any other legal entity, or their legal representatives, agents or assigns. The masculine gender shall include the feminine, and the singular shall include the plural where indicated by the context.
Residential shall mean use of a site, building, or tract or parcel of land for the purposes of human habitation (even if only for a temporary basis).
Residential unit shall mean a dwelling within the corporate limits or a services area of the city intended for occupancy by a person or group of persons comprising not more than one family. A dwelling shall be deemed occupied and shall be deemed by the city to be a separate residential unit for billing and collection purposes when water, sewer, gas, telephone, cable or electrical power services are being supplied thereto.
Separate connection shall mean the individual metering facilities for each customer, residential unit or business unit for which city services have been requested or otherwise provided, whether occupied or not.
Service or services shall mean water service, waterworks, , sewer, wastewater or sanitary sewer services and other utilities by, through or on the behalf of the city.
Sewer shall mean sanitary sewer and wastewater disposal and treatment services by, through or on the behalf of the city.
Systems shall mean the pipes, lines, conduit, pumps, lifts, stations, valves, locks, boxes, meters, plants, fields, and related apparatuses used in connection with providing services, sewer or water service.
Water service shall mean potable water and related services and utilities provided by, through or on the behalf of the city.
(Ord. of 9-3-2019, Pt. I(98-144.4))
Secs. 98-205—98-220. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - WATER AND WASTEWATER SERVICE

Sec. 98-221. - Mandatory connection to city system.
(a)
Except as provided otherwise in the article, no building, tract of land or structure in an area of the city for which services are available, and no business unit or residential unit, shall be occupied for residential, charitable, governmental, business, commercial, industrial or any other purposes unless such buildings or structures (and such business unit or residential unit) are connected by a separate connection to the city's services. Property that abuts a street, road or other public way in which the city's infrastructure necessary for the provision of services exists and for which property the city has made provision for the extension of services thereto shall be deemed to have access to the city's services. No property shall be required to be connected to the city's services where the owner or occupier of such property requests such connection in writing and has been denied such connection in writing by the city. Nothing in this article shall require the city to extend, build, or develop services or utilities to any property, tract of land, customer, business unit, or residential unit where such services are not already available or already in existence.
(b)
Each residential unit and business unit within the city shall be connected by a separate connection to the city's services as soon as the city's services are available to such unit, unless specifically exempted herein.
(c)
Any unoccupied property or tract of land or residential unit or business unit within the city for which services are available shall be connected to the city's systems by a separate connection prior to occupancy. "unoccupied" for purposes of this paragraph shall mean any site, location, building, structure or tract or parcel of land that is not occupied or used for a residential, commercial or industrial purpose as of the effective date of this article.
(d)
Any two or more residential units that are found to be obtaining services, sewer or water service through a single meter shall be required to connect each such unit by a separate connection to the city's systems within 180 days after the effective date of this article.
(e)
Any residential unit within the city that is being served by a privately-owned water well on the effective date of this article shall be connected to the city's systems by a separate connection at such time as the well or septic or waste disposal system fails to meet permitting or department of health requirements or other statutes or regulations of the State of Georgia.
(f)
Any residential unit or business unit within the City of Jesup that is being served by a privately-owned water well on the effective date of this article shall be connected to the city's systems by a separate connection at such time as the underlying property containing such residential unit or business unit is sold, transferred, conveyed, or assigned to a person or persons or entity or entities other than the owners of such residential unit or business unit who are the owners as of the effective date of this article.
(g)
Any residential unit or business unit within the City of Jesup that is served by a privately-owned water well on the effective date of this article shall be connected to the city's systems by a separate connection at such time as such residential unit, business unit or the underlying property or tract of land upon which it is located is the subject of a substantial property renovation, remediation, addition, subtraction, removal, modification, repair, or rebuild. Such activities shall be deemed to be substantial when they require the issuance of a building permit by the City of Jesup.
(h)
Each business unit within the city shall be connected by a separate connection to the city's systems as soon as city services are available to such unit, unless specifically exempted herein.
(i)
All residential units and business units and all property or tracts of land that are occupied or that are used for residential, industrial or commercial purposes shall be connected to the city's sewer. Any such residential unit or business unit that is not connected to the city's sewer on the effective date of this article shall be connected within 180 days of the effective date.
(j)
Any commercial or industrial establishments or similar entities located within a single building and served by a master meter on the effective date of this article may elect to continue to receive services through a master meter only upon written approval by the city.
(k)
From the effective date of this article, no person or commercial or industrial establishment (including also any business unit) shall be permitted to obtain service through a master meter or otherwise provide services to another person or entity, except as specified in this article.
(Ord. of 9-3-2019, Pt. II(98-145.1))
Sec. 98-222. - Application for water connections.
Each person or customer desiring services shall be required to complete an application for such service and pay such fees as are established by the City of Jesup from time-to-time. No service shall be rendered until such fees are paid, including any required security deposits.
(Ord. of 9-3-2019, Pt. II(98-145.2))
Sec. 98-223. - Connections and taps to water and wastewater system.
(a)
Certification. Connections shall not be made to either the city's systems until the city's operator or other party designated by the city has certified that the respective systems or applicable portion thereof is adequate and operational. Services shall not be provided to any customer, residential unit or business unit not in compliance with the rules and regulations related to such services or the infrastructure for the provision thereof promulgated by the State of Georgia, City of Jesup or as otherwise required by statute or regulation.
(b)
Service access. Upon application for connection to the city's systems the applicant, customer, business unit or residential unit shall grant an easement of ingress and egress to and from the meter or point of service for installation, maintenance and repair activities as the city, in its judgment, may deem necessary. Taps and connections will not be made when, in the opinion of the city's operator, site conditions, construction activities, or building materials obstruct the work area or the work area is not completed to finished grade. When sidewalks, driveways or other improvements have been constructed prior to application for service, such application shall be construed and accepted as a waiver of a claim for damages to such improvements resulting from the reasonable actions of the city's operator in installation of the connections.
(c)
City property. All pipes, lines, taps, meters, fittings, boxes, valves and appurtenances installed by city personnel shall remain the property of the city. City maintenance of the city's systems and their related facilities ends at the customer's side of the connection to the meter itself. City maintenance of the systems and services ends at the tap, or point of connection, of the lateral line into the city's systems.
(d)
Connections. All connections to the city's systems, including water service and sewer, shall be made by the city's operator unless specified otherwise by the City of Jesup in writing. No person, other than the properly authorized agents of the city, shall be permitted to tap or make any connections to the mains, valves, pipes, distribution lines or collection lines of the city's systems, except for emergency firefighting purposes, or to make any repairs or additions to, or alterations in any meter, box, tap, pipe, cock or other fixture connected with such systems except by the written permission of the city. No dual or multiple connections (being more than one user on a single meter) shall be permitted, except as otherwise provided in this article or in writing by the city.
(e)
Plan approval required. Each applicant for a connection shall, within ten days prior to payment of tap fees, submit to the city operator the following information:
(1)
One set of drawings showing details of the building plumbing, site plumbing and the location, size and number of proposed connections to the city's systems, water service or sewer;
(2)
A general description of the type of proposed establishment; and
(3)
An estimate of the flow and use contemplated by the applicant, customer, residential unit or business unit.
(4)
The city's operator or other party designated by the city shall review the information presented and may approve or reject the application, or request that further information be submitted prior to the approval of the application and may further require additions or modifications of the applicant's plans and specification. The applicant shall be notified in writing as to the basis for any final rejection of services. Failure to construct facilities in accordance with approved drawings shall constitute a basis for denial of city services and connections. The city shall not be responsible for delays in the installation or provision of any connections or services. Payment of tap fees to the city prior to the approval of plans shall not constitute approval of said plans or approval for services or connections; any unauthorized connection may be removed at the expense of the person or firm causing or permitting such connection to be made.
(Ord. of 9-3-2019, Pt. II(98-145.3))
Sec. 98-224. - Interconnections.
Interconnections or cross connection of the city's systems, whether directly or through a customer's private system to another source of water or otherwise, is prohibited. Customers shall construct, and each customer shall maintain, connections and appurtenances so as to avoid infiltration of any substance into the city's systems. City personnel shall have access to all customer connections and appurtenances within reasonable time periods for the purposes of inspection. The city reserves the right to immediately, and without notice, disconnect services or connections to any customer whose internal systems have been found to be interconnected or cross connected, and to assess against such customer such penalties as are provided by law and penalties provided herein, in addition to any charges necessary to repair any damaged or contaminated portion of the customer's infrastructure or the city's systems. No cross connection shall be made between private wells and the city's systems or any other potable water supply system.
(Ord. of 9-3-2019, Pt. II(98-145.4))
Secs. 98-225—98-240. - Reserved.
DIVISION 3. - DEPOSITS, RATES AND CHARGES FOR SERVICE

Sec. 98-241. - Application for services.
Each prospective customer desiring services, water service or sewer shall provide appropriate information for billing, accounting and rate classification purposes in order to obtain such services and shall pay the applicable tap fees, deposits, and regular charges as established from time to time by the city.
(Ord. of 9-3-2019, Pt. III(98-146.1))
Sec. 98-242. - Tap fees.
Tap fees shall be collected as applicable from all applicants before corresponding services are extended and taps or connections are made.
(Ord. of 9-3-2019, Pt. III(98-146.2))
Sec. 98-243. - Security deposits and utility accounts.
(a)
All new and existing customers of the city's systems, services, sewer or water service shall be required to pay and maintain a security deposit in the sum and amount established by the city at the time that such services are established plus a connect fee in the sum and amount established by the city at the time such services are established.
(b)
All customers requesting services, sewer or water service shall personally sign an application for such services and provide verification of name and current address.
(c)
In the event any customer's service is disconnected for late payment, the city will apply the deposit to the deficiency and require full payment of any delinquent utility account, in addition to any reconnection fees and reinstatement of the full security deposit prior to reinstatement and reconnection of services.
(d)
Security deposits shall remain with the city until termination of all services.
(Ord. of 9-3-2019, Pt. III(98-146.3))
Sec. 98-244. - Line extensions.
Water and sewer taps and connections will be made for the base tap fee provided the tap or connection is made to a systems line abutting or adjacent to the customer, property, tract of land, business unit or residential unit to be served ("standard location"). For the purposes of this article, a tap or connection made on a systems line located between the boundary line of the property to be served and the right-of-way line of the street or alley abutting such property, or a line located within portions of a street, shall also constitute a tap made at a "standard location". A tap or connection made at a "standard location" shall be a "standard connection". A "non-standard location" is any location other than a standard location. A "non-standard connection" also includes any tap or connection that requires additional work, construction or extensions to be made for the tap or connection, or that is made at other than a standard location. Additional charges and fees will be assessed and collected for costs associated with line extensions and taps or connections made to non-standard locations.
(1)
Availability of service. The existence of mains, truck lines or other lines near a property, business unit or residential unit will not constitute an obligation upon the city to limit the tap fee or charge for making a water service or sewer tap to such line, where such lines must be tapped at other than a standard location, are inaccessible due to necessary crossings of streets, highways, drainage channels and similar barriers, or when costs must be incurred over and above the costs for making a tap at a standard location. Costs shall include additional costs internal to the city. Taps at non-standard locations must be arranged through the city in advance of the desired service date, and in such time sufficient to permit necessary extensions, crossings or similar construction activities.
(2)
Installation of non-standard connection. Upon the approval of the city manager in writing, the applicant, customer, residential unit, business unit, owner or developer requiring a non-standard connection may contract with a qualified contractor for the installation, construction and extension of any water service or sewer line necessary to make a non-standard connection or as necessary for the location for the tap to become a standard location and, in such an event, such owner or developer shall pay all costs and charges therefore directly to the contractor and obtain a receipt and release from said contractor. The city may inspect such construction and work to assure it is completed in compliance with the applicable rules and regulations of the city and the State of Georgia. The city may, thereafter, at the expense of the applicant or customer for the tap, construct all line extensions and perform all construction required to make a water services or sewer tap at a non-standard location.
(3)
Costs. The reasonable costs and expenses for installing, constructing and extending any water service or sewer line or systems of the city to provide a tap at a non-standard location, or to extend such lines to a standard location, shall be charged and collected by the city, if such costs are not paid directly by an owner, developer, applicant, or customer. Such additional costs and expenses shall be equal to the difference between the costs of making the tap at a standard location and the cost of making the tap at the non-standard location, or, as the case may be, the costs of making the tap at a standard location and the costs incurred for the work and construction to extend the lines to a point or location that is a standard location for the tap or connection.
(4)
Payment of line extension fee. When a water services or sewer line extension charge is required, the city may, at its option, require the applicant or customer being furnished the line to:
a.
Deposit in advance, the estimated costs for construction of the extension of the systems, water services line or sewer line and the costs additional to a standard connection;
b.
Post a bond sufficient to cover the total estimated costs of the extension of the systems, water services line or sewer line; or
c.
Provide a letter of credit sufficient to cover the total estimated costs of the extension of the systems, water services line or sewer line.
(5)
Line extension fees outside city limits. The provisions set out in this section shall apply for connections to property both inside and outside the city limits.
(Ord. of 9-3-2019, Pt. III(98-146.4))
Secs. 98-245—98-260. - Reserved.
DIVISION 4. - WATERWORKS SYSTEM

Sec. 98-261. - Damage or injury to waterworks system.
It shall be unlawful for any person, in any way, to intentionally, negligently or carelessly break, deface or in any manner damage, injure or destroy any systems, water service infrastructure or sewer line, hydrant, standpipe, lock box, line, tap, meter, pipe, valve, or other equipment or property belonging to the city or belonging to others and used in connection with the systems or services of the city. No person, other than a duly authorized agent of the city, shall remove, repair, or tamper with or in any way interfere with the city's systems, meter boxes, meters, lock boxes, water service lines, sewer lines, or other water service or sewer appurtenances. The city reserves the right to immediately, and without notice, remove the meter or disconnect services and connections to any customer whose meter has been tampered with and to assess actual repair charges to the customer plus a damage fee of $500.00.
(Ord. of 9-3-2019, Pt. IV(98-147.1))
Sec. 98-262. - Repair of damages.
All systems, meters, fittings, boxes, valves, equipment and appurtenances installed by the city shall remain the property of the city. As necessary or advisable in order to protect the public health or the operation and function of the city's systems, the city further reserves the right and authority to proceed immediately and without notice to disconnect, or to repair when and as necessary and appropriate, any connection, systems, meter, pipe, line or other appurtenance or equipment connected to the city's systems or used in connection with the city's services, and if such repair is made to any such connection, line, pipe or appurtenance owned by any private person, to assess the actual repair charges to the person or customer who owns, rents, or controls such property or to the applicable business unit or residential unit. Failure to repair or failure to pay for repairs performed by the city shall constitute cause for the city to terminate services to the person, customer, business unit or residential unit charged with the repairs. The city requires each person to "call before you dig" so the city may locate systems for the customer. Repair charges will be assessed to any person if no attempt is made to contact the city before digging and damage occurs. Repair charges are due within ten days from the date of invoice and are as follows:
(1)
Labor charges. Regular time for repairs needed during normal business hours. After 5:00 p.m. and weekends - time and one-half.
(2)
Equipment rental. Actual cost to city.
(3)
Other actual costs. Any charge or other expense incurred by the city.
If not paid within ten days from date of invoice, the city reserves the right to immediately and without notice remove the meter or disconnect services and all connections until all repair charges are paid in full.
(Ord. of 9-3-2019, Pt. IV(98-147.2))
Secs. 98-263—98-275. - Reserved.
DIVISION 5. - GENERAL PROVISIONS

Sec. 98-276. - No service guarantee.
Customers are not guaranteed a specific quantity or pressure of services, water service or sewer for any purpose whatever; and in no instance shall the city be liable for failure or refusal to furnish water service or any particular amount or pressure of water service, or sewer or any other services. By acceptance of the city's services, any applicant, customer, residential unit or business unit receiving such services hereby agrees to waive, release, forgive and forego any claims, demands or damages, including lost profits, delay damages, interest, expenses, consequential damages, and special damages, related to, or otherwise caused by the city's failure to provide services, the city's delay in providing such services or the methodologies of the city's provision of such services.
(Ord. of 9-3-2019, Pt. V(98-148.1))
Sec. 98-277. - Violations and notices.
(a)
If an officer charged with the enforcement of this article shall determine that a person has violated any provision of this article, such officer may issue a citation to such person.
(b)
If an officer charged with the enforcement of this article shall determine that a situation exists which immediately affects or threatens the health, safety and well-being of the general public or the city's systems, and that immediate action is necessary to prevent such threats, such officer may take such actions as shall be necessary, including issuing citations for violations of the terms and provisions hereof, and to effectuate any actions, repairs or other activities necessary to remedy such threats.
(c)
If an officer charged with enforcement of this article determines a situation constitutes an immediate threat to the public health, safety and welfare, and the owner or occupant of the property or customer is absent or fails to immediately remedy the threat, the city may take such actions, including termination of services or effectuation of repairs necessary to address such threat. To extent such threat was caused by or attributable to the owner or occupant of the subject property or the customer, the city may assess all costs and expenses of such actions to such owner, occupant or customer.
(d)
If any owner, occupant or customer shall fail or refuse to remedy any of the conditions prohibited by this article within three days after notice to do so, the city may terminate services and do such work or cause the same to be done to remedy such conditions, and charge the expenses in doing or having such work done or improvements made to the owner(s) of the property or the customer, and such charges shall be a personal liability of such owners or customer to the city.
(e)
Notices required pursuant to this article shall be in writing. Such notices may be served upon such owner, occupant, and/or customer, business unit or residential unit as follows: in person by an officer or employee of the city; by letter addressed to such owner, occupant, or customer at a post office address or address provided to the city for invoicing purposes; or, if personal service may not be had, or the owner's, occupant's or customer's address be not known, then notice may be given by publishing a brief summary of such matter at least once in the official newspaper of the city or by posting a notice on or near the front door of each building on the property, business unit, or residential unit upon which the violation relates, or, if no building exists, by posting notice on a placard attached to a stake driven into the ground on the property, business unit or residential unit to which the violation relates. Notices of termination of services for non-payment shall be mailed regular first-class mail to the address designated on the account for receipt of invoices and shall be deemed served within three days of deposit in the regular mail. Such notice of termination may be included in the regular invoices sent by the city. Service of a notice of termination by any one of the above methods, or by a combination thereof, shall be deemed sufficient notice.
(f)
If an owner, occupant, customer, business unit, or residential unit is mailed a notice, and the United States Postal Service returns the notice as "refused" or "unclaimed," the validity of the notice is not affected, and the notice is considered as delivered.
(g)
Notices of any violation of this article, offensive condition or nuisance provided by mail or by posting as set forth in this article may provide for year round abatement of the violation, condition or nuisance and may further require that, should the owner, occupant, business unit, residential unit, or customer commit any other violation of the same kind, the city, without further notice, may abate the violation at such person's expense and assess the costs against such person, customer, business unit, residential unit or the underlying property and may also terminate the city's services.
(h)
Persons in violation of the article or causing or creating a prohibited condition in the presence of an officer authorized to enforce this article may be cited immediately or a complaint filed for such violation without prior notice of the violation, or warning, and such citation or complaint may be filed in the municipal court of the City of Jesup.
(Ord. of 9-3-2019, Pt. V(98-148.2))
Sec. 98-278. - Appeals.
With the exception of those citations or matters adjudicated by the municipal court of the City of Jesup, any Person may appeal to the board of commissioners of the City of Jesup from any order or action rendered under this article by filing a written statement with the city manager within seven days after such order or action was made or taken. The board of Commissioners shall set a date, within 30 days from the date of the appeal, for a hearing on such appeal. Said hearing may occur at or during a scheduled meeting of the board of commissioners. The authority of the city to otherwise proceed to remedy any violation, threat to public health or welfare, threat to the city's systems or to cause work to be done shall not be suspended while an appeal is pending. If it shall be later determined by the board of commissioner that the premises, property owner, occupant or customer complied with the provisions of this article, then no personal liability of the owner, occupant, or customer shall arise, nor shall any lien be created against the premises upon which such work was done. Appeals from the decisions of the municipal court of the City of Jesup shall be as provided by law.
(Ord. of 9-3-2019, Pt. V(98-148.3))
Sec. 98-279. - Cost of abatement constitutes lien.
Cumulative of the city's remedy by fine, and as set forth herein, the city may do any work authorized under this article or cause the same to be done to remedy any violation, offensive condition or nuisance or to remove such matter from such owner's, occupant's or customer's premises and to charge the costs related to the same to the utility bill of services invoice of such property or customer and to assess the same against the property or premises upon which such expenses are incurred. Such expenditures plus ten percent per annum interest on the expenditures shall be added to the services invoices to the subject owner, occupant or customer. If the property is unoccupied, no services shall be furnished to the property where such work occurred until such obligations as herein set out, payable to the city for abatement of any condition described herein, are paid in full.
(1)
Upon filing with the county clerk of court of Wayne County, Georgia of a statement by the city clerk or designee of such expenses, the city shall have a lien upon said real estate, lot or lots, business unit or residential unit, to secure the expenditures so made and the ten percent per annum interest on such expenditures.
(2)
The city may, additionally, institute suit and recover such expenditures and foreclose such lien in any court of competent jurisdiction, and the statement so filed with the county clerk of court or a certified copy thereof shall be prima facie proof of the expenditures in any such work or improvements to remedy such violation or condition.
(Ord. of 9-3-2019, Pt. V(98-148.4))
Sec. 98-280. - Enforcement.
The civil and criminal provisions of this article shall be enforced by the persons or agencies designated by the city, including, but not limited to, city operators, the City of Jesup Police Department, the building official, and the code enforcement officer. It shall be a violation of this article to interfere with any person authorized to enforce this article in the performance of his or her duties.
(Ord. of 9-3-2019, Pt. V(98-148.5))
Sec. 98-281. - Penalty.
Any person who shall violate any of the provision of this article, or shall fail to comply therewith, or with any of the requirements thereof, within the city limits shall be deemed guilty of an offense and shall be liable for a fine not to exceed the sum of $1,000.00. Each day the violation exists shall constitute a separate offense. Such penalty shall be in addition to all the other remedies provided herein.
(Ord. of 9-3-2019, Pt. V(98-148.6))
