Chapter 90 - TAXATION[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Cross reference— Any ordinance or resolution promising or guaranteeing the payment of money for the city or authorizing the issuance of any bonds of the city or evidence of the city's indebtedness saved from repeal, § 1-6(a)(2); any ordinance providing for local improvements and assessing taxes for such improvements saved from repeal, § 1-6(a)(9); any ordinance levying or imposing taxes not included in this Code saved from repeal, § 1-6(a)(14); administration, ch. 2; alcoholic beverage tax, § 6-91 et seq.; malt beverage excise tax, § 6-121 et seq.; businesses and business regulations, ch. 22; finances, ch. 42.
State Law reference— Local government budgets and audits, O.C.G.A. § 36-81-1 et seq.; accounting for public funds, O.C.G.A. § 45-8-1 et seq.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 90-1. - Property subject to taxation.
All real and personal property situated within the city, whether owned by individuals, firms or corporations, resident or nonresident, regardless of whether such personal property is primarily used outside the city, unless exempt under the laws of the state, shall be subject to an ad valorem tax as may be lawfully levied on such personal property according to the constitution and laws of the state and the Charter and ordinances of the city, and according to the value of the personal property as of January 1 of each year.
(Code 1976, § 32-1)
Sec. 90-2. - Payment of taxes.
All taxes shall be paid on or before December 31 of each year.
(Code 1976, § 32-8)
Sec. 90-3. - Tax executions to issue.
Whenever any person shall fail or refuse to pay any ad valorem tax lawfully assessed by the city within the time required in this article, the city treasurer shall issue an execution for the amount due, plus costs, directed to the city marshal, to be disposed of by him as provided by law.
(Code 1976, § 32-9)
Sec. 90-4. - Duty of the city marshal.
Whenever an execution is placed in his hands, the city marshal shall immediately give notice to the defendant in fi. fa., by due course of mail, not registered, advising such person to make payment of such fi. fa. within 15 days from the date of such notice, otherwise, a levy will be made. If such person shall fail or refuse to pay the amount due, the marshal shall levy such fi. fa. on the property of the defendant in fi. fa. and sell the property according to law in such case. All fi. fas. shall be returned by the marshal to the clerk within 90 days after receipt of the fi. fa., with his actions and doings entered thereon. If the marshal can find no property on which to levy such fi. fa., it shall be his duty to enter such fact on such fi. fa. The treasurer shall then issue a summons of garnishment, which shall be served by the marshal, directed to any person holding funds of the defendant, as provided by law.
(Code 1976, § 32-10)
Sec. 90-5. - Record of property purchased and sold.
It shall be the duty of the clerk of the board of commissioners to prepare and keep a record of all property purchased and sold by the city at the marshal's tax sales, showing whose property was purchased, the amount bid for the property and what portion of the property was tax and costs.
(Code 1976, § 32-11)
Sec. 90-6. - How property sold by city.
Property purchased by the city at the marshal's tax sales shall be sold and disposed of by the city as follows: The clerk shall annually present to the board of commissioners a full description of all properties so purchased during the year, together with a list of all other properties theretofore obtained by the city at such sales, undisposed of, and the board of commissioners shall determine if, in their opinion, it is to the best interest of the city to dispose of such property. If the board of commissioners should determine to sell such property, they shall, by resolution, direct the sale of the property by advertising the sale in the newspaper published in the city once a week for four weeks before the date of the sale, and on such date, between the hours of 10:00 a.m. and 4:00 p.m., such property shall be sold to the highest bidder for cash before the city hall. Purchasers shall receive a quit claim deed to such property. No property purchased by the city at the marshal's tax sales shall be sold at private sale by the city.
(Code 1976, § 32-12)
Secs. 90-7—90-40. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - OCCUPATION TAX[2]

Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
Cross reference— Businesses and business regulations, ch. 22.
State Law reference— Business and occupation taxes, O.C.G.A. § 48-13-1 et seq.

Sec. 90-41. - Required for business dealings with the city.
For the year 1995 and succeeding years thereafter, each person engaged in any business, trade, profession or occupation within the city, whether with a location in the city, or a location within the state with no location within the city, or in the case of an out-of-state business with no location in the state exerting substantial efforts within the state pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 48-13-7, shall pay an occupation tax for such business, trade, profession or occupation, which tax and any applicable certificate shall be displayed in a conspicuous place in the place of business, if the taxpayer has a permanent business location within the city; however, if the taxpayer has no permanent business location within the city, such business tax certificate shall be shown to the city marshal, city building inspector or his deputies, or to any police officer of the city, upon their request.
(Code 1976, § 17-1)
Sec. 90-42. - Purpose and scope.
The occupation tax levied in this article is for revenue purposes only and not for regulatory purposes, nor is the payment of the tax made a condition precedent to the practice of any such profession, trade or calling. The occupation tax applies to the businesses and occupations which are covered by the provisions of O.C.G.A. §§ 48-13-5—48-13-26. All other applicable businesses and occupations are taxed by the local government pursuant to the pertinent general and/or local law and ordinance.
(Code 1976, § 17-10)
Sec. 90-43. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Administrative fee means a component of an occupational tax which approximates the reasonable cost of handling and processing the occupation tax.
City of Jesup and city mean Jesup, Georgia.
Commercial class of business means a business in the business categories that have a standard industrial classification (SIC) number in which the first two digits are digits other than those between 20 and 39.
Dominant line means the type of business within a multiple line business from which the greatest amount of income is derived.
Gross receipts means the total revenue of the business or practitioner for the period, including, but not limited to, the following:
(1)
Total income without deduction for the cost of goods or expenses incurred;
(2)
Gain from trading in stocks, bonds, capital assets or instruments of indebtedness;
(3)
Proceeds from commissions on the sale of property, goods or service;
(4)
Proceeds from fees for services rendered; and
(5)
Proceeds from rent, interest, royalty or dividend income.
The term "gross receipts" shall not include the following:
(1)
Sales, use or excise tax;
(2)
Sales returns, allowances and discounts;
(3)
Interorganizational sales or transfers between or among the units of a parent-subsidiary-controlled group of corporations as defined by 26 USC 1563(a)(1), or between or among the units of a brother-sister-controlled group of corporations as defined by 26 USC 1563(a)(2);
(4)
Payments made to a subcontractor or independent agent; and
(5)
Governmental and foundation grants, charitable contributions or the interest income derived from such funds received by a nonprofit organization which employs salaried practitioners otherwise covered by this article, if such funds constitute 80 percent or more of the organization's receipts.
Industrial class of business means a business in the business categories that have a standard industrial classification (SIC) number in which the first two digits are between 20 and 39.
Location of office shall not include a temporary worksite which serves a single customer or project.
Occupation tax means a tax levied on persons, partnerships, corporations or other entities for engaging in an occupation, profession or business for revenue raising purposes.
Person includes a sole proprietor, corporation, partnership or any other form of business organization.
Practitioners of professions and occupations means one who, by state law, requires state licensure regulating such profession or occupation. Such term shall not include a practitioner who is an employee of a business, if the business pays an occupation tax.
Regulatory fees means payments, whether designated as license fees, permit fees or by another name, which are required by a local government as an exercise of its police power and as a part of or an aid to regulation of an occupation, profession or business. The amount of a regulatory fee shall approximate the reasonable cost of the actual regulatory activity performed by the city. A regulatory fee may not include an administrative fee. Development impact fees as defined by O.C.G.A. § 36-71-2(8), or other costs or conditions of zoning or land development, are not regulatory fees.
(Code 1976, § 17-2)
Cross reference— Definitions generally, § 1-2.
Sec. 90-44. - Administrative and regulatory fee structure.
(a)
A nonprorated, nonrefundable administrative fee as set forth in the schedule of fees and charges on file in the office of the city clerk shall be required on all business occupation tax accounts for the initial startup, renewal or reopening of such accounts.
(b)
A regulatory fee will only be imposed as provided under O.C.G.A. § 48-13-9 on such applicable businesses. A regulatory fee may not include an administrative fee.
(Code 1976, § 17-3)
Sec. 90-45. - Levied; restrictions; schedule.
(a)
[Reserved.]
(b)
Schedule.
(1)
For the industrial class, the occupation tax shall be levied according to the number of employees of the business, which shall be as set forth in the schedule of fees and charges on file in the office of the city clerk.
(2)
For the commercial class, the occupation tax classification for each business, trade, profession or occupation shall be as set forth in the schedule of fees and charges on file in the office of the city clerk.
(Code 1976, § 17-4; Ord. of 12-20-2005(2))
Sec. 90-45.5. - Business occupational rates.
(a)
Non-refundable administration fee .....$ 50.00
(b)
Tax Class 1 (.00070) .....0.60
Building construction, general contractors.
Local and suburban transit and intersuburban highway passenger transportation.
Motor freight transportation and warehousing.
Transportation by air.
Services incidental to transportation.
Wholesale trade—Durable goods.
Wholesale trade—Nondurable goods.
Retail trade—Building materials, hardware, garden supply, and mobile home dealers.
Retail trade—Food stores.
Retail trade—Automotive dealers and gasoline service stations.
Retail trade—Home furniture, furnishings, and equipment stores.
Retail trade—Miscellaneous, not elsewhere classified.
Membership organizations.
Non-classifiable establishments.
(c)
Tax Class 2 (.00080) .....0.70
Anthracite mining.
Bituminous coal and lignite mining.
Heavy construction other than building—Contractors.
Construction, special trade contractors.
Retail trade—General merchandise stores.
Retail trade—Apparel and accessory stores.
Retail trade—Eating and drinking places.
Service—Hotels, rooming houses, camps, and other lodging places.
Automotive repair, services, and parking.
Health services.
Social services.
(d)
Tax Class 3 (.00090) .....0.80
Agricultural services.
Forestry.
Fishing, hunting, and trapping.
Railroad transportation.
Services—Personal—Miscellaneous.
Services—Business—State-licensed (only electrical and plumbing or heating/air conditioning).
Miscellaneous repair service.
Services, motion pictures.
Educational services and schools.
(e)
Tax Class 4 (.00100) .....0.90
Agricultural production, crops.
Agricultural production, livestock.
Mining and quarrying of nonmetallic minerals, except fuels.
Legal services.
Museums, art galleries, and botanical and zoological gardens.
Professional services.
Services not elsewhere classified.
(f)
Tax Class 5 (.00110) .....1.00
Metal mining.
Oil and gas extraction.
Communication.
Security and commodity brokers, dealers, exchanges, and services.
Real estate.
Services—Amusement and recreation, except motion pictures.
(g)
Tax Class 6 (.00120) .....1.10
Pipe lines, except natural gas.
Credit extending agencies, other than banks.
Holding companies and other investment offices.
(Ord. of 12-20-2005(3), § I)
Sec. 90-46. - Payment by business with no location in the state.
The city requires a registration and assessment of an occupation tax on businesses and practitioners of professions with no location or office in the state if the business' largest dollar volume of business in the state is in the city and the business or practitioner:
(1)
Has one or more employees or agents who exert substantial efforts within the jurisdiction of the city for the purpose of soliciting business or serving customers or clients; or
(2)
Owns personal or real property which generates income, and which is located within the jurisdiction of the city.
(Code 1976, § 17-5)
Sec. 90-47. - Identification of each dominant line of business on business registration.
The business registration of each business operated within the city shall identify the dominant line of business that the business conducts.
(Code 1976, § 17-6)
Sec. 90-48. - Each business location considered separate business.
Where a person conducts business at more than one store or place, each store or place shall be considered a separate business for the purpose of the occupation tax.
(Code 1976, § 17-7)
Sec. 90-49. - Practitioners of professions as classified in O.C.G.A. § 48-13-9.
Practitioners of professions, as described in O.C.G.A. § 48-13-9(c)(1)—(18), shall elect, for the year 1995 and subsequent years, one of the following as their entire occupation tax:
(1)
The occupation tax based on gross receipts combined with profitability ratios as set forth in section 90-44.
(2)
A fee as set forth in the schedule of fees and charges on file in the office of the city clerk, per practitioner who is licensed to provide the service, which tax shall be paid at the practitioner's office or location; provided, however, that a practitioner paying according to this subsection shall not be required to provide information to the local government relating to the gross receipts of the business or practitioner. The per practitioner fee shall include all persons in the business who qualify as a practitioner under the state's regulatory guidelines and framework.
(Code 1976, § 17-8)
Sec. 90-50. - Practitioners exclusively practicing for the government.
Any practitioner whose office is maintained, and who is employed in practice exclusively, by the United States, the state, a municipality or county of the state, instrumentalities of the United States, the state or a municipality or county of the state shall not be required to obtain a license or pay an occupation tax for such practice.
(Code 1976, § 17-9)
Sec. 90-51. - When due and payable; effect of transacting business when tax delinquent.
(a)
Each business tax shall be for the calendar year 1995 and succeeding calendar years thereafter, unless otherwise specifically provided. The registration and occupation tax shall be payable January 1 of each year, and shall be delinquent if not paid by April 1 of each year, and shall be subject to penalties for delinquency as prescribed in this article. On any new profession, trade or calling begun in the city in 1995 or succeeding years thereafter, the registration and occupation tax shall be delinquent if not obtained immediately upon beginning business, and a ten percent penalty shall be imposed if such tax is not paid within 90 days of the commencement of the business. The tax certificate provided for in this article shall be issued by the city clerk, and if any person whose duty it is to obtain a registration shall, after such registration or occupation tax becomes delinquent, transact, or offer to transact, any of the kinds of professions, trades or callings specified in this chapter within the city without having first obtained such registration, in addition to remedies provided in this article, upon conviction, shall be punished as provided in section 90-79.
(b)
In addition to the remedies set forth in subsection (a) of this section, the city marshal or building inspector may proceed to collect such tax in the same manner as provided by law for tax executions.
(Code 1976, § 17-11)
Sec. 90-52. - Allocation of employees or gross receipts of business with multiple intrastate or interstate locations.
(a)
For businesses who have multiple locations inside and outside of the city where the gross receipts can be allocated to each location, the gross receipts used to determine the occupational tax assessed will be the gross receipts attributed to each city location. In the case where the dollar amount of gross receipts attributed locally cannot be determined in businesses with multiple locations, the total gross receipts will be divided by the total number of locations in the city and elsewhere, and allotted to such locations. Upon request, the business or practitioner with a location or office situated in more than one jurisdiction shall provide the following to the city:
(1)
Financial information necessary to allocate the gross receipts of the business or practitioner; and
(2)
Information relating to the allocation of the business' or practitioner's gross receipts by other local governments.
(b)
Where the business has locations outside of the city and taxation is levied for a criteria other than gross receipts in the other local governments, the city shall not assess more than the allotted share of gross receipts for the local operation.
(c)
For the industrial class, only the employees who work in the city will be counted for taxing purposes.
(Code 1976, § 17-12)
Sec. 90-53. - Exemption for businesses operated for charitable purposes.
No business on which a business registration or occupation tax is levied by this article shall be exempt from such registration or tax on the grounds that such business is operated for a charitable purpose, unless 80 percent or more of the entire proceeds from such business are devoted to such purpose.
(Code 1976, § 17-13)
Sec. 90-54. - Evidence of state licensure required.
Each person who is licensed under title 43 of the state license examining boards shall provide evidence of proper and current state licensure before the city registration may be issued.
(Code 1976, § 17-14)
Sec. 90-55. - Evidence of qualification required.
(a)
Any business required to obtain health permits, bonds, certificates of qualification, certificates of competency or any other regulatory matter shall first, before the issuance of a city business registration, show evidence of such qualification.
(b)
Any business required to submit an annual application for continuance of such business shall do so before the registration is issued.
(Code 1976, § 17-15)
Sec. 90-56. - Registration required; liability of officers and agents; failure to obtain.
All persons subject to the occupation tax provided in this article shall be required to take out the necessary registration for such business as prescribed in this article, and in default thereof, the officer or agent soliciting for or representing such persons shall be subject to the same penalty as other persons who fail to obtain a certificate. Every person commencing business in the city after January 1 of each year shall also obtain the registration provided for in this article before commencing such business; and any person transacting, or offering to transact, within the city, any of the kinds of businesses, trades, professions or occupations without first having obtained such registration, shall be subject to penalties provided in this article and, upon conviction, shall be punished as provided in section 90-79.
(Code 1976, § 17-16)
Sec. 90-57. - When registration and tax due and payable; effect of transacting business when tax is delinquent.
(a)
Each registration shall be for the calendar year 1995 and each succeeding calendar year thereafter, unless otherwise specifically provided. There is hereby imposed a penalty upon each business which fails to apply for and obtain an appropriate business registration and pay all taxes and fees as provided in this article before April 1 of each year. The penalty for failure to comply with this section shall be assessed in the amount of ten percent of the administrative fee and occupational tax determined to be due and owing under the provisions of this article for the first 30 days, or fraction thereof, of delinquency, and an additional one percent of the administrative fee and occupation tax for each additional month, or fraction thereof, of delinquency. Such penalties shall be in addition to all other penalties, civil and criminal, provided in this article, and may be collected by the remedies provided in this article for collection of the occupation tax, and shall have the same lien and priority as the occupation tax to which the penalty is applied.
(b)
The registration certificate provided for in this article shall be issued by the city clerk, and if any person whose duty it is to obtain a registration shall, after such occupation tax becomes delinquent, transact, or offer to transact, within the city, any of the kinds of businesses, trades, professions or occupations without having first obtained such registration, shall be subject to the penalties provided in this article.
(Ord. of 2-6-2001, § 17-17)
Sec. 90-58. - Deputy marshal/business inspector.
The city marshal or city building inspector and his duly designated officer and inspectors or successors shall be classified as deputy marshal/business inspector, with full subpoena and arresting powers, in conjunction with any violation pertaining to the business tax ordinance of 1995, as set forth in this article, and succeeding years thereafter.
(Code 1976, § 17-18)
Sec. 90-59. - Businesses not covered by this article.
The following businesses are not covered by the provisions of this article, but may be assessed an occupation tax or other type of tax pursuant to the provisions of other general laws of the state or by act of local law:
(1)
Businesses regulated by the state public service commission.
(2)
Electrical service businesses organized under O.C.G.A. tit. 46, ch. 3.
(3)
Any farm operation for the production from or on the land of agricultural products, but not including agribusiness.
(4)
Cooperative marketing associations governed by O.C.G.A. § 2-10-105.
(5)
Insurance companies governed by O.C.G.A. § 33-8-8.
(6)
Motor common carriers governed by O.C.G.A. § 46-7-15.
(7)
Businesses governed by O.C.G.A. § 48-5-355.
(8)
Agricultural products and livestock raised in the state governed by O.C.G.A. § 48-5-356.
(9)
Depository financial institutions governed by O.C.G.A. § 48-6-93.
(10)
Facilities operated by a charitable trust governed by O.C.G.A. § 48-13-55.
(Code 1976, § 17-20)
Sec. 90-60. - Where inapplicable.
The occupation tax levied in this article is not levied upon the gross receipts of any part of a business where such levy is prohibited or exempted by the laws of the state or the United States.
(Code 1976, § 17-21)
Sec. 90-61. - Levied on business to be transacted during calendar year; filing of returns showing gross receipts during preceding calendar year.
(a)
All occupation taxes levied by this article are levied on the amount of business to be transacted during the calendar year. However, for convenience of both the city and the taxpayer, and the necessity of making numerous returns, the businesses subject to the occupation tax levied in sections 90-45 and 90-49 shall, on or before the times set forth in this section, file with the city marshal the returns specifically provided for in this section, showing the gross receipts of the business during the preceding calendar year. The return shall be used as an estimate for making payments on the occupation tax for the current calendar year. The actual and final amount of tax levied for business transacted in a current calendar year shall be paid in accordance with a final return to be made after the termination of the year, in accordance with the procedure set forth in this section.
(b)
The owner, proprietor, manager or secretary officer of the business subject to such occupation tax for the current calendar year shall, at the end of the preceding year, and on or before April 1 of the current calendar year, file with the city marshal of the city, on a form furnished by the city marshal, a signed return, setting forth the amount of gross receipts of such business for the entire preceding calendar year to be used as an estimate of the gross receipts for the current year. The return calendar year 1995 shall include the gross receipts for calendar year 1994.
(c)
Where a business subject to the occupation tax for the calendar year has been conducted for only a part of the preceding year, the amount of gross receipts for such part of the year shall be set forth in such return. Such return shall also show a figure putting the receipts for such part of a year on an annual basis, which figure shall bear the same ratio to the amount of gross receipts for such part of the year as the full year bears to such part. Such figure shall be used as the estimate of the gross receipts of the business for the current calendar year.
(Code 1976, § 17-22)
Sec. 90-62. - When occupation tax due and payable; when delinquent.
The amount of the occupation tax shall be payable to the city at the office of the finance department on January 1 each year, and shall be delinquent if not paid on or before April 1 each year.
(Code 1976, § 17-23)
Sec. 90-63. - Newly established businesses.
In the case of a business subject to the occupation tax for a calendar year which was not conducted for any period of time within the corporate limits of the city in the preceding year, the owner, proprietor, manager or executive officer of the business liable for such occupation tax shall estimate the gross volume of revenue from the commencing date to the end of the calendar year, and such tax shall be paid as provided in section 90-51.
(Code 1976, § 17-24)
Sec. 90-64. - More than one place or one line of business.
Where a business is operated at more than one place or includes more than one line, the gross receipts of each location will be entered on a separate occupation tax return and the tax will be calculated at the rate of the dominant line of business conducted by the business identified on a form to be furnished by the city.
(Code 1976, § 17-25)
Sec. 90-65. - Filing of return showing actual gross receipts during calendar year; procedure where taxes overpaid or underpaid.
(a)
After the end of each year and on or before April 1 of the succeeding year, the owner, proprietor, manager or executive officer of a business liable for such occupation tax levied for the year shall file with the city clerk, on a form furnished by the city clerk, a signed return setting forth the actual amount of the gross receipts of such business during the calendar year.
(b)
If the amount of the occupation tax due for the preceding year, based on the return provided for in this section and on the rate of such tax provided for in this article, exceeds the amount of occupation tax paid by such business based on the estimate filed pursuant to section 90-61, the difference in such amount shall be due and payable by the taxpayer to the city on April 1 of the current year, and shall be delinquent if not paid on or before such date.
(c)
If the amount of the occupation tax due for the preceding year, based on the return provided for in this section and on the rate of such tax provided for in this article, is less than the amount of occupation tax paid by such business based on the estimate filed pursuant to section 90-61, the difference in such amount shall be refundable by the city to the taxpayer or, if such business continues to be conducted in the city during the current year, such difference in amount may be credited by the city on the amount of occupation tax to be paid to the city by such business for the current year.
(Code 1976, § 17-26)
Sec. 90-66. - Returns confidential.
Except in the case of judicial proceedings or other proceedings necessary to collect the occupation tax levied in this article, it shall be unlawful for any officer, employee, agent or clerk of the city or any other person to divulge or make known in any manner the amount of gross receipts or any particulars set forth or disclosed in any occupation tax return required under this article. All contents of such return shall be confidential and open only to the officials, employees, agents or clerks of the city using such returns for the purpose of the occupation tax levy and the collection of such tax. Independent auditors or bookkeepers employed by the city shall be classed as employees. Nothing in this section shall be construed to prohibit the publication by the city officials of statistics classified so as to prevent the identification of particular reports or returns, and items thereof, or the inspection of the records by duly qualified employees of the tax departments of the state or the United States and other local governments. Information provided by a business or practitioner may be disclosed to the governing authority of another local government for occupational tax purposes.
(Code 1976, § 17-27)
Sec. 90-67. - Inspection of books and records.
In any case, the city clerk, through his officers, agents, employees or representatives, may inspect the books of the business for which a return is made. The city marshal and/or the director of the finance department or his designee shall have the right to inspect the books or records for the business of which the return was made within the city, and upon demand of the city marshal and/or the director of the finance department or his designee, such books or records shall be submitted for inspection by a representative of the city within 30 days of such demand. Failure of submission of such books or records within 30 days shall be grounds for revocation of the tax certificate currently existing to do business within the city. Adequate records shall be kept in the city for examination by the city marshal and/or the director of the finance department or his designee, at his discretion. If, after examination of the books or records, it is determined that a deficiency occurs as a result of underreporting, a penalty of ten percent of the deficiency, and an additional one percent of the deficiency for each month, or fraction thereof, that the deficiency was due and unpaid, shall be assessed.
(Code 1976, § 17-28)
Sec. 90-68. - Tax certificate to be revoked for failure to pay tax, file returns or permit inspection of books.
Except for persons whose qualifications to practice their profession is determined by the general laws of the state, the failure of any business to pay such occupation tax, or any part thereof, before it becomes delinquent, or upon failure to permit inspection of such business' books as provided in section 17-28, any business tax certificate granted by the city under this article permitting the owner of such business to do business within the city for the current year shall be, ipso facto, revoked. No new business tax certificate shall be granted by the city for the operation of a business for which any part of the occupation tax provided for in this article is, at that time, unpaid, or to a person who has failed to submit adequate records as requested by the city marshal in accordance with provisions found in section 90-61.
(Code 1976, § 17-29)
Sec. 90-69. - Effect of failure to comply with article provisions.
The following shall be subject to the penalties provided in section 90-79:
(1)
Any person or his manager, agent or employee who does business within the city after the certificate for such business has been revoked as provided for in section 90-68;
(2)
Any person or his manager, agent or employee required by this article to make returns showing the amount of gross receipts who shall fail to make such returns within the time and in the manner provided in this article, or refuses to amend such returns so as to set forth the correct information, or who shall make false returns; and
(3)
Any person or his manager, agent or employee who refuses to permit an inspection of books in their charge when the officer, agent, employee or representative of the city requests such inspection, during business hours, for the purpose of determining the accuracy of the returns provided for in this article.
(Code 1976, § 17-30)
Sec. 90-70. - Execution for delinquency.
In addition to the other remedies provided in this article for the collection of the occupation tax levied in this article, the city clerk, upon any tax or installment of such tax becoming delinquent and remaining unpaid, shall issue execution for the correct amount of such tax against the person liable for such tax, which execution shall bear interest at the rate of one percent per month from the date when such tax or installment becomes delinquent, and the lien shall cover the property of the person liable for such tax, all as provided by the ordinances and Charter of the city and the laws of the state. The lien for such occupation tax shall become fixed on and dated from the time when such tax, or any installment thereof, becomes delinquent. The execution shall be levied by the city marshal upon the property of the person liable for such tax, and sufficient property shall be advertised and sold to pay the amount of such execution, with interest and costs. All other proceedings in relation thereto shall be had as provided by the ordinances and the Charter of the city and the laws of the state, and the defendant in such execution shall have rights of defense, by affidavit of illegality and otherwise, which are provided by the Charter of the city and the laws of the state in regard to tax executions. When a nulla bona entry has been entered by proper authority upon an execution issued by the city marshal against any person defaulting on the occupation tax, the person against whom the entry was made shall not be allowed or entitled to have or collect any fees or charges whatsoever for services rendered after the entry of the nulla bona. If, at any time after the entry of nulla bona has been made, the person against whom the execution was issued pays the tax in full, together with all interest, penalties and costs accrued on the tax, the person may collect any fees and charges due the person as though the person had never defaulted in the payment of the taxes.
(Code 1976, § 17-31)
Sec. 90-71. - Exemptions.
Any person 65 years of age or over shall be exempt from the payment of a business or occupation tax, provided such person shall, on or before April 1 each year, file a claim for such exemption and, provided further, the applicant for such exemption is the sole owner of the business for which the exemption is sought and is the sole employee thereof, and such person makes insufficient income to render him liable for state income taxes. The claim for exemption shall be filed on forms furnished by the city. The applicant shall be required to verify, under oath, the representations made in the application for the granting of such exemption.
(Code 1976, § 17-32)
Sec. 90-72. - Amendments or repeals.
This article shall be subject to amendment or repeal, in whole or in part, at any time, and no such amendment or repeal shall be construed to deny the right of the board of commissioners to assess and collect any of the taxes or other charges prescribed by this article. Such amendment may increase or lower the amounts and tax rates of any occupation, and may change the classification thereof. The payment of any occupation tax provided for in this article shall not be construed as prohibiting the levy or collection by the city of additional occupation taxes upon the same person, property or business.
(Code 1976, § 17-33)
Sec. 90-73. - Application to prior ordinances.
This article does not repeal or affect the force of any part of any ordinance heretofore passed where taxes levied under such prior ordinance have not been paid in full. So much and such parts of ordinances passed as provided for the issuing and enforcing of execution for any tax or assessment required by such ordinances, or that imposed fines or penalties for the nonpayment of such tax, or for failure to pay regulatory fees provided for in such ordinances, or failure to comply with any other provisions of this article, shall continue and remain in force until such tax, regulatory fee or assessment shall be fully paid.
(Code 1976, § 17-34)
Sec. 90-74. - Enforcement.
(a)
It is hereby made the duty of the city marshal, city clerk and police department to see that the provisions of this article relating to occupation taxes are observed, and to summon all violators of this article to appear before the municipal court.
(b)
It is hereby further made the duty of the city marshal, chief of police and their designees and assistants to inspect all certificates issued by the city as often as, in their judgement, it may seem necessary to determine whether the certificate held is the proper one for the business sought to be transacted under such certificate.
(Code 1976, § 17-35)
Sec. 90-75. - Provisions to remain in full force and effect until changed by the board of commissioners.
(a)
This article shall remain in full force and effect until it is changed by amendment adopted by the board of commissioners.
(b)
All provisions of this article relating to any form of tax levied in this article shall remain in full force and effect until such taxes have been paid in full.
(Code 1976, § 17-36)
Sec. 90-76. - Public hearing required before tax increase.
After January 1, 1996, the board of commissioners shall conduct at least one public hearing before adopting any ordinance or resolution which will increase the rate of occupation tax as set forth in this article.
(Code 1976, § 17-37)
Sec. 90-77. - Option to establish exemption or reduction in tax.
By subsequent ordinance or resolution, the board of commissioners may provide for an exemption or reduction in the occupation tax to one or more types of businesses or practitioners of occupations and professions as part of a plan for economic development or attracting or encouraging selected types of businesses or practitioners of selected occupations and professions. Such exemptions or reductions in occupation tax shall not be arbitrary or capricious.
(Code 1976, § 17-38)
Sec. 90-78. - Conflicts between specific and general provisions.
Where there is an apparent conflict in this article between specific and general provisions, it is the intention of this section that the specific shall control.
(Code 1976, § 17-39)
Sec. 90-79. - Violations; penalties.
Any person violating any provision of this article, upon conviction, shall be punished as provided in section 1-11, except that any person whose qualifications to practice their profession is determined by the general laws of the state, and who fails to pay an occupation tax as provided in this article shall only be subject to the provisions of section 90-51(b).
(Code 1976, § 17-18)
Secs. 90-80—90-110. - Reserved.
ARTICLE III. - FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS

Sec. 90-111. - Business license tax levied.
(a)
Pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 49-9-93, for the year 1995 and every year thereafter, there is hereby levied a business license tax from every financial institution located within the city, which shall be based upon 0.25 percent of the gross receipts of such depository financial institutions, as defined and allocated in this section, with a minimum annual tax of $1,000.00.
(1)
For the purposes of this section, the term "gross receipts" means the total amount of revenue generated from the sources itemized in subsections (a)(2) and (3) of this section during the calendar year immediately preceding the date on which the tax authorized by this section shall be due. Before determining gross receipts, there shall be deducted:
a.
An amount equal to the amount of interest paid on all liabilities for the period;
b.
An amount equal to income derived from the authorized activities of any domestic international banking facility operating pursuant to title 7, chapter 1, article 5A of the Domestic International Banking Facility Act;
c.
An amount equal to any income arising from the conduct of a banking business with persons or entities located outside of the United States, its territories or possessions;
d.
An amount equal to a depository financial institution's gross income which is taxed under the tax laws of a state other than this state; and
e.
To the extent that any deductions are made pursuant to subsections (a)(1)b., c. and d. of this section, any deductions taken under subsection (a)(1)a. of this section shall be reduced by the same proportion that the deductions in subsections (a)(1)b.—d. of this section bear to the gross receipts of the depository financial institution as calculated before making any deductions pursuant to subsections (a)(1)a.—d. of this section.
(2)
The items to be included in the calculation of gross receipts, with respect to banks, are as follows:
a.
Interest and fees on loans, less any interest collected on the portions of loans sold and serviced for others;
b.
Interest on balances with other depository financial institutions;
c.
Interest on federal or correspondent funds sold and securities purchased under an agreement to resell;
d.
Interest on other bonds, notes and debentures, excluding interest on obligations of the state or its political subdivisions and obligations of the United States;
e.
Dividends on stock;
f.
Income from direct lease financing;
g.
Income from fiduciary activities;
h.
Service charges on deposit accounts;
i.
Other service charges, commissions and fees; and
j.
Other income.
(3)
The items to be included in the calculation of gross receipts, with respect to savings and loan associations, are as follows:
a.
Interest on mortgage loans, less any interest collected on the portions of loans sold and serviced for others;
b.
Interest on mortgages, participation or mortgage backed securities;
c.
Interest on real estate sold on contract;
d.
Discounts on mortgage loans purchased;
e.
Interest on other loans, excluding interest on obligations of the state or its political subdivisions and obligations of the United States;
f.
Interest and dividends on investments and deposits;
g.
Loan fees;
h.
Loan servicing charges;
i.
Other fees and charges;
j.
Gross income from real estate and owned operations;
k.
Net income from office building operations;
l.
Gross income from real estate held for investment;
m.
Net income from service corporations and subsidiaries;
n.
Miscellaneous operating income;
o.
Profit on sale of real estate owned, investment securities, loans, and other assets; and
p.
Miscellaneous nonoperating income.
(b)
Every depository financial institution subject to the tax authorized under this section shall file a return of its gross receipts with the city by March 1 of the year following the year in which such gross receipts are measured. Such returns shall be in the manner and form prescribed by the city, based on the allocation method set forth in subsection (d) of this section. The return shall provide the information necessary to determine the portion of the taxpayer's total gross receipts to be allocated to each taxing jurisdiction in which such institution has a place of business. The tax collected by the city shall be based upon the information provided in the returns.
(c)
The total gross receipts generated in the state by a depository financial institution subject to any tax authorized by this section shall be allocated among separate taxing jurisdictions as follows:
(1)
If a depository financial institution shall have an office or a place of business in more than one municipality, the amount of gross receipts taxable by each municipality shall be the amount of gross receipts attributable to such offices or places of business as of December 31 of the year in which gross receipts are measured;
(2)
If a depository financial institution shall have an office or a place of business in more than one county, the amount of gross receipts taxable by each county shall be the amount of gross receipts attributable to such offices or places of business as of December 31 of the year in which gross receipts are measured; and
(3)
In determining the amount of gross receipts attributable to each location, 20 percent of the gross receipts shall be attributable to the parent bank. The remaining 80 percent of gross receipts shall be attributable to branch banks and bank offices, pro rata, according to the number of such branch banks and bank offices, with none of the gross receipts attributable to bank facilities or other outlets not considered to be a parent bank, branch bank or bank office. As used in this subsection, the terms "parent bank," "branch bank" and "bank office" have the same meaning as such terms are defined in title 7, chapter 1 of the Financial Institutions Code of Georgia. If there are fewer than five branch banks or bank offices in addition to the parent bank, the amount of gross receipts attributable to each such parent bank, branch bank or bank office shall be determined by dividing the total gross receipts by the aggregate number of such outlets. For purposes of this distribution formula only, the term "bank" also means a savings and loan association.
(Code 1976, § 17-50)
Sec. 90-112. - Occupation tax for insurance companies.
This article in no way affects the occupation tax on insurance companies and/or agents presently in effect and governed by O.C.G.A. § 33-8-8 et seq., which existing ordinances shall continue in full force and effect.
(Code 1976, § 17-51)
Secs. 90-113—90-130. - Reserved.
ARTICLE IV. - INSURANCE COMPANIES[3]

Footnotes:
--- (3) ---
State Law reference— Local tax on other than life insurance companies, O.C.G.A. § 33-8-8.2; general assembly authorized to provide for taxation of insurance companies based on gross direct premiums received from insurance policies within the unincorporated areas of counties, Ga. Const. art. IX, § IV, ¶ I(c).

Sec. 90-131. - Insurers license fees.
There is hereby levied for the year 2022 and for each year thereafter an annual license fee upon each insurer doing business within the City of Jesup, Georgia, in the amount of $50.00. For each separate business location in excess of one not covered by section 90-132, which is operating on behalf of such insurers within the City of Jesup, Georgia, there is hereby levied a license fee in the amount of $50.00. For the purposes of this article, the term "insurer" means a company which is authorized to transact business in any of the classes of insurance designated in O.C.G.A. § 33-3-5.
(Code 1976, § 17-60; Ord. of 7-16-2013, § 1, eff. 1-1-2014; Ord. of 12-7-2021(1), Pt. 1)
Sec. 90-132. - License fees for insurers insuring certain risks at additional business locations.
For each separate business location, not otherwise subject to a license fee hereunder, operated and maintained by a business organization, which is engaged in the business of lending money or transacting sales involving term financing and in connection with such loans or sales offers, solicits or takes application for insurance through a licensed agent of an insurer for insurance, said insurer shall pay an additional license fee of $17.50 per location for the year 2022 and for each year thereafter.
(Code 1976, § 17-61; Ord. of 7-16-2013, § 2, eff. 1-1-2014; Ord. of 12-7-2021(1), Pt. 2)
Editor's note— Section 2 of an ordinance adopted July 16, 2013, changed the title of § 90-132 from "Insurers insuring certain risks at additional business locations" to "License fees for insurers insuring certain risks at additional business locations."
Sec. 90-133. - Independent insurance agencies, brokers, etc., not otherwise licensed.
There is hereby levied for the year 1996 and each year thereafter, an annual license fee upon independent agencies and brokers, for each separate business location from which an insurance business is conducted, and which is not subject to the company license fee imposed by section 90-131, in the amount as set forth in the schedule of fees and charges on file in the office of the city clerk, for each such location within the city.
(Code 1976, § 17-62; Ord. of 12-7-2021(1), Pt. 3)
Sec. 90-134. - Gross premiums tax imposed on life insurers.
There is hereby levied for the year 2022 and for each year thereafter an annual tax based solely upon gross direct premiums upon each insurer writing life, accident and sickness insurance within the State of Georgia in an amount equal to one percent of the gross direct premiums received during the preceding calendar year in accordance with O.C.G.A. § 33-8-8.1. Gross direct premiums as used in this section shall mean gross direct premiums as used in O.C.G.A. § 33-8-4. The premium tax levied by this section is in addition to the license fees imposed by section 90-131 of this article.
(Code 1976, § 17-63; Ord. of 7-16-2013, § 3, eff. 1-1-2014; Ord. of 12-7-2021(1), Pt. 4)
Sec. 90-135. - Gross premiums tax; all other insurers.
There is hereby levied for the year 2022 and for each year thereafter an annual tax based solely upon gross direct premiums upon each insurer, other than an insurer transacting business in the class of insurance designated by O.C.G.A. § 33-3-5(1), doing business within the State of Georgia in an amount equal to two and one-half percent of the gross direct premiums received during the preceding calendar year in accordance with O.C.G.A. § 33-8-8.2. Gross direct premiums as used in this section shall mean gross direct premiums as used in O.C.G.A. § 33-8-4. The premium tax levied by this section is in addition to the license fees imposed by section 90-131 of this article.
(Code 1976, § 17-64; Ord. of 7-16-2013, § 4, eff. 1-1-2014; Ord. of 12-7-2021(1), Pt. 5)
Editor's note— Section 2 of an ordinance adopted July 16, 2013, changed the title of § 90-135 from "Gross premiums tax imposed on all other insurers" to "Gross premiums tax; all other insurers."
Sec. 90-136. - Due date for license fees.
License fees imposed in sections 90-131 and 90-132 of this article shall be due and payable on the first day of 2022 and on the first date of each subsequent year.
(Code 1976, § 17-65; Ord. of 7-16-2013, § 5, eff. 1-1-2014; Ord. of 12-7-2021(1), Pt. 6)
Secs. 90-137—90-170. - Reserved.
ARTICLE V. - LODGING TAX[4]

Footnotes:
--- (4) ---
Editor's note— Section XV of an ordinance adopted April 16, 2019, repealed art. V in its entirety, and §§ I—XIV of said ordinance, enacted new provisions to read as herein set out. Former art. V, §§ 90-171—90-181, pertained to similar subject matter and derived from an ordinance adopted Nov. 21, 2006, §§ 1—11.
State Law reference— Operators of hotels, inns and roadhouses, O.C.G.A. § 43-21-1 et seq.; local excise taxes on rooms, lodgings and accommodations, O.C.G.A. § 48-13-50 et seq.

Sec. 90-171. - Article name.
The name of this article shall be the "2019 Amended and Restated Hotel/Motel Tax Ordinance of the City of Jesup, Georgia."
(Ord. of 4-16-2019, § I)
Sec. 90-172. - Intent, purpose, and authorization to levy excise tax.
(a)
The intent of this article is to levy an excise tax on rooms, lodgings, and accommodations to provide additional funding for the promotion of tourism, conventions, and trade shows in Wayne County, Georgia and the City of Jesup, Georgia.
(b)
The purpose of this article is to enact an excise tax upon the furnishing for value to the public of any room or rooms, lodgings or accommodations furnished by any person or legal entity licensed by or required to pay business or occupational taxes to the City of Jesup, Georgia for operating within the special district a hotel, motel, inn, lodge, tourist camp, tourist cabin, rental cabin or any other place in which rooms, lodgings, or accommodations are regularly furnished for value.
(c)
This excise tax shall be imposed under the authorization of House Bill 1025 (HB 1025) of the 2018 Regular Session of the Georgia General Assembly, pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 48-13-51(b), and other applicable provisions of Georgia law.
(Ord. of 4-16-2019, § II)
Sec. 90-173. - Definitions.
The following terms, for the purposes of this article, shall be defined as follows:
City or City of Jesup or City of Jesup, Georgia means the territorial limits of the City of Jesup, Georgia as established by the official Charter of the City of Jesup, and as such Charter may be amended from time-to-time.
City clerk means the duly appointed clerk of the City of Jesup, Georgia or his or her official designee.
City manager means the duly appointed city manager of the City of Jesup, Georgia or his or her official designee.
County or Wayne County or Wayne County, Georgia means the territorial limits of the Wayne County, Georgia as established by the Georgia General Assembly.
Destination marketing organization means a private sector nonprofit organization or other private entity which is exempt from federal income tax under section 501(c)(6) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 that is supported by the tax under this article, government budget allocations, private membership, or any combination thereof and the primary responsibilities of which are to encourage travelers to visit their destinations, encourage meetings and expositions in the area, and provide visitor assistance and support as needed. (O.C.G.A. § 48-13-50.2(1))
Due date means the 20th day after the close of the monthly period for which tax is to be computed. (O.C.G.A. § 48-13-53.2(a))
Estimated tax liability means the innkeeper's prospective tax liability based upon the average monthly tax remittance in the prior fiscal year, as adjusted for change in the tax rate or substantial change in circumstances due to damage to the hotel. (O.C.G.A. § 48-13-53.2(b))
Folio means the primary documentation produced by a hotel or other facility that demonstrates interaction between the operator and the occupant, and which, at a minimum, reflects the name and address given by the occupant, the date(s) of occupancy, the amount of rent charged for each date, together with the amounts of applicable excise tax(es), and the method(s) of payment.
Guest room means accommodations occupied, or intended, arranged, or designated for transient occupancy of not more than 30 continuous days (O.C.G.A. § 48-13-51(h)(4)), by one or more occupants for the purpose of living quarters or residential use.
Hotel includes any hotel, motel, inn, lodge, tourist camp, tourist cabin, campground, or any other place in which rooms, lodgings, or accommodations are regularly furnished for value and shall apply to the furnishing for value of any room, lodging, or accommodation. (O.C.G.A. § 48-13-51(a)(1)(B)(i)(1))
Innkeeper/lodging provider/operator means any person who is subject to taxation under this article for the furnishing for value to the public any rooms, lodgings, or accommodations. (O.C.G.A. § 48-13-50.2(2))
Monthly period means any calendar month of any year.
Occupancy means the use or possession, or the right to use or possession, of any room or apartment in a hotel or motel, or the right to use or possession of the furnishings or to the services and accommodations accompanying the use and possession of the room or apartment.
Occupant means any person (or persons utilizing as a single unit) who, for a consideration, uses, possesses, or has the right to use or possess, any room or hotel or motel under any lease, concession, permit, right of access, license, agreement or otherwise.
Permanent resident means any occupant who as of a given date shall have occupied, or has or shall have the right of occupancy, of any guest room in a hotel for more than 30 consecutive days.
Person means an individual, firm partnership, joint venture, association, social club, fraternal organization, joint stock company, limited liability company, corporation, nonprofit corporation or cooperative nonprofit membership, estate, trust, business trust receiver, trustee, syndicate, business entity, or any other group or combination acting as a unit, to include the plural as well as the singular number, excepting, however, the United States of America, the State of Georgia, and any political subdivision of either thereof upon which the governing authority of the City of Jesup, Georgia is without power to impose the tax herein provided.
Private sector nonprofit organization means a chamber of commerce, a convention and visitors bureau, a regional travel association, or any other private group organized for similar purposes which is exempt from federal income tax under section 501(c)(6) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986; provided, however, that a county or municipality which has prior to April 1, 1990, contracted for a required expenditure under this Code section with a private group which is exempt from federal income tax under provisions of section 501(c) of the Internal Revenue Code other than section 501(c)(6) may continue to contract for required expenditures with such a private group. (O.C.G.A. § 48-13-50.2(3))
Promoting tourism, conventions, and trade shows means planning, conducting, or participating in programs of information and publicity designed to attract or advertise tourism, conventions, or trade shows. (O.C.G.A. § 48-13-50.2(4))
Rent means the consideration received for occupancy valued in money, whether received in money or otherwise, including all receipts, cash, credits, and property or services of any kind or nature, and also the amount for which credit is allowed by the innkeeper or other person subject to this article to the occupant, without any deduction therefrom whatsoever.
State authority means an authority created by state law which serves a statewide function, including, but not limited to, the Georgia Agricultural Exposition Authority, Georgia Aviation Authority, Georgia Building Authority, Georgia Development Authority, Georgia Environmental Finance Authority, Jekyll Island Authority, Lake Allatoona Preservation Authority, Georgia Medical Center Authority, Georgia Ports Authority, Georgia Regional Transportation Authority, State Road and Tollway Authority, Sports Hall of Fame Authority, Georgia Technology Authority, and Georgia World Congress Center Authority, but shall not mean an authority created for support of a local government or a local purpose or function and shall not include authorities such as area planning and development commissions and any organizational entities they may create, regional commissions and any organizational entities they may create, or local water and sewer authorities. (O.C.G.A. § 48-13-50.2(5))
Tax means the excise tax of eight percent on occupants imposed by this article, as provided for by O.C.G.A. § 48-13-51(b).
Tax administrator means the individual appointed by the governing body of the City of Jesup, Georgia or the individual of any office of the City of Jesup's government which may in the future be designated as the administrative entity to collect, administer, and complete required annual reporting of the tax.
Tourism product development means the expenditure of funds for the creation or expansion of physical attractions which are available and open to the public and which improve destination appeal to visitors, support visitors' experience, and are used by visitors. Such expenditures may include capital costs and operating expenses. Tourism product development may include:
(1)
Lodging for the public for no longer than 30 consecutive days to the same customer;
(2)
Overnight or shortterm sites for recreational vehicles, trailers, campers, or tents;
(3)
Meeting, convention, exhibit, and public assembly facilities;
(4)
Sports stadiums, arenas, and complexes;
(5)
Golf courses associated with a resort development that are open to the general public on a contract or fee basis;
(6)
Racing facilities, including dragstrips, motorcycle racetracks, and auto or stock car racetracks or speedways;
(7)
Amusement centers, amusement parks, theme parks, or amusement piers;
(8)
Hunting preserves, trapping preserves, or fishing preserves or lakes;
(9)
Visitor information and welcome centers;
(10)
Wayfinding signage;
(11)
Permanent, nonmigrating carnivals or fairs;
(12)
Airplanes, helicopters, buses, vans, or boats for excursions or sightseeing;
(13)
Boat rentals, boat party fishing services, rowboat or canoe rentals, horse shows, natural wonder attractions, picnic grounds, river-rafting services, scenic railroads for amusement, aerial tramways, rodeos, water slides, or wave pools;
(14)
Museums, planetariums, art galleries, botanical gardens, aquariums, or zoological gardens;
(15)
Parks, trails, and other recreational facilities; or
(16)
Performing arts facilities. (O.C.G.A. § 48-13-50.2(6))
(Ord. of 4-16-2019, § III)
Sec. 90-174. - Tax rate.
There is hereby set and levied on the occupant of a guest room of any hotel/motel/cabin/residence/lodge located within the special district a tax in the amount of eight percent of the gross rent for such occupancy.
(Ord. of 4-16-2019, § IV)
Sec. 90-175. - Effective date.
This ordinance [from which this article derives] shall be effective upon its passage. The tax set out herein shall become effective (and shall be collected) commencing on the second month after the passage of this ordinance [from which this article derives], and, therefore, take effect on the first day of June of 2019.
(Ord. of 4-16-2019, § V)
Sec. 90-176. - Exemptions.
In accordance with O.C.G.A. § 48-13-51(h), the tax imposed by this article shall not apply to:
(1)
Charges made for any rooms, lodgings, or accommodations provided to any persons who certify that they are staying in such room, lodging, or accommodation as a result of the destruction of their home or residence by fire or other casualty;
(2)
The use of meeting rooms and other such facilities or any rooms, lodgings, or accommodations provided without charge;
(3)
Any rooms, lodgings, or accommodations furnished for a period of one or more days for use by Georgia state or local governmental officials or employees when traveling on official business (Notwithstanding the availability of any other means of identifying the person as a state or local government official or employee, whenever a person pays for any rooms, lodgings, or accommodations with a state or local government credit or debit card, such rooms, lodgings, or accommodations shall be deemed to have been furnished for use by a Georgia state or local government official or employee traveling on official business for purposes of the exemption provided by this paragraph. For purpose of the exemption provided under this paragraph, a local government official or employee shall include officials or employees of counties, municipalities, consolidated governments, or county or independent school districts); or
(4)
Charges made for continuous use of any rooms, lodgings, or accommodations after the first 30 days of continuous occupancy. (O.C.G.A. § 48-13-51(h))
(Ord. of 4-16-2019, § VI)
Sec. 90-177. - Use of revenue.
(a)
Pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 48-13-51(b)(5)(A), an amount equal to not less than 50 percent of the total amount of taxes collected that exceed the amount of taxes that would be collected at the rate of five percent shall be expended for promoting tourism, conventions, and trade shows by the destination marketing organization, as defined in section III of this article (section 90-173), designated by the City of Jesup; and
(b)
Pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 48-13-51(b)(5)(B), the remaining amount of taxes collected that exceed the amount of taxes that would be collected at the rate of five percent which are not otherwise expended under this section, paragraph (a) (above) shall be expended for tourism product development, as defined in section 90-173 of this article; and
(c)
Pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 48-13-51(a)(3), the amount of taxes that would be collected at the rate of five percent, as referenced in this section, paragraphs (a) and (b) (above), an amount equal to the amount by which the total taxes collected under the said Code section exceed the taxes which would be collected at a rate of three percent for the purpose of:
(1)
Promoting tourism, conventions, and trade shows;
(2)
Supporting a facility owned or operated by a state authority for convention and trade show purposes or any other similar or related purposes;
(3)
Supporting a facility owned or operated by a local government or local authority for convention and trade show purposes or any other similar or related purposes, if a written agreement to provide such support was in effect on January 1, 1987, and if such facility is substantially completed and in operation prior to July 1, 1987;
(4)
Supporting a facility owned or operated by a local government or local authority for convention and trade show purposes or any other similar or related purposes if construction of such facility is funded or was funded prior to July 1, 1990, in whole or in part by a grant of state funds or is funded on or after July 1, 1990, in whole or substantially by an appropriation of state funds;
(5)
Supporting a facility owned by a local government or local authority for convention and trade show purposes and any other similar or related purposes if construction of such facility is substantially funded or was substantially funded on or after February 28, 1985, by a special county one percent sales and use tax authorized by O.C.G.A. title 48, chapter 13, article 3, as amended and if such facility was substantially completed and in operation prior to December 31, 1993; or
(6)
For some combination of such purposes.
Amounts so expended shall be expended only through a contract or contracts with the state, a department of state government, a state authority, a convention and visitors bureau authority created by local Act of the General Assembly for a municipality, or a private sector nonprofit organization, or through a contract or contracts with some combination of such entities, except that amounts expended for purposes of subparagraphs (c)(3) and (c)(4) may be so expended in any otherwise lawful manner.
(Ord. of 4-16-2019, § VII)
Sec. 90-178. - Registration of lodging provider; form and contents; execution; certificate of authority.
Every innkeeper or other person subject to this article, or any other person owning, managing, or operating a hotel, motel, inn, lodge, tourist camp, tourist cabin, campground, or any other place in which rooms, lodgings, or accommodations are regularly furnished for value, or persons engaging or about to engage in business as a lodging in the City of Jesup, Georgia shall immediately register as an innkeeper with the city clerk on a form provided by said official. If such innkeepers or persons have not already done so, such innkeepers or persons engaged in such businesses must so register not later than 30 days after the date that this article becomes effective. Such registration shall set forth the name under which such innkeepers or persons transact business or intend to transact business, the location of the place(s) of business and such other information which would facilitate the administration of the tax as prescribed by the city clerk. The registration shall be signed by the owner if a natural person; in case of ownership by an association or partnership, by a member or partner; in case of ownership by a corporation, by an officer. The city clerk shall, after such registration, issue without charge a certificate of authority to each such innkeeper or persons to collect the tax from occupants. A separate registration shall be required for each place of business of such innkeepers or persons within the City of Jesup. Each certificate shall state the name and location of the business to which it is applicable.
(Ord. of 4-16-2019, § VIII)
Sec. 90-179. - Returns; payments.
(a)
Due date of taxes. All amounts of such tax shall be due and payable to the city clerk monthly on or before the 20th day of the month next succeeding the respective monthly period. The tax shall become delinquent for any monthly period after the 20th day of each succeeding month during which it remains unpaid.
(b)
Penalty and interest for failure to pay tax by due date. An innkeeper or other person subject to this article who fails to make any return or to pay the amount of tax as prescribed, shall be assessed a specific penalty to be added to the tax in the amount of five percent or $50.00, whichever is greater, if the failure is for one month or less; and an additional five percent or $50.00, whichever is greater, for each additional month or fraction thereof in which such failure shall continue; provided, however, that the aggregate penalty for any single violation shall not exceed 25 percent or $250.00, whichever is greater. Delinquent amounts shall bear interest at the rate of one percent per month, or fraction thereof, until paid.
(c)
Acceptance of delinquent return and remittance without imposing penalty and interest; authority; requirements. If the failure to make any return or to pay the amount of tax by the due date results from providential cause shown to the satisfaction of the governing authority of the city by affidavit attached to the return, and remittance is made within ten days of the due date, such return may be accepted exclusive of penalty and interest.
(d)
Waiving of penalty and interest; authority. O.C.G.A. § 48-2-41, relating to the authority to waive interest, and O.C.G.A. § 48-2-43, relating to the authority to waive penalty, shall apply; provided, however, that the governing authority shall stand in lieu of the Georgia Commissioner of Revenue, and the City of Jesup shall stand in lieu of the state.
(e)
Penalty for fraud. In the case of a false or fraudulent return, or of failure to file a return where willful intent exists to defraud the city of any tax due, a penalty of 50 percent shall be assessed.
(f)
Return; remittance; time of filing; innkeepers and persons subject to this article required to file; contents. On or before the 20th day of the month succeeding each monthly period, a return for the preceding monthly period together with appropriate remittance shall be filed with the city clerk by each innkeeper or other person subject to this article. The return shall report the gross rent, taxable rent, exempt rent, amount of tax collected or otherwise due for the period, and such other information as may be required by the city clerk. However, if the estimated tax liability for any monthly period shall exceed $2,500.00 for an innkeeper or other person subject to this article who, in the prior fiscal year remitted tax greater than $2,500.00 in any three consecutive months, such innkeeper or other person subject to this article shall file an estimated return and remit not less than 50 percent of the estimated tax liability for the monthly period by the 20th day of that same monthly period. The amount of tax so remitted shall be credited against the amount to be due with the regular return for the monthly period to be filed on the 20th day of the succeeding month.
(g)
Extension of time of filing; authority; requirements; remittance; penalty and interest. The governing authority of the city may, for good cause, extend the time for making returns for not longer than 30 days. No extension shall be valid unless granted in writing upon written application of the requesting innkeeper or other person subject to this article. Such grant may not be applicable for longer period than 12 consecutive months. Such innkeeper or other person subject to this article who is granted an extension shall remit tax equaling not less than 100 percent of the tax paid for the corresponding period of the prior fiscal year; such remittance to be made on or before the date the tax would otherwise come due without the grant of extension. No penalty or interest shall be charged during the first ten days of the extension period. Thereafter, interest shall be collected on the unpaid balance at the rate of one and one-half percent per month.
(h)
Collection fee allowed innkeepers or other persons subject to this article. Each innkeeper or other person subject to this article collecting the tax shall be allowed a percentage of the tax due and accounted for and shall be reimbursed in the form of a deduction in submitting, reporting and paying the amount due, if the amount is not delinquent at the time of payment. The rate of the deduction shall be three percent of the amount due, but only if the amount due was not delinquent at the time of payment.
(Ord. of 4-16-2019, § IX)
Sec. 90-180. - Recomputation of tax; authority to make; basis of recomputation.
(a)
Recomputation of tax; authority to make; basis of recomputation. If the city clerk is not satisfied with the return or returns of the tax or the amount of the tax required to be paid to the City of Jesup by any innkeeper or other person subject to this article, he or she may compute and determine the amount required to be paid upon the basis of any information within his possession or that may come into his possession. One or more deficiency determinations may be made of the amount due for one or more monthly periods.
(b)
Penalty and interest for failure to pay tax. Penalty and interest shall be assessed upon the amount of any determination, as provided by section 90-179.
(c)
Notice of determination; service of. The city clerk shall give to the innkeeper or other person subject to this article written notice of his determination. The notice may be served personally or by mail; if by mail, such service shall be addressed to the innkeeper or other person subject to this article at his address as it appears in the records of the city. Service by mail is complete when delivered by certified mail with a receipt signed by the addressee, or when made by statutory overnight delivery.
(d)
Time within which notice of deficiency determination to be mailed. Except in cases of failure to make a return or of fraud, every notice of deficiency determination shall be mailed within three years after the 20th day of the calendar month following the monthly period for which the amount is proposed to be determined, or within three years after the return is filed, whichever period should last expire.
(e)
Appeal or protest of deficiency determination. The procedure for contesting a deficiency determination shall be as provided by O.C.G.A. § 48-5-380.
(Ord. of 4-16-2019, § X)
Sec. 90-181. - Determination if no return made.
(a)
Estimate of gross receipts. If any innkeeper or other person subject to this article fails to make a return, the city clerk shall make an estimate of the amount of the gross receipts of the innkeeper or other person subject to this article, or as the case may be, of the amounts of total rentals in the City of Jesup which are subject to the tax. The estimate shall be made for the period or periods in respect to which the innkeeper or other person subject to this article failed to make the return and shall be based upon any information which is or may come into the possession of the city clerk. Written notice shall be given in the manner prescribed in section 90-180(c) (see section 90-180, recomputation of tax; authority to make; basis of recomputation).
(b)
Penalty and interest for failure to pay tax. Penalty and interest shall be assessed upon the amount of any determination, as provided by section IX, returns, payments (section 90-179).
(Ord. of 4-16-2019, § XI)
Sec. 90-181.1. - Collection of tax by city.
(a)
Action for delinquent tax; time for. At any time within three years after any tax or any amount of tax required to be collected becomes due and payable, and at any time within three years after the delinquency of any tax or any amount of tax required to be collected, the city clerk may bring an action in a court of competent jurisdiction in the name of the city to collect the amount delinquent together with penalty, interest, court fees, filing fees, attorney's fees and other legal fees incident thereto.
(b)
Lodging provider selling or quitting business. If any innkeeper or other person subject to this article liable for any amount under this article sells out his business or quits his business, he or she shall make a final return and remittance within 15 days after the date of selling or quitting the business.
(c)
Duty of successors or assignees of innkeeper or other person subject to this article to withhold tax from purchase money. If any innkeeper or other person that is subject to this article and who is then liable for any amount of tax, interest or penalty under this article sells out his, her, its or their business or quits the business, he, she, it or they successors or assigns shall withhold sufficiently from the purchase price to cover such amount until the former owner produces from the city clerk either a receipt reflecting full payment or a certificate stating that no amount is due.
(d)
Liability for failure to withhold. If the purchaser of a business fails to withhold from the purchase price as required, he, she, it or they shall be personally liable for the payment of the amount required to be withheld by him, her, it or them to the extent of the purchase price.
(e)
Credit for tax, penalty or interest paid more than once or erroneously or illegally collected. Whenever the amount of any tax, penalty or interest has been paid more than once, or has been erroneously or illegally collected or received by the city, it may be refunded by the governing authority. If the innkeeper or other person subject to this article determines that he or she has overpaid or paid more than once, which fact has not been determined by the city clerk, such person shall have three years from the date of payment to file a claim in writing stating the specific ground upon which the claim is founded. The claimant may request a hearing before the governing authority at which the claim and any other information available will be considered. The governing authority shall approve or disapprove the claim and notify the claimant of its action.
(Ord. of 4-16-2019, § XII)
Sec. 90-181.2. - Administration of article; recordkeeping.
(a)
Authority of city clerk. The city clerk shall administer and enforce the provisions of this article for the collection of the tax.
(b)
Records required from innkeepers or other persons subject to this article. Every innkeeper or other person subject to this article renting guest rooms in the city shall preserve, for a minimum of three years, all folios, receipts, certificates of exemption and such other documents as the city clerk may prescribe, and in such form as he or she may require. Said records shall at all times be available for examination within the city.
(c)
Examination of records; audits. The city clerk or any person authorized in writing by him or her may examine the books, papers, records, financial reports, equipment and other facilities of any innkeeper or other person subject to this article or any other person renting guest rooms or any other person liable for the collection of tax under this article, in order to verify the accuracy of any return made, or if no return is made by the innkeeper or such other person, to ascertain and determine the amount required to be paid. Such examination shall be conducted at the place of lodging provision, unless the city clerk shall stipulate another place within the city.
(d)
Authority to require reports; contents. In administration of the provisions of this article, the city clerk may require the filing of reports by any person or class of persons having in their possession or custody information relating to the rental of guest rooms which are subject to the tax. The reports shall be filed with the city clerk when required by said official and shall set forth the rental charged for each occupancy, the date(s) of occupancy, the basis for any exemption, or such other information as the city clerk may prescribe.
(Ord. of 4-16-2019, § XIII)
Sec. 90-181.3. - Violations.
Any innkeeper or other person subject to this article who fails, neglects or refuses to collect the tax as provided for in this article shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be punished by a fine of not more than $100.00, or confinement for a term not to exceed three months, or both fine and confinement. Any innkeeper or other person subject to this article who fails or refuses to make any return as provided for in this article, to keep adequate records or to open them for inspection by the city, or otherwise to furnish other data reasonably requested by the governing authority shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be punished by a fine of not more than $100.00, or confinement for a term not to exceed three months, or both. Any innkeeper or other person subject to this article who makes a false or fraudulent return with intent to evade the tax shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be punished by a fine of not less than $100.00, nor more than $300.00, or confinement for a term not to exceed three months, or both. Each and every day during any portion of which any violation is committed, continued or permitted, shall constitute a separate offense and shall be punished accordingly.
(Ord. of 4-16-2019, § XIV)
ARTICLE VI. - MUNICIPAL ENERGY EXCISE TAX[5]

Footnotes:
--- (5) ---
Editor's note— Section 4 of an ordinance adopted Nov. 6, 2012, states "This ordinance [article] shall become effective immediately upon its adoption by the City Council, except that the imposition of the excise tax shall become effective as governed by Sec. 90-189, Commencement of Collections, and by the Official Code of Georgia Annotated Section 48-13-116."

Sec. 90-182. - Short title.
This article shall be known as the "Municipal Energy Excise Tax Ordinance."
(Ord. of 11-6-2012, § 1)
Sec. 90-183. - Findings and intent.
This article is adopted to address the interest of public finance. Georgia law authorizes counties and municipalities to impose an excise tax on the sale or use of energy, but the imposition of the excise tax on the sale or use of energy in the law is contingent upon the enactment of an ordinance by the City of Jesup. In order for the City of Jesup to properly impose such an excise tax, the city must comply with all of the provisions of O.C.G.A. tit. 48, ch. 13, art. 6, one provision of which is the enactment of this article.
(Ord. of 11-6-2012, § 1)
Sec. 90-184. - Definitions.
[The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:]
Dealer shall have the same meaning as provided for in the O.C.G.A. § 48-13-110.
Energy shall have the same meaning as provided for in the O.C.G.A. § 48-13-110.
Local sales and use tax shall have the same meaning as provided for in the O.C.G.A. § 48-13-110.
Purchaser shall have the same meaning as provided for in the O.C.G.A. § 48-13-110.
(Ord. of 11-6-2012, § 1)
Sec. 90-185. - Energy excise tax imposed.
(a)
In accordance with the provisions of O.C.G.A. tit. 48, ch. 13, art. 6, there is imposed within the territorial limits of the City of Jesup, an excise tax on the sale or use of energy when such sale or use would have constituted a taxable event for purposes of sales and use tax under O.C.G.A. tit. 48, ch. 13, art. 1, but for the exemption found in the O.C.G.A. § 48-8-3.2.
(b)
The sale or use of energy, when such sale or use would have constituted a taxable event for purposes of sales and use tax under O.C.G.A. tit. 48, ch. 13, art. 1, but for the exemption found in the O.C.G.A. § 48-8-3.2, includes, but is not limited to, the sales and use of energy that is necessary and integral to the manufacture of tangible personal property such as:
(1)
Machinery or equipment used to convey or transport industrial materials, work in process, consumable supplies, or packaging materials at or among manufacturing plants or to convey and transport finished goods to a distribution or storage point at the manufacturing plant. Specific examples may include, but are not limited to, forklifts, conveyors, cranes, hoists, and pallet jacks;
(2)
Machinery or equipment used to gather, arrange, sort, mix, measure, blend, heat, cool, clean, or otherwise treat, prepare, or store industrial or raw materials for further manufacturing;
(3)
Machinery or equipment used to control, regulate, heat, cool, or produce energy for other machinery or equipment that is necessary and integral to the manufacture of tangible personal property. Specific examples may include, but are not limited to, boilers, chillers, washers, motors, condensers, water towers, dehumidifiers, humidifiers, heat exchangers, generators, transformers, motor control centers, solar panels, air dryers, and air compressors;
(4)
Testing and quality control machinery or equipment located at a manufacturing plant used to test the quality of industrial materials, work in process, or finished goods;
(5)
Starters, switches, circuit breakers, transformers, wiring, piping, and other electrical components, including associated cable trays, conduit, and insulation, located between a motor control center and exempt machinery or equipment or between separate units of exempt machinery or equipment;
(6)
Machinery or equipment used to maintain, clean, or repair exempt machinery or equipment;
(7)
Machinery or equipment used to provide safety for the employees working at a manufacturing plant, including, but not limited to, safety machinery and equipment required by federal or state law, gloves, ear plugs, face masks, protective eyewear, hard hats or helmets, or breathing apparatuses, regardless of whether the items would otherwise be considered consumable supplies;
(8)
Machinery or equipment used to condition air or water to produce conditions necessary for the manufacture of tangible personal property, including pollution control machinery or equipment and water treatment systems;
(9)
Pollution control, sanitizing, sterilizing, or recycling machinery or equipment;
(10)
Industrial materials bought for further processing in the manufacture of tangible personal property for sale or further processing or any part of the industrial material or by-product thereof which becomes a wasteful product contributing to pollution problems and which is used in a recycling or burning process;
(11)
Machinery or equipment used in quarrying and mining activities, including blasting, extraction, and crushing; and
(12)
Energy used at a manufacturing plant.
(Ord. of 11-6-2012, § 1)
Sec. 90-186. - Energy excise tax rate and phase-in.
(a)
The rate of the excise tax levied and collected pursuant to this article shall be phased in over a four-year period as directed by the O.C.G.A. §§ 48-13-112(a)(3) and 48-13-112(b) and as set forth below:
(1)
For the period commencing January 1, 2013, and concluding at the last moment of December 31, 2013, such excise tax shall be at a rate equivalent to 25 percent of the total amount of local sales and use tax in effect in Wayne County, Georgia that would be collected on the sale, use, storage, or consumption of energy but for the exemption in the O.C.G.A. § 48-8-3.2;
(2)
For the period commencing January 1, 2014, and concluding at the last moment of December 31, 2014, such excise tax shall be at a rate equivalent to 50 percent of the total amount of local sales and use tax in effect in Wayne County, Georgia that would be collected on the sale, use, storage, or consumption of energy but for the exemption in the O.C.G.A. § 48-8-3.2;
(3)
For the period commencing January 1, 2015, and concluding at the last moment of December 31, 2015, such excise tax shall be at a rate equivalent to 75 percent of the total amount of local sales and use tax in effect in Wayne County, Georgia that would be collected on the sale, use, storage, or consumption of energy but for the exemption in the O.C.G.A. § 48-8-3.2; and
(4)
On or after January 1, 2016, such excise tax shall be at a rate equivalent to 100 percent of the total amount of local sales and use tax in effect in Wayne County, Georgia that would be collected on the sale, use, storage, or consumption of energy but for the exemption in the O.C.G.A. § 48-8-3.2.
(b)
In accordance with O.C.G.A. § 48-8-3.2 (c)(4), if a project of regional significance under O.C.G.A. § 48-8-3(92) is started in Wayne County, Georgia, it shall not be subject to the phase-in period contained in paragraphs (1), (2), and (3) of subsection (a) of this section, and the sale, use, storage, or consumption of energy in connection therewith shall be subject to the rate specified in paragraph (4) of subsection (a) of this section notwithstanding the January 1, 2016 limitation in that paragraph (4).
(c)
Following such initial imposition during the phase-in time period, on or after January 1, 2016, the rate of the excise tax levied and collected by the governing authority of the City shall be directed by the O.C.G.A. § 48-13-112(d). Such rate shall not be more than three percent if the municipality levies a water and sewer projects and costs tax pursuant to O.C.G.A. tit. 48, ch. 8, art. 4.
(d)
In the event the total rate of local sales and use taxes in effect in Wayne County decreases from two percent to one percent, the rate of the excise tax under this article shall likewise be reduced at the same time such local sales and use tax rate reduction becomes effective.
(e)
In the event the total rate of local sales and use taxes in effect in Wayne County increases from one percent to two percent, the rate of the excise tax under this article shall likewise be increased at the same time such local sales and use tax rate increase becomes effective.
(Ord. of 11-6-2012, § 1)
Sec. 90-187. - Energy excise tax imposition, remittance and recovery.
(a)
The excise tax levied and collected pursuant to this article shall be imposed at the time and be recoverable as governed by the O.C.G.A. § 48-13-112(c).
(b)
The excise tax shall be a debt of the purchaser of energy until it is paid and shall be recoverable at law in the same manner as authorized for the recovery of other debts as governed by the O.C.G.A. § 48-13-112(c).
(c)
The dealer collecting the excise tax shall remit the excise tax to the city if the city is the governing authority imposing the excise tax as governed by the O.C.G.A. § 48-13-112(c).
(d)
Every dealer subject to an excise tax under this article shall be liable for the excise tax at an applicable rate on the charges actually collected or the amount of the excise taxes collected from the purchasers, whichever is greater as governed by the O.C.G.A. § 48-13-112(c).
(Ord. of 11-6-2012, § 1)
Sec. 90-188. - Exemption certificates.
(a)
The governing authority of the city, or the collecting officer appointed under this article, shall make diligent efforts to identify all energy providers and purchasers in the city and to ascertain whether such purchasers have completed a uniform exemption certificate provided by the Georgia Department of Revenue seeking to qualify such purchaser under the exemption found in the O.C.G.A. § 48-8-32.2. Such certificate shall be utilized by such governing authority or collecting officer for the purpose of determining the applicability of the excise tax under this article.
(b)
An energy provider shall be authorized to rely upon such uniform exemption certificates provided by the Georgia Department of Revenue. The energy provider shall not be liable for failing to collect and remit the excise tax imposed under this article if a purchaser has failed to submit the uniform exemption certificate provided by the Georgia Department of Revenue to such energy provider.
(Ord. of 11-6-2012, § 1)
Sec. 90-189. - Commencement of collections and due date.
(a)
The excise tax imposed pursuant to this article shall become effective on January 1, 2013.
(b)
The excise tax levied pursuant to this article shall be imposed only at the time that sales and use tax on the sale and use of such energy would have been due and payable under the O.C.G.A. § 48-8-30 but for the exemption in O.C.G.A. § 48-8-3.2.
(c)
The excise tax shall be due and payable in the same manner as would otherwise be required under O.C.G.A. tit. 48, ch. 8, art. 1.
(d)
All sales and purchases taxable under this article during the preceding calendar month shall be due and payable monthly on or before the twentieth day of every month and each respective month in which such taxes are collected, and payment shall be accompanied by a return for the preceding monthly period showing the gross sales and purchases arising from all sales and purchases taxable under this Article during the preceding calendar month.
(Ord. of 11-6-2012, § 1)
Sec. 90-190. - Expenditure of proceeds.
The proceeds of the excise tax levied and collected pursuant to this article shall not be subject to any use or expenditure requirements provided for under any of the local sales and use taxes, but shall be authorized to be expended in the same manner as otherwise would have been required under such local sales and use taxes or may be expended for any lawful purpose as governed by the O.C.G.A. § 48-13-112(c). Any proceeds received by the city pursuant to this article shall be deposited in the general fund of the City of Jesup.
(Ord. of 11-6-2012, § 1)
Sec. 90-191. - Termination of municipal excise tax.
(a)
If the city has levied and collected an excise tax within the corporate limits of municipality under this article because the county in which the city is located has refused or failed to enter into an intergovernmental agreement with each municipality wishing to participate in such excise tax as allowed by the O.C.G.A. § 48-13-115(a)(1) and then the county determines to commence proceedings for the imposition of the excise tax as allowed by the O.C.G.A. § 48-13-115(b)(2), then the excise tax levied and collected by the city shall cease to the extent as provided for by the O.C.G.A. § 48-13-115(b)(2).
(b)
If the county has commenced proceedings for the imposition of the excise tax as allowed by the O.C.G.A. § 48-13-115(b)(2) and the excise tax levied and collected by the city has terminated and the city has chosen to participate in the county excise tax, then this article shall remain effective for the purposes of O.C.G.A. tit. 48, ch. 13, art. 6, and particularly for the rates required by the O.C.G.A. § 48-13-112.
(Ord. of 11-6-2012, § 1)
Sec. 90-192. - Administrative provisions and audit.
(a)
The city governing authority shall be authorized to designate a collecting officer for collection and administration of the excise tax under this article.
(b)
The collecting officer shall be authorized to provide for procedures necessary to the proper implementation of this article, including, but not limited to, periodic auditing of dealers collecting and remitting the excise tax.
(c)
The collecting officer, or designee, may examine the books, papers, records, financial reports, equipment and other facilities of and locations within the city of any purchaser which is required to remit the excise tax to the energy dealer under this article.
(d)
As part by the audit report required by the O.C.G.A. § 36-81-7, the auditor shall include, in a separate schedule, a report of the revenues pertaining to the excise tax under this article.
(Ord. of 11-6-2012, § 1)
