Chapter 42 - FINANCES[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Cross reference— Any ordinance or resolution promising or guaranteeing the payment of money for the city or authorizing the issuance of any bonds of the city or evidence of the city's indebtedness saved from repeal, § 1-6(a)(2); administration, ch. 2; taxation, ch. 90.
State Law reference— Discretion of governing body as to management and disposition of property, O.C.G.A. § 36-30-2; grants of state funds to municipalities, O.C.G.A. § 36-40-1 et seq.; power of expenditure, Ga. Const. art. IX, § IV, ¶ II.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Secs. 42-1—42-30. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - PURCHASING[2]

Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
Editor's note— An ordinance adopted Aug. 18, 2015, amended art. II in its entirety to read as herein set out. Former art. II, §§ 42-31—42-33 pertained to similar subject matter, and derived from an ordinance adopted Jan. 20, 2015, § 1.

Sec. 42-31. - Waiver of article.
Except as otherwise required by a state law of general application, or the Charter of the City of Jesup, as amended from time to time, the board of commissioners by majority vote may waive any provision of this article when deemed in the best interest of the city.
(Ord. of 8-18-2015, § 1)
Sec. 42-32. - Expenditures by city manager and department heads.
Unless otherwise prohibited by a general law of statewide application or by federal law, the city manager shall have the authority to make expenditures in accordance with the city's purchasing and acquisition procedures, including those that may, from time to time, be established by resolution or ordinance of the board of commissioners, of up to an amount of $20,000.00 per purchase or acquisition without first receiving the prior approval of the board of commissioners. A series of single expenditures in amounts of $20,000.00 or less that are related to or for the same subject matter or purposes in an attempt to circumvent the limitation of $20,000.00 shall be prohibited. Department heads similarly shall have the authority to make expenditures in accordance with the city's purchasing and acquisition procedures as may be implemented from time to time by the city manager or the board of commissioners of up to a maximum amount of $2,000.00 per expenditure without the approval of the city manager or the board of commissioners. A series of single expenditures in amounts of $2,000.00 or less that are related to or for the same subject matter or purposes in an attempt to circumvent the limitation of $2,000.00 shall be prohibited. For all proposed purchases or acquisitions in excess of the amount of $2,000.00, but less than or equal to $20,000.00, a purchase order must be first submitted to the city manager and thereafter approved by him or her prior to such purchase or acquisition. For purchases in an amount equal to or in excess of $20,000.00, the remaining procedures set out in this article or those otherwise mandated by a statewide law of general jurisdiction or applicable federal law shall apply.
(Ord. of 8-18-2015, § 1; Ord. of 10-4-2022(1))
Sec. 42-33. - Formal contract procedure and purchase orders.
(a)
Generally. With the exception of professional services and public-works contracts or as otherwise allowed or permitted under the Official Code of Ordinances of the City of Jesup, all purchases or acquisitions of all materials, supplies, equipment and contractual services, when the cost thereof shall exceed the amount of $20,000.00 shall be purchased or acquired under a formal, written contract with the lowest responsible and responsive bidder, after due notice inviting the submission of written bid proposals for such materials, supplies, equipment and/or contractual services; at the option of the city manager bids may also be accepted by email or may be established by the "online reverse auction" process as defined by the Georgia Municipal Association or its successor entity or similar online process. In the event that the "online reverse auction" process is used, the length of the auction and the amount of the bid increments shall be established by the city manager and shall be incorporated into the bid notice. "Public works projects" is defined as infrastructure projects, including construction, repair, remodeling, alteration, conversion, modernization, improvement, rehabilitation, replacement, or renovation, financed by the City of Jesup, for recreational, employment, and health and safety uses in the City of Jesup, Georgia.
(b)
Notice inviting bids. Notice inviting bids shall also be published once in the official organ of Wayne County, Georgia, where the sheriff of said county also carries his or her advertisements, at least ten days before the last day set for the receipt of bids.
(c)
Scope of notice. The newspaper notice required in subsection (b) of this section shall include a description of the materials, supplies, equipment or contractual services to be purchased, shall state where bid blanks or bid forms, if used, and the general specifications of the bid may be secured, and the time and place for opening bids.
(d)
Bid deposits. When deemed necessary by the board of commissioners, bid deposits shall be prescribed in the public notices inviting bids.
(e)
Bid opening procedures. Bids shall be submitted in the form and shall contain the content directed by the city, sealed to the attention of the city, and shall be identified as a "sealed bid" on the envelope. The envelope must be of sufficient weight and bulk whereby the amount of the bid may not be visibly detected outside the envelope. All bids shall be delivered to the city by certified mail, return receipt requested, or personally delivered to the city hall on the date and at the time specified by the city. All bids shall be opened with at least two members of the board of commissioners present. The city manager shall refer such bids to the appropriate department head to ensure that bid specifications have been met and to obtain a recommendation from such department head. A tabulation of all bids received shall be posted for public inspection. The city manager shall notify the board in writing of such bid openings and deliver the bids to the board along with the agenda for the regular or special meeting at which such bids may be considered. The city manager shall also make a recommendation to the board on such bids.
(f)
Rejection of bids. The board of commissioners shall have the authority to reject all bids or parts of all bids. Any bid that is not in the form directed by the city or that does not contain content required by the city may be rejected, and such bidder may be considered as a non-responsive bidder and such bid as non-responsive. The board shall have the further right to waive all technicalities or requirements required under the city's bid specifications, except those provided by this article.
(g)
Award of contract. Except as otherwise required or permitted under a statewide law of general jurisdiction, applicable federal law or the Code of the City of Jesup, Georgia, contracts for or purchases or acquisitions of all other materials, supplies, equipment and contractual services, with the exception of public works projects, in excess of $20,000.00 shall be awarded to the lowest responsible bidder. In determining the lowest responsible bidder, in addition to price, the board of commissioners shall consider:
(1)
The ability, capacity and skill of the bidder to perform the contract;
(2)
Whether the bidder can perform the contract or provide the service promptly, or within the time specified, without delay or interference;
(3)
The character, integrity, reputation, judgment, experience and efficiency of the bidder;
(4)
The quality of performance of previous contracts;
(5)
The previous and existing compliance by the bidder with laws and ordinances relating to the contract and the bidder's prior similar work, including for other persons or entities other than the city;
(6)
The sufficiency of the financial resources, credit standing, Better Business Bureau rating, Dunn and Bradstreet's rating, bonding capacity and the perceived ability of the bidder to perform the contract, to do the work or to perform the services sought by the city;
(7)
The ability of the bidder to provide future maintenance for the use of the contract;
(8)
The number and scope of conditions attached to the bid; and
(9)
The responsiveness of the bidder.
(Ord. of 8-18-2015, § 1; Ord. of 10-4-2022(1))
Sec. 42-34. - Sole source or single source procurement.
Notwithstanding any competitive bidding requirements imposed upon the city under the Code of the City of Jesup, Georgia, the city may also acquire goods, equipment, services and/or services by directly negotiating purchases or awards with a "sole source" or "single source" when the goods, equipment, services and/or services are only reasonably available through a sole source or single source, as more fully set out in this section.
(1)
Approval by board of commissioners. Prior to effectuate purchasing or awards under this section for sole source or single source goods, equipment, or services, the board of commissioners must first approve suspension of the city's competitive bid requirements under the Code of the City of Jesup, Georgia and approve purchasing or awards under this section. Any person desiring to effectuate purchasing or awards under this Section for sole source or single source goods, equipment, or services shall present the reasons, grounds and justification for such purchasing or awards to the reasonable satisfaction of the board of commissioners.
(2)
Sole source or single source procurement shall be allowable when goods, equipment, services, or services are limited to one source, or when such goods, equipment, services, or services must be obtained from a specific manufacturers' dealer and valid competition among dealers does not exist. Upon approval by the board of commissioners, the city manager may elect to purchase particular brand name goods, equipment or services when the goods, equipment or services comprise a major brand system, program or service previously selected by the city, as a means of standardization for operational effectiveness, to facilitate future enhancements or additions, or to improve maintenance or storage of spare parts. In determining whether to permit sole source or single source purchases, the board of commissioners may also consider those considerations set out in subparagraphs (g)(1) through (g)(8) of section 42-33, Formal contract procedure and purchase orders, of this article.
(3)
Recordkeeping. A record of sole source or single source procurements shall be maintained as a public record for three years and shall list each contractor's name, the amount and type of each contract, a listing of the work, labor, or service to be done or the supplies, materials or equipment to be furnished under each contract, and the identification number of each contract file.
(4)
Any sole source or single source purchases shall be made with as much competition as is practicable under the circumstances. Sole source or single source purchases associated with projects utilizing grant funds will always follow the established procurement procedures of the grant. This section shall not apply when a general law of statewide application or applicable federal law prohibits its application or prohibits sole source or single source purchases as defined in this section.
(Ord. of 10-4-2022(1))
Sec. 42-35. - Emergency purchases.
Notwithstanding any competitive bidding requirements imposed upon the city under the Code of the City of Jesup, Georgia, the city may also acquire goods, equipment, or services by directly negotiating purchases or awards for an emergency purchase. Emergency purchasing situations occur when there exists an emergency constituting a threat to public health, safety or welfare or to the soundness and integrity of public property or to the delivery of essential services and where the diverse effects of such emergency may worsen materially with the passage of time. An emergency situation shall also exist under this section when there exists a threat to public health, welfare or safety under emergent circumstances.
(1)
The city manager may make or authorize others to make emergency procurements for goods, equipment, or services in a maximum amount of $50,000.00. Such purchases shall be reported to the board of commissioners within 24 hours.
(2)
If an emergency situation should arise after office hours which requires immediate action for the protection of the best interest of the city or if a like situation arises on a weekend or holiday and when it is not possible or convenient to reach the city manager, any purchase necessary may then be made by the official or department head in charge of such agency or department, and such purchase shall be reported to the city manager and the board of commissioners within 24 hours.
(3)
Any emergency purchases shall be made with as much competition as is practicable under the circumstances. Emergency purchases associated with projects utilizing grant funds will always follow the established procurement procedures of the grant. This section shall not apply when a general law of statewide application or applicable federal law prohibits its application or prohibits emergency purchases as defined in this section.
(Ord. of 10-4-2022(1))
Sec. 42-36. - Local vendor or local business preference.
With the exception of the procurement of professional services, the local vendor or local business preference shall apply to all procurements and expenditures for materials, supplies, equipment and contractual services where the sealed competitive process is used, unless the application of such local vendor or local business preference is prohibited by a general law of statewide application or applicable federal law and further excluding those contracts or services governed by the Georgia Local Government Public Works Construction Law, O.C.G.A. § 36-91-1 et seq.
(1)
A business or vendor shall be considered local when it operates and maintains a brick-and-mortar business within the corporate limits of the City of Jesup, has a current occupation tax certificate issued by the city, and has paid in full all ad valorem taxes and personal taxes owed to the city.
(2)
Should the lowest bid, proposal or proposed purchase order among those provided by a responsive local vendor for the purchasing of goods or procurement of services, be within the following percentages of the lowest non-local vendor's responsive bid, proposal or proposed purchase order, the procurement may be offered, but is not required to be offered, to the lowest bidding or proposing local vendor, after application of table 1, local vendor preference table, to the bid or proposal of such local vendor, and after also considering the other considerations set out in subparagraph (3) of this section.
Table 1, Local Vendor Preference Table
EXPAND
Amount of Contract or Purchase Percentage
Greater than $10,000.00 but equal to or less than $25,000.00
(> $10,000.00 to $25,000.00) 12.50%
Greater than $25,000.00 but equal to or less than $50,000.00
(> $25,000.00 to $50,000.00) 10.00%
Greater than $50,000.00 but equal to or less than $75,000.00
(> $50,000.00 to $75,000.00) 7.50%
Greater than $75,000.00 but equal to or less than $100,000.00
(> $75,000.00 to $100,000.00) 5.00%
Greater than $100,000.00
(> $100,000.00) 2.50%
  The foregoing table 1, local vendor preference table, shall be applied by reducing the responsive and responsible local vendor's or local bidder's responsive bid by the applicable percentage, and after such reduction, determining whether the local vendor's or local bidder's responsive bid is then equal to or less than the lowest nonlocal vendor's or non-local bidder's responsive bid.
(3)
In determining when a proposed vendor or bidder under this section is responsive and responsible, and when determining whether or not to award a contract, proposal or proposed purchase to a local vendor or local bidder under this section, the board of commissioners may also consider those considerations set out in subparagraphs (g)(1) through (g)(8)[sic] of section 42-33, formal contract procedure and purchase orders, of this article, including whether a local vendor or local bidder is an otherwise responsible and responsive bidder, and, even following application of table 1, local vendor preference table, to the bid or proposal of such local vendor or local bidder, may reject such local vendor or local bidder upon the application of such considerations set out in subparagraphs (g)(1) through (g)(8)[sic] of section 42-33.
(4)
Nothing in this section 42-36, local vendor or local business preference, shall prohibit the board of commissioner's or the city's use of a method of procurement different from the use of sealed bids.
(Ord. of 11-17-2020)
Sec. 42-37. - Buying cooperatives.
Notwithstanding any competitive bidding requirements imposed upon the city under the Code of the City of Jesup, Georgia, the city may also acquire goods, equipment, or services by participating in a buying cooperative, purchasing consortium or similar aggregate purchasing program, including, but not limited to, those offered through in conjunction with the State of Georgia or the Georgia Municipal Association.
(1)
Approval by board of commissioners. Prior to effectuate purchasing or awards under this section for the purchase of goods, equipment, or services through buying cooperatives, the board of commissioners must first approve suspension of the city's competitive bid requirements under the Code of the City of Jesup, Georgia and approve purchasing or awards under this section. Any person desiring to effectuate purchasing or awards under this section through a buying cooperative, purchasing consortium or similar aggregate purchasing program shall present the reasons, grounds and justification for such purchasing or awards to the reasonable satisfaction of the board of commissioners. In determining whether or not to permit the purchase of goods, equipment, or services through buying cooperatives under this section, the board of commissioners may also consider those considerations set out in sub-paragraphs (g)(1) through (g)(8) of section 42-33, Formal contract procedure and purchase orders, of this article.
(2)
Upon such approval by the board of commissioners as set out in sub-part (2) above, the city manager may make or authorize others to make procurements for goods, equipment, services, or services through such buying cooperatives under this section.
(3)
Any purchases through buying cooperatives shall be made with as much competition as is practicable under the circumstances. Purchases from buying cooperatives that are also associated with projects utilizing grant funds will always follow the established procurement procedures of the grant.
(Ord. of 10-4-2022(1))
Secs. 42-38—42-80. - Reserved.
ARTICLE III. - DISPOSAL OF CITY PROPERTY

Sec. 42-81. - Statutes to control.
Real and personal property shall be disposed of in accordance with O.C.G.A. 36-37-6.
(Ord. of 5-21-2002)
Secs. 42-82—42-120. - Reserved.
ARTICLE IV. - CONTRACTS

Sec. 42-121. - Purpose.
This article is adopted for the purpose of establishing a uniform method of awarding contracts for all public works and other public improvements in the city so as to conform with the various provisions of the applicable general laws of statewide jurisdiction, applicable federal law, the amended and restated Charter of the City of Jesup, Georgia and the Code of the City of Jesup, Georgia. In the event of application of a statewide law of general jurisdiction or applicable federal law establishing a required method of awarding contracts for any particular public-works or public-improvements project, such statewide law or federal law shall govern.
(Code 1976, § 9-62; Ord. of 10-4-2022(1))
Sec. 42-122. - Construction and improvement contracts.
Except as required by a general law of statewide application or by applicable federal law, all public improvement contracts and contracts for construction-related services costing in the aggregate more than $20,000.00, but less than $100,000.00 shall be done and performed under written contract to be awarded as set out in this article, except when such work is to be performed by city forces.
(Code 1976, § 9-63; Ord. of 10-4-2022(1))
Editor's note— Ord. of 10-4-2022(1) amended § 42-122 and in doing so changed the title from "Improvement contracts" to "Construction and improvement contracts," as set out herein.
Sec. 42-123. - Formal contract procedure.
Except as required by a general law of statewide application or by applicable federal law and except as otherwise provided in this article, all public improvement contracts and contracts for construction-related services, when the cost thereof shall exceed $20,000.00, shall be secured by formal written contract from the lowest responsible bidder after due notice inviting proposals.
(Code 1976, § 9-64; Ord. of 10-4-2022(1))
Sec. 42-124. - Advertisement.
Notice inviting bids shall be published in the official newspaper of the city at least four days preceding the last day set for the receipt of the proposals. Such required newspaper notice shall include a general description of the materials and work necessary in making the desired public improvements, shall state where bid blanks and specifications may be secured, the time and place for opening bids, and that bids may be mailed to city hall prior to such date by certified mail, return receipt requested, or bids may be personally brought to the city hall at the time of such bid opening. The city manager may also solicit bids from any responsible party by sending such party a copy of such notice as it appears in the newspaper, and as will acquaint them with the proposed services. Any such solicitation by the city manager which is mailed to prospective bidders shall be sent by certified mail, return receipt requested. The city manager may also advertise all pending contracts by a notice posted on a public bulletin board in the city hall.
(Code 1976, § 9-65)
Sec. 42-125. - Bid opening procedures for public works projects.
Bid opening procedures. Bids shall be submitted in the form and shall contain the content directed by the city, sealed to the attention of the city, and shall be identified as a "sealed bid" on the envelope. The envelope must be of sufficient weight and bulk whereby the amount of the bid may not be visibly detected outside the envelope. All bids shall be delivered to the city by certified mail, return receipt requested, or personally delivered to the city hall on the date and at the time specified by the city. All bids shall be opened with at least two members of the board of commissioners present. The city manager shall refer such bids to the appropriate department head to ensure that bid specifications have been met and to obtain a recommendation from such department head. A tabulation of all bids received shall be posted for public inspection. The city manager shall notify the board in writing of such bid openings and deliver the bids to the board along with the agenda for the regular or special meeting at which such bids may be considered. The city manager shall also make a recommendation to the board on such bids.
(Code 1976, § 9-66; Ord. of 10-4-2022(1))
Editor's note— Ord. of 10-4-2022(1) amended § 42-125 and in doing so changed the title of said section from "Bid opening procedures" to "Bid opening procedures for public works projects," as set out herein.
Sec. 42-126. - Rejection of bids for public works projects.
The board of commissioners shall have the authority to reject all bids or parts of all bids. Any bid that is not in the form directed by the city or that does not contain content required by the city may be rejected, and such bidder may be considered as a non-responsive bidder and such bid as non-responsive. The board shall have the further right to waive all technicalities or requirements required under the city's bid specifications, except those provided by this article.
(Code 1976, § 9-67; Ord. of 10-4-2022(1))
Editor's note— Ord. of 10-4-2022(1) amended § 42-126 and in doing so changed the title of said section from "Rejection of bids" to "Rejection of bids for public works projects," as set out herein.
Sec. 42-127. - Lowest responsible bidder.
Contracts shall be awarded to the lowest responsible bidder. In determining the lowest responsible bidder, in addition to price, the board of commissioners shall consider:
(1)
The ability, capacity and skill of the bidder to perform the contract;
(2)
Whether the bidder can perform the contract or provide the service promptly, or within the time specified, without delay or interference;
(3)
The character, integrity, reputation, judgment, experience and efficiency of the bidder;
(4)
The quality of performance of previous contracts;
(5)
The previous and existing compliance by the bidder with laws and ordinances relating to the contract;
(6)
The sufficiency of the financial resources and ability of the bidder to perform the contract;
(7)
The ability of the bidder to provide future maintenance for the use of the contract;
(8)
The number and scope of conditions attached to the bid.
(Code 1976, § 9-68)
Sec. 42-128. - Tie bids.
A contract shall be awarded to a local bidder if all bids received are for the same total amount or unit price and all other things are equal. Where no local bidders are involved, the city manager shall award the contract to one of the tie bidders by drawing lots in public.
(Code 1976, § 9-70)
Sec. 42-129. - Surety bond.
No contract for any public works or improvements costing more than $50,000.00 shall become valid until the contract shall have been duly executed and the contractor shall have executed and delivered a good and sufficient surety bond to the city, conditioned for the faithful performance and completion of such contract, and such bond shall have been approved by the city attorney. When deemed necessary by the board of commissioners or city manager, such a bond may be required for contracts for public works or improvements costing less than $50,000.00, and when required, shall be subject to the same conditions as set forth in this section.
(Code 1976, § 9-72; Ord. of 10-4-2022(1))
Sec. 42-130. - Public works contracts costing less than $20,000.00.
All public works contracts costing less than $20,000.00 shall be awarded in the matter set out in article II, Purchasing for goods, equipment, services and/or services.
(Code 1976, § 9-73; Ord. of 10-4-2022(1))
Editor's note— Ord. of 10-4-2022(1) amended § 42-130 and in doing so changed the title of said section from "Contracts costing less than $500.00" to "Public works contracts costing less than $20,000.00," as set out herein.
Secs. 42-131—42-160. - Reserved.
ARTICLE V. - FISCAL CONTROL

Sec. 42-161. - Responsibility for execution.
The responsibility for the proper execution of the provisions of this article shall be with the city manager, except where the responsibility is explicitly given to the board of commissioners.
(Code 1976, § 9-104)
Sec. 42-162. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Accrual basis means the basis of accounting under which revenues are recorded when earned or when levies are made, and expenditures are recorded as soon as the result in liabilities, notwithstanding that the receipt of the revenue or payment of the expenditure may take place, in whole or in part, in another accounting period.
Appropriation means an authorization granted by the legislative body to make expenditures or incur obligations for specific purposes.
Appropriation balance means an unencumbered balance of appropriation or allotment, and an unexpended balance of appropriation or allotment.
Assets means property of all kinds of a government, including assets and fixed assets.
Audit means the examination of records, documents, reports, systems of internal control, accounting and financial procedures, and other evidence for one or more of the following purposes:
(1)
To ascertain whether the statements prepared from the accounts fairly present the financial position and the results of financial operations of the constituent funds and balance account groups of the governmental unit in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles applicable to governmental units and on a basis consistent with that of the preceding year;
(2)
To determine the propriety, legality and mathematical accuracy of a governmental unit's financial transactions;
(3)
To ascertain whether all financial transactions have been properly recorded; and
(4)
To ascertain the stewardship of public officials who handle and are responsible for the financial resources of a governmental unit.
Balance sheet means a statement ordinarily prepared from books kept by double entry showing assets, liabilities, reserves and surplus of a fund of a governmental unit at a specified date properly classified to exhibit the financial position of the fund or unit at that date.
Budget means a plan of financial operation embodying an estimate of proposed expenditures for a given time and the proposed means of financing such expenditures. The term "annual budget" refers to a period of one year.
Budgetary control means the control of management of a governmental unit in accordance with an approved budget and keeping expenditures within the limitations of available appropriations or revenues.
Cash basis means the system of accounting under which revenues are accounted for only when received in cash, and expenditures are accounted for only when paid.
Contingent account means an appropriation to provide for unforeseen expenditures.
Current surplus means the excess of the current assets of a fund over its current liabilities and reserves.
Debit and credit mean terms commonly used to indicate the manner in which a transaction is to be recorded. Every entry on the left side of the ledger sheet is called a debit, and every entry on the right side of the ledger sheet is called a credit.
Debt service means the amount of money necessary to pay the interest on the outstanding debt and the principal of maturing bonded debt not payable from a sinking fund and to provide a fund for the redemption of bonds payable from a sinking fund.
Delinquent taxes means taxes remaining unpaid on and after the date on which a penalty for nonpayment is attached, even though the penalty may be subsequently waived and a portion of the taxes may be abated, cancelled or converted into tax liens.
Encumbrances means obligations in the form of purchase orders or contracts of salary commitments which are chargeable to an appropriation and for which a part of the appropriation is reserved.
Fund means a sum of money or other resources, gross or net, set aside for the purpose of carrying on specific activities or to attain certain objectives in accordance with special regulations, restrictions or limitations. A fund is a distinct financial and legal entity.
Internal audit means an audit made by persons on the staff of the governmental unit whose accounts are being audited primarily for the purpose of internal control. An internal audit is usually a continuous audit.
Liabilities means debts owed.
Millage means the property tax rate (derived from the term "mill"), which is $0.001. Millage is determined by dividing the total amount of money to be raised by the total assessed value of the city.
Taxes receivable means the uncollected portion of taxes which a governmental unit has levied.
Trust funds means amounts received or appropriated and held in trust in accordance with an agreement or legislative act, which may be expended only in accordance with the terms of such trust or act.
(Code 1976, § 9-105)
Cross reference— Definitions generally, § 1-2.
Sec. 42-163. - Fiscal year.
The fiscal year shall begin on July 1 and shall end on June 30.
(Code 1976, § 9-106)
Sec. 42-164. - Annual budget.
An annual budget will be adopted by the board of commissioners prior to the first day of the fiscal year. However, if for good and sufficient reasons the budget cannot be adopted by the first day of the fiscal year, the budget shall be adopted not later than 45 days subsequent to the beginning of the fiscal year. If the budget is not adopted prior to the beginning of the fiscal year, a resolution authorizing the continuation of necessary and essential expenditures to operate the city shall be adopted prior to the beginning of the fiscal year. The proposed budget shall be prepared by the city manager and transmitted to members of the board of commissioners for review a minimum of 45 days before the required date of adoption. The budget, as adopted, shall be a balanced budget with anticipated revenues (including appropriated unencumbered surplus) equal to appropriated expenditures. All funds within the budget shall also be balanced.
(Code 1976, § 9-107)
Sec. 42-165. - Fund expenditures.
No expenditure in any fund shall be legal or proper unless appropriations adequate to meet such expenditure have been made in the budget. Except as otherwise permitted under the Code of The City of Jesup, Georgia, purchases shall be made only after bona fide competitive bidding, and bids shall be awarded to the lowest and best bidder. Purchases in excess of $20,000.00 shall be on the basis of sealed bids.
(Code 1976, § 9-108; Ord. of 10-4-2022(1))
Sec. 42-166. - Copy of proposed budget to be made public.
At the time the proposed budget is transmitted to members of the board of commissioners by the city manager, a copy of the proposed budget shall be made available for public inspection in the office of the city clerk during working hours.
(Code 1976, § 9-109)
Sec. 42-167. - Public hearing prior to adoption of proposed budget, notice.
A public hearing shall be held to give the public the opportunity to comment upon the proposed budget no earlier than seven days after the proposed budget is transmitted to members of the board of commissioners, and no later than the time that the budget is adopted by the board of commissioners. Notice of such public hearing shall be given in a newspaper of general circulation in the city not more than 20 days, nor less than five days in advance of the hearing.
(Code 1976, § 9-110)
Sec. 42-168. - Budget ordinance.
The adoption of the budget shall be accomplished by the approval of a budget ordinance which specifies the anticipated revenues by appropriate categories and the appropriated expenditures for each department and each nondepartmental expense and for each fund covered by the budget. Amendments to the budget shall be approved by ordinance.
(Code 1976, § 9-111)
Sec. 42-169. - Amendment to budget ordinance required for appropriation increase or transfer.
Any increase in appropriation in a departmental budget or a nondepartmental expense category, whether accomplished through a change in anticipated revenues or a transfer of appropriations among departments and nondepartmental expenses, shall require the approval of the board of commissioners in the form of an amendment to the budget ordinance. The transfer of appropriations among the various accounts within a departmental budget or a nondepartmental expense category shall only require the approval of the city manager, except that any transfer of appropriations within a departmental budget so as to increase the salary appropriation for the purpose of employing additional personnel shall require the approval of the board of commissioners.
(Code 1976, § 9-112)
Sec. 42-170. - Legal obligations and requirements of fund to be met before appropriation transfer from sinking fund or debt retirement fund.
No appropriation transfer shall be made from a sinking fund or debt retirement fund until all the legal obligations and requirements of such fund have been satisfied.
(Code 1976, § 9-113)
Sec. 42-171. - Property tax revenue estimates.
The city manager shall present the statement of anticipated revenues on the basis of the ordinary and reasonable revenues which can be expected for the fiscal year. Property tax revenue estimates shall be based upon the anticipated tax digest, less a stated discount for delinquent taxes based on a consideration of the taxes which were delinquent at the close of the three prior fiscal years, plus a stated amount of delinquent taxes, including penalties and interest, to be collected in the fiscal year based on consideration of the actual experience in the collection of delinquent taxes in the three prior fiscal years.
(Code 1976, § 9-114)
Sec. 42-172. - Unexpended appropriations.
All appropriations which are not obligated, encumbered or expended at the end of the fiscal year shall lapse and shall become a part of the unencumbered surplus which may be appropriated for the next fiscal year.
(Code 1976, § 9-115)
Sec. 42-173. - Funds to facilitate accounting.
The following funds may be established and shall be used, as necessary, to provide for the proper accounting of all financial activities of the city:
(1)
The general fund to account for the general governmental operations and all financial transactions not properly accounted for in another fund.
(2)
Special revenue funds to account for the proceeds of special revenue sources, other than special assessments, or to finance specified activities as required by law or administrative regulation.
(3)
Debt service funds to account for the payment of interest and principal on longterm debt, other than special assessment and revenue bonds.
(4)
Capital projects funds to account for the receipt and disbursement of monies, including bond funds used for the acquisition of capital facilities, other than those financed by special assessment and enterprise funds.
(5)
Enterprise (utility) funds to account for the financing of services to the general public where all or most of the costs involved are paid in the form of charges by users of such services.
(6)
Trust and agency funds to account for assets held by a governmental unit as trustee or agent for individuals, private organizations and other governmental units.
(7)
Intergovernmental service funds to account for the financing of special activities and services performed by a designated organization unit within a governmental jurisdiction for other organization units within the same governmental jurisdiction.
(8)
Special assessment funds to account for special assessments levied to finance public improvements or services deemed to benefit the properties against which the assessments are levied.
(Code 1976, § 9-116)
Sec. 42-174. - Group of accounts to be maintained for each fund used.
A complete self-balancing group of accounts shall be established and maintained for each fund used. The group of accounts shall include all general ledger accounts and subsidiary records necessary to reflect compliance with legal provisions and to set forth the financial position and the results of financial operations of the fund.
(Code 1976, § 9-117)
Sec. 42-175. - Expense items and additional accounts.
All property owned by the city with a value of less than $5,000.00 shall be considered an expense item. The following additional accounts shall be maintained:
(1)
A fixed asset account for the purpose of accounting for assets which:
a.
Are of a tangible nature;
b.
Have a life longer than one fiscal year; and
c.
Have a significant value, or a value greater than $5,000.00.
Fixed assets shall be recorded at the original cost, shall not be depreciated and shall be removed from the account when disposed of.
(2)
A general longterm debt account for the purpose of accounting for longterm debt which is supported by general revenues and for recording and fairly representing the liability for longterm debt at any time from the date of issuance until the debt is retired.
(Code 1976, § 9-118; Ord. of 10-21-2003, §§ 1, 2)
Sec. 42-176. - Accounting procedures.
To the extent possible, the modified accrual basis of accounting shall be used so that expenditures, other than accrued interest on longterm debt, are recorded at the time liabilities are incurred and revenues are recorded when cash is received, except for material or available revenues which shall be accrued to properly reflect the taxes levied and the revenues earned. All receipts and disbursements shall be posted promptly, and at least on a monthly basis. To the extent possible, all interfund transfers shall be cleared by the end of the fiscal year.
(Code 1976, § 9-119)
Sec. 42-177. - Preparation and publishing of comprehensive annual report.
At least every six months, financial statements and reports showing the current conditions of budgetary and proprietary accounts shall be prepared and presented to the board of commissioners. Not later than six months after the close of the fiscal year, a comprehensive annual financial report covering all funds and financial operations shall be prepared and published. A summary of such report, containing at least a statement of revenues and expenditures as of the close of the preceding fiscal year and the combined balance sheet for all funds and account groups, will be published in a newspaper of general circulation in the city.
(Code 1976, § 9-120)
Sec. 42-178. - Annual audit.
All of the funds, accounts and financial transactions of the city shall be subjected to an annual audit by an independent certified public accountant who is to be selected by the board of commissioners. The audit shall be conducted according to the standards set forth in the American Institute of Certified Public Accountant's publication "Audits of State and Local Governmental Units."
(Code 1976, § 9-121)
ARTICLE VI. - FRANCHISE FEES

Sec. 42-179. - Franchise fee for state issued cable or video franchise.
The city hereby requires a franchise fee of five percent of gross revenues generated within the city for any cable or video franchise issued in its corporate boundaries by the state.
(Ord. of 2-5-2008(4))
Sec. 42-180. - Authorized designee.
The city hereby authorizes the city manager, upon receipt of notice to the city of its right to designate a franchise fee for an applicant for or holder of an existing state franchise, to provide written to the secretary of state and each applicant for or holder of a state franchise within the service area that is wholly or partially located within the city limits of the five percent franchise fee rate applicable to such applicant or holder of a state franchise.
(Ord. of 2-5-2008(4))
