ARTICLE VIII. - PAIN MANAGEMENT CLINICS[6]

Footnotes:
--- (6) ---
Editor's note— Ordinance of Feb. 7, 2012, §§ 1—14, enacted provisions which did not specify manner of inclusion. Hence, to facilitate indexing, said provisions have been included herein as Ch. 22, Art. VIII, §§ 22-371—33-384.

Sec. 22-371. - Definitions.
Dispense means to issue one or more doses of any drug in a suitable container with appropriate labeling for subsequent administration to, or use by, a patient. This excludes hospitals, surgery centers, inpatient care facilities, assisted living facilities, outpatient facilities operated or owned by a hospital system or pharmacy, and pharmacies.
Pain management clinic means any business entity, medical practice or physician which dispenses schedule II, III or IV drugs. Excluded from this definition is any practice of pharmacy which derives less than 25 percent of its gross revenues from the sale of schedule II, III or IV drugs in any calendar year. Provided that no pain management clinic or physician shall attempt to avoid this article by declaring itself a pharmacy.
Pharmacy means any commercial enterprise which derives 50 percent or less of its gross revenues from the sale of schedule II, III or IV drugs.
Physician means a person licensed to practice medicine under O.C.G.A. § 43-34-21.
Practice of pharmacy means the interpretation, evaluation, or dispensing of prescription drug orders in the patient's best interest; participation in drug and device selection, drug administration, drug regimen reviews, and drug or drug related research; provision of patient counseling and the provision of those acts or services necessary to provide pharmacy care; performing capillary blood tests and interpreting the results as a means to screen for or monitor disease risk factors and facilitate patient education, and a pharmacist performing such functions shall report the results obtained from such blood tests to the patient's physician of choice; and the responsibility for compounding and labeling of drugs and devices, as defined in O.C.G.A. § 26-4-4.
Responsible person shall mean any person licensed or authorized by the state or any board thereof to dispense drugs.
Schedule II, III or IV drugs shall mean the drugs defined in O.C.G.A. §§ 16-13-26 through 16-13-29.
(Ord. of 2-7-2012, § 1)
Sec. 22-372. - Regulations.
No person, firm, partnership, corporation or entity of any type shall dispense, sell, or make available schedule II, III or IV drugs, as defined above, without a valid pain management clinic and pain medication occupation tax certificate issued by the city pursuant to this article.
(Ord. of 2-7-2012, § 2)
Sec. 22-373. - Occupation tax certificate required.
It is unlawful for any person, firm, partnership, corporation or other entity of any type to dispense, sell, prescribe or make available schedule II, III or IV drugs, as defined above, without a valid pain management clinic and pain medication occupation tax certificate issued by the city pursuant to this article.
(Ord. of 2-7-2012, § 3)
Sec. 22-374. - Application contents.
Each application for a pain management clinic and pain medication establishment occupation tax certificate, whether new or a renewal, shall contain the following information:
(a)
The applicant's full name.
(b)
The present address and telephone number of the applicant.
(c)
The business license of occupation tax history of the applicant and whether such applicant, in previous operations in this or any other city, state or territory under license, has or had such license or occupation tax certificate or similar type of business revoked or suspended, the reason therefore, and the business activity or occupation subsequent to such action of suspension or revocation.
(d)
The overall business and occupational history of the applicant and whether such applicant, in previous operations in this or any other city, state or territory under license, has or had a business establishment closed, terminated operations or otherwise ceased operations due to the suspension or revocation of a business license or occupation tax certificate or due to the abandonment of such business establishment by the applicant.
(e)
If the applicant is a corporation, the name of the corporation shall be set forth exactly as shown in its articles of incorporation or charter, together with the place and date of incorporation. If the applicant is a partnership, the applicant shall set forth the name, residence address of the partners. If the applicant is a limited partnership, it shall furnish a copy of its certificate of limited partnership filed with the county clerk. If one or more of the partners is a corporation, the provisions of this subsection pertaining to corporations shall apply. The applicant corporation or partnership shall designate one of its officers or general partners to act as its responsible managing officer. Such designated persons shall complete and sign all application forms required of an individual applicant under this charter, but only one application fee shall be charged.
(f)
If the applicant, any partners or any corporate officers, if the applicant is a corporation, has been convicted of a felony in the past five years and, if so, the applicant shall provide a complete description of any such crime including date of violation, date of conviction, jurisdiction and any disposition, including any fine or sentence imposed and whether terms of disposition have been fully completed.
(g)
If the applicant is a person doing business under a trade name, a copy of the trade name properly recorded. If the applicant is a corporation, a copy of authority to do business in Georgia, including articles of incorporation, trade name affidavit, if any, last annual report, if any.
(h)
Address of the premises to be licensed.
(i)
Whether the premises are owned or rented.
(j)
Each applicant for a pain management clinic occupation tax certificate shall be verified and acknowledged under oath to be true and correct by:
(1)
If the applicant is an individual, the individual;
(2)
If by a partnership, by the manager or general partnership;
(3)
If a corporation, by the president of the corporation or other registered officer;
(4)
If any other organization of association, by the chief administrative official.
(k)
Attach a copy of the applicant's current license or licenses issued by the state or any agency or board thereof.
(l)
If the applicant possessed or possesses such a license or licenses, then the applicant shall further provide the following:
(1)
The name and DEA number of every person authorized or licensed by the State of Georgia or any board thereof to dispense drugs, associated, or with an ownership interest in the business.
(2)
The business's website address.
(3)
Location of any other clinics or practices associated with or owned by the same parties as applicant.
(Ord. of 2-7-2012, § 4)
Sec. 22-375. - Application review.
The city shall have up to 45 days to review the application and the background of the applicant. Upon completion of the review, the city manager may grant the license if he or she finds that:
(a)
The required fee has been paid.
(b)
Application conforms in all respects to the provisions of this chapter.
(c)
The applicant has not knowingly made a material misrepresentation in the application.
(d)
The applicant has fully cooperated in the review of his application.
(e)
The applicant, if an individual, or any officers or directors, if the applicant is a corporation, or any of the partners, including limited partners, if the applicant is a partnership, has not been convicted in a court of competent jurisdiction of a felony.
(f)
On the date the business for which an occupation tax certificate is required herein commences, and thereafter, there will be a person authorized or licensed by the state or any board thereof to dispense drugs on the premises to act as manager at all times during which the business is open.
(Ord. of 2-7-2012, § 5)
Sec. 22-376. - Persons prohibited as applicants.
No occupation tax certificate provided for by this chapter shall be issued to or held by:
(a)
An applicant who has not paid all required fees and taxes for a business at that location or property taxes.
(b)
Any applicant who does not have a valid and current license issued by the appropriate governmental or regulatory agency.
(c)
Any applicant who has been convicted of a felony in the last five years.
(d)
Any applicant who has had a business license or occupation tax certificate revoked or suspended for the alleged violation of penal or criminal laws governing the prescription or distribution of medication.
(Ord. of 2-7-2012, § 6)
Sec. 22-377. - Occupation tax certificate refusal, appeal.
If the city, following review of the applicant, deems that the applicant does not fulfill the requirements as set forth in this chapter, it shall notify the city clerk of such opinion and, within 45 days of the date of application, provide copies of the review report to the city clerk. The city clerk shall, within ten days, notify applicant by certified mail of such denial. Any applicant who is denied an occupation tax certificate may appeal such denial to the mayor and city council by filing a written notice of appeal within ten days of the receipt of notice from the city clerk. A hearing before the mayor and city council shall be scheduled within 45 days of such notice. Whenever the city clerk has scheduled an appeal before the city council, at the time and date set therefore, the city council shall receive all relevant testimony and evidence from the applicant, from interested parties and from city staff. The city council may sustain, over-rule or modify the action complained of. The action of the city council shall be final.
(Ord. of 2-7-2012, § 7)
Sec. 22-378. - Renewal of occupation tax certificate.
Occupation tax certificates for pain management clinics may be renewed on a calendar year basis provided that the applicants continue to meet the requirements set forth in this chapter.
(Ord. of 2-7-2012, § 8)
Sec. 22-379. - Occupation tax certificates nontransferable.
No pain management clinic occupation tax certificate may be sold, transferred or assigned by a permittee, or by operation of law, to any other person or persons. Any such sale, transfer or assignment, shall be deemed to constitute a voluntary surrender of such permit and such permit shall thereafter be null and void; provided and excepting, however, that if the applicant is a partnership and one or more of the partners should die, one or more of the surviving partners may acquire, by purchase or otherwise, the interest of the deceased partner or partners without effecting a surrender or termination of such occupation tax certificate upon notification to the city, shall be placed in the name of the surviving partner. A pain management clinic tax certificate issued to a corporation shall be deemed terminated and void when either any outstanding stock of the corporation is sold, transferred or assigned after the issuance of a permit, or any stock authorized but not issued at the time of the granting of an occupation tax certificate is thereafter issued and sold, transferred or assigned.
(Ord. of 2-7-2012, § 9)
Sec. 22-380. - Change of location or name.
(a)
No pain management clinic shall move from the location specified on its occupation tax certificate until a change of location fee, established by resolution of the city council, has been deposited with the city, and approval has been obtained from the city manager for the city. Such approval shall not be given unless all requirements and regulations, as contained in the city's codes, have been met.
(b)
No applicant shall operate, conduct, manage, engage in, or carry on a pain management clinic under any name other than his name and the name of the business as specified on his occupation tax certificate.
(c)
Any application for an extension of expansion of a building or other place of business where a pain management clinic is located shall require inspection and shall comply with the provisions and regulations of this chapter.
(Ord. of 2-7-2012, § 10)
Sec. 22-381. - Unlawful operation declared nuisance.
Any pain management clinic operated, conducted or maintained contrary to the provisions of this chapter shall be and the same is declared to be unlawful and a public nuisance. The city may commence an action or actions, proceeding or proceedings for abatement, removal or enjoinment thereof, in the manner provided by law. It may take such other steps and shall apply to such court or courts as may have jurisdiction to grant such relief as will abate or remove such pain management clinic and restrain and enjoin any person from operating, conducting or maintaining a pain management clinic contrary to the provisions of this chapter. In addition, violation of the provisions of this chapter shall be per se grounds for suspension or revocation of the occupation tax certificate granted hereunder.
(Ord. of 2-7-2012, § 11)
Sec. 22-382. - Revocation and appeal.
(a)
The city manager shall be authorized to suspend or revoke an occupation tax certificate previously granted herein for a violation of this article. In the event the city manager seeks to suspend or to revoke an occupation tax certificate, the city manager shall give written notification to the applicant of such action and such notice shall contain a specification of the violation or violations and shall be served upon the licensee at least five days prior to the notice of hearing. The applicant shall be given written notice of the time and place of the hearing.
(b)
The city manager shall be authorized to suspend or revoke an occupation tax certificate in the event of any one or more of the following:
(1)
An applicant gave false or misleading information in the original application process;
(2)
An applicant has knowingly allowed the violation of an ordinance of the city or a violation of any criminal law of the state to occur on the premises;
(3)
An applicant has violated any provision of this pain management clinic chapter;
(4)
An applicant has been convicted of a felony;
(5)
An applicant fails to pay after its due date any fee, occupation tax, fine or other amount of money due to the city under this chapter or any other taxing ordinance of the city; and
(6)
The applicant's state license has been revoked or not renewed.
(c)
In the event the city manager shall suspend or revoke any occupation tax certificate hereunder, the suspension or revocation shall be for a period of not less than one day nor more than 365 days, within the discretion of the city manager. Provided, however, that the applicant shall be authorized to continue its business operations until that date of the hearing scheduled in accordance with subsection (d) of this section. No applicant may apply for an occupation tax certificate during any period of suspension or revocation. In any hearing conducted by the city manager, the city manager shall consider, among other things, the severity of the allegations, the evidence submitted and the testimony presented, in making any decision on suspension, revocation and the duration of either.
(d)
In the event of a suspension or revocation by the city manager, the applicant may appeal the decision of the city manager to the mayor and city council for the city by filing a written notice of appeal within ten days from the date of the decision of the city manager. Thereafter, a hearing shall be scheduled before the mayor and council for the city within 45 days after the date of the notice of appeal by the applicant. After hearing by the mayor and city council, city council may take such action as it deems appropriate, including the upholding of the action of the city manager or the imposition of such action as the mayor and city council may deem appropriate under the facts. The decision of the mayor and city council shall be final. Appeals from the decision of the mayor and city council shall be certiorari to the county superior court filed within 30 days to the final action of mayor and city council. In the event the applicant does not file an appeal from any decision of the city manager, as provided herein, the decision of the city manager shall be final.
(Ord. of 2-7-2012, § 12)
Sec. 22-383. - Exclusions.
(a)
No care service, palliative care service, hospice or palliative care home or facility, or other similar specialized medical home or treatment facility, home or entity shall be required to register hereunder unless otherwise required by another provision of this Code. Notwithstanding the foregoing, this provision shall not otherwise exempt or relieve any such person or persons from any other occupation tax certificate or business license requirement that might otherwise apply under the city code.
(b)
No physician who is actively and currently credentialed by any public hospital within the state or who actively maintains staff privileges at any public hospital within 70 miles of the city shall be required to register hereunder unless otherwise required by another provision. Notwithstanding the foregoing, this provision shall not otherwise exempt or relieve any such person or persons from any other occupation tax certificate or business license requirement that might otherwise apply under the city code.
(Ord. of 2-7-2012, § 13)
Sec. 22-384. - Limitations.
Notwithstanding anything contained herein, this chapter shall not operate to impose a precondition or sanction on any applicant licensed by the state or any board or authority created by state law.
(Ord. of 2-7-2012, § 14)
Secs. 22-385—22-399. - Reserved.
