ARTICLE IV. - WELLHEAD PROTECTION

Sec. 98-131. - Purpose.
The purpose of this article is to ensure the provision of a safe and sanitary drinking water supply for the city by the establishment of wellhead protection zones surrounding the wellheads for all wells which are the supply sources for the city water system, and by the designation and regulation of property uses and conditions which may be maintained within such zones.
(Code 1976, § 13-71)
Sec. 98-132. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Hazardous waste and material mean any waste or material which, because of its quantity, concentration or physical, chemical or infectious characteristics, may:
(1)
Cause or significantly contribute to an increase in mortality or serious irreversible or incapacitating reversible illness; or
(2)
Pose a substantial present or potential hazard to human health or the environment when improperly treated, stored, transported, disposed of or otherwise managed.
Sanitary landfill means a disposal site where solid wastes, including putrescent wastes, or hazardous wastes are disposed of on land by placing an earth cover thereon.
Wellhead means the upper terminal of a well, including adapters, ports, seals, valves and other attachments.
(Code 1976, § 13-72)
Cross reference— Definitions generally, § 1-2.
Sec. 98-133. - Use district established.
There is hereby established a use district to be known as a wellhead protection zone, identified and described as all of the area within a circle, the center of which is the center of any city water supply wellhead, and the radius of which is 1,076 feet.
(Code 1976, § 13-73)
Sec. 98-134. - Permitted uses.
The following uses shall be permitted within wellhead protection zones:
(1)
Any use permitted within existing agricultural or single-family residential districts, except the minimum residential lot size for a lot, any portion of which lies within the wellhead protection zone, shall not be less than one acre; and
(2)
Any other open land use where any building located on the property is incidental and accessory to the primary open land use.
(Code 1976, § 13-74)
Sec. 98-135. - Prohibited uses and conditions.
The following uses or conditions shall be prohibited within wellhead protection zones, whether or not such uses or conditions may otherwise ordinarily be included as a part of a use permitted under section 98-134:
(1)
Surface use of storage of hazardous material, expressly including the commercial use of agricultural pesticides;
(2)
Septic tanks or drainfields appurtenant thereto;
(3)
Impervious surfaces, other than roofs of buildings, and streets, driveways and walks serving buildings permitted under section 98-134;
(4)
Sanitary landfills;
(5)
Hazardous waste disposal sites;
(6)
Stormwater infiltration basins;
(7)
Underground storage tanks;
(8)
Sanitary sewer lines within 150 feet of a wellhead.
(Code 1976, § 13-75)
