Chapter 34 - COURT[1]

Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Cross reference— Administration, ch. 2; civil emergencies, ch. 30; law enforcement, ch. 58; offenses and miscellaneous provisions, ch. 66; traffic, ch. 94.
State Law reference— Duty of superintendent to fix location of polling places, O.C.G.A. § 21-2-265; municipal courts, O.C.G.A. § 36-32-1 et seq.

Sec. 34-1. - Oath of office.
Before assuming office, the recorder shall subscribe the oath required of officers of the city.
(Code 1976, § 27-1)
Sec. 34-2. - Recorder pro tem.
The board of commissioners shall appoint a recorder pro tem to serve in the absence or disqualification of the recorder. Such person shall have and exercise, at the times he is acting as recorder, all powers vested in the recorder by law or ordinance.
(Code 1976, § 27-2)
Sec. 34-3. - Qualifications.
The judge of the municipal court (recorder's court) shall be a member of good standing of the State Bar of Georgia.
(Ord. of 8-7-2007)
Sec. 34-4. - Mandatory technology fee.
There shall be imposed against any person, firm, entity, group, association, corporation, partnership, or company against whom the Municipal Court of the City of Jesup, Georgia imposes a monetary fine or sentence of incarceration a mandatory technology fee in the sum and amount of $17.00. Said mandatory technology fee shall be in addition to, and not in lieu of, any other fines, fees, or penalties mandated by state law, local ordinance or otherwise. Said technology fee, as imposed by this section, shall supersede, replace and be in lieu of any previous technology fee imposed by the City of Jesup in such matters. Notwithstanding the foregoing, such technology fee shall not be imposed where the imposition of such technology fee would cause the total amount of the fines and fees imposed to exceed the maximum amount of such fines or fees that the City of Jesup or the Municipal Court of the City of Jesup is authorized by law to impose.
(Ord. of 9-4-2018, § 1)
Sec. 34-5. - Standard court costs.
Subject to the discretion of the judges of the Municipal Court of the City of Jesup to waive, suspend or reduce such standard court costs as provided by law, there shall be imposed against any person, firm, entity, group, association, corporation, partnership, or company against whom the Municipal Court of the City of Jesup, Georgia imposes a monetary fine or sentence of incarceration a mandatory court cost in the sum and amount of $50.00. Said mandatory court costs shall be in addition to, and not in lieu of, any other fines, fees, or penalties mandated by state law, local ordinance or otherwise. Said mandatory court costs, as imposed by this section, shall supersede, replace and be in lieu of any local court costs previously imposed by the City of Jesup in such matters. Notwithstanding the foregoing, such standard court costs shall not be imposed where the imposition of such standard court costs would cause the total amount of the fines and fees imposed to exceed the maximum amount of such fines or fees that the City of Jesup or the Municipal Court of the City of Jesup is authorized by law to impose.
(Ord. of 9-4-2018, § 1)
Sec. 34-6. - Court cost in lieu of adjudication.
With the agreement of the accused in such matter, the judges of the Municipal Court of the City of Jesup may, within their discretion, impose court costs in the sum and amount of $50.00 in connection with the dismissal, reduction, or suspension of any charge against such accused alleging violation of state law or local ordinance.
(Ord. of 9-4-2018, § 1)
