Chapter 82 - SOLID WASTE[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Cross reference— Buildings and building regulations, ch. 18; environment, ch. 38; weeds, rubbish, brush, trash, etc., § 38-31; health and sanitation, ch. 50; manufactured homes, ch. 62; utilities, ch. 98.
State Law reference— Georgia Comprehensive Solid Waste Management Act, O.C.G.A. § 12-8-20 et seq.; local, multijurisdictional and regional solid waste plans, O.C.G.A. § 12-8-31.1; unlawful placement of signs within right-of-way of public road, O.C.G.A. § 32-6-51; authorization to provide garbage and solid waste collection and disposal, Ga. Const. art. IX, § II, ¶ III(a)(2).

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 82-1. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Collector means a person or persons who, under agreements, verbal or written, with or without compensation, do the work of collecting and/or transporting solid waste from industries, offices, retail outlets, businesses, institutions, and/or similar locations, or from residential dwellings; provided, however, that this definition shall not include an individual collecting and/or transporting waste from his own single-family dwelling unit.
Disposal site means the location or land area where the final deposition of solid waste occurs.
Garbage means putrescible animal and vegetable wastes resulting from the handling, preparation, cooking, and consumption of food.
Hazardous waste means solid or liquid waste material resulting from the manufacture or use of pesticides and drugs (other than normal household use); pathological wastes; highly flammable or explosive wastes; toxic wastes; sewage sludges; and other waste material determined to be a likely hazard to the public health, safety, or environment, except radioactive waste materials as provided for in Rules of the Department of Human Resources, Chapter 270-5-20, entitled "Radioactive Materials."
Industrial waste means materials generated in industrial operations.
Putrescible wastes means wastes that are capable of being decomposed by microorganisms, including kitchen wastes, manure, offal, hatchery and poultry wastes, and garbage.
Refuse means all putrescible and nonputrescible solid wastes (except body wastes), including garbage, rubbish, ashes, street cleanings, dead animals, abandoned automobiles, and solid commercial and industrial wastes.
Rubbish means nonputrescible solid wastes (excluding ashes), consisting of both combustible and noncombustible wastes, such as paper, cardboard, tin cans, yard clippings, wood, glass, bedding, crockery, and similar materials.
Sanitary landfilling means a method of disposing of putrescible waste and/or hazardous waste on land by placing an earth cover thereon.
Scavenge means uncontrolled picking from discarded waste materials.
Solid waste means putrescible and nonputrescible wastes (except water-carried body wastes) including garbage, rubbish, ashes, street refuse, dead animals, sewage sludges, animal manures, industrial wastes, residue from incineration, food-processing wastes, construction wastes, hazardous wastes, and any other waste material in a solid or semisolid state not otherwise defined in this chapter.
(Code 1976, § 11-1)
Cross reference— Definitions generally, § 1-2.
Sec. 82-2. - Enforcement.
(a)
In general. The public works director, who is responsible for the administration and enforcement of this chapter, shall, in the exercise of his solid waste management duties:
(1)
Supervise the collection of solid waste, including the operation and maintenance of equipment and the supervision of personnel;
(2)
Establish collection schedules in accordance with the provisions of this chapter; and
(3)
Coordinate the city's use of the sanitary landfill operated by Broadhurst Environmental Inc., and such other disposal facilities as may be required.
(b)
Limitations of authority. All regulatory actions of the superintendent shall be subject to the review of the city manager.
(c)
Appeal. Any person aggrieved by a requirement of, or a fee charged by, the superintendent shall have the right to appeal to the city manager who may, upon hearing, confirm, modify or revoke such requirement or fee.
Sec. 82-3. - Precollection.
(a)
In general. No person shall keep or store solid waste outside of any residence or building within the city, except in proper containers for collection, as set forth herein. Any unauthorized accumulation of solid waste is hereby declared to be a nuisance and is prohibited. The sanitation superintendent by written notice shall notify the owner or occupant of any premises with such solid waste accumulation to remove such accumulation. Failure to remove such accumulation within two days of the date of such written notice to do so shall be deemed a violation of these regulations and subject to penalties hereinafter set forth. A separate violation shall be deemed committed each day during or upon which such unlawful accumulation continues.
(b)
Containers:
(1)
A two-wheeled garbage container shall be provided by the city to the occupant of each residence or dwelling unit. Any additional containers desired by the occupant may be obtained at a cost.
(2)
Commercial and industrial establishments will be furnished containers by the city.
(c)
Placement. On days designated as collection days, garbage and/or rubbish from dwelling units shall be placed for collection at the curb or beside the roadway, but not in the gutter or street.
(d)
Scavenging. No person, other than the owner or authorized collection personnel, shall sift the contents of or remove anything from containers, boxes, or bundles containing garbage or rubbish.
(Code 1976, §§ 11-2—11-4, 11-12)
Sec. 82-4. - Collection.
(a)
Frequency. Garbage shall be collected from residential areas weekly. Garbage shall be collected from commercial and business establishments as scheduled according to current city routes.
(b)
Limitations:
(1)
Large animal carcasses over 30 pounds, or waste from construction, demolition, landscaping, or processing operations will not be collected, transported, or disposed of by public facilities; but such waste collection, transportation and disposal shall be by the owners and/or generators of such waste or animals.
(2)
Industrial waste may be collected, transported and disposed of by public facilities on a contract basis.
(3)
It shall be a violation of these regulations to place or to cause to be placed in any container, box or bundle, or otherwise for collection, any hazardous waste of any kind except upon specific prior arrangement with the sanitation superintendent.
(4)
Limbs or tree trunks resulting from the cutting of trees on private property must be disposed of by the property owner. This shall not include small cuttings resulting from the routine trimming of shrubbery which will be picked up and disposed of by solid waste personnel.
(5)
The city shall not pick up any building materials or construction materials.
(c)
Private contractors. No person, other than employees of the city, shall collect, transport or dispose of solid waste for pay in the city, except to remove and dispose of those items of solid waste not handled by the city as specified in subsection (b), above.
(Code 1976, §§ 11-8, 11-9, 11-11)
Sec. 82-5. - Maintenance and cleansing of containers.
Every garbage and trash container shall be maintained in as sanitary a condition as possible in view of the use to which it is put, and shall be thoroughly cleansed, as needed, by washing, scalding or otherwise.
(Code 1976, § 11-7)
Sec. 82-6. - Leaves; trash to be kept out of swales and gutters.
Leaves may either be placed in substantial containers or raked to the property line from which wet garbage is collected. Trash must be kept out of swales or gutters of streets and alleys of the city.
(Code 1976, § 11-10)
Sec. 82-7. - Disposal.
All disposal of solid waste shall be at disposal sites operated in accordance with state laws and with rules and regulations of the Georgia Department of Natural Resources, and at no other place.
Sec. 82-8. - Fees; classification of establishments.
(a)
Monthly charges for public collection and disposal of solid waste inside the city shall be as fixed from time to time by the board of commissioners.
(b)
For the purpose of determining the classification of establishments and frequency of pickup, the sanitation superintendent shall make a volume survey of all establishments in the city to be served by public collection facilities. The superintendent shall observe each establishment for a period not less than one week, and the result of such survey and the classification established thereby shall be given in writing to each establishment.
(Code 1976, § 11-13; Ord. of 8-7-2001, § 2)
Sec. 82-9. - Billing.
(a)
Against whom levied. Service charges in accordance with the schedule set down in section 82-8 are levied against both the owner and the occupant of premises served, jointly and severally, but collecting from one shall not relieve the other.
(b)
Charges for solid waste collection and disposal. Charges for solid waste collection and disposal service shall be billed by the first day of each month and shall be payable by the owner or occupant at the city hall. When such payment has not been made by the fifteenth day of any month, a ten percent penalty shall be added and collected. When such payment has not been made by the 20th day of any month, service shall be discontinued until all arrears, including penalty, have been paid in full, and the following month has been paid in advance.
(Code 1976, § 11-13; Ord. of 8-7-2001, § 2)
Sec. 82-10. - Fees for use of landfill.
(a)
Rate. In order to offset the cost of charges for the landfill tipping fees for the city's use of the county and/or regional landfills, a landfill fee as set forth in the schedule of fees and charges on file in the office of the city clerk is hereby levied and shall be paid by all users of garbage services within the city.
(b)
Billing, levy, interest, penalty and late charges. Such fee shall be billed with the water bill and shall be levied against both the owner and the occupant of the properties served jointly and severally. The fee shall bear interest, penalty and late charges in the same manner as those charged for water bills.
(c)
Uncollected fees. All uncollected landfill fees shall constitute a continuing lien against the property served to the same and as full an extent, and subject to the addition of interest and costs, as provided by law with respect to the city ad valorem taxes, and may be enforced in the same manner.
(Code 1976, § 11-14)
Sec. 82-11. - Unauthorized use of city dumpsters.
(a)
No person shall dump or otherwise place any garbage, refuse or other waste in any dumpster belonging to the city, whether on city property or private property within the city limits, without authorization from the city or the person, business or entity on whose property the dumpster is located and who is paying the monthly fee for such dumpster.
(b)
No person shall dump or otherwise place any garbage, refuse or other waste on any property not belonging to such person, whether city property or private property within the city limits.
(c)
Any person convicted of any violation of this section shall be punished as provided in section 1-11. Each dumping, as provided in this section, shall constitute a separate offense.
(Code 1976, § 11-15)
Sec. 82-12. - Penalties.
Violations of article I, general, article II, yard trimmings, and article III, litter, of chapter 82, solid waste, of the Code of the City of Jesup, Georgia shall be punishable in accordance with section 1-11, general penalty; continuing violations, of chapter 1, general provisions, of the Code of the City of Jesup, Georgia with the exception that any fine imposed for any violation of any such provisions, whether such fine is imposed exclusively or in concert with other penalties as otherwise authorized under section 1-11, shall not be in an amount that is less than $500.00 for each such violation.
(Ord. No. 2016-03-001, § 1, 4-5-2016)
Secs. 82-13—82-50. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - YARD TRIMMINGS

Sec. 82-51. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Commercial solid waste means all types of solid waste generated by stores, offices, restaurants, warehouses and other nonmanufacturing activities, excluding residential and industrial wastes.
Composting means the controlled biological decomposition of organic matter into a stable, odor-free humus.
Leachate collection system means a system at a landfill for the collection of the leachate which may percolate through the waste and into the soils surrounding the landfill.
Municipal solid waste means any solid waste derived from households, including garbage, trash and sanitary waste in septic tanks, and includes solid waste from single-family and multifamily residences, hotels and motels, bunkhouses, campgrounds, picnic grounds and day use recreation areas. Such term includes yard trimmings and commercial solid waste, but does not include solid waste from mining, agricultural or silvicultural operations or industrial processes or operations.
Municipal solid waste disposal facility means any facility or location where the final deposition of any amount of municipal solid waste occurs, whether or not mixed with or including commercial or industrial solid waste, including, but not limited to, municipal solid waste landfills.
Municipal solid waste landfill means a disposal facility where any amount of municipal solid waste, whether or not mixed with or including commercial waste, industrial waste, nonhazardous sludge or small quantity generator hazardous waste, is disposed of by means of placing an approved cover thereon.
Yard trimmings means leaves, brush, grass clippings, shrub and tree prunings, discarded Christmas trees, nursery and greenhouse vegetative residuals and vegetative matter resulting from landscaping development and maintenance, other than from mining, agricultural and silvicultural operations.
(Code 1976, § 11-26)
Cross reference— Definitions generally, § 1-2.
Sec. 82-52. - Placement and disposal.
(a)
It shall be unlawful to place or mix yard trimmings with municipal solid waste within the city.
(b)
Yard trimmings shall not be disposed of at any municipal solid waste disposal facility having a liner and leachate collection system or requiring vertical expansion located within the city and county, and more specifically, the county solid waste facility located at Broadhurst.
(Code 1976, § 11-27)
Sec. 82-53. - Hierarchy for sorting, storing, composting and collecting.
The following hierarchy is hereby adopted for sorting, storing, composting and collecting yard trimmings:
(1)
Naturalized, low maintenance landscaping requiring little or no cutting;
(2)
Grass cycling by mowing it high and letting it lie;
(3)
Stacking branches into brush piles for use as wildlife habitats and for gradual decomposition into the soil;
(4)
Composting on the site where the material was grown, followed by incorporation of the finished compost into the soil at such site;
(5)
Chipping woody material on the site where such material was generated;
(6)
Collecting yard trimmings and transporting them to another site to be chipped or composted for later use; and
(7)
Chipping woody material for later use as fiber fuel.
(Code 1976, § 11-28)
Sec. 82-54. - Violation; penalty.
Any person violating this article shall be punished as provided in section 1-11.
(Code 1976, § 11-29)
Secs. 82-55—82-80. - Reserved.
ARTICLE III. - LITTER[2]
Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
State Law reference— Litter Control Law, O.C.G.A. § 16-7-40 et seq.; littering highways, O.C.G.A. § 40-6-249.

DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Sec. 82-81. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Aircraft means any contrivance known or invented, used or designated for navigation or flight in the air. The term "aircraft" shall include helicopters and lighter than air dirigibles and balloons.
Authorized private receptacle means a litter storage and collection receptacle as required and authorized in this chapter.
Commercial handbill means any printed or written matter, any sample or device, dodger, circular, leaflet, pamphlet, paper, booklet or any other printed or otherwise reproduced original or copies of any matter of literature which:
(1)
Advertises for sale any merchandise, product, commodity or thing;
(2)
Directs attention to any business, mercantile or commercial establishment, or other activity, for the purpose of either directly or indirectly promoting the interest thereof by sales;
(3)
Directs attention to or advertises any meeting, theatrical performance, exhibition or event of any kind, for which an admission fee is charged for the purpose of private gain or profit, but the terms of this subsection shall not apply where an admission fee is charged or a collection is taken up for the purpose of defraying the expenses incidental to such meeting, theatrical performance, exhibition, or event of any kind, when such event is held, given or takes place in connection with the dissemination of information which is not restricted under the ordinary rules of decency, good morals, public peace, safety and good order, provided that nothing contained in this subsection shall be deemed to authorize the holding, giving or taking place of any meeting, theatrical performance, exhibition or event of any kind without a license, where such license is or may be required by any law of the state or under any ordinance of the city; or
(4)
While containing reading matter, other than advertising matter, is predominantly and essentially an advertisement, and is distributed or circulated for advertising purposes, or for the private benefit and gain of any person so engaged as advertiser or distributor.
Garbage means putrescible animal and vegetable wastes resulting from the handling, preparation, cooking and consumption of food.
Litter means garbage, refuse and rubbish, and all other waste material which, if thrown or deposited as prohibited in this article, tends to create a danger to public health, safety and welfare.
Newspaper means any newspaper of general circulation as defined by general law; any newspaper duly entered with the United States Post Office Department in accordance with federal statute or regulations; and any newspaper filed and recorded with any recording officer as provided by general law; and shall mean and include any periodical or current magazine regularly published with not less than four issues per year, and sold to the public.
Noncommercial handbill means any printed or written matter, any sample or device, dodger, circular, leaflet, pamphlet, newspaper, magazine, paper, booklet or any other printed or otherwise reproduced original or copy of any matter of literature not included in the definition of a "commercial handbill" or "newspaper," as defined in this section.
Park means a park, reservation, playground, recreation center or any other public area in the city, owned or used by the city, and devoted to active or passive recreation.
Private premises means any dwelling, house, building or other structure, designed or used either wholly or in part for private residential purposes, whether inhabited or temporarily or continuously uninhabited or vacant, and shall include any yard, ground, walk, driveway, porch, steps, vestibule or mailbox belonging or appurtenant to such dwelling, house, building or other structure.
Public place means any and all streets, sidewalks, boulevards, alleys or other public ways, public parks, squares, spaces, grounds and buildings.
Refuse means all putrescible and nonputrescible solid wastes (except body wastes), including garbage, rubbish, ashes, street cleanings, dead animals, abandoned automobiles and solid market and industrial wastes.
Rubbish means nonputrescible solid wastes consisting of both combustible and noncombustible wastes, such as paper, wrappings, cigarettes, cardboard, tin cans, yard clippings, leaves, wood, glass, bedding, crockery and similar materials.
Vehicle means every device in, upon or by which any person or property is or may be transported or drawn upon a highway, including devices used exclusively upon stationary rails or tracks.
(Code 1976, § 18-1)
Cross reference— Definitions generally, § 1-2.
Sec. 82-82. - Throwing or depositing in public places.
No person shall throw or deposit litter in or upon any street, sidewalk or other public place within the city, except in public receptacles for collection, or in official city or county dumps.
(Code 1976, § 18-2)
Cross reference— Streets and sidewalks, ch. 86.
Sec. 82-83. - Placement in receptacles to prevent scattering.
Persons placing litter in public receptacles or authorized private receptacles shall do so in such a manner as to prevent such litter from being carried or deposited by the elements upon any street, sidewalk or other public place or upon private property.
(Code 1976, § 18-3)
Sec. 82-84. - Sweeping or depositing into gutters, streets or public places; responsibility for keeping sidewalks free of litter.
(a)
No person shall sweep into or deposit in any gutter, street or other public place within the city the accumulation of litter from any building or lot or from any public or private sidewalk or driveway.
(b)
Persons owning or occupying property shall keep the sidewalk in front of their premises free of litter.
(Code 1976, § 18-4)
Cross reference— Streets and sidewalks, ch. 86.
Sec. 82-85. - Merchants' duty to keep sidewalks free of litter.
(a)
No person owning or occupying a place of business shall sweep into or deposit in any gutter, street or other public place within the city the accumulation of litter from any building or lot or from any public or private sidewalk or driveway.
(b)
Persons owning or occupying places of business within the city shall keep the sidewalk in front of their business premises free of litter.
(Code 1976, § 18-5)
Sec. 82-86. - Persons in vehicles.
No person, while a driver or passenger in a vehicle, shall throw or deposit litter upon any street or other public place within the city or upon private property.
(Code 1976, § 18-6)
Sec. 82-87. - Securing of truck loads.
No person shall drive or move any truck or other vehicle within the city, unless such vehicle is constructed or loaded so as to prevent any load, contents or litter from being blown or deposited upon any street, alley or other public place, nor shall any person drive or move any vehicle or truck within the city, the wheels or tires of which carry onto or deposit in any street, alley or other public place, mud, dirt, sticky substances, litter or foreign matter of any kind.
(Code 1976, § 18-7)
Sec. 82-88. - Parks.
No person shall throw or deposit litter in any park within the city, except in public receptacles and in such a manner that the litter will be prevented from being carried or deposited by the elements upon any part of the park or upon any street or other public place. Where public receptacles are not provided, all such litter shall be carried away from the park by the person responsible for its presence, and properly disposed of elsewhere as provided in this article.
(Code 1976, § 18-8)
Sec. 82-89. - Persons in aircraft.
No person in an aircraft shall throw out, drop or deposit within the city any litter, handbill or any other object.
(Code 1976, § 18-9)
Sec. 82-90. - Occupied private property.
No person shall throw or deposit litter on any occupied private property within the city, whether owned by such person or not, except that the owner or person in control of private property may maintain authorized private receptacles for collection in such a manner that litter will be prevented from being carried or deposited by the elements upon any street, sidewalk or other public place or upon any private property.
(Code 1976, § 18-10)
Sec. 82-91. - Responsibility for maintaining premises free of litter.
The owner or person in control of any private property shall, at all times, maintain the premises free of litter; provided, however, that this section shall not prohibit the storage of litter in authorized private receptacles for collection.
(Code 1976, § 18-11)
Sec. 82-92. - Vacant lots.
No person shall throw or deposit litter on any open or vacant private property within the city, whether owned by such person or not.
(Code 1976, § 18-12)
Sec. 82-93. - Posting notices prohibited; exception.
No person shall post or affix any notice, poster or other paper or device, calculated to attract the attention of the public, to any lamppost, public utility pole or shade tree, or upon any public structure or building, except as may be authorized or required by law.
(Code 1976, § 18-13)
Secs. 82-94—82-110. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - CLEARANCE FROM OPEN PRIVATE PROPERTY

Sec. 82-111. - Notice to remove.
The city marshal or designee is hereby authorized and empowered to notify the owner of any open or vacant private property within the city or the agent of such owner to properly dispose of litter located on such owner's property which is dangerous to public health, safety or welfare. Such notice shall be given by registered or certified mail, addressed to the owner at his last known address, or by serving such notice in person.
(Code 1976, § 18-24)
Sec. 82-112. - Action upon noncompliance.
Upon the failure, neglect or refusal of any person notified as set forth in section 82-111 to properly dispose of litter within the time specified in such notice, the city marshal or designee shall notify the board of commissioners of such noncompliance. The board of commissioners shall order the clerk to give such person notice to show cause before the board of commissioners on a day certain why such litter shall not be declared as a nuisance and why the nuisance should not be abated.
(Code 1976, § 18-25)
Sec. 82-113. - Hearing.
At the time and place specified in the notice as set forth in section 82-111, the city marshal or designee shall present evidence as to the existence of the alleged nuisance, and the person so notified shall be given an opportunity to present evidence to the contrary. If, after hearing the evidence, the board of commissioners shall find that a nuisance shall exist, they shall order the nuisance to be abated.
(Code 1976, § 18-26)
Sec. 82-114. - Abatement by city.
If the nuisance should not be abated as ordered by the board of commissioners as set forth in section 18-26, the city may remove such litter and assess the cost of such removal against the property.
(Code 1976, § 18-27)
Sec. 82-115. - Violation; penalty.
Any person who shall continue a nuisance after a notice to abate shall be guilty of an offense and it shall be the duty of the city clerk to cause a warrant to be issued against any such person.
(Code 1976, § 18-28)
Secs. 82-116—82-150. - Reserved.
ARTICLE IV. - DISTRIBUTION OF HANDBILLS
DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Sec. 82-151. - Exemptions.
The provisions of this article shall not apply to the distribution of mail by the United States post office, nor to newspapers, except that newspapers shall be placed on private property in such a manner as to prevent their being carried or deposited by the elements upon any street, sidewalk or other public place or upon private property.
(Code 1976, § 18-40)
Sec. 82-152. - Throwing or distributing in public places.
No person shall throw or deposit any commercial or noncommercial handbill in or upon any sidewalk, street or other public place within the city, nor shall any person hand out or distribute or sell any commercial handbill in any public place; provided, however, that it shall not be unlawful on any sidewalk, street or other public place within the city for any person to hand out or distribute, without charge to the receiver thereof, any noncommercial handbill to any person willing to accept it.
(Code 1976, § 18-41)
Cross reference— Streets and sidewalks, ch. 86.
Sec. 82-153. - Placing on vehicles.
No person shall throw or deposit any commercial or noncommercial handbill in or upon any vehicle; provided, however, that it shall not be unlawful in any public place for a person to hand out or distribute, without charge to the receiver thereof, a noncommercial handbill to any occupant of a vehicle who is willing to accept it.
(Code 1976, § 18-42)
Sec. 82-154. - Uninhabited or vacant premises.
No person shall throw or deposit any commercial or noncommercial handbill in or upon any private premises which is temporarily or continuously uninhabited or vacant.
(Code 1976, § 18-43)
Sec. 82-155. - Posted property.
No person shall throw, deposit or distribute any commercial or noncommercial handbill upon any private premises, if requested by any person on such premises not to do so, or if there is placed on such premises, in a conspicuous position near the entrance thereof, a sign bearing the words: "No Trespassing," "No Peddlers or Agents," "No Advertisement," or any similar notice, indicating in any manner that the occupants of the premises do not desire to be molested or have their right of privacy disturbed or to have any such handbills left upon such premises.
(Code 1976, § 18-44)
Sec. 82-156. - Inhabited private premises.
No person shall throw, deposit or distribute any commercial or noncommercial handbill in or upon private premises which are inhabited, except by handing or transmitting any such handbill directly to the owner, occupant or other person then present in or upon such private premises; provided, however, that in case of inhabited private premises which are not posted, such person, unless requested by any person upon such premises not to do so, may place or deposit any such handbill in or upon such inhabited private premises if such handbill is placed or deposited so as to secure or prevent such handbill from being blown or drifted about such premises or sidewalks, streets or other public places, and except that mailboxes may not be used for such distribution when prohibited by federal postal law or regulations.
(Code 1976, § 18-45)
Secs. 82-157—82-180. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - PERMIT

Sec. 82-181. - Compliance.
It shall be unlawful for any person to stand upon or in close proximity to a street, highway or other public thoroughfare in the city for the purpose of handing out handbills or other such matter to occupants of automobiles or other vehicles traveling upon such street, highway or other public thoroughfare without first complying with the requirements of this article.
(Code 1976, § 18-53)
Sec. 82-182. - Required.
It shall be unlawful for any person to deliver, hand out, distribute or otherwise circulate, or to cause to be delivered, handed out, distributed or otherwise circulated, except by United States Postal Service, any handbill, circular, poster, pamphlet or similar written matter upon any municipal street, sidewalk or public place within the city without obtaining a permit.
(Code 1976, § 18-54)
Sec. 82-183. - Application.
Each person desiring to obtain a permit required by the provisions of this division shall make written application for such permit to the board of commissioners, which application shall contain the following information:
(1)
Name, age, race and address of the applicant.
(2)
Name, address and type business of the person for whom such handbills or other matter will be distributed.
(3)
Locations from which the applicant desires to engage in such activity, which shall be described in detail.
(4)
Experience of the applicant in the activity of handing out such literature.
(5)
Hours during which the applicant intends to distribute such literature.
(6)
Such other information as may be required by the board of commissioners to enable them to pass upon such application.
(Code 1976, § 18-55)
Sec. 82-184. - Fee.
A fee is assessed as set forth in the schedule of fees and charges on file in the office of the city clerk for a permit required by this division, which amount shall accompany each application, and no application shall be received until and unless a cashier's or certified check in such amount accompanies each such application. No portion of such fee shall be prorated or rebated to any permittee who ceases to engage in any such activity.
(Code 1976, § 18-56)
Sec. 82-185. - Standards.
The following standards shall be adhered to in the granting of any permit under the provisions of this division:
(1)
No permittee shall be less than 21 years of age.
(2)
No more than one permit shall be issued for any street corner.
(3)
Traffic conditions at street or highway intersections will be considered in passing upon any application.
(4)
Each permit shall be issued only to an individual and may not be transferred or assigned without the consent of the board of commissioners, and no other person shall engage in such activity, except the person named in the permit.
(Code 1976, § 18-57)
Sec. 82-186. - Revocation.
Any permit issued pursuant to this division may be revoked for cause and after hearing for any conduct of a permittee amounting to a nuisance, or calculated to impede the orderly flow of traffic.
(Code 1976, § 18-58)
Sec. 82-187. - Duration of validity.
Every permit issued under the provisions of this division shall be valid for a period of time as stated in the permit, but in no event shall any such permit be issued for a period of time in excess of 12 months.
(Code 1976, § 18-59)
Sec. 82-188. - Display.
Every person having a permit issued under the provisions of this division shall display such permit upon the request of any person, and failure to do so shall be deemed an offense.
(Code 1976, § 18-60)
