ARTICLE VI. - CODE OF ETHICS

Sec. 2-351. - Persons subject to this article.
The following persons are subject to this article:
(1)
All employees under the control of the board of commissioners.
(2)
The heads of all agencies who are appointed by the board of commissioners.
(3)
Any other employees of the board of commissioners, departments, boards, bureaus, agencies, commissions, councils, authorities, corporations, entities, or instrumentalities of any kind, and others as may be designated by the board of commissioners, to the extent that such designation does not conflict with state law.
(Res. of 3-8-2005, § 1(a))
Sec. 2-352. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Agency means any department, board, bureau, agency, commission, council, authority, corporation, entity, or instrumentality of any kind, and others to the extent that such designation does not conflict with state law.
Agency head means the executive head of an agency.
Charitable organization shall have the meaning defined in O.C.G.A. § 45-20-51.
Employee means any employee or elected county commissioner of the county and any employee of any agency as defined herein.
Family member means a spouse, parent, grandparent, child, brother, sister, uncle, aunt, nephew, niece, father-in-law, mother-in-law, son-in-law, daughter-in-law, brother-in-law, sister-in-law, stepparent, stepchild, stepbrother, stepsister, half brother, or half sister.
Gift means anything of value exceeding $0.00, including, but not limited to, food, lodging, transportation, personal services, gratuities, subscriptions, memberships, trips, loans, extensions of credit, forgiveness of debts, or advances or deposits of money. However, nothing in this article shall prohibit any commissioner or employee from having a business luncheon meeting with any person or other legal entity where the meal is paid for by such person or legal entity, which meal does not exceed $50.00.
Lobbyist shall have the meaning defined in O.C.G.A. § 21-5-70(6).
Officer means the elected county commissioner and the heads of all agencies who are appointed by such commissioners. For purposes of this article, all officers are also employees as that term is defined herein.
Person means an individual, partnership, committee, association, corporation, labor organization, or any other organization or group of individuals.
Value means the actual retail price or cost attributable to a gift, less applicable taxes and gratuities, or a reasonable estimate based upon customary charges for like good or services in the locality. A series of tickets to sporting, entertainment, or similar events shall be valued as one gift. Entrance fees, admission fees, or other tickets shall be valued at the face value of the ticket or fee, excluding any portion attributable to a charitable contribution, if provided by a charitable organization.
(Res. of 3-8-2005, § 1(b))
Sec. 2-353. - Ethics officer.
(a)
The board of commissioners shall designate an ethics officer. The ethics officer shall take appropriate measures to ensure that the agency's employees become familiar with applicable ethics laws and policies, including the policies set forth in this article.
(b)
Reserved.
(Res. of 3-8-2005, § 2)
Sec. 2-354. - Conflicts of interest.
(a)
An employee of the board of commissioners shall make every effort to avoid even the appearance of a conflict of interest. An appearance of conflict exists when a reasonable person would conclude from the circumstances that the employee's ability to protect the public interest, or perform public duties, is compromised by personal interests. An appearance of conflict could exist even in the absence of a true conflict of interest.
(b)
An employee of the board of commissioners shall recuse himself from any proceeding in which the employee's impartiality might reasonably be questioned due to the employee's personal or financial relationship with a participant in the proceeding. The term "participant" includes, but is not limited to, an owner, shareholder, partner, employee, resident, or agent of a business entity involved in the proceeding. If the employee is uncertain whether the relationship justifies recusal, then the employee shall disclose the relationship to the person presiding over the proceeding. The presiding officer shall determine the extent to which, if any, the employee will be permitted to participate. If the affected employee is the person presiding, then the vice-chairperson or such other substitute presiding officer shall make the determination.
(Res. of 3-8-2005, § 3)
Sec. 2-355. - Gifts.
(a)
Except as provided in subsection (b) of this section and as set forth hereinbefore, no employee, nor any person on his behalf, shall accept, directly or indirectly, any gift from any person with whom the employee interacts on official business, including, without limitation, lobbyists and vendors which exceeds $100.00. If a gift has been accepted which exceeds $100.00 it must be either returned to the donor or transferred to a charitable organization.
(b)
Where appropriate for purposes of tradition, ceremony, or intergovernmental relations, or when acting as a representative of the board of commissioners, an employee may accept a gift in excess of $100.00 on behalf of the board of commissioners. If the gift retains a value exceeding $100.00, after its acceptance, the employee must:
(1)
Maintain custody of the gift no longer than reasonably necessary to arrange for the transfer of custody of the gift to the board of commissioners or a charitable organization on behalf of such;
(2)
File a report with the designated ethics officer no later than 30 days after receipt of the gift containing a description of the gift, the approximate monetary value thereof, the name and address of the person making the gift, the date the gift was made, and the disposition of the gift.
(Res. of 3-8-2005, § 4)
Sec. 2-356. - Honoraria.
No employee may accept any honoraria whatsoever.
(Res. of 3-8-2005, § 5)
Sec. 2-357. - Expenses.
An employee on whose behalf actual and reasonable expenses for food, beverages, travel, lodging, and registration are paid to permit the employee's participation in a meeting related to official or professional duties of the employee shall file a report no later than 30 days after such expenses are paid. The report shall be filed with the designated ethics officer. The report must contain a description of each expense, the monetary value thereof, the name and address of the person paying such expense, and the purpose, date, and location of the meeting. Notwithstanding this provision, the preferred practice is for agencies and not third parties to pay such expenses.
(Res. of 3-8-2005, § 6)
Sec. 2-358. - Lobbying.
(a)
The use of lobbyists will not be required or preferred as a way to obtain access to employees. Employees will strongly encourage any lobbyist wishing to meet with the board of commissioners or staff regarding his client and/or principal to bring a principal of his client to such meeting.
(b)
Former employees should not use their former positions for financial or other personal gain or to influence legislation or procurement decisions. Employees shall decline to communicate on official government matters with any lobbyist who was an officer within the preceding one-year period.
(c)
No agency shall be permitted to contract with any person to provide lobbying, as that term is defined in O.C.G.A. § 21-5-70(5), services on behalf of that agency.
(d)
Employees who promote or oppose the passage of any legislation by the board of commissioners, or any committee thereof, shall coordinate all such activities with the chairperson of the board of commissioners.
(Res. of 3-8-2005, § 7)
Sec. 2-359. - Fair and equal access.
Employees are required to afford all constituents fair and equal opportunity to express their concerns and ideas regarding the county programs and policies without regard to their political affiliation, sophistication, or affluence. Recommendations and decisions made by employees in the performance of their duties shall be made without bias.
(Res. of 3-8-2005, § 8)
Sec. 2-360. - Employment/board service.
Employees may serve for compensation any company of nonprofit organizations so long as services to such organizations would not have the potential to create a conflict and do not impair the employee's ability to discharge his public duties fully, faithfully and impartially.
(Res. of 3-8-2005, § 9)
Sec. 2-361. - Political activities.
(a)
Employees wishing to take part in political activities are responsible for complying with applicable federal and state law.
(b)
Employees are prohibited from soliciting or knowingly accepting any campaign contribution in a governmental building or office. The term "accept" means to receive a contribution by personal hand-delivery from a contributor or his agent. This does not apply when a government-owned building or any portion thereof is rented for the specific purpose of holding a campaign fundraiser.
(c)
Employees are permitted to express their opinions on political subjects and candidates and to take an active part in political campaigns outside of working hours, including the wearing of badges or buttons and displaying of bumper stickers and posters. Employees are encouraged to vote outside of working hours.
(Res. of 3-8-2005, § 10)
Sec. 2-362. - Personal use of telephone and Internet access.
(a)
Telephone use. Personal long-distance calls shall not be charged to the county telephones. Employees must use their personal long-distance credit card or other personal resource for this purpose. It is also inappropriate to use a county cellular telephone for personal calls.
(b)
Internet access and use. County-provided Internet access is intended for public business. Employee use of the Internet may be recorded and monitored. No employee is permitted to use or access the Internet for pornographic, obscene, or other improper purposes.
(Res. of 3-8-2005, § 11)
Sec. 2-363. - Miscellaneous.
There may be unique or compelling circumstances warranting exceptions to or waivers from the policies set out in this article in certain individual cases. In those instances, prior written approval of the board of commissioners is required.
(Res. of 3-8-2005, § 12)
Sec. 2-364. - Enforcement.
The board of commissioners shall make a copy of this article available to all employees and shall institute procedures for its enforcement consistent with all applicable state laws. Employees who violate this article are subject to disciplinary action, including termination of employment, subject to review by the board of commissioners. The agency head of each agency shall be responsible to the chairperson for the faithful enforcement of this article, and shall report all alleged violations.
(Res. of 3-8-2005, § 13)
