Chapter 14 - BUILDINGS AND BUILDING REGULATIONS
ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 14-1. - Displaying location permits on mobile or prebuilt homes.
The county board of tax assessors is granted the authority to write citations for the violation of not displaying location permits (decals) on all mobile homes or prebuilt mobile homes in the county. The citation is a misdemeanor and is settled in magistrate court within 30 days of the issuance (O.C.G.A. § 48-5-493). Such citations shall be reviewed by the board of tax assessors before being turned over to magistrate court for processing.
Editor's note— The adoption date of this section is not available.
Sec. 14-2. - Address numbering.
(a)
Required; specifications. Every person, business, establishment, congregation, group and all other legal entities, including outdoor recreation camps with an address in the unincorporated area of the county, shall exhibit light reflector numbers, such numbers to be at least three inches high, either on both sides of their mailbox, or on a sign with two sides with such reflector numbers on each side of the sign. The numbers to be used on such mailbox or sign shall be the same as the numbers assigned by the governing authority. If a sign is used, it must be hung so that it is easily read by an individual from an automobile traveling in either direction approaching said sign or address. All reflector numbers shall be installed right side up so that they can be easily read.
(b)
Penalty. Any person, business, establishment, congregation, group, outdoor recreation camp or other legal entity violating any of the provisions of this section may be given a summons and tried in the magistrate court of the county. Upon conviction, said person shall be fined not less than $100.00 and not more than $500.00, sentenced to a jail term of not more than 90 days in jail, or both, or any part thereof.
(Res. of 1-14-2003)
Secs. 14-3—14-30. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - CONSTRUCTION CODES

Sec. 14-31. - Adopted.
modified
The following codes, the latest edition as adopted and amended by the state department of community affairs, shall be enforced by the county:
(1)
International Building Code.
(2)
International Mechanical Code.
(3)
International Fuel Gas Code.
(4)
International Plumbing Code.
(5)
National Electrical Code.
(6)
International Fire Code.
(7)
International Residential Code for One- and Two-Family Dwellings.
(8)
Georgia State Energy Code for Buildings.
(9)
International Energy Conservation Code.
(10)
International Swimming Pool and Spa Code.
(Ord. of 3-8-2022(2))
State Law reference— Authority to adopt technical codes, Ga. Const. art. IX, §§ II, III(a)(12); construction standards generally, O.C.G.A. § 8-2-1 et seq.; minimum state construction codes, O.C.G.A. § 8-2-25.
Sec. 14-32. - Compliance.
It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in the construction or erection of any building, whether commercial, business or residential unless such construction is accomplished in compliance with the various construction codes adopted by this article, except farm buildings and sheds.
Sec. 14-33. - Enforcement.
When reference is made to the duties of certain officials named in the various construction codes adopted by this article, the building official shall be deemed to be the responsible official for the enforcement of such codes.
Sec. 14-34. - Penalty for violation.
(a)
Generally. Any person violating any provision of the various construction codes adopted by this article shall be punished as provided in section 1-17.
(b)
Suspension of license. A conviction of any provision of the various construction codes adopted by this article shall automatically suspend the business license of the offending contractor. The license may be reinstated by an application to the county upon a showing of good cause.
Sec. 14-35. - Permit and inspection fees.
Permit and inspection fees and any other charges imposed or due under the various construction codes adopted by this article shall be as provided in the schedule of fees and charges on file in the office of the county clerk.
Sec. 14-36. - Exemption from self-inspection of sewer lines by plumbers and utility contractors.
Pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 8-2-26(d), the board of commissioners exempt the county from the provisions of O.C.G.A. § 8-2-26(d), regarding self-inspection of sewer lines by plumbers and utility contractors.
(Res. of 5-28-1996)
Secs. 14-37—14-60. - Reserved.
ARTICLE III. - WATER CONSERVATION RESTRICTIONS

Sec. 14-61. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Commercial means any type of building other than residential.
Construction means the erection of a new building or the alteration of an existing building in connection with its repair or renovation or in connection with making an addition to an existing building and shall include the replacement of a malfunctioning, unserviceable, or obsolete faucet, showerhead, toilet, or urinal in an existing building.
Residential means any building or unit of a building intended for occupancy as a dwelling but shall not include a hotel or motel.
(Ord. of 11-12-1991, § 1)
Sec. 14-62. - Construction restrictions.
On or after July 1, 1991, no construction may be initiated within the county for any residential building of any type which:
(1)
Employs a gravity tank-type, flushometer-valve, or flushometer-tank toilet that uses more than an average of 1.6 gallons of water per flush; provided, however, this subsection shall not be applicable to one-piece toilets until July 1, 1992;
(2)
Employs a showerhead that allows a flow of more than an average of 2.5 gallons of water per minute at 60 pounds per square inch of pressure;
(3)
Employs a urinal that uses more than an average of 1.0 gallons of water per flush;
(4)
Employs a lavatory faucet or lavatory replacement aerator that allows a flow of more than 2.0 gallons of water per minute; or
(5)
Employs a kitchen faucet or kitchen replacement aerator that allows a flow of more than 2.5 gallons of water per minute.
(Ord. of 11-12-1991, § 2)
Sec. 14-63. - Construction requirements.
On or after July 1, 1992, there shall be no construction of any commercial building initiated with the county for any commercial building of any type which does not meet the requirements of section 14-62.
(Ord. of 11-12-1991, § 3)
Sec. 14-64. - Application of article to repairs and renovations.
The requirements of section 14-62 shall apply to any residential construction initiated after July 1, 1991, and to any commercial construction initiated after July 1, 1992, which involves the repair or renovation of or addition to any existing building when such repair or renovation of or addition to such existing building includes replacement of toilets or showers, or both.
(Ord. of 11-12-1991, § 4)
Sec. 14-65. - Exemptions.
(a)
Generally. New construction and the repair or renovation of an existing building shall be exempt from the requirements of sections 14-62, 14-63 and 14-64 when:
(1)
The repair or renovation of the existing building does not include the replacement of the plumbing or sewage system servicing toilets, faucets or showerheads within such existing buildings;
(2)
Such plumbing or sewage system within such existing building, because of its capacity, design, or installation, would not function properly if the toilets, faucets or showerheads required by this article were installed;
(3)
Such system is a well or gravity flow from a spring and is owned privately by an individual for use in such individual's personal residence; or
(4)
Units to be installed are:
a.
Specifically designed for use by the handicapped;
b.
Specifically designed to withstand unusual abuse or installation in a penal institution; or
c.
Toilets for juveniles.
(b)
Reserved.
(Ord. of 11-12-1991, § 5)
Sec. 14-66. - Enforcement; penalty.
(a)
Enforcement. This article shall be enforced by the office of the building inspector of the county. Citations for violations may be issued by the chief building inspector of the county.
(b)
Penalty. Any person violating this article shall be punished as provided in section 1-17.
(Ord. of 11-12-1991, § 6)
Sec. 14-67. - Conflicts.
All ordinances and parts of ordinances in conflict with this article are repealed.
(Ord. of 11-12-1991, § 7)
