ARTICLE III. - DEFINITIONS

Sec. 3.1. - Scope.
Words not defined herein shall be construed to have the meaning given by The Latest Illustrated Book of Development Definitions and, if not defined therein, by Merriam-Webster's Collegiate Dictionary, tenth edition or later edition.
Sec. 3.2. - Use and interpretation.
The following shall apply to the use of all words in this Ordinance:
a.
Words used in the present tense shall include the future tense.
b.
Words used in the singular shall include the plural and vice versa.
c.
The word shall is mandatory.
d.
The word may is permissive.
e.
The nouns zone, zoning district and district have the same meaning and refer to the Zoning Districts established by this Ordinance.
f.
The phrase used for shall include the phrases arranged for, designed for, intended for, maintained for and occupied for.
Sec. 3.3. - Definitions.
modified
3.3.1.
A.
Accessory Equipment. Any equipment serving or being used in conjunction with a wireless telecommunications facility, including, without limitation, utility or transmission equipment, power supplies, generators, batteries, cables, equipment buildings or enclosures, cabinets, storage sheds, shelters, or similar structures, but excluding any antennas, antenna arrays, towers or other antenna support structures.
Accessory Site Feature. Mechanical, electrical and ancillary equipment, cooling towers, mechanical penthouses, heating and air conditioning units and/or pads, exterior ladders, storage tanks, processing equipment, service yards, storage yards, exterior work areas, loading docks, maintenance areas, dumpsters, recycling bins, and any other equipment, structure or storage area located on a roof, ground or building.
Accessory Structure. See structure, accessory.
Adjoin. To have a common border with. Adjoin may also mean coterminous, contiguous, abutting and adjacent.
Administrative Minor Variance. A variance to the minimum district yard requirements of not more than 1 foot, granted administratively by the Director of the Department of Community Development.
Administrative Variance. A request for relief from: 1) the standards contained in Article 34, Development Regulations, 2) a request to reduce the 10 foot improvement setback adjacent to buffers or 3) a request for 10% reduction of parking spaces as required in Article 18.2.3.
Alternative Antenna Support Structure. Clock towers, campaniles, free standing steeples, and other alternative designed freestanding support structures that conceal antennas as an architectural feature. Monopines and other manmade trees designed as support structures are not 'alternative antenna support structures.'
Amateur Radio Antenna. Radio communication facility that is an accessory structure to a single-family residential dwelling operated for non-commercial purposes by a Federal Communication Commission licensed amateur radio operator. The term antenna shall include both the electronic system and any structures it is affixed to for primary support.
Antenna. An apparatus, device or system of electrical conductors that transmits and/or receives electromagnetic waves, radio or other wireless signals used in the provision of all types of wireless communication services.
Antenna Array. A single set or group of antennas and associated mounting hardware, transmission lines or other appurtenances which share a common attachment device such as a mounting frame or mounting support.
Antenna, Minor. Satellite receiving dishes of one meter or less in diameter and television broadcast receiving antennas.
Antenna Support Structure. A structure, such as a tower (either monopole, guy or lattice tower), alternative antenna support structure, or attached antenna support structure, designed to support or capable of supporting antenna(s), antenna array(s), and certain accessory equipment, such as cables.
Apartment. See Dwelling, Multi-Family.
Appeal. A request for relief from a decision made by the Director of the Department of Community Development, other department directors, the Board of Zoning Appeals, and/or the Mayor and City Council.
Applicable Wall Area. The wall on which a wall sign is attached including all walls and windows that have the same street or pedestrian orientation. All open air spaces shall be excluded from the applicable wall area.
Assembly Hall (also Event Space). A large room or structure where people can congregate for public meetings, special events, and/or meetings of an organization such as a school, church, or deliberative assembly.
Attached Antenna Support Structure. Any pole, mount or device which attaches an antenna(s) or antenna array(s) to the roof or side of an existing building or to an electrical transmission tower, light structure, utility pole, or other similar existing structure.
Attached Wireless Telecommunications Facility. An antenna or antenna array that is secured to the roof or side of an existing building (respectively, a "roof-mounted wireless telecommunications facility" and a "building-mounted wireless telecommunications facility") or attached to an existing electrical transmission tower, light structure or utility pole (except a tower or alternative antenna support structure) with an attached antenna support structure, together with accessory equipment, located either on or within the subject building or structure or on the ground proximate to the subject building or structure.
Attic. An unheated storage area located immediately below the roof.
Authorized Agent. A person or persons with written authorization acting on behalf of a property owner or applicant.
Automotive Garage. A use primarily for the repair, replacement, modification, adjustment, or servicing of the power plant or drive-train or major components of automobiles and motorized vehicles. The repair of heavy trucks, equipment and automobile body work shall not be included in this use. The outside storage of unlicensed and unregistered vehicle is prohibited as part of this use.
(See Auto Specialty Shop and Service Station)
Automotive Specialty Shop. A use which provides one or more specialized repair sales and/or maintenance functions such as the sale, replacement, installation or repair of tires, mufflers, batteries, brakes and master cylinders, shock absorbers, instruments (such as speedometers and tachometers), radios and sound systems or upholstery for passenger cars, vans, and light trucks only.
No use authorized herein shall permit any private or commercial activity which involves auto/truck leasing, painting, repair or alteration of the auto body, nor shall any repair, replacement, modification, adjustment, or servicing of the power plant or drive-train or cooling system be permitted, except that minor tune-up involving the changing of spark plugs, points or condenser, including engine block oil changes, are permitted.
3.3.2.
B.
Babysitting. A service in which shelter, care, and supervision are provided for 4 or fewer children below the age of 12 on an irregular basis.
Base Station. A station at a specific site authorized to communicate with mobile stations, generally consisting of radio transceivers, antennas, coaxial cables, power supplies and other associated electronics.
Basement. A level below a floor of a building with a minimum of one-half (½) of the total wall area below grade. A basement is not a story. The term basement is synonymous with cellar.
Beacon. Any light with one or more beams directed into the atmosphere or directed at one or more points not on the same lot as the light source; also any light with one or more beams that rotate or move.
Bed and Breakfast Inn. A residence in which the frequency and volume of visitors are incidental to the primary use as a private residence and where guest rooms are made available for visitors for fewer than 30 consecutive days. Breakfast is the only meal served and is included in the charge for the room. Use allowed in non-residential districts and permitted in AG-1 and TR with a Use Permit.
Berm. A planted earthen mound.
Brewery. A facility where beer or malt beverages are manufactured or brewed.
Billboard. A sign which advertises services, merchandise, entertainment or information which is not available at the property on which the sign is located.
Board. The City of Johns Creek Mayor and City Council.
Boarding House. A residential use other than a hotel or motel in which lodging may be provided to non-household members and which includes the provision of meals.
Brewpub. An accessory use to any eating establishment, or any brewery where beer or malt beverages are manufactured or brewed, subject to the barrel limitation prescribed in O.C.G.A. § 3-5-36 for retail and sale consumption on the premise.
Buffer Stream. The area of land immediately adjacent to the banks of state waters in its natural state of vegetation that facilitates the protection of water quality and aquatic habitat.
Buffer, Zoning. A natural undisturbed portion of a lot, except for approved access and utility crossings, which is set aside to achieve a visual barrier between the use on the lot and adjacent lots and/or uses. A buffer is achieved with natural vegetation and must be replanted subject to the approval of the Director of the Department of Community Development or his/her designated agent(s) when sparsely vegetated. Clearing of undergrowth from a buffer is prohibited except when accomplished under the supervision of the Director of the Department of Community Development or his/her designated agent(s).
Buildable Area. The portion of a parcel of land where a building may be located and which shall contain enough square footage to meet the minimum required by the zoning district. That portion which is not located in the minimum setbacks, utility corridors, driveways, slopes to build streets, tree save areas, landscape strips, specimen tree areas, state water buffers, tributary buffers, zoning buffers, wetlands, storm water and sanitary sewer easements.
Building. Any structure with a roof, designed or built for the support, enclosure, shelter, or protection of persons, animals, chattels, or property of any kind.
Building Inspector. The person charged with ensuring compliance with the Building Code and other applicable regulations and ordinances of the City of Johns Creek, and his or her designee.
Building Line. A building line is one which is no closer to a property line than the minimum yard (setback) requirements.
Building Official. The official and his or her designee who directs municipal building inspection program and conducts complex inspections to determine whether relevant codes and regulations are met.
Business. A use involving retailing, wholesaling, warehousing, outside storage, manufacturing or the delivery of services regardless of whether payment is involved. The term Business does not include uses which are customarily incidental (accessory) to another use.
3.3.3.
C.
Cafe. See Restaurant, Cafe.
Canopy. A roof-like cover, excluding carports, that either projects from the wall of a building or is freestanding.
Car Wash, Accessory. A customarily incidental use of an attached or detached bay for cleaning vehicles.
Car Wash, Automated. Any building or premises or portions thereof dedicated to use for washing automobiles with mechanical equipment, which is often completely unattended. Automated car washes may require permanent structures. Services include cleaning, washing, polishing, and waxing.
Car Wash, Non-automated. Any building or premises or portions thereof dedicated to use for washing automobiles by hand operated equipment. Non-automated car washes may or may not require permanent structures, but typically always require some kind of shade structures or storage sheds. Services include cleaning, washing, polishing, and waxing.
Car Wash, Principal. A primary or main use which provides space for cleaning vehicles.
Carrier on Wheels or Cell on Wheels (COW). A portable self-contained wireless telecommunications facility that can be moved to a location and set up to provide wireless communication services on a temporary or emergency basis. A COW is normally vehicle-mounted and contains a telescoping boom as the antenna support structure.
Cellar. See basement.
Cemetery, Human. The use of property as a burial place for human remains. Such a property may contain a mausoleum.
Cemetery, Pet. The use of property as a burial place for the remains of pets. Such a property may contain a mausoleum.
Check cashing establishment. Any establishment licensed by the State of Georgia pursuant to O.C.G.A. sections 7-1-700 et seq.
Church, Temple or Place of Worship. A facility in which persons regularly assemble for religious ceremonies. This shall include, on the same lot, accessory structures and uses such as minister's and caretaker's residences, and others uses identified under the provisions for Administrative and Use Permits.
Cigar Shop. Any business establishment that sells cigars, and derives at least 80 percent of its total annual gross sales from the sale of cigars and cigar-related products for consumption on or off the premises. Such retail establishments shall not advertise, display, store, sell or permit the on-premises use of:
1)
Vape products, including electronic smoking devices, component parts or e-liquids;
2)
Hookah pipes and products, glass pipes or bongs; or
3)
Unrolled tobacco or machine rolled tobacco products.
Clear Cutting. The removal of all vegetation from a property, whether by cutting or other means, excluding stream buffer requirements.
Clinic. A use where medical examination and treatment is administered to persons on an outpatient basis. No patient shall be lodged on an overnight basis.
Club. A non-profit social, educational or recreational use normally involving community centers, public swimming pools and/or courts, civic clubhouses, lodge halls, fraternal organizations, country clubs and similar facilities.
Club, Neighborhood. Any club operated for recreation and social purposes solely by the residents of a specific neighborhood or community.
Collocation. The placement or installation of new wireless transmission equipment on existing towers or antenna support structures on which there is an existing antenna (an "existing tower"), including monopoles and towers (self-supporting, guyed, and lattice), in a manner that negates the need to construct a new freestanding antenna support structure. Such term includes the placement of accessory equipment within an existing equipment compound.
Commercial Amusement /Indoor. A use where recreational activity such as movie theaters, arcades, billiards, game rooms, sporting activities and other recreational amusements are conducted within a building.
Commercial Amusement/Outdoor. A use where recreational activity such as skating rinks, batting cages, miniature golf, drive-in theaters and other recreational activities or amusements that are conducted outside a building.
Communication Services. A use that provides for the retail sale of telecommunication or wireless communication services to consumers, repair services for telecommunication or wireless communication goods, customer service centers, and telecommuting services. This use includes telecommunication or wireless communication retail stores, wireless communication repair service centers or stores, wireless communication customer service centers, and cable customer service centers, but excludes wireless telecommunications facilities and television and radio stations. The term "communication services" is separate and distinct from the term "wireless communication services."
Community Amenity. Facilities for the enjoyment of the community, such as clubhouses, playgrounds, tennis courts, benches, pavilions.
Composting. A processing operation for the treatment of vegetative matter into humus-like material that can be recycled as a soil fertilizer amendment such as trees, leaves and plant material. Organic animal waste, food, municipal sludge, solid waste, and other non-farm or vegetative type wastes are not included.
Condominium. A form of ownership as defined by State law in which common elements are jointly owned. A condominium is not a building type.
Conservation Subdivision. A single family detached residential subdivision in which a minimum of 40 percent of the total land area is set aside as permanently protected open space as define in Article XX of the Zoning Ordinance. Conservation Subdivisions require Use Permit approval in accordance with Article XXVIII.
Construction material. Building materials and rubble resulting from construction, remodeling, repair, and/or demolition operations on pavements, houses, commercial buildings and other structures. Such materials include, but are not limited to, asbestos containing waste, wood, bricks, metal, concrete, wall board, paper, cardboard, inert waste landfill material, and other nonputrescible wastes which have a low potential for groundwater contamination.
Convalescent Center/Nursing Home/Hospice. A state licensed use in which domiciliary care is provided to convalescing, chronically or terminally ill persons who are provided with food, shelter and care and not meeting the test of family. This use shall not include hospitals, clinics, or similar institutions devoted primarily to the diagnosis and treatment of the sick or injured.
Convenience Store. A use offering a limited variety of groceries household goods, and personal care items, always in association with the dispensing of motor fuels as an accessory use, but in all cases excluding vehicle service, maintenance and repair.
Convenient location and time. Suitable time and easily accessible place for applicants to meet with interested parties to discuss rezoning and/or use permit petitions.
Country Inn. A facility, with the owner or innkeepers residing on the premises, where guest rooms are made available for visitors for fewer than 30 consecutive days. A Country Inn is distinguished from a Bed and Breakfast category in that it serves both breakfast and lunch or dinner.
Courtyard. An open air area, other than a yard, that is bounded by the walls of a building. Courtyards are used primarily for supplying pedestrian access, light, and air to the abutting building(s). Site furniture, lighting and landscaping are appropriate for courtyards. Vehicular access allowed for unloading and loading only. No vehicular parking or vehicular storage is allowed.
Coverage, Service. The geographic area reached by an individual wireless telecommunications facility.
Crematorium. A facility for the reduction of remains to ashes by incineration.
Cul-de-sac. A street having only one connection to another street, and is terminated by a vehicular turn-around.
Curb cut. A connection between a roadway and a property for vehicular access. Curb cut applies to access regardless of the existence of curbing.
Cutoff. A luminaire light distribution where the emission does not exceed 2.5 percent of the lamp lumens at an angle of 90 degrees above nadir and does not exceed 10 percent at a vertical angle of 80 degrees above nadir.
Cutoff Fixture. A luminaire light distribution where the candela per 1000 lamp lumens does not numerically exceed 25 (2.5 percent) at or above a vertical angle of 90 degrees above nadir, and 100 (10 percent) at or above a vertical angle of 80 degrees above nadir. This applies to all lateral angles around the luminaire.
3.3.4.
D.
Day Care Facility. A use in which shelter, care, and supervision for seven (7) or more persons on a regular basis away from their residence for less than 24 hours a day. A Day Care Facility may provide basic educational instruction. The term shall include nursery school, kindergarten, early learning center, play school, pre-school, and Group Day Care Home.
Day Care Home, Family. See Family Day Care Home.
Day-Night Average Sound Level (DNL). The day-night average sound level (DNL) is the 24-hour average sound level, in decibels, obtained from the accumulation of all events with the addition of 10 decibels to sound levels in the night from 10 P.M. to 7 A.M. The weighing of nighttime events accounts for the usual increased interfering effects of noise during the night, when ambient levels are lower and people are trying to sleep. DNL is a weighted average measured in decibels (db).
Deck. A structure abutting a dwelling with no roof or walls except for visual partitions and railings not to exceed 42" above finished floor which is constructed on piers or a foundation above-grade for use as an outdoor living area.
Denial Without Prejudice. A motion by the Planning Commission or the Mayor and City Council that denies the requested petition and is deemed final action. Although considered a final decision, a denial without prejudice is not determined to be a final decision based on the merits of the case and would not be considered zoning precedent on the property. Any new application on the property would be considered on its own merits and may not be heard by the Mayor and City Council less than twelve months from the final decision.
Department. Department of Community Development.
Development, Duplex. A development of duplexes.
Development, Multifamily. A development of multifamily dwelling units on a single lot of record.
Development of Regional Impact (DRI) Study. A review by the Atlanta Regional Commission and the Georgia Regional Transportation Authority of large scale projects that are of sufficient size that they are likely to create impacts beyond the jurisdiction in which each project will be located.
Development Permit Standards. Requirements established for each administrative and use permit such as setbacks, access, landscape and buffer areas, hours of operation etc.
Development, Single-Family. A development of single-family dwelling units, with each dwelling unit including accessory structures, on a separate lot of record.
Development Standards. Dimensional measurements as specified in zoning districts relating to such standards as yard setbacks, lot area, lot frontage, lot width, height and floor area.
Development, Townhouse. A development of townhouse dwelling units.
Director. Director of the Department of Community Development or his/her designee.
Distilled Spirits. Any alcoholic beverage obtained by distillation or containing more than 24 percent alcohol by volume, including, but not limited to, all fortified wines.
Distiller. A manufacturer of distilled spirits.
Distillery. A domestic manufacturing facility for distilled spirits that is licensed by the state. Provided that licenses are issued as required by the Alcoholic Beverages Ordinance, a distiller/distillery is authorized to sell distilled spirits by the package, by the drink and to operate flight tastings on-premises of the distillery as provided for and subject to the limitations of state law.
Distribution Line. A pipeline other than a gathering or transmission line.
District, Nonresidential. A term used to identify all districts except single-family dwelling districts, all apartment districts, R-6, TR, MHP and residential portions of a CUP — Includes AG-1.
District, Residential. A term which applies to all single-family dwelling districts, all apartment districts, R-6, TR, MHP and residential portions of a CUP — Excludes AG-1.
Drainage Facility. A facility which provides for the collection, removal and detention of surface water or groundwater from land by drains, water course or other means.
Drive-in/up Restaurant. A restaurant designed for customers to park and place and receive food orders while remaining in their motor vehicles.
Driveway. A vehicular access way.
Dwelling. Any building or portion thereof which is designed for or used for residential purposes for periods of more than 30 consecutive days.
Dwelling, Duplex. A structure that contains two dwelling units.
Dwelling, Multifamily. A structure containing three or more dwelling units not including townhouses, triplexes or quadruplexes.
Dwelling, Quadruplex. Four attached dwellings in one building in which each unit shares one or two walls with an adjoining unit or units.
Dwelling, Triplex. A building containing three dwelling units, each of which has direct access to the outside or to a common hall.
Dwelling Unit. One or more rooms constructed with cooking, sleeping and sanitary facilities designed for and limited to use as living quarters for one family.
Dwelling Unit, Single-Family. One dwelling unit that is not attached to any other dwelling unit by any means.
Dwelling Unit, Townhouse. A dwelling unit in a row of at least three such units in which each unit has its own front and rear access to the outside, no unit is located over another unit, and each unit is separated from any other unit by one or more vertical common walls.
3.3.5.
E.
Electrical Transmission Tower. An electrical transmission tower used to support high voltage (110-kV and above) overhead power lines.
Entertainment Venue. Any establishment (indoors or outdoors) where providing entertainment is the primary use, either passive or active and is provided for the pleasure of the patrons. Such entertainment includes but is not limited to vocal and instrumental music, dancing, karaoke, comedy, acting or other activities using amplified sound. Entertainment venues do not include country clubs and golf course facilities and residential neighborhood amenity areas.
Environmentally Adverse. Any use or activity which poses a potential or immediate threat to the environment and/or is physically harmful or destructive to living beings as described in the Executive Order 12898 regarding Environmental Justice
Environmentally Stressed Community. A community exposed to a minimum of two environmentally adverse conditions resulting from public and private municipal (e.g., solid waste and wastewater treatment facilities, utilities, airports, and railroads) and industrial (e.g., landfills, quarries and manufacturing facilities) uses.
Equipment Compound. A fenced area surrounding or adjacent to the base of a tower or antenna support structure within which accessory equipment is located.
Event Space. See Assembly Hall.
3.3.6.
F.
Family. Family means one or more persons related by blood, marriage, adoption, guardianship or other duly authorized custodial relationship, or up to 4 unrelated persons, occupying a dwelling unit and living as a single housekeeping unit, as distinguished from persons occupying a rooming, boarding or lodging house, or a hotel.
Family Day Care Home. A Home Occupation in which shelter, care, and supervision are provided for 6 or fewer persons on a regular basis. A Family Day Care Home may provide basic educational instruction.
Farm. A parcel of land which is used for the raising of animals (including fish) on a commercial basis, such as ranching, dairy farming, piggeries, poultry farming and fish farming; a facility for the business of boarding or renting horses to the public; or a site used for the raising or harvesting of agricultural crops such as wheat, field forage and other plant crops intended for food or fiber.
Fast Food Restaurant. See Restaurant, Fast Food.
Flag Lot. A lot where frontage to a public street is provided via a narrow strip of land forming a pole or stem to the buildable portion of the lot.
Flood Lamp. A form of lighting designed to direct its output in a specific direction with a reflector formed from the glass envelope of the lamp itself. Such lamps are so designated by the manufacturers and are typically used in residential outdoor area lighting.
Flood Light. A form of lighting designed to direct its output in a diffuse, more or less specific direction, with reflecting or refracting elements located external to the lamp.
Floor Area, Gross. The sum of all floors of a structure as measured to the outside surfaces of exterior walls or the center of connected or common walls, including common public areas, such as lobbies, rest rooms and hallways, spaces devoted exclusively to permanent mechanical systems, permanent storage areas, stairwells, elevator shafts, but excluding internal parking and loading areas, attics, porches, balconies and other areas outside of the exterior walls of the building. Gross floor area is used to determine the building sizes for all but single-family dwellings and to determine required parking when floor area is the designated measure for a use. Commonly referred to as Floor Area.
Floor Area, Ground. The heated floor area of the first story of a building above a basement or, if no basement, the lowest story.
Floor Area, Heated. The sum of all heated area of a dwelling or dwelling unit, as appropriate, measured to the inside surfaces of exterior walls, excluding porches, balconies, attics, basements (finished or unfinished), garages, patios and decks.
Floor Area, Net. The sum of all floors of a structure as measured to the outside surfaces of exterior walls, excluding halls, stairways, elevator shafts, attached and detached garages, porches, balconies, attics with less than 7 feet of headroom, basements, patios and decks are excluded.
Floor Area, Net Leasable. Gross floor area less the common public areas.
Foot-candle. A unit of measure for illuminance on a surface that is everywhere one foot from a point source of light of one candle, and equal to one lumen per square foot of area.
Fuel Oil. A liquid petroleum product that is burned in a furnace for the generation of heat or used in an engine for the generation of power. The oil may be a distilled fraction of petroleum, a residuum from refinery operations, a crude petroleum, or a blend of two or more of these.
Full Cutoff. A luminaire light distribution where zero candela intensity occurs at or above an angle of 90 degrees above nadir. Additionally, the candela per 1000 lamp lumens does not numerically exceed 100 (10 percent) at or above a vertical angle of 80 degrees above nadir. This applies to all lateral angles around the luminaire.
Full Cutoff Fixture. An outdoor light fixture shielded or constructed in such a manner that it emits no light above the horizontal plane of the fixture.
3.3.7.
G.
Garden Center. A business whose primary operation is the sale of seeds and organic and inorganic materials, which include but are not limited to trees, shrubs, flowers, and other plants for sale or transplanting, mulch, pine straw, and other organic products for landscaping purposes, and other limited retail accessory products for gardening and/or landscaping with an approved Use Permit for Landscaping Business, Plant Nursery, or Garden Center with Indoor Retail Component (Article 19.4.27).
Gathering Line. A pipeline that transports fuel oil/liquid petroleum product from a current production facility to a transmission line or main.
Glare. The sensation produced within the visual field by luminance that is sufficiently greater than the luminance to which the eyes are adapted, causing annoyance, discomfort, or loss in visual performance and visibility.
Geographic Search Area (GSA). A geographic area designated by a wireless provider or operator as the area within which to locate a new wireless telecommunications facility, produced in accordance with generally accepted principles of wireless engineering.
Golf Course. A use of land for playing the game of golf. The term shall not include miniature golf, but may include a Country Club and a driving range as an accessory use.
Governmental Facility. A building or institution provided by the government to care for a specified need, such as a courthouse or county jail.
Grade. The average elevation of the finished surface of the ground adjacent to all sides of any structure.
Green space. Green space means permanently protected land and water, including agricultural and forestry land, that is in its undeveloped, natural state or that has been developed only to the extent consistent with, or is restored to be consistent with, one or more of the following goals:
(1)
Water quality protection for rivers, streams, and lakes;
(2)
Flood protection;
(3)
Wetlands protection;
(4)
Reduction of erosion through protection of steep slopes, areas with erodible soils, and stream banks;
(5)
Protection of riparian buffers and other areas that serve as natural habitat and corridors for native plant and animal species;
(6)
Scenic protection;
(7)
Protection of archaeological and historic resources;
(8)
Provision of recreation in the form of boating, hiking, camping, fishing, hunting, running, jogging, biking, walking, and similar outdoor activities; and
(9)
Connection of existing or planned areas contributing to the goals set out in this paragraph.
Group Residence for Children. A dwelling unit or facility in which full time residential care is provided for children under the age of 17 as a single housekeeping unit. A group residence must comply with applicable federal, state and local licensing requirements. A group residence may not serve the purpose of, or as an alternative to, incarceration.
Group Residence/Shelter. A state licensed 24-hour residential facility functioning as a single housekeeping unit for the sheltered care of persons with special needs which, in addition to providing food and shelter, may also provide some combination of personal care, social or counseling services and transportation. Bedroom suites shall not include kitchen facilities. For purposes of this Ordinance, group residence/shelter shall not include those facilities which exclusively care for children under the age of 17.
Guest House. A detached accessory dwelling unit located on the same lot with a single-family dwelling unit. A guest house may be only used by relatives, guest or employees that work on the property without payment for rent.
3.3.8.
H.
Hardship. The existence of extraordinary and exceptional conditions pertaining to the size, shape, or topography of a particular property, because of which the property cannot be developed in strict conformity with the provisions of the Zoning Ordinance.
Height. The vertical distance measured from the average grade to the mean height level between the eaves and the ridge of a gable, hip, mansard, or gambrel roof or to the highest point of roof surface of a flat roof. The elevation of each side of the building is to be measured individually and then averaged together.
Historic period lighting. Commercial lighting with an architectural design from the late 19th and early 20th centuries.
Home Occupation. An accessory use of a dwelling unit for business, operated by members of the resident family only. (See Article Section 4.12)
Home Schooling. The practice of teaching one's own children at home in accordance with Sections 20-2-690 and 20-2-690.1 of the Georgia Code.
Hoop Stress. A causation of internal and external pressure loading on the pipe.
Hospital. The provision of in-patient health care for people, including general medical and surgical services, psychiatric care and specialty medical facilities. Out-patient facilities are normally included.
Hotel/Motel. A building in which lodging and/or boarding is provided for fewer than 30 days. The term may include a restaurant in conjunction therewith and may also mean tourist court, motor lodge and inn.
Hotel, Apartment. A use which provides individual units which include cooking facilities, and which are used for temporary lodging to persons not related to the owner for fewer than 30 days.
3.3.9.
I.
IESNA. The Illuminating Engineering Society of North America, a non-profit professional organization of lighting specialists that has established recommended design standards for various lighting applications.
Illuminance. The quantity of light arriving at a surface divided by the area of the illuminated surface, measured in foot-candles. Horizontal illuminance applies to a horizontal surface, vertical illuminance applies to a vertical surface. Average illuminance is the level of illuminance over an entire illuminated target area. Maximum illuminance is the highest level of illuminance on any point within the entire area; minimum illuminance is the lowest level of illuminance on any point within the entire area.
Illuminance Levels. Illuminance levels and foot-candles noted in this ordinance mean the maintained illuminance levels; the illuminance levels occurring just prior to lamp replacement and luminaire cleaning. The average illuminance level applies to an entire illuminated target area. Minimum and maximum illuminance levels apply to small areas within the entire illuminated target area. Unless otherwise noted, illuminance levels refer to horizontal illuminance levels.
Illumination. Direct illumination is illumination which is projected from within a sign, building, etc.. Indirect illumination is illumination which is projected onto a sign, building, etc.
Improvement Setback. An area adjacent to a zoning buffer in which no improvements and/or structures shall be constructed. No development activity such as tree removal, stump removal or grinding, land disturbance or grading is permitted without the approval of the Director of the Community Development Department.
Institutional Use. Includes schools, colleges, vocational schools, hospitals, places of worship, asylums, museums, and other similar uses or facilities.
3.3.10.
J.
Junk Facility. See Salvage/Storage/Junk Facility.
3.3.11.
K.
Kennel. A use for the shelter of domestic animals where the shelter of these animals involves an exchange of revenue in which a business license is required. If the kennel is a non-business operation, its use may be certified by the Fulton County Animal Control Office.
3.3.12.
L.
Lamp. The component of an outdoor luminaire that produces light.
Land Disturbance Permit. A permit issued by the Department of Community Development that authorizes the commencement of alteration or development of a given tract of land or the commencement of any land disturbing activity.
Land Disturbing Activity. Any alteration of land which may result in soil erosion from water or wind and the movement of sediment into water or onto lands, including, but not limited to, clearing, dredging, grading, excavating, transporting and filling.
Landfill, Inert Waste Disposal. A disposal facility accepting only waste that will not or is not likely to cause production of leachate of environmental concern by placing an earth cover thereon. Such waste is limited to earth and earth-like products, concrete, cured asphalt, rocks, bricks, yard trash, stumps, limbs and leaves. This definition excludes other types of industrial and demolition waste not specifically listed above. Refer to the rules concerning Solid Waste Management of the Georgia Department of Natural Resources, Environmental Protection Division, as amended, for further definition.
Landfill, Solid Waste Disposal. A disposal facility accepting solid waste excluding hazardous waste disposed of by placing an earth cover thereon. Solid waste includes waste from domestic, agricultural, commercial and industrial sources. Refer to the rules concerning Solid Waste Management of the Georgia Department of Natural Resources, Environmental Protection Division, as amended, for further definition.
Landscape Strip. An area required by this ordinance or by conditions of zoning which is reserved for the installation and/or maintenance of plant materials.
Landscaping Business. A business whose primary operation is the sale and/or storage of organic and inorganic materials, plants, mulch, pine straw, and other limited related accessory products for the landscape industry and the storage and use of associated landscape vehicles with an approved Use Permit for Landscaping Business, Plant Nursery, or Garden Center with Indoor Retail Component (Article 19.4.27).
Large-Scale Retail/Service Commercial Development. A retail/service commercial development with gross floor area of 75,000 square feet or greater.
Lawful Use. Any use of lots or structure which is not in violation of any existing federal, state or local law, statute, regulation or ordinance.
Library. A place set apart to contain books and other literary material for reading, study, or reference, for use by members of a society or the general public.
Light, Direct. Light emitted directly from the lamp, off of the reflector or reflector diffuser, or through the refractor or diffuser lens, of luminaire.
Light, Fully-shielded. Outdoor light fixtures shielded or constructed so that no light rays are emitted by the installed fixture at angles above the horizontal plane as certified by a photometric test report.
Light, Indirect. Direct light that has been reflected or has scattered off of other surfaces.
Live-work Unit. Nonresidential activity conducted wholly within a residential dwelling that allows employees, customers, clients, or patrons to visit.
Loading Space. An area within the main building or on the same lot, which provides for the loading, or unloading of goods and equipment from delivery vehicles.
Lodge and/or Retreat/Campground. A facility allowed with a Use Permit which provides space, food and/or lodging facilities for social, educational or recreational purposes.
Lot. The basic lawful unit of land, identifiable by a single deed. A group of two or more contiguous lots owned by the same entity and used for a single use shall be considered a single lot. Lot, tract and parcel are synonymous.
Lot, Corner. A Multiple Frontage Lot adjoining two streets at their intersection.
Lot Frontage. The shortest property line adjoining a street or, the direction of the main entrance of a building. A property line adjoining a stub street shall not be considered as frontage unless it is proposed for access or is the only street frontage. Front yard requirements shall be measured from this property line. In situations where a multiple frontage lot has equal distance on street frontages, the Community Development Director shall determine the legal lot frontage.
Lot line, front. A lot line which extends the entire length of an abutting street from intersecting property line to intersecting property line. The front lot line of a corner lot abuts the street which adjoins the lot for the shortest distance.
Lot line, rear. Generally, the rear lot line is the lot line opposite and most distant from the front lot line. For a pointed or irregular lot, the rear lot line shall be an imaginary line, parallel to and the most distant from the front lot line, not less than twenty feet long, and wholly within the lot. True triangular lots do not have rear lot lines. Lots with more than one front lot line do not have rear lot lines. The Director of the Department of Community Development or his/her designee shall make the final determination of rear lot lines when in dispute or undefined by this definition.
Lot line, side. A lot line which is not a rear or front lot line.
Lot Line/Property Line. A line established through recordation of an approved plat, or a deed in the absence of a platting requirement, which separates a lot from other lots, or a lot from rights-of-way.
Lot, Multiple Frontage. Lots adjoining more than one street.
Lot, Nonconforming. See "Nonconforming Lot, Use or Structure".
Lot-of-Record. A lot, whether lawful or unlawful, which appears on a deed and/or plat recorded in the official records of the Clerk of Superior Court.
Lot, Unlawful. Any lot-of-record which, at the time of recordation in the official records of the Clerk of Superior Court, was not in compliance with zoning and subdivision laws in effect at that time.
Lot Width, Minimum. The least dimension required along the building line specified for each district, parallel to the lot frontage and measured between side lot lines.
Luminaire. This is a complete lighting system and includes a lamp or lamps and a fixture.
Luminaire Height. The height of a luminaire shall be the vertical distance from the ground directly below the centerline of the luminaire to the lowest direct-light-emitting part of the luminaire.
3.3.13.
M.
Maintenance, Normal. The upkeep of a sign for the purpose of maintaining safety and appearance which may include painting, bulb replacement, panel replacement, letter replacement, repair of electrical components, and structural reinforcements to its original condition.
Marquee. Any permanent roof-like structure projecting beyond a building or extending along and projecting beyond the wall of the building used for advertising or identification.
Massing. Varying the massing of a building may be achieved by varying the surface planes of the building with porches, balconies, bay windows, and/or overhangs, and/or stepping-back the buildings from the second floor and above, and/or breaking up the roofline with different elements to create smaller compositions.
Medical Related Lodging. A use which provides temporary lodging for family members of a hospitalized patient.
Mineral Extraction. Severance and/or removal of sand, stone, gravel, top soil, and other mineral resources whenever such severance and/or removal is not conducted in conjunction with a permitted development activity.
Mini-warehouse. A structure or group of structures containing separate spaces/stalls which are leased or rented on an individual basis for the storage of goods.
Minor Variance. An application requesting deviation from the minimum yard requirements, not to exceed ten percent of the dimensional requirements.
Mobile Home. A structure, transportable in one or more sections, which is built on a permanent chassis and designed to be used with or without a permanent foundation when connected to the required utilities. For flood plain management purposes, mobile home includes travel trailers and similar vehicles placed on a site for 180 consecutive days or more. For all other purposes including insurance purposes under FEMA sponsored programs, mobile home does not include travel trailers and similar vehicles. A mobile home is not a modular home.
Mobile Home Park. Use of property for two or more mobile homes for living purposes, and spaces or lots set aside and offered for use for mobile homes. Does not include mobile home sales lot.
Model Home. A dwelling unit used for conducting business related to the sale of a development.
Modification. An application requesting change to an approved condition of zoning or use permit, except for conditions that pertain to a change in use, increase in density, and/or increase in height.
Modular Home. A factory-fabricated, single-family dwelling built in one or more sections, designed for placement on a permanent foundation and not having a permanent chassis. A modular home is not a mobile home.
Monopole. A cylindrical, self-supporting (i.e., not supported by guy wires) tower constructed of a single spire.
Motel. See Hotel/Motel.
Multi-tenant. Two or more businesses that provide goods and/or services within separate structures located on the same site or within the same structure that provides wall separation and private access for each business.
Multi-use Path. A pathway with a minimum width of 10 feet, for use by pedestrians, bicyclists and other non-motorized users.
3.3.14.
N.
Nadir. The point directly below the luminaire defined as 0 degrees vertical angle.
Nonconforming (Grandfathered) Lot, Use or Structure. An existing use, lot or structure that was nonconforming at the time of the adoption of the City of Johns Creek Zoning Ordinance on, or subsequent amendments thereto, and does not now meet the minimum requirements of the district in which it is located. Also, a use, lot or structure which has been made nonconforming by some county or state action. Any change or addition to a use, lot or structure must comply with current provisions of the Zoning Ordinance. Uses, lots or structures that were not legally permitted or platted do not receive grandfathering status.
Nursing Home. A use in which domiciliary care is provided to 3 or more chronically ill non-family members who are provided with food, shelter and care. This use shall not include hospitals, clinics or similar institutions devoted primarily to the diagnosis and treatment of the sick or injured. Convalescent Center, nursing home and personal care home are further distinguished in Administrative and Use Permit provisions.
3.3.15.
O.
Off-Premise. A location outside of the subject lot for a designated use.
Off-Site/Premise. The location of a structure or use outside the lot-of-record of the subject development including the adjoining street or other right-of-way.
Open Space. A portion of a site consisting of either natural features worthy of preservation that may be left unimproved, or buildable land that is permanently set aside and improved for public or private recreational areas. Active recreational areas may include tennis courts, swimming pools, splash pad, playgrounds, community gardens, and clubhouses. Passive recreational areas may include trails, picnic and fire pit areas, and community greens. Detention facilities, required buffers, landscaped strips, and platted residential lots shall not be included in open space calculations.
On-Premise. The individual lot-of-record on which the use is located.
On-Site/Premise. The location of a structure or use within the confines of a property delineated by property lines or, if referenced in a zoning or use permit case, within the confines of the boundaries of the legal description filed with the petition.
Office, Temporary. A mobile, manufactured or other structure which is used as an office for real estate sales, on-site construction management and related functions. Requires an administrative permit under Temporary Structures.
Open space. A portion of a site which is permanently set aside for public or private use, such as passive and/or active recreational uses. Detention facilities, required buffers, landscaped strips, and platted residential lots shall not be included in open space calculations.
Out of store marketing device. An out of store marketing device is any facility or equipment which is located outside of a primary building on a site zoned for non-residential uses, which is used for the primary purpose of providing a product or service without the owner's immediate presence, and which is manufactured to include a color, form, graphic, illumination, symbol, and/or writing thereon to communicate information regarding the product or service provided thereby to the public. Examples of out-of-store marketing devices include: fuel pumps, bank ATM units, vending machines, newspaper racks, drink machines, ice boxes, and phone booths. Donation boxes are not considered out of store marketing devices (see outdoor storage).
Outdoor Display. Open air display of products actively available for sale.
Outdoor Storage. Open air storage of goods, merchandise, materials, vehicles/equipment and/or any similar object that is not clearly intended for outdoor use on the premises.
Outparcel (spin-site). A portion of a larger parcel of land generally designed as a site for a separate structure and business from the larger tract. An outparcel may or may not be a subdivision of a larger parcel. To be recognized as an outparcel, the portion must be identified on a Site Plan approved for the larger parcel.
3.3.16.
P.
Parcel. See lot.
Parking Lot. An area which is used for the parking of vehicle.
Parking space. An area designated for the parking of one vehicle on an all weather surface. No more than two carport or garage spaces may offset the minimum parking requirements in a single-family residential district. (Specifications included in Article XVIII)
Path. A cleared way for pedestrians and/or bicycles that may or may not be paved or otherwise improved.
Pawn shop. A business that lends money at interest on personal property deposited with the lender until redeemed.
Personal Care Home/Assisted Living. A profit or nonprofit facility, home, or structure, licensed by the state, for the protective care of two or more adults who need a watchful environment, but do not have an illness, injury, or disability, which requires chronic or convalescent care, including medical and nursing services. Protective care and watchful oversight includes, but is not limited to, a daily awareness by management of the residents' whereabouts, the asking and reminding of residents of their appointments for medical checkups, the ability and readiness of management to intervene if a crisis arises for a resident, and supervision by management in areas of nutrition, medication, and actual provision of transient medical care, with a 24-hour responsibility for the well-being of residents of the facility. This use shall not include hospitals, convalescent centers, nursing homes, hospices, clinics, halfway house, a treatment center for alcoholism or drug abuse, or similar institutions devoted primarily to the diagnosis and treatment of the sick or injured. Personal care homes shall be classified in the following way:
(1)
Personal Care Home/Assisted Living, Family. A personal care home for no more than 8 adults in a family-style residence, non-institutional in character.
(2)
Personal Care Home/Assisted Living, Congregate. A personal care home for more than 8 adults.
Personal Service. Any business enterprise with the primary purpose of providing services that are essential for the needs of the individual.
Plans Review. The act of reviewing plans and specifications to insure that proposed undertakings comply with various governing laws, ordinances and resolutions. Compliance is subsequently utilized to determine that work and materials are in accordance with approved plans and specifications.
Plant Nursery. Any land used to raise trees, shrubs, flowers and other plants for sale or transplanting, but not including the retail sale of any related garden supplies such as chemical fertilizer, tools and other similar goods and/or equipment, or the retail sale of plants not grown on the property except with an approved Use Permit for Landscaping Business, Plant Nursery, or Garden Center with Indoor Retail Component (Article 19.4.27).
Plat, Final. A finished drawing of a subdivision which provides a complete and accurate depiction of all legal and engineering information required by the Development Regulations. Certification for recording and ratification of the Director's approval by the Mayor and City Council is required.
Plat, Preliminary. A drawing which shows the proposed layout of a subdivision in sufficient detail to clearly indicate its workability and feasibility, but is not in final form for recording, pursuant to the Development Regulations.
Plaza. A public square where people gather, typically improved from the natural state and landscaped.
Pipeline. Any conduit through which natural gas, petroleum, oxygen, or other flammable or combustible products, or any of their derivative products are conveyed or intended to be conveyed.
Porch. A roofed open structure projecting from the exterior wall of a building and having at least seventy percent of the total area of the vertical planes forming its perimeter unobstructed in any manner except by insect-screening between floor and ceiling.
Primary Variance. An application requesting relief from the standards of the Zoning Ordinance, except relief from use, minimum lot area, or minimum lot frontage.
Prison/Correctional Facility. A public or state-licensed private owned building(s), and all accessory uses and structures, used for long-term confinement housing and supervision of persons who are serving terms of imprisonment for violation of criminal laws. A prison is distinguished from a jail, in that a prison is considered to be larger and for longer terms, and is normally operated under the authority or jurisdiction of the State or Federal government. (See Article 19.4.34, Private Correctional Facility)
Propagation Study. A computer simulated model of how a wireless telecommunications facility should perform as part of a network or system. It gives an idea of the service coverage, dead-spots and performance of a proposed wireless telecommunications facility for planning purposes, as well as existing facilities for diagnostic and planning purposes.
Properties, Historic. A property which contains historic structures or which otherwise has sufficient historic merit as previously determined by the City Council so as to require preservation.
Property. When used in conjunction with an application for rezoning, an area of land composed of less than one lot, or of accumulations of one or more lots, or parts thereof.
Protected Zone. All lands that fall outside the buildable area of a parcel, all areas of a parcel required to remain in open space, all areas required as landscape strips and/or buffers (including zoning buffers, state water buffers and tributary buffers) and all tree save areas according to the provisions of the City of Johns Creek Zoning Ordinance, conditions of zoning, use permit or variance approval, and/or the Tree Preservation Ordinance.
3.3.17.
Q.
Intentionally Left Blank
3.3.18.
R.
Radiofrequency Engineer. A radiofrequency expert that is a professional engineer licensed in the State of Georgia with specialized training and experience in the development and analysis of wireless telecommunications facilities and networks, or a professional engineer licensed in the State of Georgia that is experienced in the telecommunications field.
Recreational Court, Private. An improved area designed and intended for the playing of a game or event such as basketball or tennis, and which serves a single-family dwelling(s), duplex dwellings and/or multi-family dwellings, or combinations of dwelling types, including such improved areas which are owned and/or controlled by a neighborhood club or similar organization. A basketball goal adjoining a driveway of typical residential driveway dimensions shall not constitute a recreational court.
Recreational Court, Public. An improved area designed and intended for the playing of a game or event such as basketball or tennis, and is operated as a business or as a club unless such club is a neighborhood club or similar organization identified under Recreational Court, Private.
Recreational Facilities. Includes parks, recreation areas, golf courses, playgrounds, recreation counters (indoor and outdoor), playing fields, and other similar uses or facilities.
Recreation Fields. An outside area designed and equipped for the conduct of sports and leisure-time activities including but not limited to softball, soccer, football, and field hockey.
Recreational Vehicle. A vehicle used for leisure time activities and as a dwelling unit while traveling. Examples include a camper, a motor home and a travel trailer. As distinguished from a mobile home, dimensions shall not exceed a width of eight and one-half (8.5) feet and a length of forty five (45) feet.
Recycling Center, collecting. Any facility utilized for the purpose of collecting materials to be recycled including, but not limited to, plastics, glass, paper and aluminum materials. Such use may be principal or accessory to a non-residential use on non-residentially zoned property, except AG-1 zoned properties unless, the primary use is a permitted non-residential use.
Recycling Center, processing. Any facility utilized for the purpose of collecting, sorting and processing materials to be recycled including, but not limited to, plastics, glass, paper and aluminum materials whenever such use is permitted in M-1 Zoning Districts. A recycling center is not to be considered a landfill.
Relocated Residential Structure. A dwelling which has been removed from one location for relocation to another lot.
Repair Garage, Automobile. A use which may provide a full-range of automotive repairs and services including major overhauls. May include paint and body shops.
Repair Garage, Truck and Heavy Equipment. A use which may provide a full-range of repairs and services including major overhauls on trucks and heavy equipment. Includes paint and body shops.
Repeater. A low power, mobile radio service wireless telecommunication facility used to extend service coverage of cell areas to areas not covered by the originating facility.
Residential Use/Dwelling. Any building or portion thereof where one actually lives or has his home; a place of human habitation.
Restaurant. A food service use which involves the preparation and serving of food to seated patrons. A cafeteria shall also be considered to be a restaurant. The restaurant seating area must be at least 40% of the gross square footage of the restaurant facility. Seating space located outside of the main structure (i.e. patios, decks, etc.) shall not be included in calculating the seating space.
Restaurant, Cafe: A food service use, excluding fast food, which involves the preparation and sales of items that require minimum production and overhead, such as light food and drinks. Cafes can include, but are not limited to coffee shops, tea rooms, ice cream/frozen yogurt stores, cupcake shops, donut shops, and bakeries.
Restaurant, Fast Food. A food service establishment, excluding cafes, which sells food from a counter or window for consumption on-premises or off-premises. Fast food restaurants include a drive-through window.
Retail Use. A business whose primary purpose is the sale of merchandise to consumers.
Retreat. See Lodge.
Right-of-Way. A portion of land over which a local or state government has designated a right of use.
Roadside Produce Stand. A use offering either farm-grown, prepared food products such as fruits, vegetables, canned foods, or prepared packaged meats for sale from a vehicle or a temporary structure. The consumption of food on-site is prohibited.
Roadside Vending. The sale of merchandise such as clothing, crafts, household item, firewood, etc., from a temporary table or cart.
Rooming House. A residential use other than a hotel or motel in which lodging may be provided to non-household members for periods of 30 days or longer, and which does not include the provision of meals.
3.3.19.
S.
Salvage/Storage/Junk Facility. Any use involving the storage or disassembly of wrecked or junked automobiles, trucks or other vehicles; vehicular impound lots; storage, bailing or otherwise dealing in scrap irons or other metals, used paper, used cloth, plumbing fixtures, appliances, brick, wood or other building materials; and the storage or accumulation outside of a storage building of used vehicle tires or tire carcasses which cannot be reclaimed for their original use. Such uses are storage and/or salvage facilities whether or not all or part of such operations are conducted inside or outside a building or as principal or accessory uses. State approval is required for all sites utilized for reclamation and/or disposal of toxic and/or hazardous waste.
Scale. Scale refers to the relationship of the size of a building to neighboring buildings and of a building to a site. In general, the scale of new construction should relate to the majority of surrounding buildings.
Scenic View. A wide angle or panoramic field of sight or open space vista that may include natural and/or manmade structures and activities. A scenic view may be from a stationary viewpoint or be seen as one travels along a roadway, waterway, or path. A scenic view may be to a far-away object, such as a mountain, or a nearby object, or as part of an open space vista.
Schools, Colleges and Universities. Any educational facility established under the laws of the state (and usually regulated in matters of detail by local authorities), in the various districts, counties, or towns, maintained at the public expense by taxation, and open, usually without charge, to all residents of the city, town or other district; private schools which have students regularly attending classes and which teach subjects commonly taught in these schools of this state; any educational facility operated by a private organization or local county, or state that provides training or education beyond and in addition to that training received in grades kindergarten to twelfth, including but not limited to, trade, business and vocational schools; any institution of higher learning, consisting of an assemblage of colleges united under one corporate organization or government, affording instruction in the arts and sciences and the learned professions, and conferring degrees.
School, Private. An educational use having a curriculum at least equal to a public school, but not operated by the Fulton County Board of Education.
School, Special. An educational use devoted to special education including the training of gifted, learning disabled, mentally and/or physically handicapped persons, but not operated by the Fulton County Board of Education.
Screen. A fence, wall, hedge, landscaping, earthen berm, buffer area or any combination of these that is designed to provide a visual and/or physical barrier.
Seasonal Business Use. A primary use involving the sale of items related to calendar holidays, such as Christmas trees, Halloween pumpkins, etc., which may be conducted outside.
Secondary Variance. An appeal of a decision and/or action of a department director or deputy department director authorized to hear a variance request or interpretation of the Zoning Ordinance.
Self-Storage/Mini. A single-level structure or group of structures containing separate spaces/stalls and which are leased or rented to individuals for the storage of goods.
Self-Storage/Multi. A multi-level structure containing separate storage rooms/stalls under a single roof that are leased or rented.
Senior housing. A single-family or multi-family development intended for, operated for and designed to accommodate residents 55 years of age and older. Senior housing communities are designed for seniors to live on their own, but with the security and conveniences of community living. Some provide communal dining rooms and planned recreational activities (congregate living or retirement communities), while others provide housing with only minimal amenities or services.
Service Commercial Use. A business whose primary purpose is to provide a service.
Service Line. A distribution line that transports natural gas from a common source of supply to: (1) a customer meter or the connection to a customer's piping, whichever is farther downstream, or (2) the connection to a customer's piping if there is no customer meter. The customer meter is the meter that measures the transfer of gas from one operator to a customer.
Service Station. A use which provides for the sale of motor vehicle fuels and automotive accessories, and which may provide minor repair and maintenance services. A service station shall be limited to 4 or fewer bays excluding no more than one attached or detached bay for washing cars.
Setback. A space between a property line and a building or specified structure.
Setback, Minimum. The minimum yards as specified in the various use districts. A minimum required space between a property line and a structure. An area identified by a building line.
Shopping Center. A group of retail/service commercial establishments, planned and developed for the site upon which they are built and owned as a unit, with off-street parking provided on the property.
Sidewalk. A paved area designated for pedestrians which is constructed in accordance with the City of Johns Creek standards.
Site Plan. A detailed plan, drawn to scale, based on a certified boundary survey, and reflecting conditions of zoning approval, various requirements of State law, County and City Ordinances and Resolutions.
Site Plan, Preliminary. A detailed plan, normally associated with rezoning and Use Permit requests, which is drawn to scale and reflects the various requirements of State law and of City Ordinances and Resolutions. A Preliminary Site Plan must be drawn to scale and shall contain information listed for such a plan in the Development Review Guide.
Skywalk. An elevated, grade separated pedestrian walkway or bridge located over a public right-of-way.
Small Cell Facility. A miniaturized wireless telecommunication facility used to provide targeted capacity or service coverage. Small cells can consist of one or more radio transceivers, antennas, coaxial cable, power supply, and other associated electronics. Often, this type of wireless telecommunication facility will have all of the components, except for the coaxial cables and antennas gathered in a self-contained protective housing, or attached separately to an antenna support structure. Small cell facilities are generally made up of an equipment enclosure and antenna, and are often attached to an existing structure.
Smoke Shop. Any business establishment dedicated to the display, sale, distribution, delivery, offering, furnishing, marketing or use of tobacco, tobacco products, or alternative nicotine products/instruments, or any combination thereof, including but not limited to cigarettes, cigars, e-cigarettes, hookahs, vapes. This definition shall not include cigar shops, or any grocery stores, gas stations or similar retail use that only sells conventional cigars, or alternatively sells cigarettes only as an accessory sale (ten percent or less of total sales).
Such businesses shall be located within a retail shopping center and shall not be allowed within 200 yards of any Church, Temple or Place of Worship, Daycare, School, College, University or Government-owned Facilities or Properties, or within 500 yards of another Smoke Shop. Distance shall be measured by a straight line without regard to intervening structures or objects, from the front door of the smoke shop to the closest point on a boundary of any parcels containing a Church, Temple or Place of Worship, School, College, University, Government Facility, or another Smoke Shop.
Special Event. An event or happening organized by any person or organization which will generate or invite considerable public participation and/or spectators for a particular and limited purpose of time, including, but not limited to, special sales and service promotions, car shows, arts and crafts shows, horse shows, carnivals, festivals, exhibitions, circuses, fairs, show houses and tours of homes for charity. Special events are not limited to those events conducted on the public streets but may occur entirely on private property. Special events may be for profit or nonprofit. Events which will occur in the public right-of-way, such as roadway foot races, fundraising walks, bikeathons, parades, etc. are subject to the approval of the City of Johns Creek City Manager and his/her designee.
Spill Light. The light that illuminates surfaces beyond the intended area of illumination caused by the uncontrolled direct light component from the luminaires.
Stadium. A large open or enclosed structure used for sports and other major events and partly or completely surrounded by tiers of seats for spectators.
Stealth Technology Installation. Manmade trees (such as monopines), clock towers, campaniles, free standing steeples, light poles and similar alternative design structures that are, in the opinion of City Council, compatible with the natural setting and surrounding structures, and effectively camouflage or conceal the presence of antennas or towers.
Story. A portion of a building between the surface of any floor and the floor or space above it, excluding basements and attics.
Story, Half. A heated and finished area below a roof, one or more of the vertical walls of which are less than normal ceiling height for the building.
Street. A roadway/right-of-way located and intended for vehicular traffic. Streets may be public or they may be private if specifically approved by the Department of Community Development as part of a subdivision plat.
Public streets are rights-of-way used for access owned and maintained by the federal, state, or local government.
Private streets are roadways constructed to the City of Johns Creek Standards but owned and maintained by a private entity. Necessary easements for ingress and egress for police, fire, emergency vehicles and all operating utilities shall be provided. Should the City of Johns Creek ever be petitioned to assume ownership and maintenance of the private streets prior to dedication of the streets, they must be brought to acceptable the City of Johns Creek standards subject to the approval of the Director of Public Works.
Stub streets are rights-of-way that dead ends into an interior property line.
Freeway. Any multi-lane roadway having full access control and separation of directional traffic. A freeway accommodates large volumes of high speed traffic and provides efficient movement of vehicular traffic for interstate and major through travel.
Principal Arterial. Any roadway that has partial or no access control and is primarily used for fast or heavy traffic. Emphasis is placed on mobility rather than access to adjacent land.
Minor Arterial. Any roadway that has partial or no access control and is primarily used for interconnectivity of major arterials and places more emphasis on access to adjacent land over mobility than principal arterials.
Collector Road. Any roadway that has partial or no access control and has more emphasis on access to adjacent land over mobility than arterials. The primary purpose is to distribute trips to and from the arterial system to their destination points and allow access to the local roads.
Local Road. Any roadway that has no access control and places strong emphasis on access to adjacent land over mobility while service to through traffic is discouraged.
Full Access Control. Preference is given to through traffic by providing access connections only with selected public roads and by prohibiting crossing at grade and direct private connections.
Partial Access Control. Preference is given to through traffic to a degree that in addition to connection with selected public roads, there may be some crossing at grade and some private connections.
No Access Control. Preference is generally given to access to adjacent land rather than mobility.
Structure. Anything built or constructed which occupies a location on, or is attached, to the ground. Driveways, surface parking lots, patios, and similar paved surfaces are not considered structures.
Structure, Accessory. A subordinate structure, customarily incidental to a principal structure or use and located on the same lot. Examples of accessory structures in single-family dwelling districts include outbuildings, such as, tool sheds, woodsheds, workshops, outdoor kitchens, fire pits, pool houses, gardens, gazebos, guest houses, storage sheds, playground sets, tree houses, detached garages and detached carports, etc. Fences and retaining walls are not considered accessory structures. Driveways, surface parking lots, patios, and similar paved surfaces are not considered accessory structures.
Structure, Historic. A structure which has been formally designated as an Historic Structure as designated by the Georgia Historic Preservation Division of the Department of Natural Resources or the United States Department of the Interior or a City historic preservation committee, if one is established, or which has sufficient historic merit as previously determined by the City Council so as to require preservation.
Structure, Principal. A structure in which the principal use or purpose on a property occurs, and to which all other structures on the property are subordinate. Principal shall be synonymous with main and primary.
Structure, Temporary. The construction, erection, or placement of a structure for a specified period of time, but in no case longer than 3 years.
Subdivision. The division of land into two or more lots. A development consisting of subdivided lots.
Surface, All-weather. Any surface treatment, including gravel, which is applied to and maintained so as to prevent erosion, and to prevent vehicle wheels from making direct contact with soil, sod or mud; and which effectively prevents the depositing of soil, sod or mud onto streets from areas required to be so treated.
Swimming Pool, Private. A recreation facility designed and intended for water contact activities which serves a single-family dwelling(s), duplex dwellings and/or multi-family dwellings, or combinations of dwelling types, including pools which are owned and/or controlled by a neighborhood club or similar organization.
Swimming Pool, Public. A recreation facility designed and intended water contact activities which is operated as a business or as a club unless such club is associated with a neighborhood club or similar organization.
3.3.20.
T.
Thoroughfare, Major. Any street which is classified in the Transportation Element of the Comprehensive Plan as either a freeway, an arterial or a major collector.
Thoroughfare, Minor. Any street which is classified in the Transportation Element of the Comprehensive Plan as a minor collector or local street.
Tower. Any freestanding structure that is designed and constructed primarily for the purpose of supporting one or more antennas, antenna array(s), and other wireless transmission equipment, including lattice towers, guy towers and monopoles, but not alternative antenna support structures or attached antenna support structures. The term includes, without limitation, wireless communication towers such as radio and television transmission towers, microwave towers, common carrier towers, cellular (cell) and digital telephone towers and the like, but excluding amateur radio antenna.
Tower, Guy. A tower supported, in whole or in part, by guy wires and ground anchors.
Tower, Lattice. A guyed or self-supporting open frame tower that has three (3) or four (4) sides.
Transfer station. A facility used to transfer solid waste from one transportation vehicle to another for transportation to a disposal facility or processing operation.
Transmission Line. A pipeline other than a gathering line that (1) transports fuel oil/liquid petroleum product from a gathering line or storage facility (tank farm) to a distribution center or storage facility (tank farm) and/or (2) transports fuel oil/liquid petroleum product within a storage field.
Trespass Light. The off site spill light that illuminates beyond the property boundaries in which the light fixture is installed, where it is neither wanted nor needed.
Truck Terminal. A primary use of property where trucks/trailers are either temporarily stored, maintained or based. Trucks/trailers shall have current registration and license plates with decal.
3.3.21.
U.
Use. The purpose or function arranged or intended for a structure or property.
Use, Accessory. A subordinate use which is customarily incidental to the principal use of a lot, and which is located on the same lot as a principal use.
Use, Principal. The primary or main purpose or function of a lot or structure. Synonymous with Main and Primary.
Use Permit. A permit approved by the Mayor and City Council, pursuant to a public hearing, which authorizes a use which must meet certain standards which exceed the requirements of the district as-a-whole.
Utility Pole. An existing structure owned or operated by a public utility, electric membership corporation or rural electric cooperative that is designed specifically for and used to carry lines, cables, or wires for electricity, telephone, or cable television.
3.3.22.
V.
Vape shop means any business whose principal product line for retail sale is vape, vape-related products, or both. Principal means that vape, vape-related products, or both constitute at least twenty-five percent of the business's aggregate retail sales.
Vape or vape juice refers to any liquid that contains compounds containing pharmaceutical grade vegetable glycerin, propylene glycol, nicotine, food-grade flavoring, and water, and can be used for vaping by means of an alternative nicotine product.
Vape-related products refers to any products or devices that employ an electronic heating element, power source, electronic circuit, battery, or other electronic, chemical, or mechanical means to produce a vapor that delivers nicotine, synthetics, or illegal substances to the person inhaling from the device, including electronic cigarettes, electronic cigars, electronic hookahs, electronic bongs and electronic pipes, whether manufactured, distributed, marketed, or sold as an electronic cigarette, electronic cigar, or electronic pipe.
Variance, Primary. An application requesting relief from the standards of the Zoning Ordinance, except relief from use, minimum lot area, or minimum lot frontage.
Variance, Secondary. An appeal of a decision and/or action of a department director or deputy department director authorized to hear a variance request or interpretation of the Zoning Ordinance.
Vegetative Screen. An evergreen planting which, within three years of planting, provides a 100 percent visual barrier between a lot and adjacent lots and uses with a minimum height of 6 feet. A vegetative screen is composed of plant materials.
Vehicle, Junk or Salvage. Any automobile, truck or other vehicle which is missing one of the following:
1)
Current registration;
2)
License plate with current decal;
3)
Proof of liability insurance;
4)
Drive train component for more than 30 days.
Veterinary Clinic/Hospital. A place where animals are given medical care and the boarding of animals is limited to short-term care incidental to the hospital use.
Village Green. Public space for recreational uses, typically with grassy areas and trees.
3.3.23.
W.
Waste. Materials that are discarded, disposed of or no longer usable.
Waste Disposal Boundary. The limit of all waste disposal areas, appurtenances, and ancillary activities (including but not limited to internal access roads and drainage control devices).
Waste, Hazardous. See Georgia Department of Natural Resources definition.
Waste, Solid. See Georgia Department of Natural Resources definition.
Wireless Communication Services. Wireless radio, data and/or telecommunications services, including cellular, telephone, television, microwave, analog, and digital services, personal wireless services, personal communication services, and other similar forms of electronic or wireless communications. See also, the Telecommunications Act of 1996 for a definition of 'personal wireless services.'
Wireless Telecommunications Facility. Any facility, structure, and/or accessory equipment designed or intended to be used for transmitting or receiving electromagnetic waves, radio or other wireless signals or to otherwise provide wireless communication services, and usually consisting of wireless transmission equipment, including antenna(s), antenna array(s), and accessory equipment, mounted to or supported by a tower, antenna support structure, pole or other structure; however, neither an amateur radio antenna nor a minor antenna constitute a "Wireless Telecommunications Facility." The following nonexclusive list shall be considered a Wireless Telecommunications Facility: new and existing towers or antenna support structures, replacement towers or antenna support structures, collocations on existing towers or antenna support structures, and attached wireless telecommunications facilities.
Wireless Transmission Equipment. The set of equipment and network components, exclusive of the underlying tower or antenna support structure, including antennas, antenna arrays, transmitters, receivers, base stations, power supplies, cabling, accessory equipment, and equipment enclosures used in connection with a tower or antenna to provide wireless communication services.
3.3.24.
X.
Intentionally Left Blank
3.3.25.
Y.
Yard. A land area extending between a structure and a lot line.
Yard, Front. A yard abutting any street except the side street on a corner lot. Front yards extend the entire length of an abutting street from intersecting lot line to intersecting lot line. The front yard of corner lots shall be applied to the street which abuts the lot for the shortest distance.
Yard, Minimum. The minimum distance between a building or specified structure and a lot line as specified in the district regulations.
Yard, Rear. The rear yard is the minimum required distance between the rear lot line and a structure.
True triangular lots do not have rear yards. Lots with more than one front lot line do not have rear yards. The Director of the Department of Community Development or his/her designee shall make the final determination of rear yards when in dispute or undefined by this definition.
Yard, Side. A yard which is not a front or rear yard.
3.3.26.
Z.
Zoning Conditions. Conditions placed on property either by the Fulton County Board of Commissioners or the Mayor and City Council at the time of approval of a rezoning and/or use permit.
Zoning District. A categorization of land by specific intent, standards, and requirements such as permitted uses, minimum lot size, building form and height restrictions.
(Ord. No. 2013-04-10, § 1, 7-22-2013; Ord. No. 2015-12-42, Exh. A, 1-25-2016; Ord. No. 2016-07-15, Exh. A, 8-15-2016; Ord. No. 2016-10-19, Exh. A, 10-24-2016; Ord. No. 2018-01-03A, 1-8-2018; Ord. No. 2019-07-16, 7-22-2019; Ord. No. 2019-09-25 , 9-23-2019; Ord. No. 2020-06-18 , 6-15-2020; Ord. No. 2021-02-05 , 2-22-2021; Ord. No. 2021-04-14 , 4-26-2021; Ord. No. 2022-02-04 , 2-28-2022; Ord. No. 2022-07-14 , 7-11-2022)
