CHAPTER II. - MAYOR AND COUNCIL
ARTICLE I. - GENERAL PROVISIONS

Section 2-10. - Composition and Election.
The legislative authority of the Government of the City of LaFayette shall be vested in a Mayor and five Councilmen, who shall be elected in the manner provided by Chapter VI of this Charter and any other appropriate provisions of this Charter.
Section 2-11. - Terms and Qualifications of Office.
The Mayor and Members of the Council shall serve for terms of two (2) years and until their successors are elected and qualified. No person shall be qualified or eligible to seek election as Mayor or Councilman unless he is at least twenty-one (21) years of age, shall have resided in the City continuously for one (1) year immediately preceding his election, and shall be registered and qualified to vote in the municipal elections for offices in the City of LaFayette. Councilmen must further meet the qualifications as contained in Section 2-13 and other appropriate sections of this Charter.
Section 2-12. - Division of City into Wards.
For the purpose of electing four (4) of the five (5) Council Members of the City, the City is hereby divided into four (4) wards, which shall be composed of the following territory, to-wit:
Ward one: All portions of said City lying (1) East of Ward Four described hereinafter; (2) North and East of Ward Three described hereinafter and (3) North of Ward Two described hereinafter.
Ward two: All portions of said City lying (1) South of East Villanow Street, also known as Georgia State Highway 136 and (2) East of the following described line: Beginning at the point of intersection of the center line of Duke Street with the center line of East Villanow Street; thence along the center line of Duke Street in a Southerly direction to its intersection with the center line of South Main Street (U. S. Highway 27); thence Northerly with the center line of South Main Street to its intersection with the center line of Crane Street; thence in a Southerly direction with the center line of Crane Street to its intersection with the center line of Colerain Street; thence in a Westerly direction with the center line of Colerain Street to its intersection with the center line of Cherokee Street; thence Southerly with the center line of Cherokee Street to its intersection with the center line of McLemore Street; thence Westerly with the center line of McLemore Street to its intersection with the center line of Chattanooga Street; thence Southerly with the center line of Chattanooga Street to its intersection with the West City Limits of said City; thence Southerly with the West City Limits of said City to the southern most point of said West City Limits of said City.
Ward three: All portions of said City lying (1) North of the North boundary line of Ward Two, as described above; (2) West and South of the following described line: Start at the intersection of the center line of Chattanooga Street and the West City Limits of said City; thence Northerly with the West City limits of said City to its intersection with the center line of West Main Street (also known as Ga. State Highway 193), the point of beginning; thence Easterly with the center line of West Main Street to its intersection with the center line of Magnolia Street; thence Northerly with the center line of Magnolia Street to its intersection with the center line of Henderson Street; thence Easterly with the center line of Henderson Street to its intersection with the center line of Chattanooga Street; thence Northerly with the center line of Chattanooga Street to its intersection with the center line of West Villanow Street; thence Easterly with the center line of West Villanow Street to its intersection with the center line of Spring Creek; thence Northerly with the center line of Spring Creek to its intersection with the center line of Indiana Street; thence Easterly with the center line of Indiana Street to its intersection with the center line of Main Street (U. S. Highway 27); thence Southerly with the center line of Main Street to its intersection with the centerline of East Villanow Street; thence Easterly with the center line of East Villanow Street to its intersection with the center line of North Duke Street; and (3) West of the West boundary line of Ward Two, as described above.
Ward four: All portions of said City lying (1) West of the following line: Beginning at the intersection of the center line of Spring Creek and the center line of Probasco Street; thence Southerly with the center line of Spring Creek to its intersection with the centerline of West Villanow Street; and (2) North of the following described line: Beginning at the intersection of the center line of Spring Creek and the centerline of West Villanow Street; thence Westerly with the center line of West Villanow Street to its intersection with the center line of Chattanooga Street; thence Southerly with the center line of Chattanooga Street to its intersection with the center line of Henderson Street; thence Westerly with the center line of Henderson Street to its intersection with the center line of Magnolia Street; thence Southerly with the center line of Magnolia Street to its intersection with the center line of West Main Street (Ga. State Highway 193); thence Westerly with the center line of West main Street to its intersection with the West City Limits of said City, same being West of Hillsdale Road (Burnt Mill Road).
The aforesaid described Wards are shown on a certain map prepared from the 1990 U.S. Census P.L. 94-171 Population Counts, dated 3/9/1993 and prepared by Reapportionment Services Office, Suite 470, Legislative Office Building, Atlanta, Georgia.
(Ord. No. 93-2, § 1, 4-12-1993, 5-19-93)
Editor's note— At the request of the city, § 2-12 of this Charter was recodified in Supplement No. 25 due to scrivenor's errors in the original Ord. No. 93-2, § 1, adopted Apr. 12, 1993. The corrected Ord. No. 93-2 bore two adoption dates, Apr. 12, 1993 and May 19, 1993. To preserve the accuracy of this Charter, both dates have been recorded in the history note for § 2-12 and in the Charter Comparative Table.
Section 2-13. - Election of Councilmen by Wards; at Large.
One (1) Councilman shall be elected from each of the four (4) wards described in Section 2-12 of this Charter, which Councilman must be a resident of said ward at the time of his qualification and election, and one (1) Councilman at large shall be elected from the City as a whole.
Section 2-14. - Councilmen, Mayor to be Elected by Voters of Entire City.
All Councilmen and the Mayor shall be elected by the voters of the entire City.
Section 2-15. - Vacancy in Elected Offices.
The office of Mayor or the office of Councilman shall become vacant upon the incumbent's death, resignation, removal from office in any manner authorized by law, forfeiture of his office, or when he ceases to reside within the corporate limits of the City of LaFayette, or when a Councilman who was elected from a specific Ward no longer resides within the bounds of said Ward. If said vacancy occurs and is also officially declared by the governing body of the City of LaFayette within a period of twelve (12) months or less prior to the normal expiration date of the term of the person whose office has been declared to be vacant, then and in that event the vacancy shall be filled for the remainder of the unexpired term, if any, by appointment by a majority vote of the Council. Any person eligible to hold such office under the terms of this Charter shall be eligible for said appointment. Any other vacancy in office shall be filled for the remainder of the unexpired term by election. If such vacancy occurs within two (2) months prior to the regular general election to be held in that calendar year, then and in that event such vacancy shall be filled by election at the general election of said year; otherwise, said vacancy shall be filled at a duly called special election for the purpose, which election shall be called within sixty (60) days from the date such vacancy occurs and is officially declared by the governing body of the City. The person so appointed or elected to fill such unexpired term shall take office immediately upon taking the oath of office.
(Ga. Laws 1985, p. 4106, § 1)
Section 2-16. - Compensation; Expenses.
The Mayor shall receive as compensation for his services a sum not to exceed three hundred fifty dollars ($350.00) per month and not less than ten dollars ($10.00) per month, as fixed by ordinance of the Council, and each Councilman shall receive as compensation for his services a sum not to exceed three hundred dollars ($300.00) per month and not less than ten dollars ($10.00) per month, as fixed by ordinance of the Council. The Mayor and Councilmen may be reimbursed for actual and necessary expenses incurred in the performance of their official duties, as provided by ordinance of the Council.
(Ord. No. 04-5, § 1, 3-8-2004)
Note— (Ga. Laws 1983, p. 4274, § 2; Ga. Laws 1969, p. 2298)
Section 2-17. - Oath of Office.
Each newly elected or appointed Mayor or Councilman, before entering upon the duties of his or her office, shall take and subscribe before the City Clerk, City Attorney, or before some judicial officer or the Mayor, the following oath:
"I do solemnly swear that I will well and truly perform the duties of Mayor (or Councilman, as the same may be) of the City of LaFayette, to the best of my skill and ability, and as to me shall seem to be the best interest and welfare of the City, without fear, favor or affection, and that I will uphold the Constitution and laws of the United States of America and of the State of Georgia and that I will further uphold the Charter and ordinances of the City of LaFayette, so help me God."
(Ga. Laws 1985, p. 4106, § 2)
Section 2-18. - Prohibitions.
(a)
Holding other office. Except as authorized by law, neither the Mayor nor any member of the Council shall hold any other City office or City employment during the term for which he was elected, and no former Mayor or Councilman shall hold any compensated appointive City office or City employment until one (1) year after the expiration of the term for which he was elected to office.
(b)
Personal interest. Neither the Mayor or any member of the Council shall vote upon any question in which he is personally interested.
Section 2-19. - Forfeiture of Office.
The Mayor, Recorder, or any member of the Council shall forfeit his office if he:
(1)
Lacks at any time during his term of office any qualification of the office as prescribed by this Charter or by law;
(2)
Violates any expressed prohibition of this Charter;
(3)
Is convicted of or enters a plea of guilty or nolo contendere to a crime involving moral turpitude or is convicted of or enters a plea of guilty or nolo contendere to any felony; or
(4)
Violates his or her oath of office. A violation of his or her oath of office shall not be construed to include the violation of any traffic law or traffic ordinance unless the same constitutes a crime involving moral turpitude or unless the same results in felony punishment.
(Ga. Laws 1983, p. 4274, § 3; Ga. Laws 1985, p. 4106, § 3)
Section 2-20. - Judge of Qualifications.
The Mayor and Council shall be the judge of the election and qualifications of its members and of the grounds for forfeiture of their offices and for that purpose shall have the power to subpoena witnesses, administer oaths and require the production of evidence, by subpoena or otherwise. A member charged with conduct constituting grounds for forfeiture of his office shall be entitled to a public hearing on demand, and notice of such hearing shall be published in a newspaper of general circulation in the City at least one (1) week in advance of said hearing. Decisions made by the Mayor and Council under this Section shall be subject to the review of the Courts.
Section 2-21. - Inquiries and Investigations.
The Mayor and Council may make inquiries and investigations into the affairs of the City and conduct of any department, office, or agency thereof. The initial such inquiry or investigation shall be made by a committee appointed by the Mayor, or in his absence or disability, by the Mayor Pro Tem. Said committee shall consist of not more than two (2) elected officials and such other persons as the Mayor may designate, including, but not limited to, the City Attorney, City Clerk, or City Manager. Any such committee so appointed shall report its findings to the Mayor and Council for any such action as said governing body shall deem fit including the purpose of authorizing and making further inquiry and investigation. For the aforesaid purposes any committee so appointed by the Mayor may subpoena witnesses, administer oaths, take testimony and require the production of evidence by subpoena duces tecum, notice to produce or otherwise. Likewise, when the Mayor and Council is acting as a board of inquiry or as an investigative body for the aforesaid purposes such governing body may also subpoena witnesses, administer oaths, take testimony and require the production of evidence by subpoena duces tecum, notice to produce or otherwise. Any person, firm, or corporation who fails or refuses to obey a lawful order issued in the exercise of these powers by such committee or by the Mayor and Council shall be punished as provided by ordinance.
(Ga. Laws 1985, p. 4106, § 4)
Section 2-22. - Independent Audit.
The Mayor and Council shall provide for an independent annual audit of all accounts of the City of LaFayette and may provide for such more frequent audits as it deems necessary. Such audit shall be made by certified public accountant or firm of such accountants who have no personal interest, direct or indirect, in the physical affairs of the City or of any of its officers. The Mayor and Council may, without requiring competitive bids, designate such accountant or firm annually or for a period not exceeding three (3) years, provided that the designation for any particular fiscal year should be made no later than thirty (30) days after the beginning of such fiscal year.
Section 2-23. - General Power and Authority of Mayor and Council.
(a)
Except as otherwise provided by law or this Charter, the Mayor and Council shall be vested with all of the powers of government of the City of LaFayette as granted by its Charter.
(b)
In addition to other powers conferred upon it by law, the Mayor and Council shall have the authority to adopt and provide for the execution of such ordinances, resolutions, rules and regulations, not inconsistent with this Charter, the Constitution and General Laws of the State of Georgia, which it shall deem necessary, expedient or helpful for the peace, good order, protection of life and property, health, welfare, sanitation, comfort, convenience, morals, prosperity and well being of the inhabitants of the City of LaFayette and may enforce such ordinances by imposing penalties for violation thereof.
(c)
The Mayor and Council may by ordinance create, change, alter, abolish and consolidate offices, agencies, and departments and may assign additional functions to any of the offices, agencies and departments expressly provided for by this Charter.
ARTICLE II. - MAYOR

Section 2-30. - Duties and Powers.
The Mayor shall be the official spokesman for the City and the chief advocate of policy. He shall preside at all meetings of the Council, shall sign ordinances and resolutions on their final passage, shall sign deeds, bonds, contracts, and other instruments or documents authorized to be executed on behalf of the City, and shall appoint all committees, including, but not limited to, working committees, support committees, and committees created for the purpose of inquiries and investigations. The Mayor shall be an ex officio member of all such committees. The Mayor shall perform such other duties imposed by this Charter or by ordinance not inconsistent with this Charter.
(Ga. Laws 1985, p. 4106, § 5)
Section 2-31. - Mayor Pro Tem.
During the absence or disability of the Mayor for any cause, the Mayor Pro Tem, or in his absence or disability for any reason, any one of the Councilmen chosen by the Council shall be clothed with all of the rights and privileges of the Mayor and shall perform the duties of the office of Mayor so long as such absence or disability shall continue.
ARTICLE III. - ORGANIZATION AND PROCEDURES

Section 2-40. - Organizational Meeting.
The Mayor and Council shall meet for organization on the first business day in January following each regular election. For the purposes of this section, New Year's Day shall not be considered a business day and Saturday and Sunday shall not be considered business days. The meeting shall be called to order by the City Clerk and the oath of office shall be administered to the newly elected members. Following the induction of members, the Mayor and Council by a majority vote of all of the members thereof shall elect one (1) of their number to be Mayor Pro Tem, who shall serve for a term of one (1) year.
(Ga. Laws 1985, p. 4106, § 6)
Section 2-41. - Regular and Special Meetings.
(a)
The Mayor and Council shall hold regular meetings at least once in every month on the second Monday of said month at City Hall. If the second Monday of the month is a legal holiday, the meeting will be held the Tuesday immediately following said second Monday. Said day, time and place for the regular meeting may be changed by the Mayor and Council by ordinance. The Mayor and Council may recess any regular meeting and continue such meeting on any weekday or hour they may fix. They may transact any business at such continued meeting as may be transacted at any regular meeting.
(b)
Special meetings of the Mayor and Council may be held on call of the Mayor or shall be held when requested in writing by a majority of the members of the Council and, except in the case of emergency, upon no less than twenty-four (24) hours' notice to each member. Notice of any special meeting shall be waived in writing and attendance at the meeting shall be a waiver of notice of any special meeting. The time and place of said special meeting must be specified in the notice.
(c)
All meetings of the Mayor and Council shall be public; provided, however, they may recess for the purpose of discussion in a closed session limited to their own members, any matter which would tend to defame or prejudice the character or reputation of any person.
(Ord. No. 14-3, § 1, 2-10-2014)
Section 2-42. - Quorum; Voting.
The Mayor, or Mayor Pro Tem, if he is presiding, and a majority of the duly qualified and acting Councilmen shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business. The Mayor, or Mayor Pro Tem, if he is presiding, shall be entitled to vote only in the case of a tie. A majority of the votes cast shall determine all questions except as otherwise provided in this Chapter. Voting, except on procedural motions, shall be by voice and the ayes and nays shall be recorded in the Minutes, but any member of the Council shall have the right to request a roll call vote.
Section 2-43. - Veto Power of Mayor.
The Mayor shall have the power to veto any act of the Council in passing any ordinance or resolution by signifying his disapproval of such Act of said Council, and having the same entered in the Minutes of said Council. The right of veto must be exercised by the Mayor within ten (10) days from the time of passage by the Council or the same shall be forever considered as approved. If the Mayor approves any such action of the Council by written approval or by voice vote of approval at the meeting recorded in the Minutes, said veto power shall be waived and said approval cannot be withdrawn. The veto of said Mayor to any Act of the Council may be overridden by the affirmative vote of four (4) members of the Council at the next regular meeting of the Mayor and Council following the veto of said Act.
ARTICLE IV. - LEGISLATIVE PROCEDURE

Section 2-50. - City Legislation.
Any action of the Council, having a regulatory or penal effect, or required to be done by ordinance under this Act, shall be done only by ordinance. Each resolution and ordinance shall be in written form before being introduced. The affirmative vote of at least a majority of the duly elected and qualified members of the Council shall be required to pass any resolution or ordinance. After adoption of ordinances, the same shall be signed by the Mayor or Mayor Pro Tem, if the Mayor is not present, and by the City Clerk, and the City Clerk shall number said ordinances consecutively, in the order of their final adoption, and shall copy them into a permanent record book used solely for this purpose; and the City Clerk shall do likewise for resolutions, using a separate series of numbers and a separate record book. The original copies of all ordinances, resolutions and motions shall be filed and preserved by the City Clerk.
Section 2-51. - Legislative Procedure.
The Mayor and Council may establish rules of procedure for the introduction and passage of ordinances and resolutions, and if such procedure is adopted, the same shall be followed in all instances until specifically changed by said Mayor and Council; provided, however, such rules of procedure are not in conflict with this Charter or any General Act of the State of Georgia.
