ARTICLE IV. - GROUNDWATER RECHARGE AREA PROTECTION

Sec. 38-91. - Findings; objectives.
(a)
It is essential that the quality of the city's public drinking water be insured. It is therefore necessary to protect the subsurface water resource the city and surrounding communities rely on as sources of public water. Groundwater resources are contained within groundwaters, which are permeable, rock strata occupying vast regions of the subsurface. These groundwaters are replenished by infiltration of stormwater runoff in zones of the surface know as groundwater recharge areas.
(b)
Groundwaters are susceptible to contamination when unrestricted development occurs within significant groundwater recharge areas. It is therefore necessary to manage land use within groundwater recharge zones in order to ensure that pollution threats are minimized.
(c)
The objectives of this article are to:
(1)
Protect the groundwater by prohibiting land uses that generate dangerous pollutants in recharge areas;
(2)
Protect the groundwater by limiting density of development; and
(3)
Protect the groundwater by ensuring that the development that occurs within the recharge area shall have no adverse effect on groundwater quality.
(Ord. of 12-12-2000(1))
Sec. 38-92. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Accessory building means a subordinate building, the use of which is incidental to, and reasonably related to, a main building on the same lot or to the primary use of the property. The accessory building shall be of a size and nature customarily incidental and subordinate to the principal. Signs and fences are not to be considered as accessory buildings. A "detached" accessory building shall be one that does not have a common wall with the main building on the same lot.
Development permit means building permits, rezone applications, preliminary and final subdivision plat applications, conditional use permit applications, and variance applications.
Groundwater means any stratum (rock layer) or zone of rock beneath the surface of the earth capable of containing or producing water from a well.
Groundwater recharge area means an area of the earth's surface where water infiltrates the ground thereby replenishing the groundwater supplies within an groundwater.
Groundwater recharge area district means all land within the city which are indicated as "most significant groundwater recharge areas" on the Groundwater Pollution Susceptibility Map of Georgia, Hydrologic Atlas Number 20.
Pollution susceptibility means the relative vulnerability of an Groundwater to pollution from chemical spills, leaching of pollutants from dump sites, or other human activities.
Pollution susceptibility map means maps prepared by the state department of natural resources that show the relative susceptibility of groundwater recharge areas to pollution. The pollution susceptibility map categorizes the land areas of the state into areas of high, medium, and low groundwater pollution potential.
Significant groundwater recharge areas means areas mapped by the state department of natural resources in Hydrologic Atlas 20 (1992 edition). Mapping of recharge areas is based on outcrop area, lithology (chemical natural and form of the rock), soil type, and thickness, slope, density of lithologic contacts, geologic structure, presence of "karst' topography (sinkholes, caves, and fissures associated with limestone and other carbonate rocks), and potentiometric surfaces.
(Ord. of 12-12-2000(1), § 1)
Cross reference— Definitions generally, § 1-2.
Sec. 38-93. - Establishment of an groundwater recharge area district.
An groundwater recharge area district is hereby established which shall correspond to all lands within the city that are mapped as most significant recharge areas by the state department of natural resources in Georgia Pollution Susceptibility Map, Hydrologic Atlas 20 (1992 edition).
(Ord. of 12-12-2000(1), § 2)
Sec. 38-94. - Determination of pollution susceptibility.
Each recharge area shall be determined to have a pollution susceptibility of high, medium, or low based on the Georgia Pollution Susceptibility Map, Hydrologic Atlas 20. Such map is hereby adopted and made a part of this article.
(Ord. of 12-12-2000(1), § 3)
Sec. 38-95. - Permit requirements and enforcement.
(a)
No building permit, rezoning request, or subdivision plan will be approved by the city council unless the permit, request or plan is in compliance with the groundwater protection standards listed in sections 38-101 through 38-105.
(b)
The city council, its agent, officers, and employees shall have authority to enter upon privately owned land for the purpose of performing their duties under this article and may take or cause to be made such examinations, surveys or sampling as the city council deems necessary.
(1)
When a building or other structure has been constructed in violation of this article, the violator shall be required to remove the structure by the city council.
(2)
When removal of vegetative cover, excavation or fill has taken place in violation of this article, the violator shall be required to restore the affected land to its original contours and to restore vegetation, as far as practicable.
(Ord. of 12-12-2000(1), §§ 4(intro), 4.1)
Sec. 38-96. - Permit review and site plan requirement.
Application for a development permit within the groundwater recharge area district shall include a site plan, with the exception of certain exempted activities identified in section 38-97. The following information is required for all site plans:
(1)
A map shall, drawn to a scale of one inch equals 50 feet, showing all planned improvements including the width, depth and length of all existing and proposed structures, roads, water courses and drainage ways; water, wastewater, and stormwater facilities; and utility installations.
(2)
Location, dimensions and area of all impervious surfaces, both existing and proposed, on the site.
(3)
The orientation and distance from the boundaries of the proposed site to the nearest bank of an affected perennial stream or water body.
(4)
Elevations of the site and adjacent lands within 200 feet of the site at contour intervals of no greater than five feet.
(5)
Location and detailed design of any spill and leak collection systems designed for the purpose of containing accidentally released hazardous or toxic materials.
(6)
Calculations of the amount of cut and fill proposed and cross sectional drawings showing existing and proposed grades in areas of fill or excavation. Elevations, horizontal scale and vertical scale must be shown on cross sectional drawings.
(Ord. of 12-12-2000(1), § 4.2)
Sec. 38-97. - Exemptions to site plan requirements.
The following activities and development are exempt from the requirement for detailed site plans:
(1)
Single-family detached dwellings constructed within a subdivision of fewer than four parcels.
(2)
Repairs to a facility that is part of a previously approved and permitted development.
(3)
Construction of accessory buildings, such as sheds, or additions to single-family residences.
(Ord. of 12-12-2000(1), § 4.3)
Sec. 38-98. - Activities to comply with site plan.
All development activities or site work conducted after approval of the site plan shall conform with the specifications of such site plan. Significant changes to the site plan that would alter the amount and velocity of stormwater runoff from the site, increase the amount of impervious surface within the development, alter the overall density of development, result in a considerable increase in the amount of excavation, fill or removal of vegetation during construction or otherwise result in an alteration of the overall appearance of the development as proposed, can be amended only with the approval of city council. Minor changes, such as the realignment of streets or minor alterations to drainage structures and other infrastructure to meet unexpected conditions are exempted from this requirement.
(Ord. of 12-12-2000(1), § 4.4)
Sec. 38-99. - Duration of permit validity.
(a)
If construction described in the development permit has not commenced within six months from the date of issuance, the permit shall expire.
(b)
If construction described in the development permit is suspended or abandoned after work has commenced, the permit shall expire 12 months after the date that work ceased.
(c)
Written notice of pending expiration of the development permit shall be issued by the city council.
(Ord. of 12-12-2000(1), § 4.5)
Sec. 38-100. - Review procedures.
The application shall be filed with the building inspector or other person so designated by the city council. The city council shall review and vote on the permit application. The city council may approve, approve with conditions, or deny the application. Within seven days of its decision, the city council shall notify the applicant. If the city council fails to act on the application within 30 days of its submission to the city council, the application is deemed to have been approved.
(Ord. of 12-12-2000(1), § 4.6)
Sec. 38-101. - Significant groundwater recharge area protection standards.
New waste disposal facilities must have synthetic liners and leachate collection systems.
(Ord. of 12-12-2000(1), § 5.1)
Sec. 38-102. - Land disposal of hazardous waste prohibited.
No land disposal of hazardous waste shall be permitted within any significant groundwater recharge area.
(Ord. of 12-12-2000(1), § 5.2)
Sec. 38-103. - Use of impervious surfaces for certain facilities.
New facilities that handle hazardous materials, of the types listed in Section 312 of the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act of 1976, excluding underground storage tanks, and in amounts of 10,000 pounds on any one day or more, shall perform their operations on impervious surfaces and in conformance with any applicable federal spill prevention requirements and any local fire code requirements.
(Ord. of 12-12-2000(1), § 5.3)
Sec. 38-104. - Storage tanks; secondary containment.
New above ground chemical or petroleum storage tanks larger than 650 gallons must have secondary containment for 110 percent of tank volume or 110 percent of the largest tanks in a cluster of tanks. Tanks used for agricultural purposes are exempt it they comply with all federal regulations.
(Ord. of 12-12-2000(1), § 5.4)
Sec. 38-105. - Agricultural waste impoundment sites.
New agricultural waste impoundment sites shall be lined if they are within a low pollution susceptibility area and exceed 50 acre-feet. As a minimum, the liner shall be constructed or compacted clay having a thickness of one foot and a vertical hydraulic conductivity of less than 5 x 10 7 cm/sec or other criteria established by the Natural Resources Conservation Service.
(Ord. of 12-12-2000(1), § 5.5)
Sec. 38-106. - Minimum lot sizes and septic systems.
No construction may proceed on a building or mobile home to be served by a septic tank unless the county health department first approves the proposed septic tank installation as meeting the requirements of the DHR Manual for On-Site Sewerage Management Systems and section 38-107.
(Ord. of 12-12-2000(1), § 6)
Sec. 38-107. - New homes served by a septic tank/drain field system.
(a)
New homes served by a septic tank/drain field system shall be on lots having minimum size limitations as follows, based on application of Table MT-1 of the DHR Manual (hereinafter DHR Table MT-1). The minimum set forth in Table MT-1 may be increased further based on consideration of other factors (set forth in sections of A—F) of the DHR Manual (110 percent of the subdivision minimum lot size calculated based on application of DHR Table MT-1 if they are within a low pollution susceptibility area as defined by the Hydrologic Atlas Number 20).
(b)
New mobile home parks served by septic tank/drain field systems shall have lots or spaces having minimum lot size limitations as follows, based on application of Table MT-2 of the DHR Manual (hereinafter DHR Table MT-2). The minimum set forth in Table MT-2 may be increased further based on consideration of other factors (set forth in sections of A-F) of the DHR Manual (110 percent of the subdivision minimum lot size calculated based on application of DHR Table MT-1 if they are within a low pollution susceptibility area as defined by the Hydrologic Atlas Number 20).
TABLE MT-1
MINIMUM LOT SIZES, MINIMUM LOT WIDTHS
AND MAXIMUM ALLOWABLE SEWAGE FLOW
FOR THE TYPE OF WATER SUPPLY SYSTEM
EXPAND
Type of Water Supply System
Nonpublic 1
(Individual) Public
Minimum lot size 43,560 square feet 21,780 square feet
Minimum lot width 150 feet 100 feet
Maximum sewage flow 600 gpad 2 1,200 gpad
  Source: DHR Manual for On-Site Sewerage Management Systems
1 "Nonpublic" means an individual water supply system or any other water supply system which is not a "public" water supply system.
2 "GPAD" means gallons per acre per day or gallons/acre/day.
(1)
The minimum lot sizes in Table MT-1 are for the typical size home (three or four bedroom) with basic appurtenances such as: driveway, minimum number of trees, and water supply line. If larger homes, swimming pools, tennis courts or outbuildings, etc., are proposed to be constructed or if trees would interfere with installation of an on-site sewage management system, the county health department will require larger lots to assure useable soil area.
(2)
The county health department may also require larger lot sizes when physical factors indicate the need to do so. These factors include, but are not limited to, the availability of sufficient unobstructed land areas for an approved on-site sewage management system and approved replacement system, slope greater than five percent, percolation rates higher than 45 minutes per inch, need for subsurface drainage or adverse topographic features.
(3)
Lots shall be a minimum of 100 feet or 150 feet measured within the area where an approved on-site sewage management system and replacement system are to be located when served by a public water supply system or nonpublic water supply system, respectively.
(4)
The following land areas are not considered as a part of a lot when calculating the required minimum lot size: rights-of-way or roads, easements (such as power line or pipeline) that exclude installation of an on-site sewage management system, bodies of water, land within 50 feet of a lake, river, stream, wetland or other bodies of water and similar limiting factors.
(5)
There must be an unobstructed area on each lot for installation of an approved on-site sewage management system and an area equal in size for a conventional system or larger area, as appropriate, for an approved replacement system; this will include sufficient area for necessary site modifications for installation of both the initial system and a replacement system. All pertinent zoning setbacks and other space requirements must also be met.
(6)
The maximum daily sewage flow for each lot or parcel of land shall not exceed 600 gpad when served by nonpublic or individual water supply system or 1,200 gpad when served by public water system. When sewage flows exceed these quantities (600 or 1,200 gpad as indicated) for a given dwelling structure, the minimum lot size or parcel of land shall be increased proportionally. Example: Assume a public water supply exists (1,200 gpad maximum sewage flow allowed per minimum required land area of 21,780 square feet), and there is a proposed sewage flow of 5,000 gpd. To determine X = the square footage of the lot needed, use the following formula:
EXPAND
X = 5,000 gal/day / 1,200 gal/acre/day
X = 4.17 acres
X = 4.17 acres × 43,560 square feet
X = 181,500 square feet of land needed
  Similarly, for a nonpublic (individual) water supply, to determine Y = the square footage of the lot needed for a proposed sewage flow of 5,000 gpd, use the following formula:
EXPAND
Y = 5,000 gal/day / 600 gal/acre/day
Y = 8.33 acres
Y = 8.33 acres × 43,560 square feet
Y = 363,000 square feet of land needed
  Lot sizing requirements are as follows for multifamily residential dwellings, all other non-single-family dwellings and commercial structures, and mobile homes located in commercial mobile home parks. Subsection (d)(1) through (6) of this section also apply to Table MT-2.
TABLE MT-2
MINIMUM LOT SIZES, MINIMUM LOT WIDTHS
AND MAXIMUM ALLOWABLE SEWAGE FLOW
FOR THE TYPE OF WATER SUPPLY SYSTEM
EXPAND
Type of Water Supply System
Nonpublic 1
(Individual) Public
Minimum lot size 43,560 square feet 21,780 square feet
Minimum lot width 150 feet 100 feet
Maximum sewage flow 600 gpad 2 1,200 gpad
  Source: DHR Manual for On-Site Sewerage Management Systems
1 "Nonpublic" means an individual water supply system or any other water supply system which is not a "public" water supply system.
2 "GPAD" means gallons per acre per day or gallons/acre/day.
(Ord. of 12-12-2000(1), §§ 6.1, 6.2; Ord. of 3-13-2001, § 1)
Sec. 38-108. - Judicial review alternative actions.
Based on any proceedings and the decision of the county superior court, the city council may, within the time specified by the court, elect to:
(1)
Institute negotiated purchase or condemnation proceedings to acquire an easement or fee interest in the applicant's land;
(2)
Approve the permit application with lesser restrictions or conditions (i.e., grant a variance); or
(3)
Institute other appropriate actions ordered by the court that fall within the jurisdiction of the city.
(Ord. of 12-12-2000(1), § 7)
Sec. 38-109. - Assessment relief.
Assessors and boards of assessors shall consider the requirements of this article in determining the fair market value of land.
(Ord. of 12-12-2000(1), § 8)
Sec. 38-110. - Soil groupings for use with minimum lot size tables.
Soil groupings for use with minimum lot size tables shall be as follows:
GROUP 1 (Well drained to excessively drained soils with percolation rates from <5 to 10 min./in.)
Well drained (5-10 min./in. Percolation)
Alley
Americus
Blaney
Bonneau
Chipola
Chisolm
Eddings
Fuquay (Norfolk and Tifton thick surface; Lakeland shallow)
Louisburg
Lucy
Valdosta
Wagram
Wateree
Wicksburg
Excessively Drained (<5 min./in. Percolation)
Blanton
Bonifay
Cainhoy (Galestown, Palm Beach)
Eustis
Flomation
Foxworth
Fripp
Kershaw (Lakewood)
Kureb
Lakeland (Huckabee)
Molena
Paula Troup
GROUP 2 (Well drained to moderately well drained soils with percolation rates from 5 to 30 min./in.)
Allen
Bodine
Brevard
Brookshire
Cahaba
Centenary
Chandler
Chestnut
Citico
Clarendon
Cowee
Dekalb
Edneyville
Etowah (Nolichuncky)
Euharlee
Eunola
Evard
Faceville
Goldsboro
Haywood
Irvington
Izagora
Jefferson
Johns
Kalmia
Leesburg
Linker
Lockhart
Louisa
Lowndes
Maxton
Nella
Norfolk
Orangeburg
Porters
Red Bay (Ruston)
Rion
Sequatchie
Sipsey
Stilson
Tallant
Tifton
Tusquitee
Wedowee
Wickham
GROUP 3 (Well drained to moderately well drained soils with percolation rates from 30 to 60 min./in. Also includes somewhat poorly drained soils with percolation rates from 5 to 30 min./in.)
Well drained to moderately well drained soils with slow percolation rates (30 to 60 min./in.)
Alcovy
Braddock
Bradson
Brasstown
Capshaw
Carnegie
Clifton
Decatur
Dillard
Dothan
Durham
Edneytown
Fannin
Freemanville
Fullerton
Greenville (Magnolia)
Henceville
Holston
Hornsville
Junaluska
Kolomoki
Locust
Madison
Minvale
Mountview
Nantahala
Nauvoo
Pacolet (Habersham)
Rome
Saunook
Seneca
Shack (Clarksville)
Shelocta
Shouns
Suffolk
Swafford
Tate
Tatum
Tellico
Thurmont
Tidings
Varina
Waynesboro
Somewhat poorly drained soils with rapid to moderate percolation rates (5 to 30 min./in.)
Albany
Ardilla
Barth
Chipley
Coosaw
Echaw
Kanapana
Leefield (Klej shallow, Lynchburg thick surface)
Lynchburg Ocilla
Olustee (Ona)
Pottsburg
Ridgeland
Rigdon
Scranton
GROUP 4 (Well drained soils to moderately well drained soils with percolation rates from 60 to 90 min./in. Also poorly drained soils with moderate percolation rates from 10 to 15 min./in.)
Well drained to moderately well drained soils with slow percolation rates (60-90 min./in.)
Albertville
Chestatee
Cowarts
Cunningham
Cuthbert
Davidson
Dewey (Muse)
Docena
Dogue
Duplin
Dyke
Enders
Farragut
Georgevilie
Gilead
Gritney
Grover
Hayesvilie
Herndon
Hulett
Litz
Marlboro
Masada
Nankin
Nason
Rabun
Sawyer
Sequoia
Shubuta
Steekee
Poorly drained with moderate percolation rates (10-15 min./in.)
Leon
Mascotte
Sapelo
St. Johns
GROUP 5 (Poorly drained soils that have a water table very near the surface with percolation rates from 5 to 10 min/in.)
Alpaha
Ogeechee
Pasquotank
Pelham
Plummer
Riceboro
GROUP 6. Soils unsuitable due to the following reasons:
Excess wetness (frequent flooding or ponding)
Altavista
Angie
Augusta
Bayboro
Bethera
Bibb
Boehicket
Brookman
Capers
Cartecay
Cedarbluff
Chastain
Chatuge
Chenneby
Chewacla (Philo, Stendai)
Coxville
Dasher
Dowellton (Purdy)
Egam
Ellabelle
Enon
Flint
French
Gayesville
Grady
Guthrie
Hamblen
Hatboro
Iredell
Isles
Istapoga
Iuka
Johnston
Ketona
Kingsland
Kinston
Leaf
Levy
Lumbee
Lynn Haven
Masontown
Meggett
Muckalee
Myatt
Oakboro
Pelion
Persanti
Pickney
Panzer
Pooler
Portsmouth
Rembert
Rigolette
Roanoke (Robertville)
Rollen
Rutledge
Satilla
Shellbluff
Surrency
Tanyard, Tsali
Tawcaw
Wahaee
Wax (Captina, Monogahela, Landisburg)
Wehadkee (Atkins, Melvin)
Whitwell
Wolfever
Shallow bedrock (there are some areas of these soils that have adequate depths)
Apison
Ashe
Ashlar (Edgemont)
Burton
Cataska
Chandler
Fletcher
Gilpin
Goldston
Gorgas
Hartseiis (Lehew)
Hector
Lily
Lyerty
Manteo
Montevailo (Klinesville)
Mountainburg
Musella
Poindexter
Ramsey
Ranger
Saluda
Soco
Sunlight
Sweetapple
Sylco
Talladega
Tallapossa
Tsali
Wilkes
Zion
Percolation rate (more than 90 min./in.)
Angie
Appling (Thurmont, Halewood)
Aragon (Christian)
Armuchee
Arundel
Barfield
Bayboro
Binnsville
Bladen
Boehicket
Boswell (Oktiboeha, Sumter)
Brookman
Capers
Cecil
Chastain
Colbert
Conasauga
Coxville
Craven
Dowellton (Purdy)
Dunbar (Eulonia, Fairhope, Flint)
Egam
Esto
Eutaw
Grady
Gwinnett (Lloyd)
Heiena
Henderson
Hiwasee
Hoffman
Iredell
Leadvale
Leaf
Lyerly
Mecklenburg
Meggett
Orange
Persanti
Pooler
Roanoke (Robertville)
Rollen
Sawyer
Sunsweet
Susquehanna
Talbott
Telfair
Townley (Rarden)
Tupelo
Tyler
Vance
Vaucluse
Wahee
FLOODING (Flooding is infrequent and if protected from flooding they may be suitable)
Arkaque
Bigbee
Buncombe
Colvard
Congaree
Duckston
Emory
Ennis
Huntington
Ocelockonee
Ousley
Riverview
Sequatchie
Starr
Staser
Stato
Subligna
Suches
Sullivan
Toccoa
Toxaway
Transylvania
(Ord. of 12-12-2000(1), app.)
Secs. 38-111—38-140. - Reserved.
