APPENDIX A - ZONING[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Editor's note— Printed in this appendix is the city's zoning ordinance, as adopted in April 1969. Amendments are indicated by parenthetical history notes following amended provisions. The absence of a history note indicates that the provision remains unchanged from the original. Obvious misspellings and punctuation errors have been corrected without notation. For stylistic purposes, headings and catchlines have been made uniform, and the same system of capitalization, citations to state statutes, and expression of numbers in text as appears in the Code has been used. Additions for clarity are indicated by brackets
Cross reference— Any ordinance pertain to zoning, including but not limited to the basic zoning ordinance and ordinances rezoning property or amending the zoning map saved from repeal, § 1-12(14); sales of beer and wine near church or school, § 6-197; buildings and construction, ch. 14; environment, ch. 26; flood damage prevention, ch. 32; natural resources, ch. 34; planning, ch. 50; signs, ch. 54; streets, sidewalks and other public places, ch. 62; subdivisions, ch. 66.
State Law reference— The Zoning Procedures Law, O.C.G.A. § 36-66-1 et seq.; power of local authorities generally, O.C.G.A. § 40-6-371.

ARTICLE I. - PREAMBLE AND ENACTMENT CLAUSE

[Sec. 10. - Authority; purposes; enactment.]
In pursuance of the authority conferred by the Georgia General Planning and Zoning Enabling Act of 1957, as amended [now repealed], and for the purpose of promoting the health, safety, morals, convenience, order, prosperity or the general welfare of the City of Lyons; lessening congestion in the streets; securing safety from fire, panic and other dangers; providing adequate light and air; preventing the overcrowding of land; avoiding undue concentration of population; facilitating the adequate provision of transportation, water, sewerage, schools, parks and other public requirements; promoting desirable living conditions and the sustained stability of neighborhoods; protecting property against blight and depreciation; conserving the value of buildings and encouraging the most appropriate use of land and other buildings and structures throughout the municipality, all in accordance with a comprehensive plan, the city council of Lyons, Georgia, does ordain and enact into law the following articles and sections.
ARTICLE II. - SHORT TITLE

[Sec. 20. - Citing.]
This ordinance shall be known and may be cited as "The Zoning Ordinance of the City of Lyons, Georgia."
ARTICLE III. - DEFINITION OF TERMS USED IN THE ORDINANCE

[Sec. 30. - Enumeration.]
Except as specifically defined herein, all words used in this ordinance have their customary dictionary definitions. For the purposes of this ordinance certain words or terms are defined as follows:
Words used in the present tense include the future tense. Words used in the singular include the plural, and words used in the plural include the singular.
The word "shall" is always mandatory.
The word "person" includes a firm, association, organization, partnership, trust, company or corporation as well as an individual.
The word "lot" includes the word "lot" or "parcel."
The word "building" includes the word "structure."
The word "used" or "occupied," as applied to any land or building, shall be construed to include the words "intended, or arranged, or designed to be used or occupied."
The word "map" or "zoning map" refers to the "Zoning Districts Map" of the City of Lyons, Georgia.
Accessory use or building: A use or building customarily incidental and subordinate to the principal use or building and located on the same lot with such principal use or building.
Boarding or rooming house: Any dwelling in which three or more persons either individually or as families are housed for hire with or without meals.
Buffer strip, planted: A strip of land along a property line reserved for screening purposes from adjoining properties or public rights-of-way and planted with trees and/or shrubs in such a manner as to provide such screening.
Building: Any structure attached to the ground and intended for shelter, housing or enclosure of persons, animals or chattels.
Business sign: An attached or freestanding structure on which is announced the business use of the premises and/or the name of the operator of the business.
Centerline of street: The centerline of a street is the line surveyed and monumented by the governing body as such or, if a centerline has not been surveyed and monumented, it shall be that line running midway between the outside curbs or ditches of the streets.
Dwelling: A building designed or used for permanent living quarters for one or more families.
Dwelling unit: A dwelling or portion thereof providing permanent living quarters for one or more persons living as a single housekeeping unit.
Family: One or more persons occupying a dwelling unit and living as a single housekeeping unit.
Front yard: An open, unoccupied space on the same lot with a principal building, extending the full width of the lot and located between the street line and the front line of the building projected to the sidelines of the lot.
House trailer or mobile home means a movable or portable dwelling, over 32 feet long and over eight feet wide, constructed to be towed on its own chassis and connected to utilities, and designed without a permanent foundation for yearround occupancy. Such dwelling can consist of one or more components that can be retracted for towing purposes and subsequently expanded for additional capacity; or it can consist of two or more units separately towable but designed to be joined into one integral unit.
Lot: A parcel of land occupied or capable of being occupied by one or more buildings and the accessory buildings or uses customarily incidental to it, including such open spaces as are required by this ordinance.
Lot width: The distance between the side boundaries of the lot measured at the front building line.
Major street: A street designated as a major street on the zoning districts map of the City of Lyons, Georgia.
Manufactured home means a structure, transportable in one or more sections, which, in the traveling mode, is eight body feet or more in width or 40 body feet or more in length, or when erected on site, is 320 or more square feet and which is built on a permanent chassis and designed to be used as a dwelling with or without a permanent foundation when connected to the required utilities and includes the plumbing, heating, air-conditioning, and electrical systems contained therein; except that such term shall include any structure which meets all the requirements of this paragraph except the size requirements and with respect to which the manufacturer voluntarily files a certification required by the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development and complies with the standards established under the National Mobile Home Construction and Safety Standards Act of 1974.
Outdoor advertising sign: An attached or freestanding structure conveying some information, knowledge or idea to the public.
Secondary street: A street or highway designated as a secondary street on the zoning districts map of the City of Lyons, Georgia.
Side yard: An open, unoccupied space on the same lot with a principal building located between the side of the building and the sideline of the lot and extending from the rear line of the front yard to the front line of the rear yard.
Structure: Anything constructed or erected on the ground or attached to something located on the ground.
Trailer park: A lot, portion or parcel of land designed for or which is intended to be used commercially for accommodation of two or more residential trailers.
(Ord. of 4-3-1984)
ARTICLE IV. - ESTABLISHMENT OF DISTRICTS

[Sec. 40. - Purposes of article.]
This article is established to provide districts for the various uses of land within the city and to provide for the interpretation of district boundaries on the zoning map.
Sec. 41. - Zoning districts.
For purposes of this ordinance, the City of Lyons, Georgia, is divided into seven districts designated as follows:
EXPAND
A-1 Agricultural district
R-1 Single-family residential district
R-2 Multifamily residential district
[R-3] [High density residential development district]
C-1 Central business district
C-2 Highway commercial district
I-1 Light industrial district
I-2 Heavy industrial district
  Sec. 42. - Zoning map.
The boundaries of these districts are hereby established as shown on the map entitled "Zoning Districts Map—Lyons, Georgia," dated and certified by the city clerk. Said map is hereby made part of this ordinance; it shall be on file in the office of the city clerk and available for public inspection.
Sec. 43. - Map amendment.
If, in accordance with the provisions of this ordinance, changes are made in district boundaries portrayed on the zoning map, such changes shall be made on the official zoning map promptly after the amendment has been approved by the city council.
Sec. 44. - Interpretation of district boundaries.
Where uncertainty exists with respect to the boundaries of any of the aforesaid districts shown on the zoning map, the following rules shall apply:
(44.1)
Where district boundaries are depicted as approximately following the centerlines of streets or highways, centerlines of streams or drainageways, street lines or highway rights-of-way lines, such centerlines, street lines or highway right-of-way lines shall be construed to be such boundaries.
(44.2)
Where district boundaries are so depicted that they approximately follow the lot lines, such lot lines shall be construed to be said boundaries.
(44.3)
Where district boundaries are so depicted that they are approximately parallel to the centerlines of streets, highways or railroads, or rights-of-way of same, such district boundaries shall be construed as being parallel thereto and at such distance therefrom as indicated on the zoning map. If no distance is given, such dimension shall be determined by the use of the scale shown on said zoning map.
(44.4)
Where a district boundary line as appearing on the zoning map divided a lot in single ownership at the time of enactment of this ordinance, the district requirements for the least restricted portion of such lot shall be deemed to apply to the whole thereof, provided that such extension shall not include any part of such a lot more than 35 feet beyond the district boundary line.
ARTICLE V. - APPLICATION OF REGULATIONS

[Sec. 50. - Purpose of article.]
This article is established to provide the conditions that must be met by anyone under the jurisdiction of this ordinance, except as hereinafter provided.
Sec. 51. - Use.
No building or structure or land shall hereafter be used or occupied and no building or structure or part thereof shall be erected, constructed, reconstructed, moved or altered except in conformity with the regulations herein specified for the district in which it is located.
Sec. 52. - Height and density.
No building or structure shall hereafter be erected, constructed, reconstructed or altered to:
(a)
Exceed the height limits;
(b)
House a greater number of families or occupy a smaller lot area per family; or
(c)
Have narrower or smaller front or side yards than are herein required.
Sec. 53. - Lot size and occupancy.
No lot, even though it may consist of one or more adjacent lots in the same ownership at the time of passage of this ordinance, shall be reduced in size so that lot width or size of yards or lot area per family or any other requirement of this ordinance is not maintained. This section shall not apply when a portion of a lot is acquired for public use.
Sec. 54. - Yards and other spaces.
No part of a yard or other open space of [or] the off-street parking or loading space required adjacent to any building for the purpose of complying with the provisions of the ordinance shall be included as a part of the yard or off-street parking or loading space required for another building.
Sec. 55. - One principal building on a lot.
Only one principal building and its customary accessory buildings may hereafter be erected on any one lot.
Sec. 56. - Public street frontage.
No building shall be erected on a lot which does not abut for at least 25 feet on a public street.
ARTICLE VI. - GENERAL PROVISIONS

[Sec. 60. - Purpose of article.]
This article is established to regulate nonconforming uses, off-street parking, and off-street loading and unloading; to strive for the ultimate termination of nonconforming uses; and to provide suitable off-street parking, loading and unloading space for each type of use.
Sec. 61. - Continuance of nonconforming uses.
The lawful use of any building or structure or land existing at the time of the enactment of this ordinance may be continued even though such use does not conform with the provisions of this ordinance except that the nonconforming structure or use shall not be:
(a)
Changed to another nonconforming use;
(b)
Reestablished after discontinuance for one year; or
(c)
Extended except in conformity with this ordinance.
Sec. 62. - Off-street automobile parking.
Off-street automobile parking space shall be provided on every lot on which any of the following uses are hereafter established. The number of automobile parking spaces provided shall be at least as great as the number specified below for the various uses:
(62.1)
Automobile sales and repair garages: one space for each regular employee plus one space for each 250 square feet of floor area used for repair work.
(62.2)
Gasoline filling stations: five spaces for each grease rack or similar facility plus one space for each gas pump attendant.
(62.3)
Hospitals and nursing homes or similar institutions: one space for each three beds plus one space for each staff or visiting doctor and one space for each three employees.
(62.4)
Hotels: one space for each two guest bedrooms plus one space for each four employees.
(62.5)
Industrial use: one space for each two employees on a single shift plus one space for each company vehicle operating from the premises.
(62.6)
Lodges and clubs: one space for each five members.
(62.7)
Office building: one space for each 300 square feet of floor space.
(62.8)
Places of amusement or assembly without fixed seats: one space for each 200 square feet of floor space devoted to patron use.
(62.9)
Places of public assembly: one space for each four seats in the principal assembly room.
(62.10)
Residential: one space for each dwelling unit.
(62.11)
Restaurants: one space for each 75 square feet of floor area devoted to patron use, plus one space for each four employees.
(62.12)
Retail business: one space for each 250 square feet of sales space.
(62.13)
Rooming and boarding houses: one space for each two bedrooms.
(62.14)
Schools: one space for each two faculty and staff employees; for each three other employees; and for each five high school students.
(62.15)
Tourist courts and motels: one space for each accommodation.
(62.16)
Trailer parks: one space for each trailer space.
(62.17)
Wholesale business: one space for each two employees. Each space shall be at least 300 square feet in area and shall have vehicular access to a public street. Turning space shall be provided (except for single-family residences) so that no vehicle will be required to back into the street.
Cross reference— Stopping, standing and parking, § 70-31 et seq.
Sec. 63. - Location of parking space on other property.
If the required automobile parking spaces cannot be reasonably provided on the same lot on which the principal use is conducted, such spaces may be provided on other off-street property provided such property lies within 400 feet of the main entrance to such principal use. Such automobile parking space shall be associated with the principal use and shall not thereafter be reduced or encroached upon in any manner.
Sec. 64. - Extension of parking spaces into a residential district.
Required parking space may extend up to 120 feet into a residential zoning district, provided that:
(a)
The parking space adjoins a commercial or industrial district;
(b)
Has its only access to or fronts upon the same street as the property in the commercial or industrial district for which it provides required parking space; and
(c)
Is visually separated from abutting properties in the adjoining residential district by a ten-foot-wide evergreen planted buffer strip.
Sec. 65. - Off-street loading and unloading space.
On every lot on which a business, trade or industry is hereafter established, space with access to a public street or alley shall be provided as indicated below for loading and unloading of vehicles off the public right-of-way. The minimum loading and unloading space required shall be:
(65.1)
Retail business: one space of 300 square feet for each 3,000 square feet of floor area or fraction thereof.
(65.2)
Wholesale and industry: one space of 500 square feet for each 10,000 square feet of floor area or fraction thereof.
(65.3)
Bus and truck terminals: sufficient space to accommodate the maximum number of buses or trucks to be stored or to be loaded or unloaded at the terminal at any one time.
Cross reference— Stopping, standing and parking, § 70-31 et seq.
ARTICLE VII. - USE PROVISIONS FOR RESIDENCE DISTRICTS

[Sec. 70. - Purposes.]
It is the intent of this ordinance that residential districts be reserved predominately for residence and contain public and semipublic uses which are necessary to serve the residents; to protect residents, as far as possible, against congestion and through traffic; to promote the stability and character of residential development; and to promote the most desirable use of land in accordance with a comprehensive plan.
Sec. 71. - Agricultural district A-1.
It is the intent of the A-1 agricultural district to provide for the continued existence of agricultural uses, and lower density residential development than is found in the R-1 residential district. The A-1 district comprises that portion of the City of Lyons which is primarily rural in nature, but which can be expected to experience urban development in the future. The following uses are permitted in the A-1 district:
(71.1)
Any type of agriculture, except that no building housing cattle or poultry may be located within 300 feet of a district line.
(71.2)
Any use permitted in the R-1 residential district.
(71.3)
Hospitals.
(71.4)
Cemeteries.
(71.5)
Facilities providing municipal services.
Sec. 72. - Single-family residential district R-1.
The R-1 residential district is composed chiefly of existing low-density residential areas of the city, and vacant or open areas where similar residential development appears likely to occur. The regulations for this district are designed to encourage similar and complementary type residential development together with associated recreational, religious and educational facilities. The following uses are permitted in the R-1 district:
(72.1)
Single-family dwellings, except trailers and mobile homes.
(72.2)
Agriculture, excluding the commercial raising of poultry and livestock.
(72.3)
Church bulletin boards not exceeding 20 square feet in area.
(72.4)
Churches, fraternal organizations and clubs not operating for a profit; provided that:
(a)
There is a planted buffer strip at least ten feet wide along the side and rear lines; and
(b)
The buildings are located not less than 50 feet from any lot line.
(72.5)
Customary accessory uses or buildings.
(72.6)
Customary incidental home occupations including the professional offices of an architect, artist, dentist, engineer, lawyer, and physician provided there is no external evidence of such occupations except an announcement sign not more than two square feet in area and that the operations are conducted within a dwelling by not more than one person in addition to those persons resident therein. Off-street parking provisions of article VI, section 62, are applicable to incidental home occupations.
(72.7)
Substations of utilities (low voltages) provided they are housed within a building architecturally similar to surrounding structures.
(72.8)
Public buildings, structures and grounds, except cemeteries.
(72.9)
Schools, including private schools, nursery schools and kindergartens.
(72.10)
Signs not more than six square feet in area advertising the sale or rental of the property on which they are located.
(72.11)
Hospitals and nursing homes.
Sec. 73. - Multifamily residential district R-2.
It is the intent of the R-2 residential district to provide for a less restricted type of residential development at higher densities but under similar environmental conditions as found in the R-1 district. The following uses are permitted in the R-2 district:
(73.1)
Any use permitted in the R-1 district.
(73.2)
Multifamily residences.
(73.3)
Boarding and rooming houses.
(73.4)
Cemeteries.
(73.5)
Hospitals.
(73.6)
House trailers (mobile homes or manufactured homes) shall be permitted provided that:
(a)
A single house trailer or manufactured home shall be allowed on a single lot in the R-2 district provided said lot, whether existing or created, has the minimum square feet as herein specified for a lot in this district and provided that adequate sanitary sewage [sewer] facilities are installed or connected to as recommended by the state health department.
(b)
House trailer or trailers (manufactured home or homes) shall be allowed in the R-2 district or [on] property that has been designed and developed as a trailer park, which has been constructed according to standards recommended by the American Mobile Home Association.
(Ord. of 4-3-1984)
Sec. 74. - R-2A district.
In the R-2A district the following uses are permitted:
(74.1)
Any use permitted in the R-1 district.
(74.2)
Multifamily residences.
(74.3)
Boarding and rooming houses.
(74.4)
Cemeteries.
(74.5)
Hospitals.
(Ord. of 6-24-1969)
Sec. 75. - High density residential development, R-3.
The purpose of this R-3 district is to provide a suitable area for development of planned residential communities at a higher density that allow a full range of residential uses and housing types, open space and green area. This area may include single-family, detached and/or attached patio homes and townhouses.
(75.1)
Uses permitted.
(a)
Single-family, detached and/or attached patio homes;
(b)
Single-family, detached and/or attached townhouses.
(c)
Any use permitted in the R-1 district.
(75.2)
Height regulations. The maximum height of buildings and other structures erected or enlarged in this district shall be:
(1)
For any dwelling, 35 feet and not to exceed three stories.
(2)
For any building accessory to any dwelling 15 feet and not exceeding one story.
(75.3)
Area, width and yard regulations.
(a)
Single-family detached dwelling.
(1)
Minimum lot area and width: A lot of not less than 5,000 square feet and a lot width of not less than 50 feet at the building line shall be provided for every building or other structure erected or used for any use permitted in this district.
(2)
Front yard: There shall be a front yard on each lot which shall not be less than 50 feet in depth from the center line of all major streets and 35 feet from the right-of-way of all other streets.
(3)
Side yard: On each interior lot there shall be two side yards, each having a width of not less than five feet. On each corner lot there shall be two side yards, the yard abutting the street having a width of not less than 35 feet from the right-of-way, and the side yard not abutting the street having a width of not less than five feet.
(4)
Rear yard: There shall be a rear yard in each lot the depth of which shall not be less than 20 feet, except that an accessory use structure may be erected within the rear yard not closer than five feet to the rear property line and five feet to the side property line.
(5)
Building coverage: Not more than 40 percent of the area of any lot shall be occupied by buildings.
(b)
Two-family, twin dwelling and duplexes.
(1)
Minimum lot area and width: A lot of not less than 8,000 square feet and a lot width of not less than 60 feet at the building line shall be provided.
(2)
Front yard: There shall be a front yard on each lot which shall not be less than 50 feet in depth from the center line of all major streets and 35 feet from the right-of-way of all other streets.
(3)
Side yard: On each interior lot there shall be two side yards, each having a width of not less than ten feet. On each corner lot there shall be two side yards, the yard abutting the street having a width of not less than 35 feet from the right-of-way, and the side yard not abutting the street having a width of not less than ten feet.
(4)
Rear yard: There shall be a rear yard in each lot the depth of which shall not be less than 20 feet, except that an accessory use structure may be erected within the rear yard not closer than five feet to the rear property line and five feet to the side property line.
(5)
Building coverage: Not more than 40 percent of the area of any lot shall be occupied by buildings.
(Ord. of 2-5-2002)
ARTICLE VIII. - USE PROVISIONS FOR BUSINESS DISTRICTS[2]

Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
Cross reference— Businesses, ch. 18.

[Sec. 80. - Purpose.]
Business districts are established to provide locations for convenient exchange of goods and services in a reasonable and orderly manner; to protect the character and established pattern of desirable commercial development; to conserve the value of property; and to exclude those uses that are incompatible with designated uses for the districts.
Sec. 81. - Central business district C-1.
The C-1 zone is established to protect present business and commercial uses; to encourage the eventual elimination of uses inappropriate to the function of the central business area; and to encourage intensive development of this zone as the shopping and business center of the City of Lyons and surrounding trade area. The following uses are permitted in the C-1 district:
(81.1)
Any retail business or service, including manufacturing in connection with a retail store or shop providing that such manufacturing is incidental to the retail use and all goods manufactured are sold on the premises.
(81.2)
Automobile salesrooms and repair garages.
(81.3)
Bus terminals and taxicab stands.
(81.4)
Clubs and lodges.
(81.5)
Funeral parlors.
(81.6)
Gasoline service stations, provided that points of access and egress shall be located not less than ten feet from the intersection of street lines; shall not exceed 40 feet in width; and shall not be closer than 20 feet apart.
(81.7)
Hotels and motels.
(81.8)
Offices and banks.
(81.9)
Newspapers and printing plants.
(81.10)
Off-street parking lots.
(81.11)
Professional offices for physicians, dentists, lawyers, engineers and the like.
(81.12)
Public uses and structures.
(81.13)
Public utility structures.
(81.14)
Radio stations.
(81.15)
Restaurants, bars, grills and similar eating and/or drinking establishments, excluding drive-ins.
(81.16)
Signs: outdoor advertising and professional or announcement.
(81.17)
Theaters, indoor.
(81.18)
Mobile food vendors.
(Ord. No. 0719201601, 7-19-2016)
Sec. 82. - Highway commercial district C-2.
The C-2 commercial district is intended primarily for the development of those business activities which cater to the needs of highway traffic. The following uses are permitted in the C-2 district:
(82.1)
Retail shops customarily serving tourist or highway trade.
(82.2)
Automobile parts sales stores.
(82.3)
Automobile salesrooms and used car lots.
(82.4)
Bus terminals.
(82.5)
Business and outdoor advertising signs.
(82.6)
Drive-in theaters.
(82.7)
Drugstores.
(82.8)
Gasoline service stations, provided that points of access and egress shall be located not less than ten feet from the intersection of street lines; shall not exceed 30 feet in width; and shall not be closer than 40 feet apart.
(82.9)
Motels.
(82.10)
Off-street parking lots.
(82.11)
Public and semipublic recreation facilities, including bowling alleys and miniature golf courses.
(82.12)
Public uses and structures.
(82.13)
Repair garages.
(82.14)
Restaurants, grills and similar eating establishments, including drive-ins.
(82.15)
Reserved.
(82.16)
Signs: outdoor advertising and professional or announcement.
(82.17)
Funeral homes and florist shops.
(82.18)
Mobile food vendors.
(Ord. of 1-4-1999; Ord. No. 0719201601, 7-19-2016)
ARTICLE IX. - USE PROVISIONS FOR INDUSTRIAL DISTRICTS[3]

Footnotes:
--- (3) ---
Cross reference— Businesses, ch. 18.

[Sec. 90. - Purpose.]
Industrial districts are established to provide areas to meet the needs of the city's present and future manufacturing uses, with consideration given to the need for a choice of sites including access to various transportation facilities; and to protect adjacent residential and commercial uses and existing industries within the districts.
Sec. 91. - Light industrial district I-1.
The I-1 light industrial district is established to provide an area for firms engaged in light manufacturing and distribution of goods; to discourage uses incompatible with light manufacturing; to protect the surrounding land uses; and to protect the existing industries within the district. The following uses are permitted in the I-1 district:
(91.1)
Agricultural equipment sales and repair.
(91.2)
Apparel manufacturing plants.
(91.3)
Baking establishments.
(91.4)
Bottling and distribution plants.
(91.5)
Business and outdoor advertising signs.
(91.6)
Cabinet and woodworking shops.
(91.7)
Electrical repair shops.
(91.8)
Gasoline service stations, according to the provisions specified in subsection (82.1).
(91.9)
Ice plants and cold storage plants.
(91.10)
Laundry and dry-cleaning establishments.
(91.11)
Public utility structures.
(91.12)
Restaurants, cafes and similar establishments.
(91.13)
Truck terminals and warehouses.
(91.14)
Wholesale and storage businesses including building material yards.
(91.15)
Other light industries, provided that any industry that may cause injurious or obnoxious noise, vibrations, smoke, gas, fumes, odor, dust, fire hazards or other objectionable condition, shall be required to show that the proposed location, construction and operation will not injure present or prospective industrial development in the district.
(91.16)
Mobile food vendors.
(91.17)
Indoor agriculture, including the derivatives from such agriculture, but excluding the raising of animals.
(Ord. No. 0719201601, 7-19-2016; Ord. No. 1612, 10-6-2020)
Sec. 92. - Heavy industrial district I-2.
The I-2 district is established to provide a suitable area for the location of heavy manufacturing plants, to protect the surrounding land uses, to protect the industries located in the district, and to discourage uses that are incompatible with those designated for this district. The following uses are permitted in the I-2 district:
(92.1)
Any use permitted in an I-1 district.
(92.2)
Bulk storage of petroleum.
(92.3)
Concrete batch plants.
(92.4)
Metal fabricating plants.
(92.5)
Millwork and flooring processing.
(92.6)
Business and outdoor advertising signs.
(92.7)
Railroad terminals and warehouses.
(92.8)
Radio transmission towers.
(92.9)
Stockyards for livestock and swine, slaughterhouses and the processing of poultry and livestock.
(92.10)
Textile manufacturing and processing.
(92.11)
Other heavy industries, provided that any industry that may cause injurious or obnoxious noise, vibrations, smoke, gas, fumes, odor, dust, fire hazard or other objectionable condition, shall be required to show that such conditions will not adversely affect the surrounding districts.
(92.12)
Mobile food vendors.
(Ord. No. 0719201601, 7-19-2016)
ARTICLE X. - AREA, YARD AND HEIGHT REQUIREMENTS

[Sec. 100. - Purpose; table.]
This article is established to identify the minimum lot size and width; front and side yard setbacks; and building height allowed within each designated district.
EXPAND
Minimum Lot Size Minimum Front Yard Setback
District Area in Square Feet Square Feet Per Family Lot Width Bldg. Line
(feet) Major Streets Right-of-Way All Other Streets Minimum Side Yards
(feet) Maximum Height
(feet)
A-1 20,000 20,000 125 50 35 15 35
R-1 20,000 20,000 100 50 35 10 on each side 35
R-2 5,000 Single-family 5,000
Multifamily 3,000 50
75 50
50 35
35 10 on each side
10 on each side 35
40
C-1 50
C-2 50 35 None, 10 feet if provided 40
I-1 50 35 30
I-2 50 50 30
  (Amd. No. 01-04, 9-14-2004)
ARTICLE XI. - EXCEPTIONS AND MODIFICATIONS

[Sec. 110. - Purposes.]
This article is established to provide relief from unnecessary hardships that may occur from the application of this ordinance to a specific piece of property. Further, it is intended to provide for the establishment of group project developments that could not reasonably adhere to the provisions of this ordinance.
Sec. 111. - Existing lots.
Where the owner of a plot of land consisting of one or more adjacent lots of record at the time of the enactment of this ordinance did not at that time own sufficient contiguous land to enable him to conform to the minimum lot size requirements of this ordinance; or if the topography, physical shape or other unique feature of such lots of record prevent reasonable compliance with the setback or other requirements of this ordinance, such plot of land may nevertheless be used as a building site. The yard and other space requirements of the district in which the piece of land is located may be reduced by the smallest amount that will permit reasonable use of the property as a building site; however, in no case shall the building inspector permit any lot in a residential district to be used as a building site which is less than 4,000 square feet in total area, 25 feet in width, or has front, side and rear yard setbacks of less than 15 feet (front), three feet (side), and five feet (rear), respectively.
Sec. 112. - Front-yard setback for dwellings.
The front-yard setback requirements of this ordinance for dwellings shall not apply on any lot where the setback of an existing building or buildings located wholly or in part within 100 feet on each side of such lot within the same block and zoning district and fronting on the same side of the street is less than the required minimum setback. In such cases, the setback on such lot may be less than the required setback but not less than the average of the setbacks of the aforementioned existing buildings.
Sec. 113. - Height limits.
The height limitations of this ordinance shall not apply to church spires, belfries, cupolas, domes and similar structures not intended for human occupancy; nor the monuments, water towers, transmission towers, chimneys, smokestacks, derricks, conveyors, flagpoles, radio or television towers, or aerials, except in the vicinity of airports.
Sec. 114. - Corner lots.
The side-yard setback requirements for corner lots shall be the same as the front setback requirements for the next adjacent lot fronting on the street that the side yard of the corner lot faces.
Sec. 115. - Vision clearance.
In all use districts except the central business district (C-1), no fence, walls, shrubbery or other obstruction (excluding traffic and street signs) to vision between the heights of three feet and 15 feet shall be permitted within 20 feet of the intersection of the right-of-way lines of streets or railroads.
Sec. 116. - Group projects.
A group project (housing, commercial, industrial, educational, medical, religious, civic) of two or more buildings to be constructed on a plot of land of at least two acres not subdivided into customary streets and lots, and which will not be so subdivided, may be constructed provided:
(116.1)
Uses are limited to these permitted within the district in which the project is located.
(116.2)
The overall intensity of land use is no higher and the standard of open space is no lower than that permitted in the district in which the project is located.
(116.3)
Building heights do not exceed the height limits permitted in the district in which the project is located.
(116.4)
The distance of every building from the nearest property line shall meet the front-yard setback and side-yard requirements of the district in which the project is located.
(116.5)
If the project is a planned shopping center, it shall be located on a major thoroughfare.
(116.6)
Off-street automobile parking space requirements for the proposed uses are provided for on the lot as specified by article VI, section 62.
(116.7)
If the project lies within or abuts upon a residential district, there shall be a ten-foot-wide, appropriately planted, buffer strip along the rear or side lot lines abutting the residential properties.
Sec. 117. - Self-service storage facility developments.
new
(117.1)
Purpose and intent. The purpose of this section is to establish minimum standards for use, site development, construction, and placement of self-service storage facilities and allow service convenience that satisfies the needs of the citizens of the county. Self-service storage facilities (SSSF) shall be permitted within the light industrial and heavy industrial classifications.
(117.2)
Definitions.
Self-Storage/Mini (also known as Mini-warehouse): A single-story commercial structure with interior or exterior access to storage units, non-climate controlled or climate controlled, exterior metal doors, allows outside storage, and truck rental.
Self-Storage/Secured: A single-story or multi-story commercial structure with interior access to storage units that are not visible from the exterior of the structure is climate controlled and does not allow outside storage or truck rental.
(117.3)
General Design.
(a)
A 75-foot-wide buffer shall be required for new construction when abutting residential property. A 50-foot-wide buffer shall be required for the conversion of an existing building when abutting residential property.
(b)
Buildings shall have a pitched roof with a pitch of at least 4:12.
(c)
All buildings shall maintain a decorative facing on those portions of the building which face public streets and any property zoned residential or agricultural-residential. The decorative facing shall consist of fiber-cement siding (i.e., Hardiplank), wood siding, brick/brick veneer, rock, stone, cast-stone, stucco (including synthetic stucco), or metal siding which establishes a horizontal pattern. The transportation corridor overlay zone architectural requirements shall control when applicable. All storage buildings shall maintain the same architectural character. Building orientation. Buildings shall be situated so that overhead access doors of individual bays do not face any street frontage
(d)
Minimum and maximum development size. The minimum lot size for a self-service storage facility (mini-warehouse development) shall be two acres.
(e)
Generally. Designated customer parking is not required; however, a minimum of five parking spaces shall be provided adjacent to the facility's leasing office, if a leasing office is located on-site Landscape requirements. A detailed landscape plan shall be submitted with the development plans at the time of plan review for approval. Landscaping shall be provided in the areas between the property lines and the required fencing. This area shall be designated as a perimeter landscape strip. Landscaping shall be designed, placed and maintained in such a manner not to interfere with traffic visibility. A landscape strip of at least 20 feet in width shall be provided along all street frontages. The side and rear yard setbacks shall remain in their natural state or be re-landscaped when the self-service storage facility adjoins residentially or office and institutionally zoned property. If the existing vegetation is inadequate to buffer adjoining office and institution or residential development, an eight-foot-high wall shall be installed along interior property lines and street setbacks. The following minimum planting requirements shall apply as follows and shall supersede the landscape buffer and screening requirements of the NRC, CRC and GC zoning districts:
(f)
A minimum of one tree shall be planted for each 20 feet of perimeter landscape strip.
(g)
Immediately upon planting, trees shall be a minimum of ten feet in height.
(h)
Reserved.
(i)
If a hedge is to be installed in the perimeter landscape strip, the hedge shall be 24 inches in height upon planting, with the material planted every 24 inches on center. All planting shall be maintained in good condition by the property owner.
(j)
If the perimeter landscape strip is to remain undisturbed or natural, utilizing existing vegetation, then the requirements of subsections (1) through (4) of this subsection can be eliminated except for the landscape plan. The landscape plan shall indicate the limits of the perimeter landscape strip.
(k)
In the absence of adequate vegetation, in addition to a perimeter landscape strip, an eight-foot-high wall is to be constructed between a residential or office and institutional property line and the storage bays. The wall may be dispensed with along that portion of the perimeter landscape strip when all the following are met:
a.
The exterior facades of the storage buildings present an unbroken, wall-like appearance when seen from adjacent residential or office and institutional properties or rights-of-way. Storage bay doors shall not face towards adjacent residential or office and institutional properties or rights-of-way. This shall not prevent the installation of fire access doors, if mandated by the fire marshal.
b.
The exterior facades of separate storage buildings are joined by walls to give appearance of structural continuity.
c.
The resulting area between the outer face of the buildings and the property line or right-of-way is maintained and appropriately planted as a landscaped buffer utilizing berms, plantings and existing vegetation and approved by the division manager of zoning or his designee.
d.
There are no aisleways or other vehicle accessways located in the area between the building and adjacent residential or office and institutional property lines or rights-of-way.
(l)
Dumpsters and trash receptacles. Dumpsters and trash receptacles shall be located where they are not visible from adjacent residentially zoned properties, and adequately screened from view from all other adjacent properties and streets. Dumpster locations are to be approved by the staff during the plan review process.
(m)
Maximum building length. No individual building shall exceed 200 feet in length.
(n)
Minimum building separation. There shall be a minimum separation of 20 feet between buildings.
(o)
Minimum width of aisle ways. The minimum width of an aisle way shall be 20 feet if one-way traffic and 24 feet for two-way traffic. Traffic flow patterns in the aisle ways shall be clearly marked with directional signage and painted lane markings with arrows as may be approved.
(p)
Turning radii. To assure appropriate access and circulation by emergency vehicles and equipment, a minimum turning radius for all aisleways and access roads within the development may be required.
(q)
Fencing. The facility shall be fenced along the entire perimeter boundary. Fencing adjacent to a street frontage and abutting a residential zoning district shall be an architecturally finished wall or solid, opaque wooden fence with a minimum height of six feet, placed interior to any required landscape strip.
(r)
Size of storage units. Individual storage units shall not exceed 450 square feet in area.
(s)
Open storage. Open storage of recreational vehicles, boats, trailers, recreational equipment and similar vehicles of the type customarily maintained by private individuals for their personal use shall be permitted within a self-service storage facility subject to the following requirements:
1.
The total area devoted to open storage shall not exceed 25 percent of the total developed area of the facility.
2.
The open storage area shall observe the required minimum front, side, and rear yard setbacks for the zoning district in which it is located.
3.
The open storage area shall be entirely screened from view from adjacent residential properties and public streets by a building or by the installation of a minimum six-foot high opaque wall or fence, or by existing vegetation if topography enables the required screening.
4.
If structures are utilized for open storage, the roof of any such structure shall not be less than a 2:12 roof pitch.
5.
No vehicle maintenance, washing, or repair shall be permitted within the open storage
(117.4)
Signage.
(a)
Maximum number. One freestanding sign shall be allowed for each lot frontage on which a self-service storage facility has access to a public dedicated street. In addition, one flat wall-mounted sign may be utilized.
(b)
Maximum height. The maximum height of a freestanding sign shall not exceed 20 feet.
(c)
Maximum sign area. The maximum total sign structure area for a freestanding or wall-mounted sign shall not exceed 100 square feet. If a ground base sign is utilized, the maximum total sign area may be increased to 120 square feet.
(d)
Prohibited signs. The following types of signs are prohibited on the site:
1.
Off-premises outdoor advertising signs.
2.
Signs placed on the doors of individual storage bays.
3.
Roof-mounted signs.
(117.5)
General Regulations.
(a)
Use of storage units. Individual storage units shall not be used for living, wholesale or retail sales, or hobbies. Storage bays shall not be used to manufacture, fabricate, or process goods; service or repair vehicles, boats, small engines or electrical equipment, or to conduct similar repair activities; conduct garage sales or retail sales of any kind; rehearsing or practicing utilizing band instruments; conversion to an apartment or dwelling unit; or to conduct any other commercial or industrial activities. Individual storage bays within a self-service storage facility shall not be considered a premise for the purpose of assigning a legal address in order to obtain mail delivery, an occupational license, or any other governmental permit or licenses to do business.
(b)
Materials stored. Individual units or the premises more generally shall not be used for the storage of hazardous materials, toxic substances, flammable liquids, or highly combustible or explosive materials.
(c)
Office. A leasing, management, and/or security office shall be permitted in conjunction with a self-service storage facility. Within such office, the sale or rental of items related to moving and storage such as moving boxes, packing supplies and hand trucks shall be permitted.
(d)
Reserved.
(e)
Accessory rental of vehicles. A self-service storage facility may rent or lease moving trucks and trailers, provided that all such trucks or trailers are stored in the open storage area authorized by this section; no display of vehicles or trailers for rent shall be authorized along a street frontage.
(f)
Parking. Designated customer parking is not required; however, a minimum of four parking spaces shall be provided adjacent to the facility's leasing office, if a leasing office is located on site.
(Ord. of 11-1-2022(1))
ARTICLE XII. - ADMINISTRATION, ENFORCEMENT AND PENALTIES[4]

Footnotes:
--- (4) ---
Cross reference— Administration, ch. 2.

[Sec. 120. - Purposes of article.]
The intent of this article is to provide for suitable and proper administration and enforcement of the provisions of this ordinance; to designate the enforcing officer and to outline the proper steps to be taken by parties interested in constructing, erecting or modifying a structure or other land use; and to set forth the penalties for violating the provisions of this ordinance.
Sec. 121. - Zoning enforcement officer.
It shall be the duty of the building inspector and he is hereby given the authority to administer and enforce the provisions of this ordinance.
Cross reference— Administration, ch. 2.
Sec. 122. - Building permit required.
No building or other structure shall be located, erected, moved, added to, or structurally altered without a building permit issued by the building inspector. No building permit shall be issued except in conformity with the provisions of this ordinance.
Sec. 123. - Application for building permit.
All applications for building permits shall be accompanied by plans in duplicate, drawn to scale, showing the actual dimensions of the lot to be built upon; the sizes and locations on the lot of any existing buildings or structures; the shape, size, height, use and location on the lot of the building or structure proposed to be erected or altered; and such other information as may be necessary to provide for the enforcement of the provisions of this ordinance. If no substantial construction progress has been made within six months of the date of the issuance of the building permit, the permit becomes invalid.
Sec. 124. - Certificate of occupancy required.
A certificate of occupancy issued by the building inspector is required in advance of the use or occupancy of:
(124.1)
Any lot or a change in the use thereof.
(124.2)
A building hereafter erected or altered or a change in the use of an existing building.
(124.3)
Any nonconforming use that is existing at the time of the enactment of this ordinance or an amendment thereto that is changed, extended, altered or rebuilt thereafter.
The certificate of occupancy shall state specifically wherein the nonconforming use fails to meet the provisions of this ordinance.
No certificate of occupancy shall be issued unless the lot or building or structure complies with all provisions of this ordinance.
A record of all certificates of occupancy shall be kept on file in the office of the building inspector and a copy shall be furnished, on request, to any person having a proprietary or tenancy interest in the building or land involved.
Sec. 125. - Penalties for violation.
Upon conviction, any person violating any provision of this ordinance shall be guilty of a misdemeanor upon conviction and [shall] be punished according to law. Each day such violations continue shall constitute a separate offense.
Sec. 126. - Remedies.
If any building or structure is erected, constructed, reconstructed, repaired, converted or maintained or any building, structure or land is used in violation of this ordinance, the building inspector or other appropriate authority or any adjacent or other property owner who would be damaged by such violation, in addition to other remedies, may institute injunction, mandamus or other appropriate civil action in proceeding to stop the violations in the case of such building, structure or land.
ARTICLE XIII. - APPEAL PROCEDURE

[Sec. 130. - Purpose of article.]
This article is established to identify the procedure whereby any aggrieved party may appeal the decision of the building inspector.
Sec. 131. - Appeal to the city attorney.
Any party aggrieved because of an alleged error in any order, requirement, decision or determination made by the building inspector in enforcement of this ordinance may appeal in writing to the city clerk for and receive a hearing by the city attorney for an interpretation of pertinent ordinance provisions. In exercising this power of interpretation of the ordinance, the city attorney may, in conformity with the provisions of this zoning ordinance, reverse or affirm any order, requirement, decision or determination made by the building inspector.
Sec. 132. - Appeal from the city attorney.
Any party aggrieved by any decision of the city attorney may seek review of such decision by a court of record, as provided by law.
ARTICLE XIV. - AMENDMENTS

Sec. 140. - Purpose of article.
This article is established to provide a means whereby certain desirable changes and additions can be made to the zoning ordinance from time to time. These amendments should relate to the comprehensive plan and the general welfare of the community.
(Ord. of 8-5-1986)
Sec. 141. - Amendment procedure.
The city council of the City of Lyons may from time to time amend, supplement, change, modify or repeal this zoning ordinance, including the zoning district boundaries and map, by proceeding in the following manner, and as otherwise required by law. In amending the zoning map or regulation, the city council shall use the "Standards for Zoning Decisions" as adopted by the City of Lyons.
(141.1)
The city council, or its delegated agent, shall hold a public hearing on any proposed amendment to the zoning ordinance or map. This public hearing shall be conducted in accordance with the "Policies and Procedures for the Call and Conduct of Zoning Public Hearings," as adopted by the City of Lyons.
(141.2)
At least 15 days, but not more than 45 days in advance of the required public hearing, notice of the required public hearing shall be published in a newspaper of general circulation in the City of Lyons. Said notice shall, at the minimum and in all cases, state the time, date, place, and purpose of the public hearing. If particular property is to be rezoned, the notice shall, in addition, state the location of the property involved, the present zoning classification of the property involved and the proposed zoning classification of the property involved.
(141.3)
If particular property is involved in a proposed amendment initiated by a party other than the local government, additional public notice in the form of a sign erected in a conspicuous location on the property in question shall be required. The party initiating the amendment shall at his expense cause to be erected, in such conspicuous location as the zoning enforcement officer may direct, a sign of not less than nine square feet with not less than three-inch black letters upon a white background, which shall read as follows:
PUBLIC HEARING NOTICE
ZONING CHANGE
A Public Hearing will be held at City Hall at (time) (a.m. or p.m.) on (date), (year), to consider rezoning of this property from (present zoning classification) to (requested zoning classification).
Said sign shall be erected not less than 15 days in advance of the required public hearing and shall remain posted through the date of the required public hearing.
(Ord. of 8-5-1986)
State Law reference— Notice of zoning changes required, O.C.G.A. § 36-66-4.
Sec. 142. - Referral to planning commission.
Before adoption, all proposed amendments shall be submitted to the Lyons Planning Commission for its recommendation and report which shall not be binding. The planning commission shall have 30 days within which to submit a report and shall use the city's adopted "Standards for Zoning Decisions," as appropriate, as the basis of its recommendation and report. If the planning commission fails to submit a report with [within] the 30-day period, the city council may consider the amendment on its merits without recommendation and report of the planning commission.
(Ord. of 8-5-1986)
Sec. 143. - Limit on consideration of amendments.
Upon final action by the city council resulting in the defeat of an amendment proposing zoning change of particular property, the property in question may not again be considered for rezoning amendment until a period of at least six months has elapsed.
(Ord. of 8-5-1986)
Sec. 144. - Petition for amendment.
Any person or party other than the city council may request an amendment to the zoning ordinance or map by filing a petition for amendment, together with such payment as the city council may set from time to time to cover administrative and advertising costs, with the city clerk. Said petition for amendment shall contain the following:
(a)
Applicant's name and address and his representative and the interest of every party represented in the application.
(b)
A plat of the property involved prepared by a Georgia-registered surveyor.
(c)
A sketch showing the extent of the area to be rezoned, streets bounding and intersecting the area, and the land use and zone classification of abutting properties.
(d)
A site plan to scale, showing existing and proposed development and indicating the locations of structures, uses, setback distances and area for off-street parking and loading.
(e)
An approximate time schedule for the beginning and completion of development in the area.
(f)
A statement of the circumstances in the proposed district and the abutting districts and any other factors which the applicant contends are valid reasons for supporting the proposed rezoning. The applicant shall demonstrate that there are objective facts supporting proposed rezoning and that the rezoning is in the best interests of the city as related to the city's adopted "Standards for Zoning Decisions."
Said petition for amendment shall be considered by the city council in the same manner as outlined in sections 141, 142 and 143. All requirements of article XIV are applicable.
(Ord. of 8-5-1986)
ARTICLE XV. - LEGAL STATUS PROVISIONS

[Sec. 150. - Purpose of article.]
This article is established to present the legal status of this ordinance and to resolve differences and conflicts between this ordinance and other ordinances.
Sec. 151. - Conflict with other regulations.
Whenever the regulations of this ordinance require more restrictive standards than are required in or under any other statute, the requirements of this ordinance shall govern. Whenever the provisions of any other statute require more restrictive standards than are required by this ordinance the provisions of such statute shall govern.
Sec. 152. - Separability.
Should any section or provision of this ordinance be declared invalid or unconstitutional by any court of competent jurisdiction, such declaration shall not affect the validity of the ordinance as a whole or any part thereof which is not specifically declared to be invalid or unconstitutional.
Sec. 153. - Effective date.
This ordinance shall take effect and be in force from and after the date of its adoption, the public welfare demanding it.
