Chapter 30 - FIRE PREVENTION AND PROTECTION[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Editor's note— An ordinance adopted July 14, 2015, amended ch. 30 in its entirety, in effect repealing and reenacting said chapter to read as set out herein. The former ch. 30, §§ 30-1—30-3 pertained to similar subject matter and derived from §§ 10-1—10-3 of the 1977 Code.
Cross reference— Buildings and construction, ch. 14; fire protection fee, § 74-58.
State Law reference— Georgia Firefighter Standards and Training Act, O.C.G.A. § 25-4-1 et seq.; authority to provide police and fire protection, Ga. Const. art. IX, § II, ¶ III(a)(1).

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Secs. 30-1—30-30. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - FIRE PREVENTION

Sec. 30-31. - Code adopted.
The city hereby adopts, for the purposes of fire prevention, enforcement of minimum fire and life safety standards, the state minimum fire safety standards, as promulgated pursuant to the rules and regulations of the safety fire commissioner of the state, under authority contained in O.C.G.A. § 25-2-1 et seq., including all subsequent revisions thereof, a copy of which is attached hereto and incorporated by reference as if fully set out in this section. These standards shall henceforth be the code for fire and life safety within the jurisdiction of the city and the fire chief and the local fire marshal shall apply such code in performing the duties of their offices.
(Ord. of 7-14-2015(2))
Cross reference— Buildings and construction, ch. 14.
State Law reference— Authority to adopt state fire safety standards by reference, O.C.G.A. § 25-2-12(b).
Sec. 30-32. - Inspections for fire hazards.
It shall be the responsibility of the fire chief to inspect, or cause to be inspected by the local fire marshal, as often as may be necessary, all buildings and structures within the jurisdiction of the city, except those buildings and structures listed in O.C.G.A. § 25-2-13 and those buildings which are owned, occupied or operated by the state. Fire safety inspections shall be routinely conducted at least annually in all commercial and industrial buildings and all structures occupied by a business licensed by the city pursuant to this Code. Private residences shall only be inspected upon the fire chief or local fire marshal first having probable cause to inspect for violations of the fire and life safety codes.
(Ord. of 7-14-2015(2))
Sec. 30-33. - Enforcement procedures.
(a)
Written notice of violation; contents, time period for compliance. Upon inspection and discovery of a violation of the state minimum fire safety standards within any building or structure within the jurisdiction of the city, the fire chief or local fire marshal shall serve written notice of the violation upon the owner or his designated agent, and upon all tenants of the structure. Such notice may either be personally served or served by certified mail, return receipt requested. The notice shall state that the owner shall have 20 days in which to correct or repair the violation and to bring the building or structure into compliance with code standards. Upon good cause shown, the fire chief may extend the period for compliance if the owner demonstrates, in good faith, reasonable effort to correct or repair the violation.
(b)
Failure to correct violation; citation. If the owner fails or refuses to correct or to repair the violation within the time provided, the fire chief or local fire marshal shall cite the owner, or his designated agent, in accordance with the procedure for abatement of nuisances as set forth in this Code.
(c)
Abatement of nuisance; failure or refusal to comply; penalty Upon hearing and determination that a nuisance exists by the judge of the municipal court, the court shall allow the owner a reasonable time within which to abate the nuisance. If the owner fails or refuses to comply with the order to abate, the court may cite the owner for contempt and impose a fine up to $200.00 for each day the owner allows the nuisance to continue unabated, order the owner to be imprisoned for up to 20 days, or both.
(d)
Additional remedies; abatement of nuisance by city at owner's expense; notice. In addition to enforcing the fine and/or imprisonment against the owner, the city may cause the building or structure to be repaired, any hazardous materials removed, or the dangerous conditions remedied, as the case may be, at the expense of the city. The city manager shall cause written notice of the amount of the expense to be mailed to the owner by certified mail, return receipt requested. If the owner, within 30 days after notice in writing of the amount of such expense fails, neglects, or refuses to repay the city the expense incurred, the city shall issue a fi. fa. against the owner of the property for the expense actually incurred.
(Ord. of 7-14-2015(2))
Sec. 30-34. - Compliance with state requirements.
(a)
Plans and specifications submitted and approved prior to issuance of building permit, etc. No building permit shall be issued or construction started on any proposed building or structure listed in O.C.G.A. § 25-2-13 until the plans and specifications have been submitted to and approved by the state fire marshal. Any existing building or structure listed in O.C.G.A. § 25-2-13(1)(b) shall be deemed a proposed building in the event such building or structure is subject to substantial renovation, a fire or other hazard of serious consequence, or a change in the classification of occupancy.
(b)
Posting of certificate of occupancy; enforcement of occupancy load. Every building and structure for which the state fire marshal has issued a certificate of occupancy shall post the certificate in a prominent location within the business establishment or building. The occupancy load, as established by the certificate of occupancy, shall be strictly enforced at all times by the owner and business establishment. Failure to strictly enforce the occupancy load shall be deemed an offense against the city, punishable in the municipal court.
(Ord. of 7-14-2015(2))
Secs. 30-35—30-70. - Reserved.
