ARTICLE 13. - UTILITIES

Sec. 1301. - Easements.
Where a subdivision or land development is traversed by a watercourse, drainage way, channel or stream, there shall be provided a storm water or drainage easement of at least of twenty (20) feet in width. Easements for storm pipes shall be at least fifteen (15) feet wide, and all easements shall be provided for all drainage facilities as approved by the Zoning Administrator. Where easements are needed for utility locations, they shall be provided by the subdivider or land developer to the appropriate utility provider. Easements having a minimum width of fifteen (15) feet shall be provided where required for utility lines and underground mains and cables. Where easements are needed for public water and/or sewer lines, they shall be provided as determined appropriate by the Zoning Administrator but shall be no less than twenty (20) feet wide. All easements required pursuant to this Section shall be shown on any required preliminary plat, final plat and development plan.
Sec. 1302. - Storm Drainage System.
No land shall be platted or developed except in accordance with storm water management standards provided in this Ordinance. At a minimum, storm drainage in subdivisions and land developments shall meet the following requirements. The storm drains along with catch basins and manholes shall be installed in compliance with the plans and specifications, and as indicated herein.
(a)
Every subdivision or land development shall be served by storm drainage facilities, including drains, sewers, catch basins, culverts and other facilities as required by standards and specifications of the Zoning Administrator.
(b)
All drainage facilities shall be so designed to serve the entire drainage area in which these facilities are located. All road drains serving lots in the subdivision shall be installed by the subdivider. A formula may be developed by the Zoning Administrator to provide for a sharing of the cost of other drainage facilities needed to serve the subdivision when certain of the required drainage facilities are necessary to serve other subdivisions or land developments in the same drainage basin.
(c)
Storm sewers, where required, shall be designed by the Rational Method, or other methods proposed by a professional engineer accepted by the Zoning Administrator as a substitute for the Rational Method, and a copy of design computations shall be submitted along with required plans. Capacity for a 25-year storm or rain shall be provided for all road drainage structures such as catch basins, inlets cross drains, etc, except that along state rights-of-way the design shall meet standards of the Georgia Department of Transportation.
(d)
All surface water drainage shall be transported to existing storm sewers or to drainage facilities approved by the Zoning Administrator. Drainage shall be designed so as to avoid concentration of storm drainage water from each lot or land development site to adjacent lots, land development sites, or vacant properties. Storm water shall not be discharged directly to perennial streams. It shall be directed toward natural drainages. If water must be discharged to a stream, the water quality flowing into the stream must meet or exceed the water quality in the receiving waters. The water quantity flowing into the stream must not disrupt or degrade the ecology of the water body.
(e)
Whenever drainage ditches are used, such ditches shall retain natural design characteristics and be so designed that they do not present a hazard to life and safety or create erosion problems.
(f)
All drainage features shall be in accordance with standards and specifications of the Board of Commissioners, and no extension shall be made from the road drainage through the abutting property without approval of the Zoning Administrator.
(g)
When the construction of a proposed public road makes it necessary to cross a storm drain, the developer shall provide and install the required size and length of an acceptable grade of pipe.
1.
In cases where the developer or subdivider chooses not to develop the land through which the drain runs, then the trench may be left open; provided, however, in such cases the plat must be so marked and an easement shown thereon, indicating that no building or driveway shall be built over or within forty (40) feet of the open drain.
2.
Where the developer chooses to leave the drain open and same is crossed by a driveway, the size of pipe shall be determined by the Zoning Administrator and no building will be approved unless the installation meets the requirements of the Zoning Administrator.
3.
Notwithstanding the above controls, the Zoning Administrator may refuse to issue building approval on any lot or lots where the land is subject to floods or where, in the opinion of the Zoning Administrator, the elevations of the property are such that a building could not be properly maintained on the lot.
Sec. 1303. - Water System.
All water mains, where provided, shall be designed by a professional engineer and installed along with a service connection for each lot or land development and be in operating condition prior to final plat approval, if required, and paving installation. All pipes, valves, and other components shall conform to the Development Guidelines for Water Mains and Sanitary Sewer Systems" of the City of Gainesville Public Utilities Department, January 2004, as may be amended from time to time.
Where water systems are provided, it is recommended that they be looped. Where a public water supply does not exist, the Health Department may authorize the installation of individual wells for each lot or land development. In such instances, the well shall be installed prior to approval of a final plat, if required.
Sec. 1304. - Fire Hydrants.
Fire hydrants shall be located and set in accordance with City specifications. Fire hydrants shall be required for all nonresidential land developments and all subdivisions where a municipal, county, or community water supply exists. In such cases where a municipal, county, or community water supply exists, fire hydrants with appropriate water pressure at appropriate intervals throughout the subdivision or land development shall be provided by the subdivider or land developer as required by the County Fire Department. To eliminate repavement of roads, all underground utilities for fire hydrants, together with the fire hydrants themselves, and all other supply improvements shall be installed before any final paving of a road within the right-of-way shared by such underground utilities.
Sec. 1305. - Reclaimed Water System.
(a)
Overview. Reclaimed water involves taking wastewater from the City's treatment plants, giving it a high degree of treatment and using the resulting high quality water for a new beneficial use. Reclaimed water is delivered to homes and businesses through an underground distribution system entirely separate from the drinking water system. Reclaimed water can serve in many capacities where it is unnecessary to use high-quality, potable (or drinkable) water. Uses of reclaimed water include: irrigating lawns and landscaping designs; irrigation of edible crops that will be peeled, cooked or thermally processed before consumption is allowed; and use in fountains or decorative pools, and fire-fighting. Using reclaimed water is known as "water reuse." When there are insufficient uses of reclaimed water, the water is sprayed on a field in an approved manner which essentially is an inefficient or non-productive use of reclaimed water resources.
(b)
Purposes of water reuse. The City's reclaimed water system can save extensive amounts of drinking water each day, and its use is less expensive for the vast majority of customers. Promoting greater use of reclaimed water among private developments helps to delay the need for developing costly new water sources and building or expanding very expensive treatment plants. Promotion of water reuse also helps the City to comply with permits relating to its water supply and wastewater treatment.
(c)
When required. When the following types of developments, or portions thereof, are located within a reasonable distance (as determined by the City Engineer) of where there are City's reclaimed water distribution mains are installed, the development shall be connected to the City of Flowery Branch's reclaimed water system.
1.
Golf courses.
2.
Areas of more than one-quarter acre of landscaping;
3.
Uses requiring on-site fire-fighting water supply.
4.
Subdivisions or other residential developments of ten (10) units or more.
5.
Other direct reuse sites (areas permitted for the application or impoundment of reclaimed water) identified by the Zoning Administrator or City Engineer that reasonably preclude human contact with reclaimed water.
(d)
Conveyances. Pipeline conveyance means any system of pipelines that transports reclaimed water from a sewage treatment facility to the point of land application or end use. When required by the City Engineer to connect to the existing reclaimed water system, the developer shall construct a pipeline conveyance so that: reclaimed water does not find its way into, or otherwise contaminate, a potable water system; system structural integrity is maintained; and the capability for inspection, maintenance, and testing is maintained.
(e)
Conveyance design standard. The reclaimed water conveyance and all appurtenances conducting reclaimed water shall be designed to withstand a static pressure of at least 50 pounds per square inch greater than the design working pressure without leakage.
(f)
Location and application methods. Reclaimed water conveyances shall be located no closer than 50 feet from a drinking water well, nor closer than two feet vertically or six feet horizontally from a potable water pipeline. A permittee irrigating with reclaimed water shall: use application methods that reasonably preclude human contact with reclaimed water; prevent reclaimed water from standing on open access areas during normal periods of use; prevent reclaimed water from coming into contact with drinking fountains, water coolers, or eating areas; and secure hose bibbs discharging reclaimed water to prevent use by the public.
(g)
Markings. For a pipeline conveyance, eight inches in diameter or less, pipes shall be marked in English: "CAUTION: RECLAIMED WATER, DO NOT DRINK" in intervals of three feet or less and colored purple or wrapped with durable purple tape. All external uses of reclaimed water shall be clearly marked as containing reclaimed water or reuse water by displaying the international "do not drink" symbol.
(h)
Metering and use. No person or end user shall directly reuse reclaimed water unless permitted by the City of Flowery Branch and according to approved and correctly installed meters.
(i)
Amount of water reuse and agreement. The amount of reuse water to be used by an individual development, in terms of gallons per day for anticipated uses, shall be determined by the City Engineer. An agreement shall be required memorializing the amount of reuse water to be used, in a form acceptable to the City Attorney and approved by the City Engineer.
Sec. 1306. - Sanitary Sewerage System.
When in the written opinion of the City Engineer, public sanitary sewers are within reasonable access of the subdivision or land development, the subdivider or land developer shall provide sanitary sewer services designed by a professional engineer licensed in the State of Georgia to each lot within the bounds of the subdivision, or to the land development. All road sewers, where required, serving lots in the subdivision shall be installed by the subdivider. A formula may be developed by the Zoning Administrator to provide for a sharing of the costs of other sewer facilities needed to serve the subdivision or land development when certain of the required sewer facilities are necessary to serve other subdivisions or land developments in the same drainage basin.
When in the written opinion of the City Engineer, a public sanitary sewer is not accessible, an alternate method of sewage disposal for each lot or the land development may be used when in compliance with the standards of the Hall County Health Department. If public sewerage is not available, but is expected to be available within a reasonable time period after completion of the subdivision or land development, an alternate method for sewage disposal for individual lots or the land development will be required on an interim basis. In such instances, if permitted, the developer will be required to construct a complete sanitary sewer system for the subdivision or land development, including outfall lines, road sewers, and service stubs to individual lots.
All sewers will be plugged and otherwise protected to insure serviceability at the time of connection to the public system, and will conform to the specifications of the owner of the water system if applicable and the Zoning Administrator.
All pipes, valves, and other components shall conform to the Development Guidelines for Water Mains and Sanitary Sewer Systems" of the City of Gainesville Public Utilities Department, January 2004, as may be amended from time to time.
Sec. 1307. - Utilities.
All utility improvements within subdivisions and developments shall be located within the right-of-way of a public street or, if permitted, a private street, or within an easement designated for such use meeting specifications of this Ordinance.
The electric system and any other underground utility system, when it is provided in a subdivision or land development, shall be installed along with service connections before any paving of roads. All utility facilities, including but not limited to electric power, telephone, and cable television, shall be located underground throughout the subdivision or land development.
