Chapter 1 - GENERAL PROVISIONS

Sec. 1-101. - How Code designated and cited.
The provisions embraced in the following chapters and sections shall constitute and be designated "The Code of Thunderbolt, Georgia," and may be so cited.
Sec. 1-102. - Rules of construction.
In the construction of this Code and of all ordinances, the following rules shall be observed unless such construction would be inconsistent with the manifest intent of the mayor and council:
1.
General rule. All words and phrases shall be construed and understood according to the common and approved usage of the language; but technical words and phrases and such others as may have acquired a peculiar and appropriate meaning in the law shall be construed and understood according to such peculiar and appropriate meaning.
2.
Gender—Singular and plural. Every word in any code provision or ordinance importing the masculine gender shall extend to and be applied to females as well as males; and every word importing the singular number only shall extend and be applied to several persons or things as well as to one person or thing; and every word importing the plural number only shall extend and be applied to one person or thing as well as to several persons or things.
3.
Tenses. The use of any verb in the present tense shall include the future when applicable.
4.
Delegation of authority. Whenever a provision requires the head of a department or other officer of the town to do some act or perform some duty, it shall be construed to authorize subordinates to do the required act or perform the required duty unless the terms of the provision designate otherwise.
5.
Computation of time. The time within which an act is to be done as provided in any code provision or ordinance or in any order issued pursuant to any ordinance, when expressed in days, shall be computed by excluding the first day and including the last, except that if the last day be a Sunday or a holiday it shall be excluded; and when any such time is expressed in hours the whole of Sunday, from midnight to midnight, shall be excluded.
6.
Overlapping provisions. Where any provision of this Code imposes greater restrictions upon the subject matter than any general provisions imposed by this Code, the provision imposing the greater restriction or regulation shall be applicable.
Sec. 1-103. - Definitions.
The following words, terms, and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Advice and consent means an affirmative vote of the majority of the entire town council.
Aldermember or council member means a person who fills an elected position on the legislative branch of the town's governing authority excluding the mayor.
Council or town council means all the aldermembers as a body.
The county or this county means the County of Chatham, Georgia.
Court means the municipal court of the town.
Governing authority means the mayor and town council of the Town of Thunderbolt, Georgia.
Judge means the judge of the municipal court of the town.
Mayor means the mayor of the Town of Thunderbolt, Georgia.
Mayor and council means the mayor and town council of the Town of Thunderbolt, Georgia.
Misdemeanor means a violation of the state criminal law punishable by a fine not in excess of $1,000.00 or confinement in a county or other jail for a term not exceeding six months, or by both such fine and imprisonment.
Municipality shall be construed as synonymous with the term "town," "city," or "municipal corporation."
Oath shall be construed to include an affirmation in all cases in which, by law, an affirmation may be substituted for an oath, and in such cases the words "affirm" and "affirmed" shall be equivalent to the words "swear" or "sworn."
Operate, or any derivative thereof, means that one's ownership, employment, or assistance is playing a part in an enterprise or activity that falls under regulation.
Ordinance means a legislative act of the municipal governing body of a general and permanent nature.
Owner, when applied to a building or to land, includes any part owner, joint owner, tenant in common, joint tenant or tenant by the entirety, of the whole or of a part of such building or land.
Person includes a corporation, firm, partnership, association, organization, and any other group acting as a unit, as well as an individual.
Personal property includes every specie of property except real property, as hereinafter defined.
Preceding, following means next before and next after, respectively.
Property includes real, personal, and mixed estates and interests.
Real property includes lands, tenements, and hereditaments; and whatever is erected or growing upon or affixed to the land.
Reasonable time or notice shall be deemed to mean only such time as may be necessary for the prompt performance of the act required.
Resolution means a legislative act of the municipal governing body of a special or temporary character.
Shall means mandatory; may is permissive.
Signature, subscription. The word "signature" or "subscription" includes a mark intended as such when the person cannot write.
State. The words "state" or "this state" means the State of Georgia.
Street means and includes any public way, road, highway, street, avenue, boulevard, parkway, alley, viaduct or bridge, and the approaches thereto, within the town.
Tenant or occupant. The word "tenant" or "occupant," when applied to a building or to land, shall include any person holding a written or oral lease of, or who occupies the whole or part of, such building or land, either alone or with others.
Town. See Municipality.
Week means seven days. (See section 1-102(5)).
Writing or written includes printing and any other permanent mode of representing words and letters.
Year means a calendar year.
Sec. 1-104. - Section headings.
The underlined headings of the divisions within this Code are intended as mere captions to indicate the contents of the section or subsection and shall not be deemed or taken to be titles of such sections, nor as any part of the section or subsection.
Sec. 1-105. - Effect of repeal or expiration of Code section.
The repeal of a Code section or ordinance, or its expiration by virtue of any provision contained therein, shall not affect any right accrued or any offense committed, any penalty or punishment incurred, or any proceeding commenced before the repeal took effect or the ordinance expired.
When any ordinance repealing a former Code section, ordinance, clause or provision, shall be itself repealed, such repeal shall not be construed to revive such former Code section, ordinance, clause, or provision, unless it shall be expressly so provided.
Sec. 1-106. - Amending Code.
All ordinances passed subsequent to this Code which amend, repeal, or in any way affect this Code shall be numbered in accordance with the numbering system of this Code and printed for inclusion herein. In the case of repealed chapters, sections, and subsections or any part thereof, by subsequent ordinances, such repealed portions may be excluded from the Code by omission from the affected reprinted pages. The subsequent ordinances as numbered and printed, or omitted in the case of repeal, shall be prima facie evidence of such subsequent ordinances until such time as a new code is adopted by the town council.
Amendments to any of the provisions of this Code may be made by specific reference to the section number of this Code in the following language: "That section _____ of The Code of Thunderbolt, Georgia, is hereby amended to read as follows:…." The new provisions may then be set out in full as desired.
In the event a new section not heretofore existing in the Code is to be added, the following language may be used. "The Code of Thunderbolt, Georgia is hereby amended by adding a section (or subsection or chapter) to be numbered _____, which section reads as follows:…." The new provision shall then be set out in full as desired.
All sections, chapters, or provisions sought to be repealed must be specifically repealed by section, chapter, or provision number, as the case may be.
Sec. 1-107. - Reserved.
Sec. 1-108. - Penalty where no penalty provided.
Whenever in this Code or in any ordinance of the town any act is prohibited or is declared to be unlawful, or whenever in such code or ordinance the doing of any act is declared to be unlawful, and no specific penalty is provided therefore, the violation of such provision of this Code or any ordinance shall subject the person committing the violation to a fine not exceeding $1,000.00 and costs or imprisonment for a maximum of six months, any or all of such penalties to be imposed at the discretion of the judge of the municipal court.
The infliction of a penalty under the provisions of this section shall not prevent the revocation of any permit or license or the taking of other punitive or remedial action where called for or permitted under the provisions of the town's charter or Code. (Council, 02/12/86)
Sec. 1-109. - Severability of parts of Code.
It is hereby declared to be the intention of the governing body that the sections, paragraphs, sentences, clauses and phrases of this Code are severable, and if any phrase, clause, sentence, paragraph, or section of this Code shall be declared unconstitutional by the valid judgment or decree of a court of competent jurisdiction, such unconstitutionality shall not affect any of the remaining phrases, clauses, sentences, paragraphs and sections of this Code. The sections, paragraphs, sentences, clauses and phrases of this Code are severable, and if any phrase, clause, sentence, paragraph or section of this Code shall be declared unconstitutional, invalid or otherwise unenforceable by the valid judgment or decree of any court of competent jurisdiction, that unconstitutionality, invalidity or unenforceability shall not affect any of the remaining phrases, clauses, sentences, paragraphs or sections of this Code, since they would have been enacted without the incorporation in this Code of the unconstitutional, invalid or unenforceable phrase, clause, sentence, paragraph or section.
