Chapter 8 - MUNICIPAL COURT

Sec. 8-101. - Reserved
(Charter § 30(a) and (b), amended 4/5/1995)
Sec. 8-102. - Reserved.
(Charter § 30(a), amended 4/5/1995)).
Sec. 8-103. - Time of court.
Court shall be convened on the first and third Thursdays of each month or at other such times as deemed necessary to keep the dockets current.
Sec. 8-104. - Reserved.
Sec. 8-105. - Service of summons.
Any person charged with violation of any town ordinance shall receive notice by service of a summons as herein provided. such summons may be issued by the court clerk, the construction inspectors, or any police officer of the town. The summons shall be directed to the accused and shall distinctly state the offense charged, the time and place, as far as practicable, of the occurrence of the infraction and the day, hour, and place of trial, requiring the accused to appear before the judge of the municipal court to answer the accusation made. Service of the summons shall be made by a police officer or the code enforcement officer of the town either by serving the accused personally or by leaving a copy at his most notorious place of abode, except that in the case of a summons issued for violation of laws or ordinances relating to the parking of motor vehicles, such summons may be directed to an unknown person such as the owner of an automobile designated in the summons and may be served upon such person by leaving a copy in or attached to such automobile.
Sec. 8-106. - Reserved.
Sec. 8-107. - Failure to obey summons.
Any person who fails to appear at the time and place set out in any summons served upon him shall be guilty of contempt of court and upon conviction thereof shall be punished for same.
Sec. 8-108. - Arrest and bond.
When a police officer has arrested any person for violation of any provision of this Code or any municipal ordinance and a trial cannot be had immediately, the officer may take a cash bond or security bond which adequately secures the appearance of such person for trials. If such person fails or refuses to give a bond, the officer may confine him or her in the town or county jail until a trial can be held, provided that the mayor in his discretion, may release such person on his own recognizance without security.
Sec. 8-109. - Forfeiture of bond.
Upon the failure of a person to appear in the municipal court at the time and place fixed by the summons, the judge of said court shall enter a judgment of forfeiture on any cash bond, or, in the case of a security bond, shall pass a rule requiring the principal and surety on such bond to show cause on the date named therein which date shall not be less than ten days from the passage of such ruling, why they should not be required to pay the amount of said bond. If no sufficient cause is shown, the judge shall enter judgment against the principal and surety for the amount of the forfeited bond and shall direct the town clerk to issue execution thereon.
Sec. 8-110. - Penalties.
The judge shall impose no more than six months imprisonment or probation or no more than $1,000.00 in fines or any combination thereof for any single ordinance violation. Said authority shall match what is designated by Georgia law for penalty imposition by a municipal court judge.
Sec. 8-111. - Costs.
Costs which may be charged against a defendant may include fees to defray costs of operation as established by council and fees from a uniform scale established by council to cover the costs of the clerk and police of Thunderbolt, all services in the arrest and prosecution of offenders in the municipal court, and for the issuance and collection of executions into the town treasury. The town shall also be entitled to reimbursement of the cost, meals, transportation, and care-taking of prisoners bound over to the superior court for violations of state law.
Sec. 8-112. - Reserved.
Editor's note— Ord. of 12-9-2020 repealed former § 8-112 in its entirety which pertained to appeals of municipal court judgments to the town council and derived from Ord. of 2-21-1959.
Sec. 8-113. - Reserved.
Sec. 8-114. - Record of cases.
A record of all cases heard in the municipal court for violation of this code or other municipal ordinances shall be recorded on a computer by the court clerk. Such record shall contain:
1.
The name of the defendant;
2.
The nature of the offense charged;
3.
The final disposition of the case; and
4.
The date of the final disposition.
(Charter § 30; Council, 02/12/1986 or as otherwise indicated).
